06-01-2022||Mumbai||Cyber police grills BJP activist over controversial tweets on CM’s wife||MUMBAI Officials of the cyber wing of Mumbai police on Thursday questioned a BJP social media activist for allegedly posting objectionable content about Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s wife Rashmi Thackeray on January 4 on Twitter. Later in the evening, he was allowed to go home.Mumbai resident Jiten Gajaria who has nearly 20,000 followers had posted a photo of Rashmi Thackeray with a comment, ‘Marathi Rabri Devi’. The comment was made with regard to the chief minister’s health problems implying that his wife would take over as the CM like Rabri Devi who took over the chief minister’s post in Bihar when her husband Lalu Prasad Yadav was forced to resign over the fodder scam. Gajaria also hosted a Twitter poll on the same subject. His post was shared by many people on Twitter, mostly those who support the BJP ideology.Gajaria’s lawyer claimed that his client was called in for questioning by the cyber police without revealing the nature of the complaint lodged with the police. There was no FIR in the case. A source hinted that the police may call Gajaria again for questioning. Cyber police officials refused to comment on the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyber-police-grills-bjp-activist-over-controversial-tweets-on-cm-s-wife-101641493655374.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||NIA court allows Sudha Bharadwaj to stay in Thane||MUMBAI: A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday allowed activist Sudha Bharadwaj’s plea to stay in Thane while on bail in the Elgar Parishad case. After the Bombay high court (HC) allowed her default bail plea, the special NIA court on December 8 granted her bail. At that time, the court asked her to stay within its jurisdiction. On Thursday however, the court modified that condition and allowed Bharadwaj’s plea to stay in Thane and asked her to report to the local Vartak Nagar police station in Thane once every fortnight.Bharadwaj had moved court through her counsel Chandani Chawla saying that she was unable to find proper accomodation in Mumbai as it was expensive and that she wanted to stay in Thane with a friend. The prosecution had told the court that Bharadwaj should submit an affidavit of the person with whom she wished to stay and also an address proof.Bharadwaj was arrested on August 28, 2018, and granted default bail on December 1 by the Bombay HC, underlining that a Pune sessions judge, who granted the police a 90-day extension on November 26, 2018, to file the charge sheet, did not have the jurisdiction to do so as only a special NIA court could hear UAPA cases.The NIA court on Thursday also directed the superintendent of Taloja prison to preserve CCTV footage and provide clone copies of DVR to human right activist Surendra Gadling, who has also been arrested in the Elgar Parishad Case.Gadling argued before special NIA judge D E Kothalikar that the prisons authorities were not providing him proper medicines and had even stopped his ayurvedic medicine. His letters were also not handed over to him neither was he provided warm water to bathe despite suffering from several shoulder-related problems.Gadling accused the jail authorities of giving arbitrary medical test figures without actually checking him. He told the court that whenever the jail authorities did give proper medical facilities, he did not have any technical evidence to prove it like CCTV footage after which the court directed the jail authorities to preserve the CCTV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-court-allows-sudha-bharadwaj-to-stay-in-thane-101641493477043.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Rly minister inaugurates dev projects, flags off Kamakhya Exp in Lucknow||Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday announced three special trains and inaugurated coaching complex along with second entrance at Gomti Nagar railway station here even as he hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for the railways as pro-commoner. Soon after the inauguration, the minister flagged off new weekly Kamakhya express train between Gomti Nagar and Kamakhya (Assam). Dr Monica Agnihotri, divisional railway manager, North Eastern Railways, said two more trains would be flagged off in days to come. One would be Mumbai bound and the other Vaishno Devi bound, she added.Addressing a gathering at an event organised at Gomti Nagar railway station on the occasion, Vaishnaw said, “We must appreciate PM Narendra Modi’s vision for railways that is a pro-development. All development works are being carried out while keeping in mind the next 50 years. The PM’s aim is to facilitate the commoners, farmers, small traders and others and to provide them mobility.” He said efforts were also being made to bring post offices and railway stations together. “We have more than one lakh post offices in the country and more that 8,000 railway stations. In such a situation, we are chalking out a plan to bring both together to facilitate small traders in transporting goods from one place to another. We have also done the trial of the same facility and are still working on the integration technology,” the minister said. He said the facility will facilitate interstate goods transportation.Over the delay in re-starting passenger train service, the minister said, “We started operation of the passenger trains. But then the outbreak of Omicron variant of Covid 19 began following which we have to hold back the operations in order to check further spread of the virus.”He also launched a facility in which people can get their reservation done from post offices. The facility was launched in around 9,147 post offices in UP. The minister said presently the development schemes of more than ₹95,000 crore were running in UP and in the days to come these schemes would not only bring in development to the state but will also benefit farmers, traders and youths. Speaking at an event at GPO later, he said and India Post and the railways will work together with better cooperation in coming days. “The minister asked senior officials of India Post and Indian railways to work out a method for better cooperation,” said chief postmaster general Kaushalendra Kumar Sinha.
06-01-2022||Mumbai||UG medical registrations dip by 9K as experts attribute to delay in commencement of admission||MUMBAI Pre-admission registrations for undergraduate health science courses including MBBS and BDS have witnessed a drop by a few thousand applications this year. Figures shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell – the admission authority – revealed that only 55,674 candidates completed the process by uploading the necessary documents and paying fees by January 5 which was the deadline. This is nearly 9,000 applications lower than the 64,645 candidates who completed the registration process in the previous academic year.In a bid to encourage more registrations, the CET cell on Thursday decided to extend the registration process by another five days till January 10. As per the new schedule, the first provisional merit list will now be released on January 13.“We have received queries from many students who could not complete the process either because they made errors while filling the online form or are still awaiting appropriate documents to attach with their form. In order to give such students more time to complete registrations, we have decided to extend the deadline,” said a senior official from the state CET cell. He added that the admission authority hopes that this extra time will be enough to encourage thousands more to complete the process.In 2019, 59,000 students registered for undergraduate medical courses, vying for 5,000 seats. This year, there are nearly 6,800 UG medical seats across government and private medical colleges in the state. While CET officials hope to attract thousands more for admissions over the next four days, experts have blamed the dip in registrations on the delay in commencement of the admission process which left not a single admission of UG or PG medical students in 2021 altogether.“Not only was the overall admission process delayed but simple registration for students and announcement of the state merit list was delayed in Maharashtra by four months. In the meantime, several students opted for admissions in neighbouring states where the process began in November itself,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist. She added that in some cases, especially students with lower National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) scores, admissions were taken in other courses including engineering and pharmacy to avoid further delay.NEET-UG exams were conducted in September this year and the results were announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on November 1, after weeks of delay due to a Bombay high court stay. The Supreme Court is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of the implementation of EWS and OBC quota in all India quota (AIQ) seats, therefore continuing a stay on admissions to AIQ seats.The Maharashtra CET cell started pre-admission registrations only on December 30 while states like Kerala, Punjab and Odisha started registrations in November.“Several students have understood that the delay that they’ve faced this year is unprecedented and instead of waiting further, many have decided to appear for NEET exams again next year and apply for admissions. There are students who have sought admissions to BSc Computer Science courses and are planning to continue with those for the current academic year instead of wasting any more time on admissions and this is reflecting in registration figures,” said a senior official from the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on condition of anonymity.
06-01-2022||Mumbai||No restrictions yet, state records over 36k cases||Mumbai The state deferred releasing a notification on the restrictions to curb the spread of the pandemic even as the state added 36,265 Covid cases on Thursday.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that while there was no plan of shutting down local trains for commuters, a decision on night curfew and weekend lockdown will be taken at an appropriate time.“We have discussed multiple options including weekend lockdown and night curfew, but the final decision will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. There are concerns over the crowding at malls, restaurants by the youngsters after shutting down schools and colleges. The decision over the restrictions on non-essential sectors will be taken at the appropriate time,” Tope said.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on January 4 had said that the government would release an official communique the next day that would list the restrictions to be followed. Other states too have issued a host of restrictions as cases of Covid-19 surge around the country; most recently, New Delhi imposed a weekend curb. Others like West Bengal have curbed flights. Maharashtra announced closure of physical classes in higher education institutions on Wednesday.On Wednesday, Tope said that the state was considering “augmented restrictions” — for non-essential sectors and most affected places (like urban centres) — based on the recommendations of the state task force. The health department’s draft was expecting a final nod from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.A senior official from the Mantralaya who did not wish to be named said that a government notification is yet to be issued, as the government was contemplating the current necessity of restrictions given the low rate of hospitalisation in the state. A draft notification on the impositions is being prepared, he said.“The upsurge in the cases is limited to five-six urbanised districts and there too, the hospitalization rate is very low. Until the demand of oxygen goes up and the bed occupancy is within check, we feel there is no need of panic. The restrictions can come in gradual manner and that too for the areas most affected,” said a senior minister requesting anonymity.Tope said that though the number of cases in the state was rising rapidly, especially in cities like Mumbai and Thane, the hospitalisation rate was still low. “Despite positivity rate in Mumbai being recorded at 25%, hardly 15% beds are occupied. This is unlike the second wave. Vaccination in the cities like Mumbai has played a crucial role in keeping the severity in check as people have developed antibodies to a large extent,” he said.With Thursday’s addition — three times the caseload on January 3, when it was 12,160 — the tally of cases in the state has gone up to 6,793,297. Mumbai recorded the highest number of cases at 19,780 — its highest ever — followed by Pune district which clocked 3,668 cases and Nashik, which saw 527. Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which is governed by nine municipal corporations, accounted for 30,312 or nearly 84 % of the total cases. The test positivity rate reported on Thursday was 21.28%. The state reported 13 new deaths taking the toll to 141,594.The Omicron variant was detected in 79 patients on Thursday taking the total tally of the state to 876. Of them, 381 have been discharged. Among the new Omicron variants reported, 57 were from Mumbai, seven from Thane city, while nine were from Pune district.The state started witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases from December 22 onwards, after the daily caseload crossed the 1000-mark after several weeks. In the last 16 days, 142,332 fresh cases have been reported. The number of active cases has risen to 114,847 on Thursday, from 7,350 cases on December 22.The health minister said that the decision over the imposition of more curbs will be taken after due deliberation by the top leadership.Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar held a meeting with Tope, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, officials from the health department to take stock of the situation.Tope said that Pawar and the CM were in touch and discuss the key issues on daily basis. “Pawarsaheb took stock of the situation during our meeting with him today. He has asked us to stress upon the vaccination and convince 80 lakh people who have not taken even their first dose. He has also directed to chalk out plan for the inoculation of the fully vaccinated people with booster dose,” he added.Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said that the government was planning to appoint doctors and health workers in government hospitals on contract basis to tide over the shortage. He said that the government hospitals across the state have sufficient beds required for the Covid-19 treatment vacant.End
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Mayawati seeks probe into security lapse during PM Modi’s Punjab visit||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday expressed concern over a security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to poll-bound Punjab on Wednesday and demanded a high-level inquiry into the incident. In a series of tweets, Mayawati said the security lapse during PM Modi’s visit to Punjab is very worrying.It is necessary to take this incident very seriously, Mayawati said and called for a high-level impartial investigation so that the culprits can get proper punishment for such an incident.In view of the assembly elections to be held in the states like Punjab, political tussle and accusations regarding this incident were not proper, the four-time former UP chief minister Mayawati said.While giving a pause to politics over the incident, a fair investigation should be conducted, she said.The BSP is contesting the coming assembly elections in Punjab in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). While the BSP has been allotted 20 seats, the SAD will field candidates on 97 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-seeks-probe-into-security-lapse-during-pm-modi-s-punjab-visit-101641492994922.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||UP cabinet nod to 50pc rebate to farmers in tubewell power bills||In a major step aimed at giving relief to farmers, the state government on Thursday announced increase in subsidy to bring down to 50 per cent rebate the power tariff applicable to private tubewells owned by nearly 13 lakh farmers in Uttar Pradesh.An official spokesman said the state cabinet has approved the move. “The relief will lead to an extra burden of an estimated ₹1,000 crore on the UP Power Corporation Ltd and benefit an estimated 13 lakh consumers,” said the spokesman.According to the proposed new rates, now consumers in rural areas will have to pay Re 1 per unit instead of the present ₹2 per unit for a metered tubewell. For energy efficient tubewells, the rate will be 83 paise per unit instead of existing ₹1.65 per unit. The fixed charge has been brought down to ₹35 per horsepower instead of ₹70 for metred connections and ₹85 per horsepower from ₹170 per horsepower for unmetered connections.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath who is committed towards the convenience and prosperity of farmers has decided to give 50% rebate in power rates for private tubewells,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) said in a tweet in Hindi.The state government at present provides subsidy to the tune of ₹11,000 crore annually to Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) for providing cheap power to tubewells. The state government will have to now increase the subsidy accordingly. Earlier this month, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav had announced free power to farmers for irrigation and 300 units free to all domestic power consumers if his party formed the next government in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress too has promised to bring down the power bills to half.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cabinet-nod-to-50pc-rebate-to-farmers-in-tubewell-power-bills-101641492936209.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Nitin Gadkari lays foundation stone of National Highway projects in Ayodhya||Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday laid the foundation stone of six national highway (NH) projects in Ayodhya worth ₹8,698 crore, including a ring road and the 84-Kosi Parikrama Marg. He also inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of projects worth ₹1624 crore in Basti district of eastern Uttar Pradesh and said the road from Ayodhya to Chitrakoot will be extended till Rameshwaram so that people are able to see Ram Setu.“If a double engine government comes again in Uttar Pradesh, road and bridge projects worth ₹5 lakh crore will also come to the state,” Nitin Gadkari said, addressing a gathering at Maharaja Dashrath Inter College in Basti.In Ayodhya, the minister announced several amenities that would come up along the 84 Kosi Parikrama route and promised to complete all projects within the stipulated time frame.“The 84 Kosi Parikrama Marg will be completed by the end of 2023 and I will again come here to inaugurate it,” Nitin Gadkari said.In July 2021, the Union government declared the 84 Kosi Parikrama Marg as a national highway and ₹4000 crore will be spent on this project alone. Trees of the Ramayan era and rest houses for pilgrims will come up along the parikrama route, the minister said. “At 23 places along the 84 Kosi Parikrama route, wayside amenities will come up,” Nitin Gadkari said. Around 51 religious places along the route will be connected with it. The route passes through Basti, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Barabanki and Gonda districts of Uttar Pradesh. The Union minister also laid the foundation stone of the 213-kilometre Ram Janki Marg that will start from Ayodhya and pass through Barhalganj in Gorakhpur and enter Bihar. “In future, (there will be a) road project from Ayodhya to Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu,” Nitin Gadkari said. The existing Ayodhya bypass will be renovated. Deputy chief minister Keshav Maurya stated that road projects in Ayodhya would ensure the overall development of the temple town. The Union minister paid obeisance to Ram Lalla at Ram Janmabhoomi and Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi temple in Ayodhya. In Basti, he said, “With ₹3.5 lakh crore road and bridge projects, huge infrastructural changes took place in the state.”“The change has come because of the people who selected us and I assure you if we form a government again in the state, huge infrastructural development will take place which will bring prosperity and development,” he added.Nitin Gadkari accepted the request of BJP MP Harish Dwivedi and announced that the road from Vikramjot to Hasenabad Pakolia and the Bankati Deisad road would be national highways.“The roads will be built under Bharatmala scheme within two years.”“A 90 km road will be built from Bast Mehdawal to Campierganj, 125 km road from Gorakhpur to Nichlaul and 146 km road from Lucknow, Bahraich, Nanpara, Rupidiha and Balrampur, Barhni road which will promote trade and business. Prosperity will come,” he said.Gadkari also spoke about green hydrogen and how Nagpur Municipal Corporation is earning from toilet water. Wealth could be made from waste, he said, adding that in the coming days vehicles will run on ethanol produced by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nitin-gadkari-lays-foundation-stone-of-national-highway-projects-in-ayodhya-101641492934841.html
06-01-2022||Pune||CNG supply might be affected in Pune due to maintenance work from January 6 to 11||PUNE Long queues of auto-rickshaws and cars were seen at several CNG (compressed natural gas) pumps across the city on Wednesday night as the supply might be affected from January 6 to 11 due to maintenance work undertaken in the region.Due to repair and maintenance work, the pressure of the gas becomes low and the pump operations need to be stopped, said officials.Accordingly, boards have been placed at most of the CNG pumps in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad which read ‘Due to the maintenance activity of main CNG pipeline the supply would be disturbed or closed down from January 6 to 11’.At one of the CNG pumps in the Bharati Vidyapeeth area on Wednesday night more than 300 vehicles were in the queue since evening, the line went up to the main Katraj Chowk.“We got a message on social media regarding the closure of CNG pumps for the next five days and so I rushed to fill up the gas at the CNG pump. After waiting in queue for more than 2.5 hours finally I got to fill the tank,” said Ashok Kamble an auto driver.Similar was the situation at all other CNG pumps in other parts of the city, there were long queues and till late night people were filling up the CNG gas.One of the operators at the CNG pumps on condition of anonymity said, “There is maintenance work going on of the main supply line of the CNG gas and we are been instructed that if the pressure goes below 11 points, then to stop the gas filling operations. The pressure should be maintained up to 14.5-point pressure level and currently, the pressure is good and so we are continuing the operations.”While Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL) independent director Rajesh Pande said, “There has been maintenance work of the CNG main pipeline been scheduled between January 6 to 11, so as a precautionary measure it has been instructed to all the pumps to inform the customers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cng-supply-might-be-affected-in-pune-due-to-maintenance-work-from-january-6-to-11-101641492760430.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Hindus expelled from Pakistan, B’desh given land in UP: Yogi||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that Hindus expelled from Pakistan and Bangladesh and living in Uttar Pradesh, had been accommodated in the land that the state government freed from encroachers. Speaking at an event here for distribution of appointment letters to candidates selected for various posts in government services, Yogi said: “Hindus, who were living in Meerut for decades after facing expulsion from Pakistan and Bangladesh, could not afford to build their own houses or buy lands. We have given 63 such Bengali Hindu families two acres of land and 200 square yards for housing per family in Kanpur Dehat. These lands were freed from ‘bhu mafia’ (land grabbers).” Each of the 63 families was also given ₹1.20 lakh under ‘Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana’, Yogi Adityanath said. The chief minister said all the land freed from “encroachers” was brought under a ‘land bank’ and these pieces of land would be used to set up schools, industries and other businesses. “Many facilities of the Defence Industrial Corridor have also been built on these recovered lands,” he said. According to the chief minister, the state government currently has 64,366 hectares of the recovered land and it is being allotted for the poor to build houses. Yogi Adityanath had earlier said in the Legislative Council that the anti-land mafia task force had freed 67,000 acres of land belonging to the revenue department. He also said his government had introduced transparency in all government exams, thereby marking a paradigm shift in the recruitment process from the previous regime. Speaking about introducing transparency in recruitment to government services, the chief minister said without taking any names, “Before 2017, whenever vacancies were announced, the uncles and nephews used to carry out extortion up to the village level. While they used to extort, the officials involved in the recruitment process were made the scapegoats. “But... now whenever there is any irregularity in the selection process, we have not desisted from cancelling it and taking stern action against those involved.” Yogi handed over appointment letters to 57 naib tehsildars, 141 spokespersons of government colleges and 69 assistant teachers on the occasion. The chief minister claimed that the state government had so far appointed more than 1,75,000 teachers in primary, secondary and higher education departments. “Never before were so many teachers recruited. The recruitment process was completely transparent,” he said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hindus-expelled-from-pakistan-b-desh-given-land-in-up-yogi-101641492755225.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||Faridabad police arrest 7 for duping 187 people across country||The Faridabad police on Thursday busted a gang of cyber fraudsters who allegedly posed as bank executives, operated a fake call centre and duped 187 people from 21 states. Police said they arrested seven suspects from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, adding that 50 cases were registered against them in Telangana, 41 in Uttar Pradesh, 21 in Delhi and 21 in Haryana in the last three months.Police identified the suspects as Abdullah (29) and Pankaj (21) of Delhi, Sonveer Rathore (25) of Bhind and Rahul (20) of Morena in Madhya Pradesh, Aman (22) of Etawah in UP, Shakti Mishra (30) of Bihar and Subhan (20) of Uttar Pradesh. Police allegedly recovered 35 mobile phones, 109 SIM Cards, 15 ATM Cards and ₹22.60 lakh from their possession.The case came to light on December 16, 2021, when one Manoj Kumar, a resident of Hirapur in Faridabad complained to police and alleged that he received a call from a person posing as a State Bank of India customer care executive who offered to increase his credit card limit to which he agreed.Manoj Kumar told police that he shared all his credit card details and personal information such as card number, CVV number, expiry date, and OTP, trusting that the caller was from the bank but within minutes ₹1.57 lakh was transferred from his account to another.Basant Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Faridabad cyber police station, said that the suspects had used a spoof app to make calls using the SBI bank customer care number. “We registered a case, but the same month, we received three more similar complaints and found that the complainants had been defrauded using the same modus operandi,” he said.Kumar said they traced the location of the mobile number to Delhi’s Uttam Nagar and started technical surveillance.Vikas Arora, Faridabad commissioner of police, said that the suspects were operating from different areas and their roles and responsibilities were divided.“Pankaj was the backbone of the gang as he was a technical expert and had knowledge of spoof apps. He had learned about it through one of his relatives who was arrested by Punjab police for similar cases and had joined hands with Abdullah who started the fake call centre,” he said.Modus OperandiThe gang members’ modus operandi was to first obtain customer credit card data from third parties. Their telecallers would then make calls to bank account holders in possession of credit cards and offer them various services. To make customers believe that the call was from the SBI’s toll-free number, the gang used a call spoofing application, said police.Police said they would collect the victims’ data and make transactions on property rental/purchase portals. The amount would get credited to the bank accounts linked to the property rental portals and later transferred to the fraudsters’ bank accounts.One of them would visit different ATMs to withdraw cash and divide it among themselves after deducting expenditure, said police.Arora said this case is one of the biggest cyber fraud cases ever busted in Haryana. “It is estimated that more than 1,000 cases would be registered against the gang across the country, they have duped people of crores,” he said.To run the business, Abdullah, Sonveer and Pankaj allegedly opened a call centre six months ago in Uttam Nagar and employed 20 tele callers. Pankaj allegedly obtained the call spoofing application through an outsider.Arora said while three of the suspects took care of operations and applications, the rest of the gang members worked on getting SIM cards and executing fraudulent money transactions simultaneously. “We will seek a forensic audit of their operation and call centre to understand the quantum of loss and to recover the amount,” he said.
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Section 144 imposed in Lucknow till Feb 8 as Covid cases cross 1K-mark||The Lucknow police commissionerate on Thursday announced new restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) as active Covid cases crossed 1000-mark in the city.“Section 144 of CrPC will remain imposed in Lucknow commissionerate jurisdiction with immediate effect. Section 144 will remain in force in the capital to maintain law and order and ensure adherence to Covid-19 rules in view of upcoming festivals, various entrance exams and farmers’ protests,” an official note signed by Lucknow joint commissioner of police (JCP), law and order, Piyush Mordia said. The directive under Section 144 empowers the magistrate to prohibit the gathering of four or more people in a specified area.As per the order, wearing of mask and following social distancing have been made mandatory for everyone in public places. Night curfew will remain effective from 10pm to 6am. Only 50 people are allowed to gather in covered spaces, including temples located outside containment zones.Restaurant, hotels, food joints and cinema hall can operate with only 50 percent customers. The order strictly bans, political, religious or social events inside containment zones. Further, gathering of more than 100 people in a closed venue is prohibited while in open places only half of the total capacity can be gathered, says the order.The order dated January 6 (Thursday) issued by JCP Mordia said these restrictions will remain in force till February 8, 2022. The order further said Guru Govind Singh Jayanti will be celebrated on January 9, followed by Lohri, Makar Sankranti and Republic Day. “Covid-19 is having an impact on the normal lives of people. So, it is important to be vigilant during the festival period,” the order stated.The order has 27 points that explain different restrictions that will remain imposed during this period. It also gave details about the Covid-19 protocols to be followed during this period. The order reads that the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the UP government from time to time must be followed strictly.The order further said tractors, bullock carts, horst carts, gas cylinders, inflammable material and any kind of weapon were banned in one kilometre area around the Vidhan Sabha. “All demonstrations are also banned near the Vidha Sabha. If anyone is found violating these guidelines, strict action will be taken against them. Besides, drone shooting is banned above or one kilometre around the state legislature building and government offices. Special permission needs to be taken from the police for using drone to shoot footage in any area of the district,” said the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/section-144-imposed-in-lucknow-till-feb-8-as-covid-cases-cross-1kmark-101641492579945.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||DTCP recommends FIRs against 58 persons in Gurugram for developing illegal colonies||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has recommended the registration of FIRs against 58 persons allegedly involved in carving out nine illegal colonies across 32.5 acres of land on the outskirts of the city. The colonies were being developed in Kherki Majra, Garhi Harsaru, Sultanpur and Gadoli Kalan villages, said officials.DTCP officials said the authority decided to recommend the registration of FIRs against all the persons who have received show-cause notices or been the target of demolition drives for carving out colonies without licenses in the last six to eight months. “We recommended FIRs against 58 persons for developing illegal colonies in various parts of the district without permission. We issued them notices and followed due process of the law. All such builders will face strict penal action,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement.According to the department, an FIR has been recommended against five offenders for developing an illegal colony in Kherki Majra village over two acres, another group of five will face action for developing an illegal colony on two acres in Harsaru village, six violators for developing an illegal colony in Farrukhnagar, 20 persons will face action for developing four illegal colonies in Sultanpur (over 19 acres) and 22 persons will face action illegally developing two colonies on 4.5 acres in Gadoli Kalan.Bhath said that the DTCP carried out over 100 demolition drives in the last one-and-a-half years, in which the department cleared close to 1,000 acres of illegal colonies. “We have already registered around 35 FIRs against the violators and these are being actively pursued in court. Our primary goal is that buyers should not get duped into buying illegal plots,” he said.DTCP officials said that from this year, they will ensure regular surveillance to identify illegal colonies at the initial stage and these would be demolished at the earliest. To curb the development of illegal colonies, the state government in August last year also changed rules for obtaining no-objection certificates from DTCP for the registration of a plot by revenue authorities--a move that has helped curb illegal development to an extent, according to authorities.“The curb on registering small plots has helped keep illegal development in check and the ongoing drone survey will also give a clearer picture of the ground situation,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-recommends-firs-against-58-persons-in-gurugram-for-developing-illegal-colonies-101641492394855.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||Five more containment zones added in Gurugram, tally increases to 25||The district administration has declared five more localities as containment zones amid rising cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of containment zones in Gurugram to 25. Deputy commissioner Yash Garg issued an order in this regard on Wednesday, a copy of which is with HT. The five containment zones include residential societies in sectors 54, 65, 69, 67, 47 and two localities in DLF Phase-4. Most of the containment zones are under the jurisdiction of the primary health centre in Badshahpur and the urban primary health centre in Tigra. On Thursday, Gurugram reported 1,447 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally of active cases to 4,220. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “As more and more cluster cases are being reported, micro containment zones are being suggested to the district administration. At present there are 25 containment zones in the district and continuous monitoring is underway.”Meanwhile, the district administration on Thursday issued an order regarding the appointment of seven incident commanders in the district to monitor different areas to check if Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed and citizens are vaccinated. One staff member each has been appointed for Zone 1 of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Zone 2 of MCG, one person for zones 3 and 4 of MCG, one for Manesar, and one each for Sohna and Pataudi subdivisions. Ankita Chaudhary, sub divisional officer for Gurugram, has been appointed as the nodal officer for all the areas. The district task force that met on Wednesday had said that from Thursday, incident commanders will inspect government and private institutions to check if guidelines issued by the government regarding the prevention of Covid-19 infection are being followed properly or not. Violators will be fined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-more-containment-zones-added-in-gurugram-tally-increases-to-25-101641492274846.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Akhilesh, Jayant discuss seat sharing, west UP poll equations||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav and his Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) counterpart Chaudhary Jayant Singh met in Lucknow on Thursday and discussed seat sharing between the two parties in western UP as weel as the Jat-Dalit-Muslim equation in the region. The RLD is the SP’s biggest alliance partner for the 2022 UP assembly polls.Jayant reached Lucknow in the late morning and spent nearly three hours, discussing the issues and strategies with Akhilesh at the Samajwadi Party’s Janeshwar Mishra Trust office.“The two leaders met and discussed to further consolidate the alliance and formulate joint strategies,” said SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.Soon after the meeting ended, both Akhilesh and Jayant tweeted the same picture of the meeting with different captions.Akhilesh’s tweet in Hindi read: “Discussing UP’s future with Shri Jayant Chaudhary.” Jayant wrote in English: “Cemented our ties for the development of Uttar Pradesh.”The SP and the RLD have been partners since the 2017 UP assembly polls. They have contested all the elections and bypolls in alliance since then.The SP had allied with the Congress in the 2017 UP assembly polls and with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. However, both the alliances had failed to work for Akhilesh. This time, Akhilesh only carried forward the alliance with the RLD and struck new partnerships with smaller regional players such as the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and the Janwadi Party (Socialist) in eastern UP; the Mahan Dal in the Rohilkhand region, the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) of Shivpal Yadav in districts like Etawah, Mainpuri, Firozabad, Etah, and a few smaller outfits.A person aware of the Thursday’s discussions between Akhilesh and Jayant said: “The discussions were centred around fine-tuning seat sharing between the two parties in western UP, which is the region of the RLD’s influence, and formulating Jat-Muslim-Dalit equation and combining it with the SP’s backward classes vote base.”Nearly 100 assembly constituencies in western UP have Jats as influential voters, while Muslims have influence in even more constituencies.Former MP and RLD leader Sompal Shastri, too, was present during the meeting. He had accompanied Jayant. Shastri had become the MP from Baghpat on the BJP ticket in 1998, defeating RLD’s late Ajit Singh (Jayant’s father).The person aware of the matter also said the SP would not go beyond the previously agreed upon 36 seats to the RLD, but would give SP tickets to RLD candidates, and vice-versa on a few seats where the party would field its candidates on the RLD ticket.Those in the Samajwadi Party privy to the issue said the SP-RLD alliance is strong, and Akhilesh and Jayant will announce the seat-sharing at a joint press conference in Lucknow soon after the poll notification.
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Nation won’t forgive “conspirators” of PM’s security breach: UP CM Yogi||Terming Wednesday’s breach in PM Narendra Modi’s security in Punjab a conspiracy with the country, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the countrymen will not forgive the “conspirators”.“When the country is safe, only then we will all be safe. But some people want to break into it. The proof of it has come in front of the countrymen in the form of a ‘conspiracy’ in Punjab on Wednesday,” Yogi said while addressing people after distributing tablets and smartphones to 1200 students in a programme organised at Rudraksh Convention Centre in Varanasi on Thursday.He said the PM had talked about “Digital India” in 2014 and had announced many schemes for the youth. “India is the youngest country in the world. India has the largest number of youths in the world. In India, largest number of youths reside in Uttar Pradesh,” the CM added.“During the pandemic, I realised that students wanted to study online but they were helpless due to lack of resources. That’s when the UP government decided to provide tablets/smartphones to such youths. These devices will be provided to one crore youths of the state, including 90,000 students of Varanasi. Along with this, digital accessories will also be made available free of cost,” Yogi said.He said the direction of youth power would be the direction of the country. “India is emerging as a power in the world,” the CM said. Referring to the corona period, he said India’s corona management was appreciated all over the world. He further said the population of the US is one-fourth of India’s population but there were one-and-a-half-times more deaths there than India during the Covid period.Tablets have been made available to 10,000 children preparing for competitive exams under the Mukhyamantri Abhyuday Yojana offering free coaching to economically weaker aspirants of competitive exams in UP. This facility will also be provided to the students of medical, engineering and ITIs including graduates, he said.While talking about the restoration of Somnath temple, he said country’s first President Dr Rajendra Prasad had attended a function held to discuss revamping Somnath temple despite the then government’s opposition. He further said, however, PM Narendra Modi himself came to inaugurate Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham Corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nation-won-t-forgive-conspirators-of-pm-s-security-breach-up-cm-yogi-101641492214740.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram saw highest housing sales, launches in NCR in 2021: Anarock report||The city reported the highest sale of residential units in the National Capital Region (NCR) in 2021, followed by Greater Noida, according to a report by Anarock released on Thursday.The report said the city reported the sale of 11,990 units last year--a 115% increase compared to the previous year’s sales. The city also reported the maximum number of real estate unit launches across Delhi-NCR.The report said that of the 31,710 units launched in NCR in 2021, Gurugram launched 58%. In comparison, Greater Noida reported the sale of 9,580 units and the launch of 3,930 new units.According to the report, NCR’s housing sales increased by 73% from 23,210 units in 2020 to 40,050 units in 2021. During the pre-Covid-19 period in 2019, total sales in the region were approximately 46,920 units. So in 2021, housing sales in NCR have already reached 85% of the pre-pandemic level, the report said.Realtors and realty experts in Gurugram said that 2021 saw the return of the end-users and several first-time buyers. The easy availability of low-cost loans, sops announced by the government, and discounts given by developers helped the market revive.Pradeep Aggarwal, a city-based developer and chairman, Signature Group, said that the affordable segment of housing witnessed an all-time high demand in 2021. “Many end-users bought homes in the affordable segment as Covid-19 made them realise the importance of owning their own home. Gurugram has emerged as a key market for affordable housing and also independent floors--and these have really picked up. We are expecting better business in 2022,” he said.Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Group, said, “Of the four quarters, quarter four of 2021 was by far the best, with housing sales in the top seven cities attaining a new high of approximately 90,860 units. This was the highest quarterly sales performance since 2015.”City-based brokers said that after May 2021, the market gained momentum, and the leads generated in the next three months after May were converted into sales in the last quarter of the year.“Despite the pandemic, we are seeing that there is a correction in prices by 10% to 15% in many areas. The ready-to-move-in properties are now being sold at a premium,” said Sanjeev Thakur, a city-based broker.Another trend witnessed in the city was a higher demand for larger flats and houses. “There is a 20% to 30% increase in sales because during lockdown everybody felt that homes are very important for a family and the size of their homes should be larger. There has also been a demand for organised retail spaces, and SCOs [shop-cum-offices] have emerged as major attractions in this category, particularly to investors,” said Gurpal Singh Chawla, director, Spaze Group.
06-01-2022||Delhi||20 guests is way too less, rue wedding planners in Delhi||How many wedding guests are allowed in Delhi? “20 only, and it’s too less!” say wedding planners, ruing about the cap as per the Covid protocols in the Capital. With most weddings getting postponed for a later date due to this restriction, wedding planners in the city say it’s posing a major loss to their businesses, and one that’s tough to bear now after being on a rocky road since the start of the pandemic. “Everyone wants dhoom dhaam at the shaadi, and that isn’t possible with a presence of just 20 guests,” says Pawan Sharma, founder, The Wedding Curator, adding, “In a 20 people limited guest list, many can’t even manage to call in their immediate family members. Then the wedding just turns out to be a formality, and mostly those are opting to not back out, who had been postponing their wedding since the whole of last year; with the hope of being able to enjoy their D-Day. They aren’t left with much option at the moment. However, while we bear the loss of a cancellation, there are other expenses as well as when wedding get postponed. All work needs to start afresh, for the new dates that get finalised later. And it’s us who have to bear the office expenses, worker expenses, and I’m not in a good situation to face it all over again.” Jitesh Khana, co-founder, The Velvet Weddings, seconds the thought, and adds, “50 guests still makes sense, but the present guideline of 20 people is too less!” In an attempt to put forth their view point, a few members of the wedding industry have written to the chief minister, requesting for a meeting to discuss the issue. “We have so many venues, and where the venue size is say 4,000 or 5,000 square feet, how is it possible to have just 20 guests there to maintain social distancing? At least the number of guests can be allowed as per the venue sizes,” Rajeev Jain, managing director, Rashi Entertainment, adding, “We all associated with the wedding industry are completely with the government, and understand why have they have put such restrictions on number of guests. But we feel that weddings are the safest among all the services that have been curbed, and we would like to explain our side to the government that has done so much to protect our city from Covid. We just want that the happiness quotient associated with the weddings should continue... and we assure to take care of everything else.”On the brink of losing out big projects because of the cap on wedding guests, Reema Khatri from Wed My Way says, “Many people who had planned weddings at this time are stressed out because hotels aren’t returning the money either. We had a lot of international clients and NRIs coming in for weddings, and now they need to quarantine soon. But the families don’t even know ki shaadi hogi bhi ya nahi. If they are getting an RT-PCR done after quarantine, then what’s the issue in involving them to the guest list? We can always seat people in a socially distanced way. And if one has booked a venue for 200 people, then how can they reduce it to 20 suddenly? I feel that an RT PCR must be made mandatory for all guests, along with vaccination certificates, and these should be enough to allow people to participate in weddings that were booked last month or even before that. Otherwise, their money must be compensated.” Also in favour of approving vaccination certificates as a criteria to increase the guest limit of weddings in Delhi, Sanya Aneja from The 7 Vows, opines, “People who have weddings, did the planning months back, so why stop them now? At least let them do the weddings with more number of people. Okay, may be not 200, but at least not 20 either. Let them call their immediate families. Otherwise, it will get tough for them and us too! Due to such changes, now people are not even ready to pay advance, even for weddings planned in February!”Some from the industry, have however made peace with the situation. “It’s okay to take a financial hit than to take in our stride the loss of human lives,” says celebrity wedding designer Swati Pandya Sood, adding, “At the moment, I’m stuck overseas as I had a big destination wedding abroad, and now the client from Delhi says their guests are not willing to travel in this scenario. Imagine! I came to build the set and do the logistics since December 22, for this mega wedding. It was a huge hit that we took... but we took it because I always say: Each human life holds most weightage than any amount of ticket size.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20-guests-is-way-too-less-rue-wedding-planners-in-delhi-101641492035864.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||Will pray at six designated sites, areas with no disruptions in Gurugram, say Muslims||The Muslim community on Thursday said they will offer Friday prayers at the six designated sites and in open spaces where there were no disruptions last week by Hindu right-wing members, and also urged the district administration to deploy police personnel at these sites to ensure safety and security of those who gather to pray. Last week Muslims offered Friday prayers in the open at Shankar Chowk, Udyog Vihar, Palam Vihar, and sectors 12, 29, 44, and 45. A group of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella body of Hindu right-wing groups that is leading the protests against namaz in open spaces, gathered at Shankar Chowk before the namaz congregation assembled but were made to retreat by police teams deployed there. Hindu groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in public spaces in Gurugram for the past three years. In 2018, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to pray on Fridays. However, last November, the number of sites was reduced to 20 after members of right-wing groups and locals started protesting against Friday prayers and disrupted namaz gatherings at several places. Muslim groups claim that they are forced to use public spaces as there are not enough mosques in the city -- there are only 13 mosques in Gurugram. “We will, as usual, visit our designated spots to offer namaz and police will be responsible if any untoward incident happens at any of these spots,” said a senior member of Gurgaon Muslim Council, requesting anonymity. Right-wing members said they will continue to protest against namaz in the open and will ensure no one is allowed to use any public place for Friday prayers. Mahavir Bhardwaj, president of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, said, “The Gurugram Imam Sanghathan had agreed to not offer namaz in the open but Muslims are again using public spaces to offer namaz, leading to confrontations. We have already agreed to six places but they are again trying to encroach on parks and grounds which will not be tolerated. Last Friday, we did not do anything but this Friday, if Muslims offer namaz in any place other than the six designated sites, we will protest there,” he said. Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal advisor of the samiti, said they are ready with teams and will keep a check on spots where Muslims offer namaz. “We will not allow them to offer prayers in the open and if they do, we will disrupt the proceedings,” he said. Police said they have deployed a team of 50 personnel at each spot and will ensure law and order in the city. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said anyone caught disrupting namaz will be arrested on the spot. “No one will be allowed to visit any public place to create a ruckus. No right-wing group will be allowed to enter sites where Friday prayers will be offered,” he said. Meanwhile, Mohammad Adeeb, a former Rajya Sabha member who is leading a 21-member committee to resolve the ongoing namaz issue, on Thursday said he was planning to approach Punjab and Haryana high court to quash the FIR filed against him and two others , registered on Wednesday on the basis of a complaint filed by a right-wing activist who has been involved in protests against namaz on public land. The FIR was registered at Sector 40 police station under sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. “I am consulting my lawyer to approach the high court against the FIR registered against us. The people behind this case will have to withdraw the complaint as it is baseless and mala fide,” he said. 
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Ayodhya div commissioner among 13 IAS officers shifted in UP||The state government on Thursday transferred 13 IAS officers, including divisional commissioner, Ayodhya division, Mahendra Prasad Agarwal, and district magistrates of five districts. Agarwal was in limelight after the state government on December 23 last year ordered a probe into the reports of bureaucrats, politicians, revenue officials and their relatives purchasing land near the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya. The district magistrates of Mau, Amethi, Azamgarh, Ballia and Shahjahanpur have been shifted before the assembly election. Navdeep Rinwa, managing director, UP State Road Transport Corporation, has been appointed the divisional commissioner, Ayodhya division, while Mahendra Prasad Agarwal has been sent in the same capacity to Devipatan division. Arun Kumar has been made the DM Mau while Rakesh Kumar Mishra is the new DM of Amethi replacing Kumar. Amrit Tripathi has been made the DM, Azamgarh, while Indra Vikram Singh has been made the DM Ballia and Umesh Pratap Singh will be the new DM of Shahjahanpur. Likewise, Amit Singh Bansal has been sent as the special secretary, urban development and Mission Director, Swachh Bharat Mission. Rajesh Kumar has been made the staff officer, chief secretary, and Aditi Singh has been made the additional commissioner, trade tax.Hari Prasad Shahi has been made the special secretary, appointment and personnel, Prerna Singh is the new chief development officer, Hapur and Laxmi N has been made joint magistrate, Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-div-commissioner-among-13-ias-officers-shifted-in-up-101641491795175.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram malls, markets to close at 6pm||Following pleas by trade bodies and shop owners in Gurugram, the district administration on Thursday directed markets and malls to remain open till 6pm instead of the earlier prescribed time of 5pm. The remaining curbs imposed under the Mahamari alert will remain the same till January 12, the authorities said. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that according to directions of the Mahamari alert issued by the state government, malls and markets were to be closed at 5pm due to the rise in Covid-19 cases, but after several trade organisations requested an extension in timing, the administration decided these establishments can stay open an extra hour. “All commercial and government institutions must adhere to Covid-19 norms strictly or face action,” he said.On Thursday, Gurugram reported 1,447 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally of active cases to 4,220. On Thursday, 645 patients also recovered in the district.Garg said these curbs will remain in force till January 12, after which the state government will announce further directions. He also said that all education institutions, sports complexes, stadia and other such facilities shall remain closed during this period. Curbs on social gatherings will remain and as per directions of the state government only vaccinated individuals will be allowed to enter public and private places. The night curfew from 11pm to 5am shall also remain in force. He also asked residents to get vaccinated on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-malls-markets-to-close-at-6pm-101641491736469.html
06-01-2022||Other||19,780 cases in city; 1,170 in hospital||MUMBAI: The city on Thursday reported 19,780 new Covid-19 cases, making it the second consecutive day with the highest ever cases reported on a single day since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020. Dharavi – one of the former Covid-19 hotspots – reported 107 cases taking the tally to 7,626 cases. Earlier, Dharavi had reported the highest number of cases (99) on April 8, 2021.Four deaths in the city took the total death toll to 16,388. The city’s recovery rate is 88% with 753,354 recoveries, and mortality rate is 1.92%. The number of active cases in the city is 79,260. Eighty-five per cent of the cases reported on Thursday are asymptomatic and among the 15% that are symptomatic, 1,170 required hospitalisation.Currently, out of the 35,594 beds in public and private hospitals in the city, 5,998 are occupied and the bed occupancy rate is 16.8%. Further, 57 new Omicron variant cases were reported in the city on Monday, according to state health department data.Significantly, as the number of Covid-19 cases has risen over the past few days, data has revealed a massive spike in the number of citizens under home quarantine. According to data, from around 33,000 citizens under home quarantine on December 16, the figure has gone up to 332,000 on January 5. Overall, more than nine million citizens have completed home quarantine in the city.The spike in the number of citizens under home quarantine is also due to a majority of the cases being asymptomatic. Additionally, these figures also include close contacts of those who have tested positive and international travellers who have been home quarantined for seven days as a precautionary measure. The increase in the number of cases in high-rises has resulted in their close contacts in high-rises home quarantining themselves resulting in a spike in the total number of citizens currently under home quarantine.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “Currently, the hospitalisation is under control and a majority of them are having mild symptoms owing to which these patients are being home quarantined. Around 93% of the total caseload currently is from high-rises and the rest is from slums and chawls. We will wait and monitor for two or three days more before thinking about any restrictions.”Meanwhile, according to data, 462 buildings in the city have been currently sealed with the highest number in Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Andheri West and Vile Parle West followed by 6,254 sealed floors and 20 containment zones that include slums and chawls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19780-cases-in-city-1-170-in-hospital-101641491617017.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||In a week, Gurugram’s Covid positivity rate goes up from 4% to 13%||In the past week, the Covid-19 positivity rate in Gurugram has increased from 4.7% to 13.4% (from December 31, 2021 to January 6), with the district reporting 1,447 fresh cases on Thursday. The district now has 4,220 active cases, according to data from the district health department. In the first six days of January, Gurugram reported 4,375 cases, compared to 1,264 total cases reported in December, 2021. The last time the active case tally crossed the 4,000-mark in the district was on May 23, 2021, with 4,985 cases. According to records of the district health department, the positivity rate has increased from 0.42% to 13.40% in the past 20 days (December 15 to January 6).Positivity rate refers to the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to those who have been tested for it. As cases continue to rise, the number of daily test samples has also been increased in the district. In the first two weeks of December, 4,000 samples were being sent for testing, which was increased to 5,000 samples by the end of the month. On January 1, 5,962 samples were tested, and, since then, daily testing has been increased by 1,000 additional samples (on average) every day. On Thursday, the health department collected 10,748 samples for testing, which takes the total test numbers to 2,344,319, according to the health department data. “Including both government and private testing facilities, Gurugram has the capacity to test 70,000 samples in a single day. As the number of cases increases, our daily testing is also being increased exponentially. The testing numbers can go beyond 10,000 also, as more cases get detected. The positivity rate is increasing as more number of tests are being done. On Thursday, the positivity rate was almost 13% in the district,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. During the second wave of Covid-19 infections in Gurugram in April and May, 2021, Gurugram’s positivity rate had increased to 33%. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Testing is being increased every day in the district and we are continuously ensuring that more and more tests are conducted so that cases can be detected. The situation in Gurugram is under control with only 1-1.25% of patients being hospitalised. The sample pendency rate is also not high in the district and test reports are being released within 24 hours itself.” On Thursday, of the 4,220 active cases, 28 were hospitalised and 4,192 were in home isolation. Officials of the health department said that overall 70 Covid-19 patients were admitted in hospitals in Gurugram, irrespective of which state they belonged to. Of these 70 patients, one is on ventilator support, 28 are in intensive care units and six patients are on oxygen support. A total of 645 patients also recovered in the district on Thursday. According to health department data, Gurugram has so far reported 51 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, of whom three are active. No fresh Omicron case was recorded on Thursday.Meanwhile, 15,800 children were vaccinated in the district on Thursday, of whom 15,357 received their first dose in government centres and 443 in private vaccination centres. Till now, over 41,300 children have been vaccinated in Gurugram. A total of 41,254 vaccine doses were administered on Thursday, including 27,879 first doses and 13,375 second doses. With this, over 4.41 million doses have been administered in Gurugram till now. On Friday, vaccination for children will be conducted at 112 schools and 39 health centres with over 27,000 slots available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/in-a-week-gurugram-s-covid-positivity-rate-goes-up-from-4-to-13-101641491497814.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Women’s panel chief visited PMC to take review||PUNE Maharashtra Women commission president Rupali Chakankar on Tuesday visited the Pune Municipal Corporation to take review of various women related issues.Chakankar took the review of various committees which have been formed to address working women’s complaint. She said , “It is mandatory to have committees in each office for addressing the harassment complaints at working places. PMC has already formed such committees.”Chakankar also took the review of public toilets for women in the city. Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar and all the officers were present for the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/womens-panel-chief-visited-pmc-to-take-review-101641491374745.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||Three arrested for bank robbery in Faridabad||Faridabad police on Wednesday arrested three persons allegedly involved in robbing a bank in the Sector 15 market of ₹1.84 lakh on December 22. Police said the mastermind of the gang is a former army sepoy who allegedly fled from his unit and started a marble business. Police said he later started gambling, lost money and became indebted to some people, which is why he planned to rob a bank with his associates. Police identified the suspects as Yogesh alias Billu, Rahul and Sonu of Palwal. They recovered a motorcycle, a knife, a pistol and two live cartridges from their possession. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said they formed five teams to probe the robbery. “On December 22, around 12.45pm, three masked men entered the Sector 15 branch of Canara Bank from the rear gate. They held the cashier hostage at gunpoint and robbed ₹1.84 lakh. The incident was captured on CCTV cameras,” he said. Kadiyan said they found crucial inputs on the footage which helped them identify the suspects. “We took the help of locals also to get some leads, following which we arrested the suspects from Palwal,” he said. During questioning, the suspects allegedly revealed that Yogesh was the kingpin of the gang. He was recruited in the army in 2009 and, in 2014, he allegedly fled from his unit. He started his business but suffered huge losses in marble trading. “He landed in bad company and started gambling and drinking with a few miscreants. He planned to rob a bank and involved his associates,” said Kadiyan. Police said they conducted reconnaissance of the bank for over 10 days and visited the bank several times to understand the layout. They told the police that they decided to carry out the robbery during lunchtime as the security guard would take a break around that time and there was no rush in the bank during that hour. The suspects were remanded to three days in police custody. The police commissioner rewarded the crime team with ₹25,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-arrested-for-bank-robbery-in-faridabad-101641491314806.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Sales of 37,218 housing units in 2021: Knight Frank report||PUNE In a year marred by the pandemic and lockdowns, Pune’s residential market witnessed growth of 38% to record 37,218 housing units sold during 2021, as compared to the previous year according to real estate consultancy, Knight Frank India. New launches also saw a marginal rise of 16% compared to the previous year, with the addition of 40,489 units in 2021. The total office transactions for the calendar year 2021 stood at 3.8mn sqft. New completions in 2021 for office space were recorded at 7.2mn sqft. The report highlighted that Pune witnessed 2.7 million square feet of office space transactions in the second half of 2021, with the highest year-on-year growth during the period among the top eight cities. A total volume of 3.8 million square feet of office spaces were transacted in 2021 of which 70% were transacted in H2 2021. The average deal size increased by 11% to 58,685 sqft in second half 2021 compared to same period in 2020. On the aspect of rentals, the city witnessed a marginal rent increase of 3% during fourth quarter in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sales-of-37-218-housing-units-in-2021-knight-frank-report-101641491196303.html
06-01-2022||Pune||IISER Pune scientist part of a research paper in ‘Nature Ecology and Evolution’||PUNE A faculty member of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, Devapriya Chattopadhyay, PhD, has contributed to a research project on the effect of colonial history and socio-economic factors on the study of fossils, and proposes steps to reduce global disparities. The project is titled ‘Nature Ecology and Evolution’ and Chattopadhyay’s input is on “Colonial history and global economics distort our understanding of deep-time biodiversity”, a collaboration with authors from Germany, Africa, South America, and the UK. A team of seven palaeontologists from Germany, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, and India, investigated how colonial history and socio-economic factors affect the global distribution of fossil data. The paper represents a collaboration that developed during the pandemic between women in STEM, across four continents. Along with the paper, the authors have released plain language summaries of the work in 20 languages. “Fossils provide an essential record of how life on Earth has evolved. However, the fossil record is incomplete, primarily because the dead remains of an organism rarely survive the vagaries of nature to emerge as a fossil. Apart from the natural scarcity of the fossils compared to the living creatures, the fate of fossils after their discovery plays a significant role in our ability to use them meaningfully to reconstruct past biodiversity,” said Chattopadhyay. The authors observe that due to historical and socio-economic factors, the post-discovery journey of fossils resulted in an uneven geographic distribution of fossils. Using scientific publication and geographic data from the Paleobiology Database (www.paleobiodb.org), which is a widely used database by palaeontologists to investigate past biodiversity patterns, the authors show that 97% of paleontological data is generated by researchers based in Northern America and Western Europe. The authors also observe that many affluent countries conduct a large amount of research abroad, often without collaboration with local researchers in the countries they are working in. The authors point out that this is a demonstration of “parachute science”, where lower-income countries are exploited for their fossils, but the higher-income countries retain the knowledge and power. “This knowledge imbalance, resulting from colonial history, transfer of fossils from the collected regions to museums of colonising countries, and unfavourable socio-economic conditions in previously colonised countries, negatively impacts paleontological research,” she added. The paper indicates that one of the most affected countries is Myanmar, as a result of the availability of amber through commercial routes that has increased the availability of amber to foreign researchers while limiting access to researchers from Myanmar. This is also observed in countries rich in vertebrate fossils, such Morocco or Mongolia, given the popularity of vertebrate fossils among palaeontologists as well as the general public. These countries, along with others such as China or Brazil, have also witnessed illegal fossil trafficking in the past.This study, led by Nussaïbah B Raja and Emma M Dunne, proposes a few steps for the paleontological community to adopt for reducing the global disparities in palaeontology. They encourage the community to develop more equitable, ethical, and sustainable collaborations based on mutual trust and respect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/iiser-pune-scientist-part-of-a-research-paper-in-nature-ecology-and-evolution-101641491074744.html
06-01-2022||Pune||35 new sign boards installed at Pune railway station||PUNE In a bid to help passengers navigate through the Pune railway station, the administration installed 35 new sign boards on Wednesday in and around the station premises. These boards are in three languages – English, Hindi and MarathiPune railway station director Suresh Jain said, “These boards have been installed for passengers who need assistance at the station or people who come to pick up someone. A total of 70 signage boards will be installed, out of which 35 were installed on Wednesday at circulating area, platforms and other premises of the station.”“For instance, if a new passenger wants to go to platform no. 3 in S4 coach, the signage boards will guide the commuter without having to ask anyone for directions, inturn saving time. The boards will guide passengers through railway platforms, foot over bridges, parking lot and auto stand area, at the reservation centres, cafeteria, parcel office and also at the restrooms. These signage boards will read in both ways for an outsider into the railway station and for people who come in as visitors to the city.” added Jain. Shailesh Kshirsagar a frequent passenger said, “I often travel to my hometown Solapur from Pune railway station and many times I see new passengers struggling to get the platform details or information related to waiting rooms, storage clock room or even washrooms. Now these newly installed boards will be helpful .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/35-new-sign-boards-installed-at-pune-railway-station-101641490959815.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Man, woman held at Delhi airport for smuggling gold worth ₹70 lakh||A man and a woman have been arrested at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport by the customs in two separate cases, after they were found trying to smuggle in gold from Paris and Dubai, respectively. While the woman was arrested after a packet bearing a ”brown powder” was detected in her undergarments, which was later found to be gold in powder form, the man had concealed 84 gold items, including coins, pendants and rings, in his luggage and was trying to get it through the green channel undetected, officials said.In the first case, the woman passenger arrived from Dubai via a SpiceJet flight on Tuesday and was taken in for checking on a suspicion that she was carrying a contraband. Upon checking, a brown powdered substance was detected in her undergarments, which was later tested. “The powder weighing 1,070 grams was recovered. From that, gold weighing 883 grams was retrieved, with a market value of ₹39.53 lakh,” said a customs official, adding that the gold was smuggled in a powdered form to make it difficult to detect. “It was discovered while scanning the passenger and the packet appeared suspicious,” the official said.In the second case, a man who arrived from Paris was taken in for checking the same day, after something suspicious was detected in his baggage during an X-ray inspection. Customs says upon inspection, 77 gold coins, three gold bracelets, one gold ring and two gold pendants, weighing a total of 761 grams, were recovered.“The total value of the recovery is ₹30.36 lakh. Together, the recovery is close to ₹70 lakh,” said the customs department, stating that both the man and the woman have been placed under arrest as per Section 104 of the Customs Act, 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-woman-held-at-delhi-airport-for-smuggling-gold-worth-70-lakh-101641490894753.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC issues fresh home isolation guidelines||Mumbai The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued a circular allowing asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients to be isolated at home for seven days rather than being hospitalised. With this decision, the formal home isolation period also has been brought down to seven days from the earlier 10 days in Mumbai.However, patients with severe symptoms or with comorbidities will be hospitalised basis on the clinical situation on a case-to-case basis.Further, those who cannot isolate at home will continue to be quarantined at BMC’s isolation facility. Meanwhile, the state health department has directed the district administrations to follow the Centre’s guidelines on home quarantine and hospitalisation.With the surge in cases in Mumbai for the past week, the city has seen a jump in the number of people hospitalised. Since January 1, Mumbai has hospitalised 4,688 Covid patients, according to BMC data. According to BMC officials, the decision was taken on the basis of the new and revised home quarantine guidelines issued by the Central government on January 5.The revised guidelines state that those with severe symptoms like chest congestion, fever for over three days, or with oxygen levels below 93 require medical attention.However, those choosing home isolation will require a caregiver 24x7, ideally who is fully vaccinated for being the link between medical officer and the positive patient. Also, those with comorbidities shall be allowed for home isolation, but a decision will be taken on the basis of medical evaluation.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of public health department of the BMC, said, “These guidelines will be circulated to all hospitals where clinical symptoms will decide the criteria for hospitalisation.”Dr Gomare added, “Those with mild symptoms or are asymptomatic can be isolated at home. Our doctors from the ward war room will provide them with medical assistance. This arrangement will help us in better bed management.”The city has been witnessing a spike in Covid cases for the last 20 days and the Omicron variant is said to be the driving force. The BMC in a statement on December 31 had said that its genome sequencing had revealed that 55% of the total samples were Omicron infections.In the statement, it said that out of the total 282 samples, 13% were patients of the Delta variant, 32% of Delta derivatives and 55% of Omicron variant. Out of 282 Omicron variants, only 17 patients had to be hospitalised.Further, according to BMC officials, it is expected that now the dominance of the Omicron variant may have reached the 80%-mark. However, it will be clear in its further results of genomic sequencing. In a bid to ascertain the level of Omicron variant’s spread in the districts, the Maharashtra government is sending about 4,000 samples a month for genome sequencing from all the 36 districts of the state. The state had been sending samples for genome sequencing as part of its pact with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) since April 2021. Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer, said that the state’s protocol has been to send 5% of the total samples that have tested positive for Covid-19 for genome sequencing. “Every month we send 100 random samples from each of the districts to study the variant,” he said. Maharashtra sends 3,600 samples monthly, which now could go up to 5,000, officials said. The state has mandated screening, testing and genome sequencing of positive samples of international passengers at Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur airports since the outbreak of the Omicron variant late last year.Meanwhile, Awate said that they would follow the guidelines issued by the Centre on home quarantine for Covid positive patients. Officials said that the patient under home isolation would stand discharged and end isolation after seven days from testing positive and no fever for three successive days. The overall treatment protocol, Awate said, would remain the same as it was in the second wave of the Covid infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-issues-fresh-home-isolation-guidelines-101641490654665.html
06-01-2022||Pune||HT Impact: Water pipeline leakage repair work starts near Sangamwadi RTO||PUNE Taking serious cognizance of the report published by the Hindustan Times on January 4 about the water leakage near the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) from the pipelines, now both, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune railway division workers have started the repair work.Almost 60 per cent of water leakage has stopped and the work will be completed in the next couple of days, said, officials.On January 4, HT published a report about the water leakage near the underpass bridge of railways near the Sangamwadi RTO as daily thousands of litres of water go waste due to leakage and it is also a threat to commuters.Nilesh Mahajan, a city resident, had complained about the issue to PMC and Pune railway division a month ago and was continuously taking follow-up for the repair work, but there was no reply from officials.“The reasons I took up the issue is the wastage of water and risk to commuters going through the route daily. Now the repair work has started from the last two days,” said Mahajan.In the continuous follow-up about his complaint to railways and PMC, Mahajan was given the copy of letters that were sent by these governing bodies to each other. Whereas now both the authorities are coordinating and carrying out the repair works.Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson, said, “Our maintenance department engineers visited the spot and they tried to find out the reason for the water leakage. The necessary repairing works and other maintenance works are been done by our workers and now the remaining repairing will be carried out by the PMC workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ht-impact-water-pipeline-leakage-repair-work-starts-near-sangamwadi-rto-101641490536382.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Channi’s elevation gives fillip to Cong in Rupnagar||Even though this district with historical and religious significance to Sikhs has given mixed election results in the past, the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Punjab chief minister has strengthened the Congress. The split of Akali-BJP vote bank has further boosted the Grand Old Party’s prospects in the Rupnagar district that sends three legislators to the state assembly. Chamkaur Sahib: Channi looks set for fourth termCharanjit Singh Channi’s appointment as the chief minister has further boosted his chances of getting re-elected from Chamkaur Sahib. Already a popular face among the electorate, Channi has scored a hat-trick from this reserved seat, which was a Shiromani Akali Dal stronghold. Channi had first won as an independent candidate in 2007, and saw a meteoric rise after joining the Congress. He became the leader of opposition in 2015 and has now become the CM into his third term. He knows the art to connect with the common man, and is known for resolving citizens’ issues by sitting among them. Now, at the helm of governance in the state, he has pumped a lot of funds to further develop his constituency. For the SAD-BSP, Harmohan Singh, a retired cop and son of former MLA Satwant Kaur, will challenge Channi. The AAP has again fielded Dr Charanjit Singh, who stood second in the last election. Illegal mining remains the biggest issue in the area. Rupnagar: Akali heavyweight is eyeing comebackIt is the seat that saw AAP candidate Amarjit Singh Sandoa defeat SAD heavyweight Dr Daljit Singh Cheema. However, he joined the Congress ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and then returned to the AAP fold. Owing to these flip-flops and other controversies, the AAP has given the ticket to RTI activist Dinesh Chadha, who is quite active in the area. The SAD has once again fielded former minister Dr Daljit Cheema, who despite his defeat never left the area and remains in touch with the electorate. Youth Congress president Barinder Singh Dhillon, who unsuccessfully contested the last elections on the Congress ticket, is now facing opposition from local partymen with backing of senior leaders. Improvement Trust chairman Surinder Singh is also in the fray for the Congress ticket. The segment has not seen much development in the past five years, mainly as the MLA was from the opposition. Even here, illegal mining remains a key concern. Anandpur Sahib: Development works speak for speaker Even though three-time legislator Rana KP Singh didn’t find place in the cabinet, as the Vidhan Sabha speaker, he not only wields constitutional power but also knows how to use it. Be it Captain Amarinder Singh or Charanjit Singh Channi at the helm of affairs, Rana KP is considered close to both and thus got ample funds for development projects in Anandpur Sahib. However, Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon is creating troubles for him. In the BJP, 2017 contender Dr Parminder Sharma and former minister Madan Mohan Mittal’s son Arvind Mittal are making efforts to get the ticket. However, the split of the SAD and BJP vote bank has dented the saffron party’s prospects. As the SAD has given the seat to its new ally BSP, it has fielded Nitin Nanda, who earlier had links with Shiv Sena. His candidature is opposed by local party workers. Besides illegal mining, frequent flooding and poor potable water supply are major concerns of voters. 
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: 60 kiosks burnt in fire at market in Chandni Chowk area||New Delhi: A fire broke out in north Delhi’s Lajpat Rai market, in the Chandni Chowk area, early Thursday morning, which gutted about 50 temporary shops, Delhi Fire Department said. Fire officials said that they received a distress call about the fire at 4.43 am, after which 13 fire tenders were sent to the spot. “The fire started in a small temporary shed. At least 50 such sheds have been gutted. It took us about 3 hours to douse the fire. There were no casualties,” a fire officer said asking not to be named.According to local shopkeepers, vendors sold mostly cloth in the temporary sheds. Shopkeepers have told police that they had stocked winter clothes, which were destroyed in the fire.Deputy commissioner of police (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said police were probing the cause of the fire, and have registered a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-60-kiosks-burnt-in-fire-at-market-in-chandni-chowk-area-101641490476180.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||PM Modi security breach: Congress allies Sena, NCP demand probe into ‘serious lapse’||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's route was blocked in Punjab, which the Centre has called a ‘security breach,’ the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which co-govern Maharashtra, described the incident as ‘serious,’ and demanded a thorough investigation into the lapse.Also Read | PM security breach: Narendra Modi faced outburst of farmers in Punjab, says Navjot Sidhu“The Prime Minister belongs to the whole country. There cannot be any any compromise on his security. The flaws found in PM Modi's security during his visit to Punjab are serious. The country has lost two prime ministers due to these mistakes. This incident should be thoroughly investigated. This is the demand of CM Uddhav Thackeray,” Shiv Sena spokesperon and MP Sanjay Raut tweeted in Marathi, referring to former PMs and Congress leaders Indira and Rajiv Gandhi, who were assassinated in 1984 and 1991, respectively. पंतप्रधान संपूर्ण देशाचे असतात. त्यांच्या सुरेक्षे बाबत कोणतीच तडजोड होता कामा नये.पंजाब दौऱ्यात मोदी यांच्या सुरक्षेत आढळलेल्या त्रुटी गंभीर आहेत. याच त्रुटींमुळे देशाने दोन पंतप्रधान गमावले आहेत. या घटनेची सखोल चौकशी व्हावीअशी मागणी मुख्यमंत्री उद्धव ठाकरे यांनी केली आहे.Meanwhile, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said in a statement, “Instead of a probe by the Centre or the state, the incident should be probed by a sitting high court judge as any lapse in PM's security is a serious issue.”The Sena, NCP and Congress together govern Maharashtra. Punjab, where the alleged breach took place, has a Congress government. The Sena is also a former ally of the Prime Minister's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also Read | Decoding the PM’s security breachThe alleged breach, which forced PM Modi to cancel a scheduled rally in Ferozepur, has been described by the Congress as an excuse by the BJP to cancel the programme as the turnout was poor. Charanjit Singh Channi, the Punjab chief minister, has repeatedly said there was no breach, adding that a last-minute change in the Prime Minister's programme led to his convoy getting stuck on the road on which agitators were protesting against his visit.Also Read | PM-President meeting: Kovind calls Modi’s security incident a ‘serious lapse’The incident was, however, condemned by several party leaders such as Sunil Jakhar, Manish Tewari and Rana Gurjit Singh. Tewari, like the NCP, demanded a probe into the lapse by a sitting high court judge.Also Read | PM security breach: Congress MP Manish Tewari seeks probe by sitting HC judgeThe Centre and Punjab government have set up respective high-level teams to probe what went wrong. On Friday, the Supreme Court will take up a public interest litigation (PIL) over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-security-breach-congress-allies-sena-ncp-demand-probe-into-serious-lapse-101641487189149.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Pune has 1.38 lakh vials of Remdesivir; FDA asks private hospitals to ramp up medicine supply||PUNE In the light of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has asked private hospitals and chemists to ramp up medicine supply in the coming days. According to the FDA commissioner, private hospitals and chemists in Pune district currently have around 28,000 vials of Remdesivir while stock at public hospitals stands at 1.10 lakh. “There is an ample stock of eight different kinds of drugs required in the treatment of Covid-19,” said Shyam Pratapwar, joint commissioner, FDA. The FDA and authorities held a meeting this week to take a review of medicine stock currently available at private hospitals. He said that as far Remdesivir, a key drug that saw a tremendous scarcity during the second wave, is concerned, there are over 28,000 vials currently available in the market in the Pune district. Besides Remdesivir, there are around 135 tocilizumab vials available. “Considering the experience during the first and second wave, we have asked private hospitals and chemists with a license to ramp up the stock of eight drugs including Remdesivir proportionate with their beds,” said Pratapwar. During the second wave, Pune and the rest of the state witnessed a shortage of this expensive and much-hyped antiviral drug, which was prescribed on large scale by doctors, leading to scarcity. This in effect also led to its black marketing and overcharging. Pratapwar said the FDA will keep a check on black marketing and illegal hoarding of the stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-has-1-38-lakh-vials-of-remdesivir-fda-asks-private-hospitals-to-ramp-up-medicine-supply-101641490176508.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Rainfall likely in parts of Maharashtra: IMD||PUNE According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), isolated places in Maharashtra may receive rainfall in the next few days.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that from January 7 to 10 rainfall in isolated places is likely. “In the four sub-divisions of Maharashtra, central Maharashtra may receive isolated rainfall on January 7 and 8. From January 8 to 10, Vidarbha and Marathwada may receive isolated rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning,” he said.However, there is no rainfall forecast for Pune city. “Pune will have partly cloudy skies,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rainfall-likely-in-parts-of-maharashtra-imd-101641490059643.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||NEP-2020: Agra’s Ambedkar University approves 135 new vocational courses||Academic Council for Dr BR Ambedkar University, Agra, met on Thursday to approve 135 new vocational courses under National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020). Besides this, the ordinance issued for the implementation of NEP-2020 in courses for BA, BSc and BCom was also approved and will be sent for sanction to the Uttar Pradesh governor. The meeting of the Academic Council was chaired by officiating vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai.“Ordinance issued for the implementation of National Education Policy-2020 for courses of BA, BSc, BCom, was given approval during the meet and will be sent to Raj Bhavan for sanction by the governor of Uttar Pradesh,” informed Prof Pradeep Shridhar, the spokesperson for the university.“135 vocational courses have been approved by the Academic Council, which also accepted the proposal to amend the title of some courses, as presented by the V-C. The council authorised the registrar of the university to amend the titles of the courses and submit them to the executive council for approval,” stated Prof Shridhar.“It was also decided that now onwards decisions of the meetings of the Academic Council will be sent to all the members by mail and in case any objection is not made by any member within three days, then those decisions will be deemed to be accepted,” stated Prof Shridhar. “On representation made through e-mail, Vandana Nagpal had requested to consider the degree of Chartered Accountant equivalent to MCom, so that it may pave the way for research work. It was accepted as a policy decision, and in this regard, the notification issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) was adopted by the Academic Council,” informed spokesperson for the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nep2020-agra-s-ambedkar-university-approves-135-new-vocational-courses-101641489934821.html
06-01-2022||Pune||PMC sets Jan 20 deadline to restore roads in peth areas||PUNE The delayed restoration of dug-up roads is a major problem for the residents of from peth areas. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now set deadline to restore all the streets in original form by January 20. The PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The work is expected to be completed on time.” The PMC is rushing to complete its ambitious 24x7 water supply project. The project’s deadline is March 2023 and with the PMC election knocking at the door, the project has picked up pace. However, roads have been dug up in the old parts of the city for installation of the new pipelines. This has slowed the traffic and caused inconvenience to the public. “Roads have been dug up due to the installation of drainage lines, 24x7 water supply project, the MNGL project, which will finish by January 10-12, according to the Rasane. “The restoration of the roads will begin after that and eight to ten days will be enough for that, ”he added. The local residents from Sadashiv peth, Shiniwar peth and Shukrapar peth along with commuters passing through these areas have been complaining about bad roads for the past few months. “Once we take the Shivaji road, we run into traffic jams and the buses get delayed by at least half an hour,” said Pawan, a bus conductor“Roads have been dug in various parts of the peth area for over a month in some areas. They are taking way too long to complete the work,” complained an atuo-rickshaw driver. The installation of the pipes and the subsequent road repairing work is causing inconvenience to the local shop owners as well. “The work is taking place right in front of my shop and it has blocked the road. This has affected my business,” said the owner of a lemonade stand on Shivaji road. Drainage pipes are being installed and simultaneously roads are being repaired after the pipes have been placed in peth areas of Bajirao road and Laxmi road as well. “The installation of pipes started just a couple of days ago. There’s no certainty when the work will be completed. It can take a week or even a month,” said Arun Kutarkar, a worker at the road repairing site at Shivaji road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-sets-jan-20-deadline-to-restore-roads-in-peth-areas-101641489879334.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rajpura civil hospital employee, aide held for running sex test centre||A Haryana health department team has busted an illegal sex determination centre being run by an employee at the Rajpura civil hospital in Punjab’s Patiala district.The accused has been identified as Ram Kumar Murthy, a Class-4 employee at the hospital. One of his accomplices has also been arrested.In a joint operation with their Patiala district counterparts, a Karnal health department team sent a decoy patient — pregnant woman — to the hospital along with ₹25,000 to pay to Ram Kumar for the test. He was arrested red-handed during a raid. Rajpura senior medical officer Jagpalinder Singh said the team also seized a portable ultrasound machine from Ram Kumar and his aide’s possession. “They were running the centre from a secluded room on the hospital premises. We have initiated an inquiry into the matter,” he said.A case has been registered under Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act of 1994.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rajpura-civil-hospital-employee-aide-held-for-running-sex-test-centre-101641489754847.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Pune police arrest thief involved in 30 cases||PUNE: The Pune police crime branch Unit 6 brought to light 30 cases of house break-in and theft by arresting a man from the Shikalgari community.The man identified as Arjunsingh Rajputsingh Dudhani, 44, is a resident of Manjri Budrukh area of Pune. He was arrested and remanded to police custody till Thursday.Of the 30 cases brought to light, four are from Chatuhshrungi, two from Vishrantwadi, two from Swargate, three from Lonikand, six from Lonikalbhor, three from Wanowrie, two from Hadapsar, and one each from Kondhwa, Yerawada, Lashkar, Sinhgad road, Alankar, and Mundhwa police stations. All the cases are from 2021.The arrest was made by a team led by police inspector Ganesh Mane of Unit 6.The police have recovered 610 grams of gold ornaments, 780 grams of silver ornaments, and one stolen Santro car collectively worth ₹31,74,860.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-arrest-thief-involved-in-30-cases-101641489396051.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Karvenagar postmaster killed in accident in Dhayari||PUNE The postmaster of Karvenagar post office was killed in a collision with a tanker truck in Dhayari on Thursday morning.The deceased woman has been identified as Vrushali Vishwanath Tambe, 53, a resident of Raikarmala in Dhayari located at a short distance from where she was killed. The truck driver was identified as Mahavir Mhasal, 35, a resident of Ambegaon, Katraj.The woman was heading to work on a two-wheeler at 9:40am and was not wearing a helmet when the accident happened.“We have given him a notice and asked him to be present tomorrow. The truck hit her from behind and she fell down and the rear tyre of truck ran over her head, killing her instantly,” said police inspector (crime) Pramod Waghmare of Sinhgad road police station.A case has been registered at Sinhgad road police station against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/karvenagar-postmaster-killed-in-accident-in-dhayari-101641489156445.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Security lapse: UP minister leads prayers in Varanasi for long life of PM||A day after “security lapse” led Prime Minister Narendra Modi to cut short his Punjab visit, state tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari along with locals offered prayers to Baba Kaal Bhairav and wished for the long life of their local MP.“Today the people of Kashi offered prayers to Kashi’s Kotwal Baba Kaal Bhairav and performed his aarti wishing for the long life of their MP and Prime Minister Modi. The prayers were meant to negate all conspiracies against the PM,” Tiwari said.Kashi region BJP spokesperson Navratan Rathi alleged that it was a deliberate attempt by the Congress government in Punjab to stop PM’s visit.In a “major security lapse”, the prime minister’s convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Punjab’s Ferozepur on Wednesday. He returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a rally.PM was stuck among protesters on the flyover for 20 minutes and the SPG brought him back to the airport safely with great difficulty.Also, a “havan” was performed at Sarangnath temple under the leadership of mandal president of BJP’s Sarnath Mandal Ajit Singh for PM’s long life.Several BJP leaders, including Jagdish Tripathi, councilor Madan Dubey, Surendra Rajbhar, Vinod Pandey, mandal general secretary Harishchandra, Pooja Singh, Vinay Pandey, Indu Gupta, Poonam Pandey, Devendra Singh, Ajay Sonkar, Ramprasad Rajbhar were present.In Varanasi, several BJP leaders, including Somnath Vishwakarma, staged a protest and burnt an effigy of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/security-lapse-up-minister-leads-prayers-in-varanasi-for-long-life-of-pm-101641488975216.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||NIA files chargesheet against 5 terror suspects in Lucknow||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), on Wednesday, filed chargesheet at the NIA special court in Lucknow against five Al-Qaeda operatives in connection with the conspiracy to carry out improvised explosive device (IED) blast in Uttar Pradesh (UP), the investigation agency said on Thursday. The UP anti-terrorist squad (ATS) had on July 11 claimed to have discovered a self-radicalised terror module after arrest of two people from a house in Kakori. After this, 3 more people were arrested. A NIA press release stated that the charge sheet was filed against five including Museeruddin, Minhaj Ahmad, Shakeel, Mustaqeem and Mohammad Moeed under sections 121 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) (waging war against the country), 121A (conspiracy to wage war against the country), section 122 (collecting firearms to wage war against the country), section 123 (concealing information related to conspiracy to wage war against the country) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). Charges under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Arms Act and Explosive Substances Act were also pressed on the accused. The case is related to the first information report (FIR) of July 11, 2021 registered by UP anti-terrorism squad police station in Lucknow and was re-registered by NIA on July 29. The press statement further stated that investigations revealed that accused Minhaj Ahmad was radicalised online by two Jammu and Kashmir based Al Qaeda operatives. The press note stated that Minhaj had entered into a conspiracy with them for further recruiting members for Al-Qaeda affiliate Ansaar Gajwatul Hind (AGH) and for committing terrorist acts. The press note stated that Minhaz recruited Museeruddin into Al Qaeda fold and involved him in the conspiracy for committing terrorist acts in UP. The press note stated that Museeruddin and Minhaj Ahmad procured arms, ammunitions, explosive material and conducted reconnaissance of vulnerable areas to carry out blasts. Other three accused Shakeel, Mohd Mustaqeem and Mohammad Moeed aided and abetted Minhaj and Museeruddin in procuring weapons and ammunitions, thus becoming a party in conspiracy, the press note stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-5-terror-suspects-in-lucknow-101641488854638.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Petty fights, love affairs trigger murders as Pune sees surge in violent crimes in 2021||PUNE The Pune city crime records for 2021 show an uptick in the number of violent crimes as well as crime against women and children as compared to 2020. Petty fights that turned violent was the major reason for murders, followed by a tie between domestic fight and pre-planned murders. In 2021, 100 cases of murder were witnessed as against 87 in 2020. Whereas, the cases of attempted murder witnessed a major jump from 138 cases in 2020 to 298 in 2021, according to the data. The number of domestic and character suspicion-based murders went up from 13 in 2020 to 21 in 2021. Cases of murder by firing increased in 2021. The recent murder of a local builder by two bike-borne men who pumped 6 bullets into him sent shock waves in the vicinity. Similarly, in another case of a family, the mothers body was found in Saswad, their child, who had a developmental disorder, was found in Bharti Vidyapeeth and the husband was found three days later in Khanapur, Khadakwasla.The Covid-19 pandemic, and the ensuing lockdowns saw a decrease in case registrations. The Pune city police also acquired two police stations to add to the existing list of 30 police stations. Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police said, “The public perception of the city police is good. People trust the police. I do not play the number game. That is all I will say about this.” Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police refused to comment on the issue.Crime against women, childrenThe cases of crimes against women and children also saw a spike in 2021. A total of 142 women fell prey to sexual assault in 2021. Among minor survivors of sexual assault, the number jumped from 110 in 2020 to 137 in 2021. In 2021, a total of 279 cases were registered under Section 376 of IPC and of those, 137 were under Protection of children from sexual offence (POCSO) Act .“In case of young girls in the age group of 15-17 years, and even younger, the lockdown brought with it a major shift in the way mobile phones were used. The access, and the behaviour at that age, together led to their exposure to virtual predators who pretend to be suitors. In 80% of the cases of child sexual assault and child molestation, the accused is known to the victim. They find it difficult to tell the difference between a predator and a genuine person. There are hardly any cases where the child is completely unknown like the case of those two students in a rickshaw or the Wanowrie rape case or even the Bund garden case where the sexual assault victim was 4-5 years of age,” said Shubhangi Deshmukh, special public prosecutor working in a special POCSO court. The case of a teenage girl who was kidnapped by an auto-rickshaw driver and raped by multiple men for two days was a rude reminder to the lack of security measures at the Pune railway station. The police arrested 19 people in the case and registered a chargesheet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petty-fights-love-affairs-trigger-murders-as-pune-sees-surge-in-violent-crimes-in-2021-101641488795014.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 3,668 fresh Covid cases, 1 death in 24 hours||PUNE As per state health department authorities, Pune district reported 3,668 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and one death due to the infection on Thursday. Nine cases of the Omicron variant were also were reported in the district.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 533,225 Covid-19 cases and 9,273 deaths by Thursday. While Pimpri-Chinchwad has reported 273,474 cases so far and a total of 3,528 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 371,370 total cases and 7,045 deaths.In the Pune district, there are a total of 1.178,069 cases. Out of this, 1,149,672 patients have recovered and 20,196 deaths reported and there are 8,201 active cases.As per the state health department, 8907 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,533,154 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 96.17%.Across Maharashtra, 36,265 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 13 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.08%.Currently, 5,85,758 people are in home quarantine and 1368 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-3-668-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-in-24-hours-101641488734561.html
06-01-2022||Pune||RTO appeal passengers to complain about errant rickshaw drivers||PUNE While citizens often take to social media to voice their frustration r against the local auto rickshaw drivers who denied to ferry them to their destination, only few have lodged a complaint to the Regional Transport Office (RTO), said officials.In 2021, the RTO suspended only 11 auto rickshaw drivers against the 10 registered complaints, despite the RTO encouraging residents to come forth and file a complaint against errant rickshaw drivers. A total of 72,000 auto rickshaws are registered in Pune district, of which 50,000 ply.“The number may seem less but it can be due to the lockdown. However, before the lockdown, we used to get about 100 to 150 complaints in a month and we have taken action against such reckless drivers,” said deputy RTO officer Sanjay Sasane.According to officials, in April 2021, seven complaints were registered, while in July there was only one. In October, a complaint was registered against rudeness and reckless driving. In November, two complaints were registered against drivers who refused to ferry passengers. “Under the Motor Vehicle Act, section 83, we can take action against those denying to ferry the passenger to their destination and we can suspend his permit for 30 days and the license for one to six months. People have complained to us that usually they are denied at places like railway station, Swargate, Katraj, Wadgaon Budruk, Aundh, Baner, Undri, Hadapsar, and near hospitals like Deenath Mangeshkar in Kothrud,” said Sasane.He further added that the passengers can complain and write to the RTO mentioning the time of the incident, vehicle number and photograph of the rickshaw if possible at mh12@mahatranscom.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rto-appeal-passengers-to-complain-about-errant-rickshaw-drivers-101641488618670.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Hospitals in Pune city gear up for third Covid wave||PUNE As Covid-19 cases rise, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and private hospitals have geared up to deal with the third wave.Many private hospitals have already issued a notification to their staff informing them in advance that they may have to go back to a 24-hour shift. PMC has also started preparing for the influx of cases.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant medical officer of health, said that private hospitals have been informed about the rise in cases and the possibility of acquiring beds when the cases further increase.“We have verbally informed private hospitals and held meetings with officials. In the next week possibly, we will inform hospitals about acquiring beds. We are preparing on similar lines like the last wave. At least 80 per cent of beds will be acquired from private hospitals when the cases increase,” said Dr Wavare.Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said that repositioning of infrastructure, staff and medicines have been done.“We are taking similar measures like the previous waves. Medical infrastructure, staff and medicines are all re-positioned to ensure that we are tackling the wave with more efficiency,” said Dr Kelkar.Adding similar views, Abrarali Dalal, CEO of Sahyadri Hospitals, said that with cases on the rise, we have kept our facilities ready with stringent measures.“While we now have the experience of handling two waves recently, we have put all the infection control guidelines in place including allocating different staff for Covid-19 treatment facilities, adjusting their shifts, balancing and managing duties to ensure physical and mental well-being for them, arranging for their stay, arranging for isolation in case anyone from the staff gets infected etc. The regular measures and Covid-19 guidelines like temperature check will continue,” said Dalal.Dr Rajendra Patankar, CEO at Jupiter Hospital, Pune, said that all essential steps are being taken to handle the possible rise in numbers of patients and if required we are prepared to hire additional staff in case of an exponential rise in cases.“Despite Omicron being way more infectious, hospitalisation cases will not be overburdening as per the study till date. However, the challenges of the second wave are still afresh in our minds and we ought to be better prepared to handle the third wave. Hospitals on their part need to be well-equipped with sufficient beds, medical staff, doctors, oxygen supply etc,” said Dr Patankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospitals-in-pune-city-gear-up-for-third-covid-wave-101641488495291.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Proposal for airport site at Purandar still stands: Pune MP Girish Bapat||PUNE A day after refusal to the airport site at Purandar from the Ministry of Defence (MoD) came to light, there was conspicuous silence from members of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, which had resubmitted a fresh proposal changing the site last year.However, Pune member of Parliament Girish Bapat, who is also a chairman of Pune Airport Advisory Committee, said if the state government expedites the process, the airport is very much possible on the old site in Purandar.According to Bapat, the MoD has not cancelled its approval for the original proposal involving a plan to develop an airport on land spanning seven villages. The state government has last year, resubmitted a fresh proposal with changes that shifted land around 10 kilometres away.Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia in a written response to Bapat on December 31, 2021, said, “The MoD had given the NOC (no objection certificate) on August 12, 2021, with certain conditions for the new proposed site, later it cancelled the NOC vide their communication dated September 29, 2021. This has been communicated to the state government.”Scindia’s response came after Bapat wrote a letter last month attaching another letter from Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) for pushing the project.“The letter only states about withdrawing clearance to the resubmitted proposal with changes. The old proposal still stands and all the clearances obtained so far are also valid. Therefore, I have decided to pursue that proposal,” Bapat said.The Pune MP stated that the Purandar airport must happen. “At my level, I am trying for this and as per my knowledge, neither state government has withdrawn original proposal nor has Centre rejected it. If everyone pushes for the original proposal, it will happen.”During the Devendra Fadnavis government, the administration had proposed an airport at the land from Munjewadi, Vanpuri, Kumbalvalan, Ekhatpur and Udachi Wadi villages. However, the resistance of farmers led by local MLA Sanjay Jagtap forced the rulers to look for alternate land in the same tehsil.The new site in Purandar tehsil where the proposed airport shifted was covered neighbouring villages: Rise, Pise, Naigaon, Rajouri, Pandeshwar, Pimpri.This was the fourth site the government was exploring for the project, which many now believe, may not be a reality for the next few years.Reacting to the cancellation of an approval, MCCIA president Sudhir Mehta had said on Wednesday that the project appears to be dead with this development.“It appears that the site clearance for the proposed Pune airport at the new location in Purandar has been cancelled by the MoD which effectively means that the project is dead. Request the state government to clarify about plans for a new airport at Pune??,” (sic) Mehta had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/proposal-for-airport-site-at-purandar-still-stands-pune-mp-girish-bapat-101641488314420.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Former top cops write to President, allege state collusion||Twenty-seven retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, including 20 former state police chiefs, have termed the Wednesday’s breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security a collusion of the state machinery with so-called protesters to harm and embarrass him. “This is one of the gravest security lapses in the history of this country committed through conspiracy and collusion,” said a letter addressed to the President and signed by 27 former top cops, including former Punjab director general of police (DGP) PC Dogra and former Maharashtra DGP Praveen Dixit.Stating that the gravity of the incident and its national and international repercussion have forced them to approach the President to take “appropriate action”, the letter said: “The stoppage of the carcade of the Prime Minister for about 15 to 20 minutes in a planned manner on a flyover bridge demonstrated poor law and order in Punjab and threatens the democracy in our country.”Former Maharashtra DGP Praveen Dixit told HT that they are seeking an inquiry into the security lapse. “Media reports clearly show that it is not only a casual approach displayed by the state government but there appears to be a clear involvement of the state functionaries that has resulted in this horrific incident of security breach,’’ the letter said. The IPS officers said that the question was not particularly of the party which is ruling, as it is already a very sensitive state that is close to the international border and has recently witnessed IED blast at district courts in Ludhiana with involvement of a former Punjab cop.“We request you to take immediate action on this matter having serious bearing on the national security and state responsibility to law and order in a border state going for election in a month,” they said. Bar council seeks inquiry commissionThe Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana chairman Minderjeet Yadav has written to the Punjab and Haryana high court to take suo motu cognisance of security breach during the PM’s visit to Ferozepur. The letter demands setting up of a commission of inquiry to judiciously examine evidence, including advance security liaison reports, central and state inputs, PM’s itinerary, state security audits, police route maps, intelligence bureau clearance certificates, federal checking mechanism alternatives and contingency plans and local intelligence diaries, to find whether it was a visible breakdown of constitutional machinery in the state. This extreme action under judicial security may just be required to discipline “a rogue state government” and fix accountability for their omission and commissions, if any, it states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-former-top-cops-write-to-president-allege-state-collusion-101641487234343.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Raigad police claim to have solved 90% of crime cases registered in district in 2021||The Raigad police have claimed that 90% of the total cases registered in the district have been solved in the year 2021.A total of 2,254 cases were registered in Raigad district last year, of which 2,031 cases were solved, making a detection of 90% of the cases registered. The Raigad police administration claimed to be having the highest detection rate in Konkan range.In 2020, the detection rate was 79% with around 1,000 fewer cases registered as compared to 2021. Meanwhile, the conviction rate of Raigad police at session court is just 24%.“With the help of specialised training to the staff, we would empower them with more technical knowledge of evidence collection and investigation to increase the conviction rate,” Raigad superintendent of police, Ashok Dudhe, said.A total of 108 sessions court trials were conducted in 2021 of which the accused in 26 cases were convicted. Meanwhile, 1,578 trials were conducted in the magistrate courts of which the accused in 1,203 cases were convicted, making a 76% conviction rate at the magistrate court.In 2021, 38 murders were reported in the district, out of which 37 cases were detected. A murder in Karjat is the only one that remains to be solved because the person who was killed has not been identified.All the 20 attempt-to-murder cases and one dacoity case was solved. Out of 23 cases of robbery registered, 13 cases were solved. Of the 161 house break thefts, 78 were solved and out of 408 theft cases, 224 have been detected, Dudhe added.Along with solving the cases, in order to prevent crimes, Raigad police have also been focussing on prevention of crimes. “A total of 5,249 preventive cases were done under various provisions as a part of curbing the crime. Five Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act cases, one Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities case and 55 Prohibition Act cases are a part of these preventive measures,” Dudhe said.Raigad has a total of 12,093 CCTV cameras installed, of which 5,000 were installed in 2021. “Around 42 crimes that happened in Navi Mumbai were solved with the help of the CCTV cameras. Hence, CCTVs play a vital role in the detection of crimes,” DSP Atul Zende said.A total of 147 crime registered were against the women, of which 141 were solved, making a 96% detection in the crimes against women in the district. A total of 1.53 lakh were penalised for flouting various traffic norms and ₹4.30Cr fine was levied from them. Sniffer dog of Raigad Police, ‘Oscar’, also helped the team in solving the Mahad murder case of the lady sarpanch who was killed and then sexually abused by the accused.By auctioning around 272 unclaimed motor vehicles, Raigad police collected ₹34.10 lakh and added it to the government’s treasury. Meanwhile, valuables worth ₹55 lakh recovered by solving the cases were returned to the owners over the period of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raigad-police-claim-to-have-solved-90-of-crime-cases-registered-in-district-in-2021-101641487054158.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||All passengers allowed to disembark Cordelia after two days||Mumbai: Two days after Cordelia cruise ship anchored at Mumbai, 1,820 passengers and crew members, including 132 Covid positive were allowed to disembark and go home in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.“All the positive patients except seven were asymptomatic and didn’t have any serious co-morbidity so they were allowed home isolation. Seven patients were shifted to hotels and quarantine centres. They were residents from outside Mumbai,” Shivdas Gurav, assistant municipal commissioner from A Ward, where the ship was anchored, said.Earlier on Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) found 139 passengers positive after testing samples collected from 1,827 passengers on board the luxury cruise ship. On January 1, 66 passengers were found to be positive when the ship was docked in Goa. While six of them were allowed to disembark in Goa, the remaining positive patients returned on board the ship to Mumbai. Over Tuesday and Wednesday, as many as 40 positive passengers with mild symptoms were moved to healthcare facilities or private hotels in Mumbai (one person, with serious symptoms was admitted to St George’s hospital), while 19, who were asymptomatic, were allowed to isolate on board the ship itself. Late Wednesday night, seven patients were moved to isolation centres as the rest of the passengers disembarked.After the ship arrived Mumbai on January 4, the BMC carried out RT-PCR tests of 1,827 passengers — the swab samples were collected till 5.30 am on Wednesday morning — and said that they would be allowed to disembark after the reports arrive. According to the details shared by BMC officials, out of the 139 positive patients, 67 were from outside Mumbai including areas like Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan, 63 were crew members, and nine patients were Mumbai residents.Gurav said that passengers allowed to go home would have to undergo mandatory home isolation for seven days, and BMC officials have stamped their hands.“After the reports came up late at Wednesday night, the passengers and crew members were allowed to disembark in a phased manner. Before that medical tests were carried out on them to check if they had any severe co-morbidities,” Gurav had said.Earlier this week, Jurgen Bailom CEO and President of Waterways Tourism Private Limited that manages the cruise ship said that all passengers and crew members on board were fully vaccinated and had tested negative before coming on board the cruise-ship.“The guests that boarded the cruise last Sunday had all tested negative in their RT-PCR at the time of boarding. They were also fully vaccinated. It is only when one crew member and, that too someone who works at the back of the house, showed mild symptoms on board last Sunday and was immediately isolated, that all guests and crew had to undergo tests again. The results of which showed that a few guests and one crew member on board have tested positive,” Bailom’s statement read.The cruise ship that left from Mumbai on December 31 and was meant to stop at Goa, Kochi and Lakshadweep islands before sailing back to Mumbai. However the ship returned to Mumbai on Tuesday (January 4) after 66 members on-board including six members were tested positive during the journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/all-passengers-allowed-to-disembark-cordelia-after-two-days-101641486634169.html
06-01-2022||Patna||Bihar logs 2,379 fresh Covid cases, two deaths||PATNA: Two patients infected by Covid-19 died at the AIIMS on Thursday on a day two more ministers of the Bihar government were among the 2,379 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday, as per the health bulletin on Thursday. Union minister of state for home affairs and BJP leader Nityanand Rai through a tweet on Thursday informed that he has also tested positive and that he has isolated himself.A 25-year-old woman from Banka village of Didarganj in Patna who was operated for intestinal surgery in the AIIMS emergency, succumbed to her illness. She was later detected Covid-19 positive, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the AIIMS-Patna. “Another 85-year-old woman, who tested Covid positive and was on ventilator for the last few days, and suffering from multiple organ dysfunction, also died at our institute on Thursday,” added Dr Kumar. On Thursday, 14 doctors of AIIMS and 12 doctors of Patna Medical College and Hospital ( PMCH ) tested positive taking the number of doctors infected with Covid above 500 in the state, health officials said.  The ministers who tested positive are agriculture minister Amrendra Pratap Singh and minister for mines and geology Janak Ram . So far, six of the 31 ministers have been infected. On Wednesday, another union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey had tested positive for Covid-19. The state on Wednesday reported 2,379 fresh positive cases taking the number of active cases to 5,785. Meanwhile, the curbs imposed by the state government kicked in on Thursday. The government has decided to impose a night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am. All shops and commercial establishments have been asked to close by 8 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-logs-2-379-fresh-covid-cases-two-deaths-101641486574185.html
06-01-2022||Patna||Carcass of 8-yr-old tigress found in VTR||BETTIAH Carcass of an eight-year-old female tigress was found in Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran district of Bihar on Thursday, forest officials said.This is the fifth death of a tiger, and the first of a cub, to have been reported from VTR since the last tiger count in August 2018.Officials said the carcass was recovered near the Kaleshwar forest area of VTR. “Prima facie, it appears the death occurred due to attack by another tiger,” said HK Rai, the wildlife conservator and field director, VTR.“The female cub’s injuries in front legs and head suggest the sign of fighting. Viscera will be sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Bareilly and Wildlife Institute of India (WWI) at Dehradun for forensic testing,” Rai said, ruling out the possibility of poaching as the cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/carcass-of-8-yr-old-tigress-found-in-vtr-101641486274027.html
06-01-2022||Patna||RJD bait for Nitish: Will back if BJP pulls the plug||In a surprise move that has raised the political temperature in Bihar, main opposition party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Thursday offered its support to chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) if the latter’s ally Bharatiya Janata Party did not back it on the issue of special status for the state and a caste census. “Remove those (BJP ministers) who are opposing the government. Nitish Kumar should not bow before the BJP. If the issues of special status and caste census have any political impact on the Nitish government, the opposition’s grand alliance is there to support him. You will not find yourself alone,” RJD’s state president Jagdanand Singh told reporters. To add heft to his statement, Singh, a former minister, said, “The offer has come from the leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav.” After the 2020 assembly polls in Bihar, the RJD emerged as the single largest party in the 243-member House with 75 seats. The BJP won 74 seats and JD(U) 45. The two parties are the major constituents of the ruling National Democratic Alliance, which also has former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM(S) and Vikassheel Insann Party, which have four seats each.Singh said JD(U) and RJD should work together on the caste census and ministers who are against it should be sacked. “We are not going to back down on this issue which is in the state’s interest,” he said. This is not the first time that RJD has thrown a bait at Kumar. In December 2020, after six JD(U) MLAs defected to BJP in Arunachal Pradesh, RJD tried to capitalise on the acrimony between the two allies by offering to project Kumar as prime ministerial candidate for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections if he handed over the reins of Bihar to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who was the opposition alliance’s chief ministerial candidate in the 2020 assembly elections. In an apparent move to play an emotional card to excite CM Kumar, Singh reminded him of the “DNA barb” hurled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run-up of 2015 assembly elections, which JD(U) and RJD fought in alliance and won.Kumar had then had promised to send 50 lakh samples of the people of Bihar for a DNA test to Delhi and accused Modi of insulting the people of Bihar. “I don’t know what happened to those tests, but nobody has the capability to test Bihari DNA,” Singh said. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary too claimed Bihar would see a political realignment after January 14. “The development of Bihar is getting hampered because of BJP’s policy. Nitish Kumar should come with the Grand Alliance on the issue of development of Bihar. He is feeling uncomfortable with BJP, which is the largest party of the NDA, but is not supporting Nitish Kumar on these two issues,” said Tiwary. The ruling parties, however, dismissed RJD’s offer. BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said it showed RJD’s desperation. “RJD is convinced it cannot form the government on its own. Nitish Kumar is no longer going to fall for their bait, given the way he has been humiliated by RJD,” Patel said. JD (U) spokesperson and former minister Neeraj Kumar too dismissed the idea. “Everybody knows that Jagda babu (Jagadanand Singh) has no say in the party. RJD runs on Lalu Prasad’s diktat. The party is left with no issues,” he said and asked opposition parties to have patience as BJP was part of all-party delegation that met PM on caste census. Manjhi’s HAM(S) also mocked the idea. “It’s a desperate effort by RJD to keep its flock together,” said party’s spokesperson Danish Rizwan. The Congress, which fought the 2020 polls as part of RJD-led alliance, sought to downplay the development. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said, “There is nothing unusual in the offer and no political inference should be drawn from it. All parties have met PM under the leadership of CM on the issue of caste census and have backed demand for special package. Today’s statement, according to me, is an extension of earlier support on the two issues,” said Jha. In 2015, RJD and JD(U) had won 80 and 71 seats, respectively. The two parties formed the government with Nitish Kumar as the CM and Tejashwi Yadav as his deputy.In 2017, JD(U) joined hands with its old ally BJP and formed the government. 
06-01-2022||Patna||Gopalganj hooch tragedy: Charge sheet filed against 12, says methyl alcohol caused deaths||The police on Thursday filed a charge sheet against 12 accused arrested in connection with the November 2021 hooch tragedy that left 21 people dead at Muhammadpur in Gopalganj district of Bihar, a state where liquor was banned in April 2016. The 82-page charge sheet, filed in the special court of additional district judge Lav Kush Kumar in Gopalganj by Rajesh Kumar, the investigating officer and station house officer of Mohammadpur police station, states that methyl alcohol or methanol had been used in making hooch that led to deaths in Muhammadpur and neighbouring villages. “The charge sheet was filed under sections 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) 328 (causing hurt by means of poison etc with intent to commit an offence), 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and under sections of Bihar Excise Act,” said special public prosecutor Ravi Bhusan Srivastava. According to the SHO, forensic evidence and viscera reports of 12 people found that they consumed hooch in copious amount, which adversely affected their body organs. Once methanol reaches the liver, it breaks into formaldehyde and formic acid, which is more toxic. Gopalganj superintendent of police (SP) Anand Kumar told HT that of the 19 named accused, six are still absconding while one of them died in the hooch tragedy. “More than 20 people had consumed the spurious liquor at the house of one Chhathu Ram on November 2 and they all later complained of nausea, headache, restlessness and blurred vision. Nine of the dead were cremated while 12 bodies were sent for autopsy and their viscera preserve for forensic test,” the SP said.In November last year, Bihar witnessed a series of hooch tragedies in rural areas of Gopalganj, West Champaran, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur districts. Special investigation teams of police were formed to probe these incidents and submit reports in 60 days. In the ensuing crackdown, the police have raided more than 1,300 locations and arrested around 823 people and registered 698 cases, according to state police headquarters.
06-01-2022||Mumbai||6 incl former Corporator booked in extortion case in Kalyan||The Mahatma Phule police registered an attempt-to-murder and extortion case against six accused including an ex-corporator for allegedly threatening an umbrella vendor to give them ₹5 lakh to continue his business. They, however, stabbed him after he refused to pay.The accused are identified as former corporator Sachin Khema, Prem Chaudhary, Babalu Shaikh, and an unknown person. The incident occurred on January 5 when all these accused were demanding money from shopkeepers in Kalyan. The umbrella seller, Amjad Sayyed, 32, refused to give ₹5 lakh as per the demand of the accused.According to the police, the accused and complainant had an argument. Sayyed decided to lodge a police complaint. Along with two other shopkeepers, he was going to the police station when the accused followed him on a bike and stabbed Sayyed on his stomach. Another shopkeeper, too, was hurt in the attack.A police officer said, “The accused were booked but all of them fled the spot and we are still searching for them. The victim is taking treatment in the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6-incl-former-corporator-booked-in-extortion-case-in-kalyan-101641486034252.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Smart city: Infra projects worth ₹136 crore launched in Punjab’s Sultanpur Lodhi||Projects worth ₹136 crore were launched in Sultanpur Lodhi under the smart city scheme on Thursday. Local MLA Navtej Singh Cheema along with deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal laid the foundation stone of a project for four-laning roads leading to Dadwindi and Mundi villages. The two projects will cost ₹84 crore. Cheema said it is a dream come true for pilgrims from across the state to have an easy access to the land of first Sikh Guru.Situated in Kapurthala district, Sultanpur Lodhi is a sacred pilgrimage site associated with Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, who lived here for 14 years and is said to have gained enlightenment on the banks of Kali Bein during that period.Cheema and Uppal also laid the foundation stone of an integrated command and control centre to man 2,500 CCTV cameras that will cover the entire city besides a public address system for smooth communication in case of any emergency. They also inaugurated a newly constructed model police station at Kabirpur village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smart-city-infra-projects-worth-136-crore-launched-in-punjab-s-sultanpur-lodhi-101641484173852.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Raigad Collector seeks details on action taken against violations in Panje||Raigad District Collector, Mahendra Kalyankar, has sought to know from CIDCO as to what action has been taken into the violations by Navi Mumbai SEZ.Kalyankar also directed CIDCO to produce documents related to the construction of sluice gates and a wall across the creek at Panje to regulate the tidal water flow.CIDCO environment officer, Pramod Patil, sought 10 to 15 days to produce the relevant documents. Patil said that he has already asked the Planning Department for the documents. The Collector, who held a virtual meeting today to discuss violations in Panje, pointedly asked CIDCO about the action taken.Environmentalists had claimed that the sluice gates and the wall have been built without CRZ clearances.The meeting was convened to discuss the complaints of bursting of fire crackers in Panje to chase away the protected birds from the wetland.Environmentalist Debi Goenka opposed regulation of tidal water flow into Panje wetland and sought to remove the concrete pipes and open all channels to ensure continuous tidal water. The Collector agreed with the environmentalists that the mangroves in Panje also must be protected as per the High Court order of 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raigad-collector-seeks-details-on-action-taken-against-violations-in-panje-101641484053877.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Winter rain lashes 24 UP districts, IMD forecasts more showers||Winter rain lashed at least 24 districts of Uttar Pradesh, including the state capital, affecting daily life on Thursday. The rain increased the chill, and according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, more rain is expected in the next 24 hours.Rain was reported from Meerut, Jhansi, Banda, Noida, Pilibhit, Bareilly, Hathras, Bahraich, Santkabirnagar, Lucknow, Lalitpur, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Auriya, Fatehpur, Prayagraj, Ballia, Varanasi, Mau, Badaun, Agra, Jalaun, Mathura and Mahoba. Some of these districts also reported hailstorm along with rain.The rain increased the chill across the state forcing people to stay indoors. The day temperature recorded a sharp drop. In Lucknow, the maximum day temperature dropped to 16.3 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees below normal.However, the minimum temperature increased slightly in Lucknow. The minimum temperature was recorded at 13 degrees Celsius on Thursday, which is five degrees above normal. The minimum temperature is expected to drop in the coming days following rain, experts said.“The western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over the south of Haryana and neighbourhood states between 1.5km and 4.5km above. The trough now runs from the northeast Rajasthan to Vidarbha across West Madhya. These conditions are causing rain in Uttar Pradesh,” reads the forecast issued by IMD.“Under the influence of above meteorological conditions, scattered, light to moderate rain, thundershowers with hailstorm are very likely at isolated places, over the southern and central part of Uttar Pradesh on January 7. Scattered, light to moderate rain, thundershowers are very likely at isolated places; over the northern and central part of Uttar Pradesh on January 8,” as per the Met warning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/winter-rain-lashes-24-up-districts-imd-forecasts-more-showers-101641483636766.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai sees 603% rise in Covid cases in 1 week||In the last one week, the Covid cases in Navi Mumbai have increased by 603%. According to Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) officials, the cases are expected to increase even more.The average number of daily cases reported from December 22 to December 28 was 63 with an average testing of 10,387. These increased to 443 from December 29 to January 5 with an average daily testing of 12,780. The doubling, too, has now come down to 185 days from 1,033 days.While the highest number of per day cases during the second wave was 1,400, the cases have gone beyond 2,000 on a single day for the first time on Thursday.“The third wave is spreading much more rapidly than the second wave. The good part is that the severity of the cases is much lesser than what it was during the second wave and thus there has been only a marginal increase in the hospital admissions. Of the 1,200 admissions in oxygen beds, hardly 10 are in need of oxygen supply. The maximum cases of the Covid are those with mild symptoms. As per the trend, we are expecting daily cases of around 5,000 to 6,000 in the coming days,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.Even as the hospital staff aren’t as stressed out as they were during the second wave, due to the lack of admission, the health workers working on ground are currently over-burdened. “Each and every positive case needs to have close contacts traced up to 30 people. With 2,000 per day, it means the workers have to keep a tab of 60,000 people daily and not just physically but also by typing out the reports. Sanitising the areas, sealing the buildings, conducting tests, calling people and keeping a tab of their health are becoming very overwhelming,” one of the health workers said.As of now, NMMC is sealing the floor if up to five cases are found and if more than five cases are found, the building or society is sealed. Currently, the genome sequencing of the positive cases has been stopped and all the positive cases are considered as the Omicron variant itself.With the increasing cases, all the facilities that were shut post the second wave have been reopened. Besides, a total of 550 beds of Covid Care Centre would be started in three NMMC-run schools in Ghansoli, Vashi and Airoli.Around 3,000 oxygen beds and 4,500 CCC beds are currently available with NMMC. With the admissions at three schools starting, a total of 5,050 CCC beds would be available. Meanwhile, 700 ICU beds each are available with NMMC and private hospitals. While it has been decided to keep Turbhe hospital of NMMC as non-Covid facility to cater to non-Covid related issues, Nerul and Airoli hospitals will start their admissions as and when the requirement arises. Due to the low severity of cases, the isolation centres are what NMMC plans to focus on.“The testing done per day is close to 14,000, of which 45% is RT-PCR. The testing rate would be maintained and also increased. Besides, we would also be sensitising the staff to be ready for a higher number of cases in the coming days. Currently, the active patients are around 5,000 and we need to be ready to cater to even 50,000 active patients,” Bangar added.Currently, the CCC occupancy is 21%, Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) occupancy is 15% and Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) is 21 %. A week back, the same was 8%, 2% and 7%, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-sees-603-rise-in-covid-cases-in-1-week-101641483273721.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||UP govt renames Sainik School in Mainpuri after late General Rawat||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to rename the Sainik School at Mainpuri after first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat who died in a chopper crash last month.In a tweet on Thursday, the chief minister’s office said, “While paying homage to the martyrdom of General Bipin Rawat ji, who laid down his life in the service of the country, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to rename the Sainik School located in Mainpuri district as General Bipin Rawat Sainik School.” General Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel died after their military helicopter crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8. The Sainik School at Mainpuri became functional from April 1, 2019||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-renames-sainik-school-in-mainpuri-after-late-general-rawat-101641482734348.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Positive changes in UP just “trailer”, real film after polls: Gadkari||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said the positive changes being witnessed in Uttar Pradesh under the Yogi Adityanath-led state government during the last five years were just a “trailer” and that the real film of making the state developed and prosperous will start after the UP assembly polls.Gadkari also took a dig at opposition Congress and Samajwadi Party and said the state does not have a government of “mother-son or father-son” but one that runs for inclusive growth with the motto of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas” (everyone’s trust, everyone’s growth). Gadkari was addressing a function organised in Sakada of Muratganj area of Kaushambi district for laying foundation stone of a six-lane bridge over Ganga to be built at a cost of ₹1,785 crore as part of the 132-km long ‘Ram Gaman Marg’ project from Ayodhya to Chitrakoot. He also inaugurated and laid foundation stones of five other projects. He said “Our thought, work and manifesto is for establishing Ram Rajya” and invoking Mahatma Gandhi he said, “Ram Rajya could be established only by uprooting casteism and communalism besides giving work to all unemployed.”Promising better connectivity of Kaushambi with Buddhist tourism circuit, the minister also announced construction of a single pillar flyover at Ajuha on the request of MP Vinod Sonkar. Besides, he also announced construction of a cable-held bridge at Phaphamau, Prayagraj and double-decker bridge in Prayagraj city akin to the one existing in Goa making it just the second such bridge of its kind in the country. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Kaushambi MP Vinod Sonkar, Manikpur MP RK Singh Patel and MLA Sanjay Gupta among others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/positive-changes-in-up-just-trailer-real-film-after-polls-gadkari-101641482193789.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Alive, they teach us to love; on departing, lesson in loss||Our entire family was in the living room that night, trying our best to calm him down. But our 11-year-old golden brown Labrador, Cruz, kept roaming in circles through the lobby, howling. He would stop for a while, accept our affection, and then embark on his motions. We saw he was in dire pain. When his condition didn’t improve until late into the night, I called up his vet. As I reported his recurrent vomiting since the evening before, he said it was a stomach infection; and because of the vomiting, Cruz was dehydrated and experiencing cramps. He advised us to place a water bowl in the centre of the lobby and inject an antiemetic and painkiller to control his vomiting and pain. Being a dentist couple, we could manage the injectables ourselves, but Cruz remained restless throughout the night despite the measures. So, we took an early morning appointment with the vet. With the attendant’s help, we lifted his 34kg frame onto the vet’s table. The doctor took his vitals, withdrew blood specimens to ascertain the ailment. While we waited for the investigation results, Cruz was already feeling better with the glucose and saline going into his body through the drip. The vet administered some antibiotics directly into his drip on seeing the investigation report. The medicines seemed to have worked well on Cruz. Back home, basking in the pleasant December morning sun in the garden, he dozed off. But by night, he was back in agony, doing the circles, yet again; this time visiting every nook and corner of the house: Our open kitchen, bedrooms and study. Amazingly, he even pushed open the door of the puja room and stood before the deities for some time. My wife, daughter and maid slept in the living room that night and caressed him to sleep alternately. Being an early riser, I was pleased to see him sleeping, with both his front and hind legs outstretched on the floor. Out of love for that cute pose, I went closer to cuddle him. However, I couldn’t notice the routine heaving of his body, nor could I hear any breathing sounds. I bent down and placed my finger on his nose, but there was no trace of air, either. Instinctively, I patted him on the head to wake him out of his slumber but still couldn’t experience any movement. Momentarily, I realised he was no more. I didn’t have the courage to break the news to the rest of the family, as no one expected such an eventuality. However, as I sat down near him, the entire episode of how we lost him five years ago on Diwali evening flashed before my eyes. Cruz had strayed out of our open gate by hearing the constant cracker noises. We kept looking for him the entire night but to no avail. Finally, we advertised his picture in a local newspaper in Ambala. A week later, we received a call from an unknown number claiming they had seen a pet of this description at a location close to their house. As we went to that place and pressed the doorbell, he was all over us even before the owner could fully open the gate, barking and wagging his tail. But this time, I knew no adverts or efforts could bring him back. So now on, we’ll have to live with his memories. Writer Roger Caras’s words echoed in my mind, “Dogs are not our whole life, but they make our lives whole.” vikasdeepak23@gmail.com The writer is an Ambala-based prosthodontist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alive-they-teach-us-to-love-on-departing-lesson-in-loss-101641481653599.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane sees highest single day spike of 2,180 Covid cases; TMC to seal buildings||The Covid cases have seen a spike of over 400% in the last six days with Thursday seeing the highest single-day spike of 2,180 cases. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has given directives to seal any building that has more than 10 positive cases. These buildings will also be declared as containment zones.The corporation has also asked the hospitals to ensure that the beds are not unnecessarily occupied by patients who do not need hospitalisation, action will be taken against hospitals that are found admitting patients with mild or no symptoms. TMC has issued a circular asking mild and asymptomatic persons to home quarantine. As of now, around 10% to 12% of the active cases are hospitalised, informed the civic officials.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has already started sealing buildings with more than 20% positive cases. Thane city has been seeing a spike in cases since the last week of December. Till mid-December, the cases were in the range of 40-50 daily. The city, however, saw 149 cases on December 29, 255 on December 30 and 336 on December 31.Since then, the cases have increased to 2,180 on January 6. The second wave spike was 2,100 in mid-April. Sandeep Malvi, additional municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “We will start sealing buildings with more than 10 positive cases and declare the said building as containment zone from Thursday. I have asked all the assistant municipal commissioners to ensure this is followed in their wards. As of now, we are testing 1:15 persons, which will be increased when needed. We will also test the entire building if many people are found positive.”TMC has issued guidelines for the society stating that if a society has less than 10 cases, then the RT-PCR of the people staying on the floor with positive cases will be conducted on fifth and seventh days. The people staying on the floor below and above, where the positive cases are found, will have to get their own RT-PCR done on fifth and seventh days. If there are more than 10 cases, TMC would conduct RT-PCR of the people on the floor with positive cases while the residents of other floors will have to get their antigen tests done. TMC has also increased daily testing from 1,500-2,000 tests in December to 7,000-8,000 at present. Malvi said that the health workers have also initiated a house-to-house survey in several wards to find out if there is anyone with symptoms.The city, at present, has more than 9,000 beds while the active cases are 5,615. However, the officials claimed that only 10-12% of these require beds so far. Out of the 5,615 active cases, 553 are admitted at present, 68 out of which need oxygen beds.Malvi added, “We are also sending a letter to the hospitals asking them not to hospitalise people who do not need hospitalisation for a long time. If the Covid patient does not have fever and his oxygen level is normal, he/she can home quarantine. Those hospitalised will also follow home isolation for seven days after being discharged. This will ensure that beds are not unnecessarily occupied. As of now, we have sufficient beds to treat Covid patients. We will be taking action against hospitals that admit patients who do not require hospitalisation.”The doubling rate of cases is 140 days at present while the positivity rate as on January 5 was 22.54%.Dr Santosh Kadam, President, IMA, Thane, said, “We have to accept that the third wave has set in and need to take extra precautions. The civic body is geared up with sufficient hospital beds and medicine for now. They have also increased the testing. Apart from this, the residents also need to get tested immediately if they show any symptoms like cold, fever or cough among others. Many people fear getting tested due to the restrictions. However, they will put their family and others at risk by delaying the tests.”He added that if people stick to wearing masks and avoid going out in crowds, the cases will start showing a decline in a month.
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Residents claim MSRDC delaying installation of suicide barriers on Vashi Bridge||Local residents and activists from Vashi have claimed that the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) is delaying the installation of suicide barriers on the two bridges on Vashi Creek Bridge.A large number of people either die by suicide or attempt to do that by jumping off the bridges every year.Vashi police said that nearly 30 suicide attempts were averted on the bridges in 2021 alone. The number of people who actually died by suicide is not clear as many of them take place when no one is around.In the latest incident, a 16-year-old girl from Chembur jumped off the old bridge on Tuesday afternoon. A local fisherman rescued her and rushed her to the NMMC Hospital in Vashi. She was later handed over to her family members after a counselling session at the police station. This is the first case of an attempt to suicide so far this year.Ramesh Chavan, senior inspector of Vashi police station, said, “People come from different places of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai to commit suicide by jumping off these bridges. The local fishermen and the officials from the traffic department saved nearly 30 people last year. During counselling, they talked about different issues such as depression, failed relationships, domestic violence among others that instigated to take such steps. So this has become a very serious issue in Vashi. We have been writing to the MSRDC for the past several years, requesting them to take the requisite measures. But nothing has been done until now.”Madhukar Patil, a 47-year-old activist from Vashi, said, “The length of each of these bridges is around 1.8 km. So, the installation of the suicide barriers cannot be a huge project for the MSRDC. Taking the alarming number of people jumping off the bridges into consideration, they should install the barriers as early as possible.”An MSRDC official said, “The tendering process for installing the suicide barriers is on and the work at the site will be started just after completion of that process. Once started, it will take us only 45 days to finish it. We have allocated a budget of ₹3.50Cr for the task.” MSRDC is developing two new bridges (three lanes each) on the Vashi creek bridge to decongest the Sion-Panvel Highway in that area. On the upcoming bridges, they have decided to develop 1.5m tall concrete walls on the sides, and hence there will be no need for suicide barriers.
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Rs8 only to cover 50km on electric cycle – Navi resident’s success story||Umesh Shripat Alone, a 58-year-old resident of Khanda Colony, has managed to successfully transform his regular bicycle into an electric cycle.On his regular bicycle, he used to take around 40 minutes to travel 10km to reach his office in CBD Belapur. Now, on his electric cycle, he covers the same distance in only 24 minutes. A senior technician with the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), Alone had initially started cycling to his workplace as a form of physical exercise. However, he used to struggle to manage his time with the regular bicycle. So, he started exploring different options of cutting down the travel time without ditching his cycling habit.“As a technician by profession, I had the basic ideas of running a light vehicle by using a chargeable battery. I also watched a few videos of such vehicles and those really shaped up my ideas,” Alone said.“In the first half of 2020, I spent around ₹35,000 to purchase a DC battery, an electric motor, an accelerator and the other necessary materials. By using them, I kept on trying to transform my regular bicycle into an electric one, and succeeded after nearly two months,” Alone added.Alone’s success story was, however, not known to many people until his electric cycle was exhibited in a road show of such vehicles conducted by the MSEDCL last month. His efforts received accolades throughout the event, and his senior also felicitated him at the end of it.“With a fully-charged battery, I can travel around 50km on this cycle. Its speed is around 25km per hour and anyone, with basic training, can ride it. The best part is that I can still use it as a regular bicycle. I often pedal when I am not in a hurry and that has helped me keep myself in good shape. Charging the battery takes only two units of electricity and that costs around ₹8. So, just by spending ₹8, I can travel up to 50km on this cycle,” he added.When asked about his future plans, Alone said, “I am retiring in December this year. With more free time in hand, I will try to modify this cycle. I will try to use a small generator and thereby recharge the battery while it is still on the move.”
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Keep a close eye on symptomatic cases, hospitalisation rate: Task force||Mumbai The test positivity rate shot up drastically in Mumbai from 11% in the last week of December to over 30% on Thursday. However, the state’s Covid task force said that test positivity may not be a crucial parameter during the ongoing Omicron-driven wave. The more consequential parameters to consider are symptomatic positivity, rate of hospitalisations, oxygen and ventilator requirement, according to the task force. “We already know that Omicron is a highly transmissible variant and it is likely to infect a large number of people. Therefore, we should not panic,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid task force. He further added that the trends should be defined by symptomatic positivity which means how many people with symptoms are testing positive, the rate of hospitalisations, and the rate of oxygen and ventilator use. “The rise in these parameters should worry us and drive our interventions,” he said. Of the 48,518 new Covid infections detected in Mumbai between January 1-5, only 5,497 or 11% were symptomatic, according to the data collated by the civic body. “The impact of this variant will be clear in the next two weeks,” said Dr Joshi adding that people should not panic and rush to hospitals unless they have acute symptoms, co-morbid conditions and desaturating oxygen levels. According to virologist Dr T Jacob John, as the number of infections rises, the test positivity rate is bound to go up. “There is no surprise in that. The test positivity rate is a crude measure of the increasing cases and can be influenced by the doctor’s judgement of whom to test or the overall testing strategies. Our observations should now be focussed on the breakthrough and re-infections, how many of them or other susceptible populations are requiring hospitalisations and the number of patients developing a serious disease,” he said. Mumbai’s hospitalisations have risen steadily in the past few days. As of Thursday, over 5,998 patients were admitted to hospitals and jumbo facilities, including over 1,983 patients on oxygen support and nearly 421 on ventilator support. A fortnight ago on December 20, the number of patients in hospitals stood at 865, those on oxygen support were 379 and those on ventilators were 154. Dr Prince Surana, chief executive of Mumbai’s Surana Group of Hospitals, said that a small number of patients are turning up with symptoms like acute cough and fever and those with co-morbidities are being admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/keep-a-close-eye-on-symptomatic-cases-hospitalisation-rate-task-force-101641479553419.html
06-01-2022||Other||West Bengal man behind Ajnala sacrilege, say police||Amritsar Police have identified the man, accused of committing sacrilege at the Jastarwal village of Ajnala sub-division on Wednesday afternoon, as Jedaroll of Malda district in West Bengal. After the incident, Jedaroll stayed inside Gurdwara Nanaksar in the village for at least 25 minutes, before locals detained him and handed him over to the police about 2:30am on Thursday. Police sources said the accused had been in the village for the past 3-4 days. He had been working at a house in the village for taking care of animals, but was told to leave when he applied black ink on his face, making the household suspicious. SSP-rural Rakesh Kaushal told a press conference, “The accused entered the gurdwara around 1pm. He lifted the Guru Granth Sahib from the Peera Sahib (the Takht or holy seat of the holy scripture) and placed it on a table used for keeping ‘Karah Parshad’. He came out of the shrine with the Rumala Sahib, Chaur Sahib, Gutka Sahib and other religious things.” He added, “He was caught, thrashed and detained while coming out, with the entire sequence of events caught on CCTV of the gurdwara. SP (investigation) Manoj Thakur was sent to the spot to protect the life of the accused. Around 200 Sikh activists had gathered on the spot and wanted to punish the accused. To ensure evidence was not destroyed our team moved slowly, but finally convinced the Sikh activists to hand over the accused to us, which was done about 2:30am on Thursday.”The SSP said the accused had no document to prove his identity. “Our teams are working to establish his antecedents and to trace his family,” he said. On Wednesday, the police had said that he appeared mentally unfit. The SSP added, “As of now, we can’t say that he is mentally ill. He will be examined mentally and physically.”Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami has sought that the police work to reveal the conspiracy behind the incident. The accused has been booked under Sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) at the Bhindi Saida police station. An Ajnala court remanded him to five-day police custody on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/west-bengal-man-behind-ajnala-sacrilege-say-police-101641478833263.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Leopard cubs reunite with mother in fields of Junnar||PUNE In a successful rescue and conservation effort by Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department, a pair of 45-day-old leopard cubs found in a sugar cane field in Nirgude Village in Junnar taluka were reunited with their mother recently.Local farmers, while harvesting their sugar cane crops, had spotted the cubs.Accustomed to finding lost leopard cubs during sugar cane harvesting season, and aware of the need to take quick action, the villagers immediately contacted the forest department, who later brought the cubs to the Wildlife SOS Leopard Rescue Centre for medical examination.Farmers in Junnar taluka are used to witnessing young leopard cubs taking shelter in sugarcane fields. The tall, dense sugarcane stalks provide adequate cover for the leopards but leave their cubs at risk of being found by people working in the fields.The cubs, one male and one female, are around 45-days-old. Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS Dr Nikhil Bangar conducted a detailed examination for ticks and injuries and found the cubs to be healthy.Ajit Shinde, range forest officer, said, “We are glad to see that people are becoming aware and sensitive towards the wildlife that share the surrounding habitats. Today, more people are reaching out to us for help when they encounter leopards and other wild animals in the area.”The SOS and the forest department facilitated the reunion by placing the cubs in a safe box, close to where they were discovered and installed a remote controlled camera trap to document the reunion process. Dr Bangar said, “The mother must have been searching for her cubs, as within a few minutes she was able to sniff them out. On reaching the box, she patiently waited to ensure no danger stood in the way, and then she used her paws to tip it over. She then moved her cubs to a safer location. Wildlife SOS makes every effort to make such rescue and reunion operations possible.”Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “Over the years, Wildlife SOS has partnered with the state forest department to conduct many workshops and awareness modules which have shown significant results, indicated by the increasing number of phone calls we get for rescuing distressed wildlife. It has been our sincere effort to mitigate conflict in these areas, and we are incredibly grateful to the forest department for being such a staunch support and the local residents, who are keeping avoidance and mitigation teachings in mind when dealing with wild animals.”Why do leopards prefer sugarcane fields?From December to March, the weather conditions favour sugarcane cultivation. The tall and dense grass of sugarcane offer close to an ideal home to the leopard. Maharashtra is home to a large population of wild Indian leopards (Panthera pardus), who often find a safe abode among the tall sugarcane crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leopard-cubs-reunite-with-mother-in-fields-of-junnar-101641478353155.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Narendra Modi faced outburst of farmers in Punjab, says Navjot Sidhu||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi skipped a rally at Ferozepur amid rain and security breach, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday took a dig at him as well as former chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party’s new ally Captain Amarinder Singh, claiming that the two could manage only 500 people for the high-profile event. Addressing a political rally in Barnala, Sidhu said that the opposition faced by the PM on Wednesday was an outburst of Punjab’s farmers. “I want to ask the Prime Minister that our farmers were holding protests for more than a year at the borders of Delhi. However, your media did not speak a word, but when you (PM) were stuck for 15 minutes, it is making noise... Why these double standards?” said the Congress leader, while referring to the row over Modi’s cavalcade getting stuck on a flyover due a farmers’ blockade en route for the Ferozepur rally.Also read: Punjab DGP responsible for PM security lapse: Ferozepur Cong MLA Pinky“It is an outburst of Punjab’s farmers. Modi Ji, you promised to double the income of farmers, but snatched what farmers had. Your supporters are installing flex boards to thank you for repealing the three agriculture laws, but the laws were scrapped under farmers’ pressure,” said Sidhu.Taking further potshots, the Punjab Congress chief said: “The Prime Minister of the country came to address a rally, but only 500 people were standing there. However, a (former) CM, Amarinder Singh, was giving a lecture to empty chairs. It was shameful. I never saw such an incident in my entire life.” Sidhu also lashed out at Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, and alleged that both he and Amarinder were speaking the “language of Narendra Modi”.
06-01-2022||Mumbai||The new year starts on a warmer note for Mumbai||Mumbai The new year started on a warmer than usual note for the city, with both day and nighttime temperatures touching their highest average readings in at least five years, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) data for the first six days of January.The average daily maximum temperature between January 1 and January 6 this year stood at 32.8 degrees Celsius as compared to 30.22 degrees Celsius in 2021, while the average daily minimum stood at 21 degrees Celsius, up from 20.62 degrees Celsius in 2021.This is the highest average maximum recorded in the first week of January since 2016 when Mumbai saw daytime temperatures touch a mean of 33.64 degrees Celsius. In terms of minimum temperature, this year marks the highest average in at least 10 years and indicates the possibility that this January may turn out to be one of the warmest in recent years.Confirming this trend, DS Pai, who heads the climate research and services division at IMD in Pune, said, “This has everything to do with wind direction. If you look at the wind patterns above Mumbai and the larger Konkan, winds are not blowing directly from colder regions up north, and are sometimes blowing from the south, sometimes from the east. So, there is a phenomenon of advection which is bringing heat into the region, instead of cooling it down,” said Pai.Mumbai’s maximum temperature on Thursday stood at 29.5 degrees Celsius, down from 31.5 degrees Celsius the day prior, while the minimum stood at 21 degrees Celsius, down from 21.4 degrees Celsius the day prior. As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, the daytime maximum will hover between 30 and 31 degrees Celsius until January 12. The nighttime minimum during this period will range between 20 and 21 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, air quality dipped over the last two days and entered the ‘poor’ category of the air quality index (AQI). As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research’s (SAFAR) network of 10 monitors in the city, the AQI on Thursday evening stood at 225, close to the previous day’s index value of 228.“Poor air quality is typical at this time of the year because winds are not strong enough to disperse the accumulated particulate matter pollutants. There will be an increase in wind speeds when the temperature rises, which may happen in the next few days by about a degree or so. It should lead to an improvement in air quality,” said an official with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. BOX:AVERAGE MAX. & MIN. TEMPERATURES FOR MUMBAI (JAN 1 - 6) *in degrees Celsius2022Avg. max.: 32.8 Avg. min.: 212021Avg. max.: 30.22Avg. min.: 20.622020Avg. max.: 28.2Avg. min.: 17.462019Avg. max.: 32.06Avg. min.: 14.782018Avg. max.: 29.8Avg. min.: 15.882017Avg. max.: 32.34Avg. min.: 15.062016Avg. max.: 33.64Avg. min.: 14.442015Avg. max.: 29.4Avg. min.: 17.52014Avg. max.: 31.28Avg. min.: 18.742013Avg. max.: 29.54Avg. min.: 14.382012Avg. max.: 29.84Avg. min.: 15.48||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/the-new-year-starts-on-a-warmer-note-for-mumbai-101641476073086.html
06-01-2022||Bangalore||Karnataka orders 14-day quarantine for international arrivals who test positive||All international passengers landing at airports in Karnataka, who return positive post-arrival Covid-19 tests, will be required to spend a total of 14 days in quarantine, the state government said on Thursday, amid a spike in Karnataka's daily infections of the viral disease.Also Read | Karnataka govt issues guidelines for arrivals from Goa. Details hereThe rule is applicable on travellers testing positive without any symptoms or showing mild symptoms of Covid-19, the government said.“International arrivals from both ‘At-risk’ countries and ‘Non at-risk countries’ who test positive at airports, but are symptomatic or mildly symptomatic, to undergo 7-day institutional quarantine, followed by another 7-day quarantine, at home,” a Karnataka government order said, according to news agency ANI. International arrivals from both 'At-risk' countries and 'Non-at-risk' countries who test positive for Covid19 at airports but are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic to undergo 7-day institutional quarantine and followed by further 7-day home quarantine: Karnataka governmentThe direction comes amid a massive spike in fresh coronavirus cases in the southern state. On Thursday, its daily case count crossed the 5000 mark, with 5031 more people found infected with Covid-19, according to state health minister K Sudhakar. The corresponding figures for January 4 and 5 stood at 2479 and 4246, respectively. Positivity rate in Bengaluru goes up to 7.5% as cases cross 4k: ◾New cases in State: 5,031◾New cases in B'lore: 4,324◾Positivity rate in State: 3.95%◾New Omicron cases today: NA◾Total Omicron cases in State: 226◾Deaths:01 (B'lore- 01)◾Tests: 1,27,194#COVIDBengaluru, its capital, on its own accounted for 4324 patients as the city's positivity rate rose to 7.5 per cent, the minister informed. The metropolis also saw the state's lone new coronavirus-related death.Also Read | Special measures needed to contain Covid-19 in Bengaluru: Karnataka ministerHowever, no new case of the Omicron variant was detected, which means that Karnataka's tally of infections of the new strain remained unchanged at 226.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-orders-14-day-quarantine-for-international-flyers-who-test-positive-101641474271412.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation sees 950% rise in Covid cases in 1 week||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has seen a 950% increase in Covid cases in the last one week.The number of cases that were 124 on December 31, 2021 has increased to 1,308 on January 6, 2022.Amid the increasing number of Covid cases in Kalyan-Dombivli, the KDMC has urged the private labs in the city to increase Covid testing.The KDMC has increased its average number of daily testing, which was around 1,500 a week ago, to 3,500 at its testing centres.“Now, since there are more cases and more people are coming to the centres for testing, we have urged the private labs to also increase the testing capacity. We have also increased the testing now as more cases are detected on a daily basis,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The civic body, however, claimed that the death rate in the city is stable with no deaths reported in the last four to five days.The death rate in the civic body at present is 1.94 % with a total 2,873 deaths reported till date.The positivity rate in KDMC has also increased by 10%.“Although the cases are shooting up, there are very few deaths in the city. There was no death reported in the last four days,” added Panpatil.During the second wave, the KDMC reported the highest number of Covid cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.Most of the infected persons are asymptomatic and there are very less cases with the requirement of oxygen and ventilators. “Most of them are either in home isolation or at Covid care centres. Very few infected have the requirement of oxygen. Those with comorbidities are the only ones admitted in Covid hospitals with oxygen support or in ventilators,” added Panpatil.KDMC Covid casesDetails Dec 31, 2021 Jan 5, 2022Positivity rate(%) 7.33 17.02Death rate (%) 1.961.94Ave daily tests 1,500 3,500
06-01-2022||Dehradun||‘All necessary health infrastructure available’: Uttarakhand CM on surge in state's Covid-19 cases||With the state’s Covid-19 cases on the rise, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said on Thursday that infrastructure, required to deal with a possible surge in infections, is in place in the hill state. He also said that if required, more restrictions will be announced.Also Read | Uttarakhand high court asks EC to consider ban on large rallies amid Covid surge“We have all the necessary health infrastructure to deal with rising cases of Covid-19. All healthcare institutions have been asked to prepare for a possible surge. From medicine to oxygen supply, everything is available,” Dhami said, according to news agency ANI.The chief minister also discussed the prevailing situation in Uttarakhand. “We do not want to take any risk, and, therefore, are carrying out inspections at airports, buses, educational institutes, as well as other public places. A detailed discussion was held on January 5 about the spike in infections. We will take a decision on further curbs in a day or two,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader added.Also Read | 85 students in Uttarakhand's Nainital test positive, being treated in schoolIn order to curb the spread of the viral disease, the Uttarakhand cabinet, in its meeting on Wednesday, decided to extend the night curfew by an hour. The curfew will now be in effect from 10pm to 5am, until further orders, instead of the earlier 11pm to 5am period. The night curfew made its return here on December 27 last year, in view of the risk posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.On Wednesday, 505 new Covid-19 cases were detected in Uttarakhand, along with 119 recoveries, a health department bulletin showed. Its active case count stood at 1000, as per the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-necessary-health-infrastructure-available-uttarakhand-cm-on-surge-in-state-s-covid-19-cases-101641471570471.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Covid surge puts a brake on Delhi govt's pilgrimage scheme for elderly||The surge in COVID-19 infections has put a brake on the Delhi government's Mukhya Mantri Tirth Yatra Yojna under which the elderly are taken to various religious sites, with a train scheduled to leave for the Velankani church in Tamil Nadu on Friday having been cancelled, officials said.Eleven train trips that were planned in January have been affected due to the pandemic. The train to Velankani on January 7 stands cancelled, said Kamal Bansal, chairman of Tirth Yatra Vikas Samiti."Further, trains of pilgrims, including those for Kartarpur Sahib route as well as Amritsar, Ayodhya and Rameshwaram later this month, have also been cancelled," Bansal said."The decision to suspend the scheme for the time being has been taken due to rising number of Covid across the country. It will restart when the conditions are suitable," said a senior Delhi government officer.Under the Mukhya Mantri Tirth Yatra Yojna, people aged 60 years and above are sent on pilgrimage on 15 routes fully sponsored by the Delhi government. The government pays for travel, accommodation and other expenses of each pilgrim who can also take along an attendant with them.The scheme, halted due to the second wave of COVID-19 last year, was resumed with a train of pilgrims leaving for Ayodhya on December 3. Pilgrims also went to Rameshwaram and Dwarka before the pandemic acted as a brake on the scheme.The scheme launched in July 2019 has been a "big hit" among Delhi's senior citizens, particularly women, that is evident from around 25,000 pending applications under it, Bansal said.In order to clear the backlog of applicants, 11 trains each for different pilgrim places were planned in January, February and March. However, now the whole plan is disrupted, he said.Under the scheme, the Delhi government sanctioned ₹81.45 crore of which ₹66.92 crore were spent in 2020-21. So far nearly 38,000 senior citizens benefitted from the scheme, the government told the Delhi Assembly session.The applicants under the scheme require a certificate of residence from their MLA concerned. There is no cap on the income of the applicants under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-surge-puts-a-brake-on-delhi-govt-s-pilgrimage-scheme-for-elderly-101641469929426.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab DGP responsible for PM security lapse: Ferozepur Cong MLA Pinky||Ferozepur City Congress MLA Parminder Singh Pinky on Thursday said state police chief Siddharth Chattopadhyaya was directly responsible for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach during his visit to the district on Wednesday. Also read: 160 passengers on chartered flight from Rome tested in Amritsar. 125 are Covid+vePinky said the Ferozepur episode was a huge embarrassment for the Congress-led Punjab government and the state leadership should have taken immediate corrective measures in national interest. Modi had to return to Delhi on Wednesday without laying the foundation stone for development projects worth more than ₹42,000 crore after protesters blocked the Ferozepur-Moga highway on which the convoy was moving. The PM’s security decided not to proceed further on the highway, cancelling his scheduled public address after the foundation stone laying function. MLA Pinky said Punjab home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who is also the deputy chief minister, should have worked diligently with the DGP to ensure that the PM’s daylong visit in the state was in order. “The PMO is not just about an individual but a national institution and it must be protected. Three dynamic leaders Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and Beant Singh were assassinated. The security of dignitaries should be handled beyond political courses. It is a matter of shame that the Punjab Police administration failed to provide a safe passage to the PM and heads must roll for the unprecedented lapse,” said the two-time legislator. Pinky said farm union activists were just holding a peaceful protest on or near the highway as they had a genuine grouse against the Centre and the BJP leadership. He said the BJP leaders should avoid politicising the security breach as chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is a sensitive and able administrator. “When the PM was travelling via road to reach Ferozepur for an official event, it is the duty of the DGP to ensure the motorcade travels without any disruption. The DGP failed to ensure an emergency contingency route if the marked road route had protesters. Being head of the department, the DGP acted in a negligent manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-dgp-responsible-for-pm-security-lapse-ferozepur-cong-mla-pinky-101641469412160.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi HC rejects plea seeking postponement of civil services (main) exams||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the civil services (main) exams, saying it is not inclined to interfere with the schedule despite a surge in Covid-19 cases.The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), which conducts the exams, cited a careful review of the pandemic situation on Wednesday, and said they will be conducted as per schedule from Friday. As many as 19 candidates appearing for the exams moved the court for the postponement citing an imminent risk of getting infected and losing a valuable attempt to clear it. Some candidates pleaded that it was their last attempt to appear in the examination. The exam is scheduled until January 16.“I am not inclined to interfere with the decision. I am dismissing the petition,” said Justice V Kameswar Rao while declining to grant relief. He added that a detailed order would be uploaded later.The case was mentioned on Wednesday before a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh who granted an urgent listing for it for Thursday.On Thursday, the UPSC told the court that all the preparations have been made and the exams cannot be postponed at the last moment. It said out of 9,156 candidates, 9,085 have downloaded their admit cards. The UPSC’s lawyer told the court the exams were behind schedule and a lot of precious time has been lost.“It (postponement) will have a cascading effect. The impractical, hypothetical situation is being projected by the candidates. Tomorrow, the exam is starting. All preparation is complete. Our supervisors have reached. These are 9,000 candidates across various centres, “ the lawyer said.Anushree Kapadia, who appeared for the petitioners, told the court the centres allotted for the main examination are mostly in the metro cities or state capitals, which are densely populated and face a surge in Covid 19 infections.In their plea, the petitioners said there was no proper pre-examination testing. “Temperature checks can be cheated by taking paracetamol. If few candidates attempt examinations with Covid-19, then it might result in infecting all candidates as they have to spend six hours writing papers in the same room. Further, once infected, candidates will be prohibited from writing subsequent papers, as per UPSC policy. They also risk spreading to others including their families.” The petition added that authorities have not come out with any modality to prevent the risk of Covid infection among the candidates while taking the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-rejects-plea-seeking-postponement-of-civil-services-main-exam-101641468811940.html
06-01-2022||Other||Srinagar: Leh highway shut for vehicular movement due to snow, extreme weather||Leh highway passing through the Zoji-La pass was on Thursday closed for civilian vehicular movement till further orders, due to continuous spell of snowfall and extreme weather, informed Ladakh Administration."Due to continuous spell of snowfall and extreme weather at Zoji-la axis resulting in heavy accumulation of snow on the axis, the Srinagar-Leh highway passing through the pass has become unworthy of vehicular movement. Therefore, in the interest of the general public the Srinagar- Leh highway will close for all kinds of civilian vehicular movement till further order with regard to the re-opening of Zoji-la (Pass)," Ladakh Administration said.They further advised the general public and tourists to suspend any travel on the Srinagar Leh highway through Zoji-La (Pass) axis with immediate effect.As per the Indian Meteorological Department, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand, there will be heavy rainfall and snow today as the western disturbance is very active in that region.Meanwhile, eight flights have been canceled from Srinagar airport after poor visibility was reported due to light snow on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/srinagar-leh-highway-shut-for-vehicular-movement-due-to-snow-extreme-weather-101641467687823.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Thought Ferozepur SSP was bluffing, says BKU (Krantikari) chief||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) chief Surjit Singh Phool on Thursday said that when the Ferozepur senior superintendent of police Harmandeep Hans asked the protesters to vacate the road saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on his way to a rally by the road, they thought that the officer was “bluffing”. Also read: PM-President meeting: Kovind calls Modi’s security incident a ‘serious lapse’Speaking to reporters, Phool said, “The Ferozepur SSP asked us to vacate the road saying that the Prime Minister was going to the rally venue by road. We thought he was bluffing.” Modi’s visit to Ferozepur was called off, citing major security lapse. The PM was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes due to the road being blocked by the protesters, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in a statement. The MHA has taken cognisance of this serious security lapse and has sought a detailed report from the state government. The BJP has blamed the ruling Congress government for sabotaging the PM’s scheduled programme and for the security lapse. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has denied the allegations of any security breach of the Prime Minister saying that he did not have any information about the change of route of the PM. “We had asked them (PMO) to discontinue the visit due to bad weather conditions and protests. We had no information of his (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) sudden route change. There was no security lapse during the PM visit,” Channi said on Wednesday at a press conference. Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has sought Channi’s resignation, saying that the Punjab government cannot provide smooth passage to the Prime Minister of the country and that too just 10km from the Pakistan border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-thought-ferozepur-ssp-was-bluffing-says-bku-krantikari-chief-101641467671495.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||UP govt renames Sainik School after General Bipin Rawat||The Uttar Pradesh government has renamed a Sainik School in the state after General Bipin Rawat, the country's first chief of defence staff (CDS), who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu last December.Also Read | CDS Rawat chopper crash a CFIT accident, say officials“As a tribute to General Bipin Rawat, who sacrificed his life in the service of the nation, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has decided that Sainik School, Mainpuri, will be, henceforth, known as General Bipin Rawat Sainik School,” the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) informed in a tweet on Wednesday. देश की सेवा में अपने प्राणों की आहुति देने वाले जनरल बिपिन रावत जी की शहादत को नमन करते हुए #UPCM श्री @myogiadityanath जी ने जनपद मैनपुरी स्थित सैनिक स्कूल का नाम "जनरल बिपिन रावत सैनिक स्कूल" करने का निर्णय लिया है।@spgoyal@sanjaychapps1@74_alok pic.twitter.com/ahbEa69hqMThe Mainpuri-based Sainik School, which became functional on April 1, 2019, is among 33 such educational institutes in the country, of which there are three in Uttar Pradesh. The other two schools in the state are in Jhansi and Amethi. It also has one more Sainik School, in Lucknow; however, while the others are run by the Sainik Schools Society under the ministry of defence, the one in Lucknow is operated by the UP Sainik Schools Society.General Rawat, who was also the nation's incumbent CDS, was among 13 passengers who lost their lives when their chopper crashed in Tamil Nadu's Nilgiris district, on December 8 last year. The deceased included the officer's wife, Madhulika Rawat, as well. Only one occupant, Indian Air Force's (IAF) Group Captain Varun Singh, initially survived the mishap; he breathed his last in a military hospital in Bengaluru on December 15, pushing the toll to 14. Group Captain Varun Singh's demise meant that the crash resulted in the death of everyone who was onboard the ill-fated helicopter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-renames-sainik-school-after-general-bipin-rawat-101641464685419.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Mobile teams to keep tabs on Covid patients in home isolation||The health authorities here have set up nine mobile units to keep tabs on patients isolated at home due to coronavirus, an official said on Wednesday.According to the district Health Department, 98 per cent of active patients here are in home isolation.These patients have few or no symptoms of the infection.In such a situation, according to guidelines of the government, such patients have been instructed to stay in isolation at home.Health feedback is obtained from these patients on a regular basis by the Health Department and the department has now formed nine mobile health teams to monitor such patients.Apart from doctors, pharmacists and ANM's have been included in these teams, CMO Dr Virender Yadav said."The mobile teams will better monitor these patients. The work of the teams will be to ensure that patients follow the rules of home isolation," said the CMO.Apart from this, these teams will also go to the homes of the infected people to give them medical advice and provide medicines, if needed.These teams have been assigned the responsibility of different areas, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-mobile-teams-to-keep-tabs-on-covid-patients-in-home-isolation-101641465950941.html
06-01-2022||Pune||Taste of Life: When ‘Sir John Barleycorn’ became popular in Bombay and Poona...||When ‘Sir John Barleycorn’ became popular in Bombay and Poona... “His name is Sir John Barleycorn, Who makes both beer and bread. What would do all that now are born, If Barleycorn was dead?” wrote a “well-wisher” of Sir John Barleycorn in “The Arraigning and Indicting of Sir John Barleycorn, Knt.” in 1785. A few decades later, in the latter half of the nineteenth century, newspapers and brochures in Bombay and Poona started mentioning Sir John Barleycorn quite frequently. He should be invited to the country, and allowed to “roam freely” in the Presidency, they said. There was a clamour that he be given a permanent residency in the Presidency. Who was Sir John Barleycorn? And what led to his sudden popularity in Bombay and Poona? Sir John Barleycorn is a song from the “English Dancing Master” (1651). The eponymous protagonist is a personification of barley and of the alcoholic beverages made from it: beer and whiskey. In the song, he suffers indignities, attacks, and possible death that correspond to the various stages of barley cultivation, such as reaping and malting. According to the song, his neighbours vowed that Sir John should die, so they hired ruffians to “plough him with ploughs and bury him”, this they did, and afterward “combed him with harrows and thrust clods on his head”, but did not kill him. Then with hooks and sickles they “cut his legs off and the knees”, bound him like a thief, and left him “to wither with the wind” and he died not. They now “rent him to the heart”, and having “mowed him in a mow” sent bravos to beat him with clubs, and they beat him so sore that “all the flesh fell from his bones”, but yet he died not. To a kiln, they next hauled him and burnt him like a martyr, but he survived the burning. They crushed him between two stones but killed him not. Sir John bore no malice for his ill-usage but did his best to cheer the flagging spirits even of his worst persecutors. John Barleycorn has been used as a symbol or a slang term for alcohol for the last four centuries. Several pubs in the South of England are called “John Barleycorn”. Jack London’s 1913 autobiographical novel “John Barleycorn” takes its name from the song and discusses his enjoyment of drinking and struggles with alcoholism. Barley, the source of malt liquor and whiskey, takes a prominent place in British – Indian history. How many difficulties have been smoothed over by a friendly drink would never be known, nor could it be estimated how much comfort it has given to those Anglo-Indians depressed by loneliness and overwork in a bad climate. In the days of the East India Company, it was usual to send out several criminals, sentenced to death in England and respited, to be turned loose on any newly discovered shore by the early mariners. A batch of these Newgate birds, as they were called, generally went out with each Indian fleet. In the “Good Old Days of the Honorable John Company”, WH Carey states that in 1780 “drunkenness, gambling, and profane swearing were universally practiced”. Complaints in public journals testified that all classes of Europeans made Christmas festivities a “plea for absolute drunkenness and obscenity of conversation, that is, while they were able to articulate at all”. The Honorable East India Company undoubtedly did all that was possible to keep their servants on the straight and narrow road and were occasionally successful. An effort was made, with little success, to check the mortality brought about by heavy drinking, by encouraging the use of tea. The sale of beer was restricted, so the Europeans had no option but to turn to “burnt wine, punch, and arrack”. Very soon the Europeans cultivated a strong liking for the native intoxicants and hence manufacture of liquor was largely prohibited in the lands ruled by the British. One of the first to lead the petition to let natives and Europeans make malt liquor in India was Tom Cringle, who wrote a letter in a Bombay newspaper with an elaborate scheme to make beer and ale in Poona. This letter made John Barleycorn a popular name and inspired several others to make a similar petition in Bombay and Poona. Tom Cringle was the nom de plume of William Walker (1838-1908), a Scottish-born Australian writer, also known as William Walker of Bombay. The nom de plume was derived from “Tom Cringle’s Log” published pseudonymously by Michael Scott in Blackwood’s Magazine. Walker wrote a series of letters between 1850 and 1860 in several newspapers in Bombay and Poona, which were compiled in a volume published in 1863. The ninety letters compiled in the volume provide a wide-ranging overview of contemporary life in the Bombay Presidency and include reports on Indian farming, tramways, the burning of “Hindoo dead”, the Indian Mutiny, the Colaba refuges, and reports on Walker’s stay in Poona. There is an account of the “Madras” on its voyage from Bombay to Aden, notes on Merchant Seamen, shear hulks, and even the Atlantic Telegraph Cable. One of the letters includes “A Tiger Adventure” involving the author hiding behind a curtain while being stalked by a tiger, his only weapon being his lit cigar. The letter invoking John Barleycorn and requesting his presence in Poona was written by Walker on November 23, 1857, in Bombay. It is not known which newspaper published it. The letter starts with a solemn appeal – “Who has not sacrificed to the honour of John Barleycorn in this thirsty clime? I have heard of some ardent devotees who at one sitting have walked off with 12 bottles under their belt, and found no damages to repair in the morning. Do this with brandy and you corrode the coats of the stomach; with wine, and you are half poisoned and wholly dazed; with gin, you injure the kidneys; with champagne, in the morning your head feels like a basalt boulder. But John Barleycorn made our railways; builds bridges, ships, and steam – engines, like a good, honest, useful fellow he is. He strengthens the stomach and gives vigour to the muscles. The Parsees merit the compliment of being the most Europeanised of all the natives in Bombay, - it is to John Barleycorn they owe the honour. Beer follows an Englishman as steadfastly as the daily sun shines on him, but it only follows him in barrels and bottles and is thereby rendered twice as dear as it should be. Only for the paternal care of honest John Company, his soldiers would never be able to taste their national beverage, and would thus be driven to indulge in arrack, which fires the brain and wastes in the strength, in lieu of adding to it, as does malt liquor.” Walker then rues the fact that “since malt liquor has been supplied by the East India Company to the canteens of their army, a very large decrease of drunkenness has followed.” “Owing to the nearly prohibitory price of beer, our poorer English brethren cannot taste it. Why should it not be plentiful enough to enable the ships of the Indian Navy to take a few barrels of it up the Persian Gulf, to invigorate the stomachs of their crews during the burning heat of a Bushire summer?” he asks. He then proceeds to put out an elaborate plan to start a brewery at Poona. More about this the next week. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-when-sir-john-barleycorn-became-popular-in-bombay-and-poona-101641465691383.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Congress MP Manish Tewari seeks probe by sitting HC judge||Hours after the Punjab government set up a panel under a retired judge to look into the lapses that occurred during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on Wednesday, Anandpur Sahib Congress MP Manish Tewari on Thursday sought a probe into the entire sequence of events by a sitting judge of the high court to establish the facts. Also read: PM-President meeting: Kovind calls Modi’s security incident a ‘serious lapse’Calling the incident “most unfortunate”, Tewari said that the security breach involving the Prime Minister is a sensitive matter and should not be turned into a political football. “I have been carefully watching the unfolding controversy about @PMOIndia’s trip to Punjab yesterday. I did not want to give a kneejerk off the cuff anodyne reaction. What happened yesterday was most unfortunate, it should not have happened,” the former Union information and broadcasting minister posted on Twitter. In another tweet, the senior Congress leader said the PM’s security is governed by an Act of Parliament – The SPG Act of 1988 as amended in 2019. “Security breach involving @PMOIndia is a sensitive matter & should not be turned into a political football. Let entire sequence of events be inquired into by a sitting judge of the High Court to establish correct facts (sic),” he tweeted. Tewari posted the tweets four hours after the state government constituted a committee, comprising Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) and principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Anurag Verma. The committee has been asked to submit its report within three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-congress-mp-manish-tewari-seeks-probe-by-sitting-hcjudge-101641465211590.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Snow, rain continue to disrupt supply of essential services in Himachal||The supply of essential services was disrupted in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday as the higher reaches continued to experience heavy snowfall for the third consecutive day. Also read: 125 passengers of Italy-Amritsar flight test Covid positiveMore than 240 roads, including two national highways are blocked, and remote areas have been experiencing a power cut as 140 transformers have developed snags. Besides, 39 power supply schemes have been fully or partially affected, mostly in Chamba and Lahaul and Spiti districts. Lahaul and Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma said that Sissu near the North Portal of Atal Tunnel got around 2-ft of snowfall, which was still continuing. “Towards the South Portal, there is about 4-ft snow and the tunnel is closed for traffic,” he said, advising people to avoid the route and contact the disaster management authorities and police control room in case of an emergency. The Kullu police also imposed travel restrictions given the heavy snowfall in the district. Kullu SP Gurdev Chand Sharma said no vehicle is being allowed beyond Kothi, 13km from Manali. Also, no vehicle is allowed to go towards Jalori Pass. People advised to avoid unnecessary travelAccording to the State Emergency Operation Centre, Rajgundha in the Chotta Bhangal valley got 2-ft of snow, while Triund and Multhan got 1-ft snowfall. Kalpa in Kinnaur got around a foot of snow, Nako and Nichar 8 inches each, Rakchham 2-ft and Sangla 1.6-ft of snow. Gulaba in Kullu got 10 inches of snow, Jalori Pass 1-ft, Maali 4 inches and Palchan 6 inches. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti got 2 inches of snowfall and Kaza 5 inches, while Koksar got 2-ft snow. Prashar Lake and Kamrunag in Mandi were buried under 2-ft snow. In Shimla, Chanshal peak and the remote Dodra-Kwar got around 1-ft of snow, Chirgaon 3 inches, Rohru 2 inches, Fagu 5 inches, Kufri 7 inches and Narkanda 6 inches. Shimla SP Monika Bhutungru said the snowfall is continuing in Fagu, Kufri and Narkanda. The roads are open but conditions are slippery so people should avoid unnecessary travel, she said, adding that the road to Chopal is blocked near Khirki due to heavy snowfall. Mercury falls by five degreesThe middle hills got heavy rain. Palampur was the wettest place receiving 60mm of rain. Una got 50mm, Nahan 47mm, Kangra 42mm, Chamba 39mm, Dalhousie 29mm, Sundernagar 28mm, Mandi 27mm, Paonta Sahib 25mm, Solan 22mm and Shimla 20mm of rain. The day temperature fell by five to six degrees. However, the minimum temperature was above normal. Keylong was coldest with a low of minus 3.1 degrees Celsius followed by Kalpa at minus 3 degrees C, Kufri minus 1.8 degrees C, Dalhousie minus 0.9 degree C and Manali minus 0.2 degree C. The Met department has issued a yellow alert for heavy rains and snowfall on January 8 and 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snow-rain-continue-to-disrupt-supply-of-essential-services-in-himachal-101641464311153.html
06-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan chief minister's son Vaibhav Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's son and Congress leader, Vaibhav Gehlot, has tested positive for Covid-19.Vaibhav Gehlot informed that he is asymptomatic and as per the doctor's advice, taking rest at home adopting all Covid-19 protocols."I got myself tested for Covid19 and my report is positive. I am asymptomatic and as per doctor's advice, taking rest at home adopting all Covid protocols. My appeal to the public at large not to be worried and follow Covid Appropriate Behaviour," Gehlot who is also Rajasthan Cricket Association (RCA) president said in a tweet on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-chief-minister-s-son-vaibhav-gehlot-tests-positive-for-covid19-101641458917033.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||‘Will impose lockdown only if…’: Maharashtra govt on rising Covid cases in state||Maharashtra health department on Thursday said that the state government will consider a lockdown or lockdown-like restrictions in the state only if medical oxygen demand goes beyond 800 metric tonnes a day or more than 40% of Covid-19 beds at hospitals are occupied.Further, the department stated that the current spike in Covid-19 cases in the state may “peak in mid-February” and probably will “subside” by mid-March, according to news agency ANI.
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Congress minister Rana Gurjit calls incident shameful for Punjab||Punjab cabinet minister Rana Gurjit Singh on Thursday hit out at deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, and director general of police Sidharth Chattopadhyaya for the breach in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security during his visit to the state on Wednesday. Also read: CCS takes up PM security breach in Punjab, Prime Minister meets PresidentCalling the incident “unfortunate and shameful for all of us”, Rana Gurjit said that there was a security lapse and responsibility should be fixed. “The PM should not have been insulted. We should have made sure he was able to attend the programme, irrespective of whether people gathered (at the BJP rally) or not. That’s a separate issue,” he said. He said that farmers have a right to protest, but the DGP should have made arrangements (for smooth passage). “Did the DGP and the home minister take interest? Did they keep an alternative route? People will ask these questions,” he said, refusing to say anything more on the matter as the chief minister has ordered a probe by a two-member committee. Rana Gurjit also said the central agencies were equally responsible. “I want to ask the central agencies what homework they had done. Were they not aware about the weather forecast for the day? What was their plan for an alternative route? There should be an inquiry into these lapses,” he said. The cabinet minister also advised the BJP leaders to show maturity and not to overplay the incident. “We are a border state and there should no dirty politics on this,” he added. When contacted, Randhawa was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-congress-minister-rana-gurjit-calls-incident-shameful-for-punjab-101641458370399.html
06-01-2022||Kolkata||Two arrested in Jalpaiguri with leopard, pangolin skins||Two people were arrested with leopard and pangolin skins in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district, officials said on Thursday.Acting on a tip-off, personnel of the forest department got in touch with the smugglers as customers, they said.When the skins were being transported to Dooars from Bhutan on Tuesday, the smugglers were intercepted at Batabari in Jalpaiguri district, they added.Those arrested were part of an international smuggling racket, forest officials said.One leopard skin and 2 kg of pangolin skin were seized, they said.The accused persons, both residents of Nagrakata, have been booked and a further investigation is underway, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/two-arrested-in-jalpaiguri-with-leopard-pangolin-skins-101641458028549.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Air India sale to Tatas: Delhi HC dismisses Swamy’s plea seeking CBI probe||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Subramanian Swamy’s plea seeking a Central Bureau Investigation (CBI) probe into the Air India disinvestment process. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh heard the plea and a detailed order was awaited.Swamy sought setting aside and revocation of any action or decision or grant of any further approvals, permissions or permits with respect to the Air India disinvestment process while claiming it was “arbitrary, illegal and against the public interest”. He said the process was rigged in favour of one of the parties. He claimed that Tata Sons was given an undue advantage in the process. The Centre and the Tatas have rejected Swamy’s claim.On Tuesday, the court had reserved its order after hearing the arguments.Swamy maintained that he was not opposing the policy of disinvestment and believed in the idea of a free market, but was raising the issue of “impropriety, illegality, misconduct and corruption” in the process.“I am in favour of disinvestment, but this is gigantic corruption in my view. I am complaining about the rigged procedure. It is rigged in favour of Tata companies,” he said on Tuesday.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said Swamy’s petition was based on “misconceptions” and does not require consideration.
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Punjab BJP chief wants state home minister, DGP sacked||A day after the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit, a state BJP delegation called on governor Banwarilal Purohit in Chandigarh on Thursday and demanded that deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, and acting police chief Sidharth Chattopadhyaya be sacked immediately for the lapse. Also read: CCS takes up PM security breach in Punjab, PM to meet President“It is a deep-rooted conspiracy in which the life of the country’s Prime Minister was at stake. We have demanded that the governor sack the state home minister and the DGP immediately,” Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, who led the delegation of party leaders, told mediapersons outside Raj Bhawan. Stating that the breach in PM Modi’s security was enough to prove that law and order had collapsed in Punjab, he said, “The way information about the route plan of the PM was leaked to the protesters and the manner in which our buses (carrying supporters to the rally) were not allowed to enter Ferozepur smell of a deep-rooted conspiracy by the Channi government. The response to this rally was a threat to the Congress.” He said how could it be a coincidence that chief minister Channi, deputy chief ministers Randhawa and OP Soni and chief secretary Anirudh Tewari besides acting DGP Chattopadhyaya were not present to welcome the Prime Minister, which they have to according to the protocol. On the demand of President’s rule in the poll-bound border state, Sharma said: “This government has already been rejected by the people and the model code of conduct is likely to be in place in four-five days. This government is already on its way out.” On Wednesday, the PM’s convoy was stuck for 15-20 minutes on a flyover 30km from Ferozepur due to a blockade by protesters. The Prime Minister, who was travelling by road from Bathinda airport to Ferozepur, had to call off the BJP rally in Ferozepur. Returning to Delhi, PM Modi said to state government officials at Bathinda airport: “Apne CM ko thanks kehna, ki me Bathinda airport tak zinda laut paya.” Later, the BJP blamed the ruling Congress government for sabotaging the PM’s scheduled programme and for the major security lapse. 
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ishwar Singh is new Punjab vigilance bureau chief||The Punjab government on Thursday appointed additional director general of police (ADGP) Ishwar Singh, a 1993-batch Indian Police Service officer, as the new chief of the state vigilance bureau (VB). Also read: Modi’s security breach: Supreme Court to hear PIL against Punjab govt on FridayThe notification regarding the appointment of Ishwar Singh as chief director, Punjab VB, was issued by governor Banwarilal Purohit. Ishwar Singh replaces BK Uppal, who has been asked to report back to the department of home affairs and justice, for further posting. Uppal, who was appointed by the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government, had proceeded on leave after chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi took over following which officiating Punjab director general of police (DGP) S Chattopadhyaya was given the additional charge of the vigilance chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ishwar-singh-is-new-punjab-vigilance-bureau-chief-101641452547061.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Over 14,000 Covid cases expected today; minister says lockdown not needed||Delhi's health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that the national capital is expected to record more than 14,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) today. He, however, ruled out imposing any lockdown in the national capital.Jain said Delhi is in a “comfortable position” in terms of hospital bed occupancy and added that no death due to Omicron has been reported in the city.Talking about the precautions to be needed during the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital, Jain had emphasised on home isolation of asymptomatic persons who came in contact with infected people."Corona patients in home isolation should take care of these things: isolate yourself from other members of the household; stay in a well-ventilated room with cross-ventilation; wear a triple-layer mask; take special care of cleanliness; keep yourself busy, talk to family and relatives on phone from time to time," he tweeted on Wednesday.It was in response to revised guidelines issued by the Union health ministry. It stated that home isolation of Covid-19 patients will end after at least seven days from testing positive and no fever for three successive days. Also, there is no need for re-testing after the home isolation period is over.The number of people under home isolation in Delhi was 11,551 on Wednesday, a day the national capital recorded 10,665 cases with a positivity rate of 11.88 per cent and eight deaths.The national capital has recorded a huge spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. The Delhi government has attributed the surge to the highly contagious Omicron variant. According to Jain, the third wave of Covid-19 has hit the city.According to official data from the Delhi government, 65 per cent of samples, whose genome sequencing reports came out between January 1 and 3, were found to have the Omicron variant as against 28 per cent from December 1 to 31.Amid the rise in cases, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced a return of the weekend curfew as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided to reimpose some more restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-over-14-000-covid-cases-expected-today-minister-says-lockdown-not-needed-101641451152452.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi-NCR begins prepping for third wave: All hands on deck!||It’s no longer far fetched to assume that we are on the brink of the third wave. Looking at the rapid speed with which Covid cases are increasing in Delhi-NCR, it would be difficult to think otherwise. But that doesn’t mean that the residents are throwing themselves into a state of frenzy of hoarding up! Having been through the many lockdowns in the past, many say they are now aware of how to cope up with what’s needed and what’s not, when indoors. So does this mean, their priorities are on point now? Here’s what they are planning to do in order to flatten the curve of Covid spike.Convincing house helps to stay overA big part of prepping for the third wave has been about being cautious as to who comes home, says Pooja Saran, a make up artist from Greater Kailash. “I have a part time nanny and since the cases have increased in the city, I have requested her to stay with us if the number continue to grow at the same speed. I need to make sure that the kids are take care of, so that I can continue my work, but at the same time I can’t risk anyone coming in from outside at this point of time. Also, it’s also not safe for her to travel everyday. Keeping my fingers crossed that she agrees,” she says.N95 masks onlyNeha Godara, a Gurugram-based chartered accountant, says she is back to masking up properly whenever stepping out. “The Covid cases had reduced so much that I, like many others, had started wearing cloth masks and was using those ones only even when outdoors. Now, however, I’ve purchased a fresh lot of N 95 masks, which are the best to keep the virus at bay as per the medical experts. In this situation when it’s at times important to go out, to get maximum safety, I feel all of us should mask up properly, and wear double masks if possible,” she says.Nutritious diet to fight the virus After several rounds of ordering in momos, pizza, biryani and what not, Delhiites are finally shifting their focus to some healthy eating. “It all starts with what we eat,” says Meeta, a Dwarka-based nutrionist, who is making sure that her family follows an immunity boosting diet. “We have stopped consuming outside food, processed foods and even reduced sugar intake in all forms. We have also increased the consumption of green vegetables. My entire family now drinks juice of natural giloy, every morning on an empty stomach. Also, we are eating the meals on time, adding a variety of foods, and focusing on good quality protein and fats. Besides, we have an early dinner by 7.30pm and are following an eight hour night sleep schedule to stay fit. I’m advising a similar diet and routine to all my clients as well,” she adds.Not hoarding, but stocking upSaloni Kachru, an HR professional from Gurugram, says she and her partner have cut down on the number of rounds to the supermarket. “We are making sure to buy all the essentials we need in one go, so that we don’t require to step out again and again or even order online every day. Some might feel that it’s early to do this, but I feel the earlier we are in keeping ourselves enclosed, the better will be in stopping the spread of virus at an unimagined level. Of course this doesn’t mean that you start hoarding stuff like people did last time! But at least buy your one month groceries and medicines in one go, so that you limit your contact with the delivery personnels,” she opines.Sanitising and sun drying mode on Dimple Kumar, a blogger from Safdarjung Enclave, has got back to sanitising everything before allowing it to come inside her house. “We have all heard that this Omicron has a rare transmission from the surfaces, but why take a chance? So, I’m back to sun drying all the vegetables that I buy. After washing them thoroughly, I spread them in the balcony, and alongside soak in some winter sun myself. I’m also sanitising the other packed groceries that we order online. It is indeed a time consuming process, but nothing is more satisfying than knowing that your hygiene quotient is on point,” she says.Meeting family sans partiesHealth comes before anything, says Garima Jain, a homemaker from Noida, adding, “I’m now setting out to meet just my parents and my in laws, at the moment. This is a tough time and we need to be very careful and not oganise dinner or get-togethers because the person who is carrying the virus is mostly not even aware of it, and that makes the situation very dangerous. In my family, we have decided to not have too many people together, whenever we meet now. If sacrificing a little fun, by avoiding social gatherings and meeting, can help us stay healthy, then it’s nothing as compared to the cost of falling sick and recovering. Thanks to technology, we can all see each other via video calls and all. So a little patience will pay off big time. It’s tough to say no to a party invitation, but I have a nine-month old and I say clearly say that I will not be taking any chances!” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-begins-prepping-for-third-wave-all-hands-on-deck-101641448128730.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab govt sets up high-level committee to probe PM security breach||In order to carry out a thorough probe into the lapses that occurred during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur on Wednesday, the Punjab government has constituted a high-level committee. Also read: PM security breach: Punjab Police ignored intelligence, ‘Blue Book’ rulesAn official spokesperson said that the committee would comprise Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) and principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Anurag Verma. The committee shall submit its report within three days, the spokesperson said. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Modi’s convoy was stuck on a flyover near Ferozepur for 15-20 minutes due to a blockade by protesters. The PM, who was travelling by road from Bathinda airport due to the inclement weather, had to call off his plans to address the BJP rally in Ferozepur. Returning to Delhi, Modi said to state government official at Bathinda airport, “Apne CM ko thanks kehna, ki me Bathinda airport tak zinda laut paya.” Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi denied the allegations of any security breach of the Prime Minister saying that he did it have any information about the change of route of the PM. “We had asked them (PMO) to discontinue the visit due to bad weather conditions and protests. We had no information of his (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) sudden route change. There was no security lapse during the PM visit,” Channi said on Wednesday evening at a press conference. The incident triggered a political blame game with the BJP accusing the ruling Congress government in Punjab of sabotaging the PM’s scheduled programme and for the major security lapse. Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who is a poll ally of the BJP, sought Channi’s resignation, saying that the Punjab government cannot provide smooth passage to the Prime Minister of the country and that too just 10km from the Pakistan border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-sets-up-high-level-committee-to-probe-pm-security-breach-101641447626475.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi man duped over dozen woman doctors on pretext of PG seats, arrested||Delhi Police on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly duping over a dozen woman doctors on the pretext of providing PG seats in a medical college.According to Delhi Police, the 32-year-old man had created several fake social media accounts claiming himself as a doctor. He had allegedly cheated woman doctors promising PG seats in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)."He created fake Facebook profiles in the name of doctors and duped woman doctors," said Benita Mary Jaikar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, South Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-duped-over-dozen-woman-doctors-on-pretext-of-pg-seats-arrested-101641443793703.html
06-01-2022||Kolkata||HC to hear pleas for cancellation of Mela, deferment of local polls in Bengal||The Calcutta high court is on Thursday scheduled to hear two Public Interest Litigations seeking cancellation of the Ganga Sagar Mela and deferment of elections to four civic bodies citing the surge in Covid-19 cases in West Bengal. The daily count of cases has shot up more than 30 times over the last 10 days in the state. On Wednesday, West Bengal reported 14,022 infections compared to 439 on December 27.A Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava-led division bench of the high court urged the government on Wednesday to consider the plea seeking the cancellation of the Ganga Sagar Mela.“The state government has been asked to file an affidavit on Thursday when the matter comes up for hearing again,” said lawyer Srijib Chakraborty, who represents the petitioner.Millions of pilgrims are expected to attend the Mela to take the holy dip at the confluence of the Ganga and Bay of Bengal on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on January 15 while elections to municipalities in Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri, and Chandannagar will be held on January 22.West Bengal registered the peak of the second Covid-19 wave on May 14 last year after the assembly elections ended. The daily count of cases shot up to 20,846. Health experts blamed gatherings of people without caring for safety norms or the surge. In December 2021, thousands of people gathered on Park Street in Kolkata on Christmas. Doctors and health experts have blamed such gatherings for the present surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/hcto-hear-pleas-for-cancellation-of-mela-deferment-of-local-polls-in-bengal-101641443667278.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Fire breaks out at Delhi's Lajpat Rai market, no casualties reported||A fire broke out at the Lajpat Rai market in Chandni Chowk, opposite the Red Fort, early on Thursday morning, the Delhi Fire Service officials said.No casualties have been reported, they said.Delhi: Visuals from Lajpat Rai Market in Chandni Chowk where a fire broke out early morning today pic.twitter.com/faNkAbjpWcA call about the fire at Lajpat Rai Market was received around 4.43am and 11 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, a senior fire official said.The fire has been doused and the cooling process is underway, he said.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-delhi-s-lajpat-rai-market-no-casualties-reported-101641439818078.html
06-01-2022||Patna||Bihar man, 84, says he took 12 jabs; govt disputes claim||MADHEPURA/PATNA: Health authorities in Bihar launched a probe after Brahma Dev Mandal, 84, a retired postal employee who hails from Orai village in Madhepura district, claimed to have received 12 anti-Covid vaccine shots during the last 11 months.Bihar government officials have disputed Mandal’s claim.Mandal says he used his Aadhaar ID, his mobile number and his wife’s voter ID and her phone number to get the 12 jabs.Dr Amarendra Pratap Shahi, a civil surgeon from Madhepura, disputed Mandal’s claim, saying that the CoWIN portal that is used for the Covid-19 vaccination process doesn’t allow multiple registrations on a single Aadhaar ID. “CoWIN does not allow multiple registrations using the same Aadhaar number. Besides, presently, a maximum of four beneficiaries can be registered on each mobile number,” said Dr Shahi. Dr Shahi, who visited Puraini village on Wednesday to meet Mandal, later said the octogenarian failed to show him any vaccination certificate to support his claim of being jabbed 12 times against Covid-19. “He sounded slightly mentally unsound to me,” said Dr Shahi. To be sure, the doctor has called upon the medical officer in-charge of Puraini’s primary health centre to verify the facts and submit a report in 24 hours’ time. Mandal says he took 12 shots of Covid-19 vaccine as part of his efforts to dispel misgivings about the jab among the villagers, who he claims were reluctant to take the shot. Mandal, who claims to have noted down the date and time of all 12 jabs, said he took his first shot at Puraini PHC on February 13 last year. By September 24, he claimed to have taken the vaccine nine times. He says he took the latest jab on January 4 this year. “No one ever stopped me at any vaccination centre from taking the shot,” Mandal said. “I have shared all these facts with the civil surgeon who visited me.”Senior officials in the state health department said they would comment on the matter after a probe is done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-man-84-says-he-took-12-jabs-govt-disputes-claims-101641439285285.html
06-01-2022||Patna||Omicron alert: Night curfew to start in Bihar today, check what's allowed||The night curfew in Bihar from 10pm to 5am amid increasing cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will come into effect from today for 15 days till January 21. The decision was announced on Tuesday following a meeting of the crisis management group (CMG) chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar.As part of the Covid-19 restrictions, the Bihar government has ordered closure of parks, gyms, swimming pools and malls for the fortnight. However, during the meeting on Tuesday, authorities decided against imposing a complete lockdown in the eastern state.Also Read | India’s first Omicron death recorded in Rajasthan: GovtAccording to the Bihar Covid-19 bulletin, as many as 1,659 people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, taking the total case count of the state to 730,425. The active caseload in the state stands at 3,697.#COVIDー19 Updates Bihar:(शाम 4 बजे तक)➡️विगत 24 घंटे में कुल 1,64,408🧪 सैम्पल की जांच हुई है।➡️अबतक कुल 7,14,631 मरीज ठीक हुए हैं। ➡️वर्तमान में #COVID19 के active मरीजों की संख्या 3697 है।➡️बिहार में कोरोना मरीजों का रिकवरी प्रतिशत 97.84 है।#BiharHealthDept pic.twitter.com/xRLCFcJE07Bihar was one of several states and Union territories (UTs) in the country, which observed a muted New Year celebrations owing to the curbs imposed by the state government. Last week, the ruling dispensation ordered closure of all parks in the state between December 31 and January 2, and no public celebrations for New Year were allowed in any park.Kumar said the third wave of Covid-19 has started in Bihar and that all “necessary arrangements are being made to save people from it,” according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan.Kumar has decided to cancel his ongoing Samaj Sudhar Yatra (social reforms campaign), which commenced on December 22 and will conclude on January 15 as well as the weekly Janata Darbar. This came after as many as 11 people at the chief minister's weekly town hall meeting tested positive for coronavirus.Notably, Bihar reported its first Omicron case last week after a 26-year-old man, who recently visited Delhi after coming back to India, tested positive for the new variant of Covid-19. He went to meet a relative in Delhi, who was found to be infected with Omicron a day after the man returned to his hometown in Bihar's capital Patna.Here's a list of what's not allowed during the fortnight Covid-19 curbs:Here's a list of what's allowed during the fortnight Covid-19 curbs:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/omicron-alert-night-curfew-to-start-in-bihar-today-check-what-s-allowed-101641429293484.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai records highest single-day Covid-19 spike: 4 wards of concern||Mumbai recorded 15,014 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the city’s highest-ever single-day spike. Before this, 11,206 fresh infections were reported on April 4, 2021, which was then the single-day highest case tally after the pandemic outbreak.With these, Mumbai's tally of Covid-19 cases jumped to 8,33,628.Also Read | BMC asks 142 pvt hospitals to prep with full capacity to handle Covid-19 surgeThe overall growth rate of coronavirus disease cases in Mumbai is 0.78 per cent and the doubling rate of patients is 89 days.Three deaths were also reported in Mumbai on Wednesday taking the tally to 16,384.Dharavi, which was a Covid-19 hotspot last year, recorded 81 cases on Wednesday, which is also the highest since April 4, when the slum recorded 99 cases.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities have identified four wards where the spike in cases is particularly concerning. The four wards are: K/West, H/West, K/East and the D ward.Out of the top four wards with the highest active cases, three, including Andheri (west), Andheri (east) and Bandra, are in the western suburbs, while one is in the island city.In the K/West ward, which includes Andheri West, Juhu and Versova, the active cases have risen from 274 on December 31 to 4,564 on January 4, according to BMC data.In H/West, which includes Bandra west, Khar and Santacruz, the active cases have gone up from 149 to 3,744 in the same period. In K/East, which includes Andheri East and parts of Jogeshwari, the active cases shot up from 170 to 2,606 between December 31 and January 4.In D-ward, which includes Malabar Hills, Grant Road and Kemp’s Corner, the active cases went up from 149 to 2,558 in the same period.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the transmission rate is higher now than it was during first and second wave.“More than 90 per cent of the cases are from high rises and many of the cases are spreading because of socialisation, house parties and indoor gatherings. For the time being, people should avoid mass gatherings and follow norms or else we will be compelled to bring out stricter measures,” he said.On Tuesday, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said that if the daily Covid-19 cases cross the 20,000-mark, a lockdown will be imposed in the city.Also Read | Maharashtra won't see 100% lockdown as of now, says health ministerMeanwhile, Maharashtra reported 26,538 new cases, 8 deaths and 5,331 discharges on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-4-wards-of-concern-101641431862292.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Spike in infections upends plans for regular learning in Delhi schools||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the Capital, schools are staring at another round of extended closure. Many schools that had earlier planned to hold classes and assessments on campus have now altered their plans for the next few weeks as they brace for another round of online classes.Schools in Delhi had reopened for students of all grades in November last year. Last week, the Delhi government ordered the closure of all schools as it implemented the yellow alert of its Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) amid a spike in Covid-19 cases.School heads said that while online classes are taking place, the disruption of normal classes for the past two years is widening the learning gap and taking a toll on the mental health of students in the absence of peer-to-peer interaction.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, a conglomerate of over 120 private Delhi schools, said it seemed unlikely that schools will reopen before February.Acharya, who is also the principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, said that the surge in cases and the subsequent closure of schools has derailed teaching plans. “We had to call off a recent workshop that we had planned for the capacity building of teachers. In the current situation, nothing can be planned. It seems that schools might continue to remain closed till March if we go by previous Covid-19 waves,” said Acharya.She added that some stakeholders are of the view that the CBSE Term 2 board exams may also be postponed further if the Covid-19 situation did not improve. The CBSE Term 1 exams concluded in November-December last year. The Term 2 examinations are scheduled to take place in March-April, depending on the pandemic situation at the time.Schools said that the closure had put a question mark on practical exams that are conducted on campus for board students. “While theory can be taught online, practical sessions and exams require students to be on campus. Whenever schools reopen, conducting practical exams will be our first priority,” said Acharya.Tanya Joshi, principal of the Indian School, said that the school will hold a meeting to deliberate upon the manner in which teaching and learning will continue in the coming days. “The situation doesn’t look good. From our past experience, we know that schools will be the last to reopen. Amid this uncertainty, we will need to ensure that we are making the best use of resources and will have to recalibrate our approach,” said Joshi.Besides the logistical challenges of changes in timetables and assessments, schools are also worried about the impact of school closure on the learning gap. Since April last year, schools have been asked to shut four times on account of Covid-19 and pollution. The repeated disruptions are bound to exacerbate the already existing learning gaps, school heads said.Laksh Vir Sehgal, principal of Bal Bharati Public School, Ganga Ram Hospital Marg, said while the school was hoping that the upcoming wave might not last for long, an adverse impact on learning gaps and social skills of children was expected. Many students in grades below 6 in the school have not returned to campus since the pandemic first started in March 2020.“There are going to be a lot of learning and developmental gaps due to the pandemic-induced closure. Children learn a lot from their peer groups. Their social growth depends on their interaction with one another. Covering these gaps will be a big challenge whenever schools reopen,” said Sehgal.The impact of prolonged school closure on the mental health of children is a concern that experts and stakeholders have raised time and again. Schools say that the absence of peer-to-peer interaction is impacting students who are increasingly becoming more reclusive. “Children’s mental health has been badly affected. There is a huge communication gap between parents and children. Children have become reclusive. They are confined in their shells and parents are reaching out to us to flag the changes in their personalities,” said Acharya.Experts continue to emphasise the need for engagement with students in small peer groups. Anubha Rajesh, chair professor at Jamia Millia Islamia’s Centre for Early Childhood Development and Research, had earlier told HT that it was crucial for schools to adopt innovative ways of engagement with students. “Online teaching is not the solution but only an alternative in the prevailing situation. We have to focus on the online capacity building of teachers as well as sustain peer interaction among students. We need to build small groups of students for the improvement of their psychological and social well-being through sustained engagement so that they have support. However, once the situation improves, offline mode of learning is the best,” said Rajesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/spike-in-infections-upends-plans-for-regular-learning-in-delhi-schools-101641430358583.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Monument’s secret charm||The whole world comes to see Humayun’s Tomb. The monument must be beautiful. You ought to head to Humayun’s Tomb for another beautiful reason, too. Just outside the gate is an eight-year-old snack stall that sells one of Delhi’s best chhole kulche (with butter).The crowd around Mr Jasbeer’s modest establishment this afternoon attests to the deliciousness of his signature delicacy. A family of sightseers who just emerged out of the monument are eagerly standing around the stall. The entire enterprise is mounted on a bicycle. The stove to heat the kulchas, as well as the giant brass cauldron filled with the pre-cooked chhole, are placed on a wooden case that is firmly installed on the cycle’s carrier. The wooden case’s broad sidebars serve as makeshift tables for diners to eat in comfort.Delhi’s street cuisine is so sophisticated that it is difficult to come across an unsatisfying chhole kulcha. Mr Jasbeer makes it exceptionally well. May be it’s his last-minute tricks that take the dish into a state of sublimity. Just before he hands over a chhole bowl to a customer (30 rupees per plate), he squeezes half a lemon onto it, adds chopped onions and tomato slices, and concludes the act by placing a green chilli pickle on the top. This pickle is heavenly; Mr Jasbeer makes it at his home. In fact, apart from the bakery kulchas, everything else is made in his one-room house in nearby Sarai Kale Khan. A former “beldar” (labourer), the soft-spoken Budaun native says he gets up every morning at five – along with wife, Sushma — and they jointly carry out the preliminary cooking for the day ahead. The four kids stay asleep at that hour.A few minutes after this chat, the stall suddenly empties of people. Mr Jasbeer exploits the spare moments by ladling out an ample portion of the cooked chickpeas from the cauldron onto a small pan, which he places on the stove’s slow fire. He adds a spoon of water to “further soften the chhole”, throws in a bit of black salt and coarse red chilli powder, plus a good amount of chopped onions and tomatoes, along with a fistful of fresh dhaniya leaves. He stirs the dish with a furious movement of his hand, like a pianist nearing his sonata’s final moments. The next moment, the stall is again circled by a crowd. Mr Jasbeer serves daily from noon till 7pm, after which he pedals the stall back to his waiting wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-monument-s-secret-charm-101641428458113.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Lt Gen Anindya Sengupta takes over strategic 14 Corps in Ladakh||Lieutenant General Anindya Sengupta, AVSM, YSM, took over command of the ‘Fire and Fury Corps’, also called 14 Corps, from Lieutenant General PGK Menon, AVSM on Wednesday at Leh. The general officer has had a distinguished career in the Indian Army, serving in a number of important command and staff appointments. The officer commanded an infantry regiment in plains, an infantry brigade in Kashmir valley, an infantry brigade in UN Mission and Victor Force in Kashmir. In his farewell message, Lieutenant General PGK Menon conveyed his gratitude and deep appreciation to all ranks of the ‘Fire and Fury Corps’ for their professionalism and steadfast dedication in the service of the nation, even in the most hostile terrain, weather and altitude challenges, faced by any army in the world. On taking over, Lieutenant General Anindya Sengupta exhorted all ranks of ‘Fire and Fury Corps’ to continue, to discharge their duties with the same commitment and zeal and always be prepared to deal with any threat to national security. He urged them to continue to keep ‘nation first’ in all their endeavours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lt-gen-anindya-sengupta-takes-over-strategic-14-corps-in-ladakh-101641423684872.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||J&K sees jump in Covid cases, daily tally crosses 400-mark||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases after reporting 418 infections on Wednesday, an official health bulletin said. This is after six months that the union territory has registered over 400 cases.Of the total cases, 311 were reported in Jammu division while Kashmir valley saw 107 infections. Jammu division’s two districts, Reasi and Jammu, reported the highest 156 and 109 cases, respectively.Kashmir valley witnessed 52 cases in Srinagar followed by 16 in Budgam and 13 in Baramulla. As many as 13 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Most active cases in JammuJammu district has replaced Srinagar with the highest number of active cases at 486 followed by Srinagar and Reasi districts with 478 and 194 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Wednesday was 140 with active cases reaching 1,819.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 83,611 vaccine doses were administered on Wednesday.The total number of people who have recovered reached 3,36,070, prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.22%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have climbed up to 3,42,419 and the death toll stands at 4,530.Officials said that 59,716 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-jump-in-covid-cases-daily-tally-crosses-400mark-101641423564972.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||BSF lodges strong protest against Pak’s bid to push arms, ammo into Indian side||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday lodged a strong protest with Pak Rangers against attempts to push arms, ammunition and narcotics besides drone activities on the 198km Indo-Pak International Border during a sector commander-level meeting in Suchetgarh area between the two border guarding forces. The Indian delegation was led by Surjit Singh, DIG, BSF, and Pakistan delegation was led by Brigadier Fahd, Sector Commander, Pakistan Rangers, Sialkot Sector. This was the first sector commander-level meeting in 2022. “During the meeting, commanders of both the border guarding forces discussed various issues. The BSF delegation laid emphasis on the infiltration attempts by Pakistan-based rogue elements and recovery of arms and ammunition besides narcotics on the IB,” said BSF DIG SPS Sandhu. “A very strong protest was also lodged by the BSF commander regarding all these nefarious attempts from across the border by Pakistani elements, especially the recent bid of smuggling arms, ammunition and narcotics which were seized by BSF in Ramgarh sector on Monday,” he added. “BSF also strictly objected to the drone operations carried out by Pakistan. Other issues like construction work by Pak Rangers close to IB and intrusion by Pak elements were also discussed,” said the DIG. Both the sides also stressed upon a better communication between the field commanders to resolve all operational matter to maintain peace and harmony at the IB. “The meeting was held in a very positive, cordial and constructive atmosphere. Both sides agreed to conduct such meetings at regular intervals for better understanding,” said the DIG. On Monday, arms, ammunition and narcotics were seized at Ramgarh along the India-Pakistan border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba district, hours after a Pakistani intruder was shot dead in the adjoining Arnia area. The seizure included three AK-47 rifles with five magazines, four pistols with seven magazines, 10 rounds of 5.56mm ammunition , seven rounds of 9 mm BALL and five packets of heroin. 
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||PDP opposes ‘curbs’ on pilgrims at Vaishno Devi||The People’s Democratic Party on Wednesday strongly criticised the administration for its “casual approach” to regulate pilgrims rush at the Vaishno Devi shrine. On Saturday, 12 pilgrims were killed and 15 others were injured in a stampeded at the cave shrine. In a statement issued here, spokesperson of the party, Anil Sethi, said that the administration seems to have woken up from its slumber after the catastrophic incident of stampede, but the measures are being taken from within the four walls of civil secretariat and Raj Bhawan without understanding the ground realities. “Curbs and restrictions seem to be the only way this administration takes refuge under,” Sethi said, adding, “The administration has come up with the dictate making it mandatory for all the pilgrims to make online registration prior to visiting the shrine putting disadvantage to the thousands of visitors who are not aquatinted with the technology.” He said that instead of finding the loopholes and fixing the problems on the ground, the officials at the helm of affairs have just shifted the blame on the visitors, who might have arrived at the cave shrine for blessings on the eve of new year. “At present, the pilgrims were free either to get themselves registered online or on their arrival at Katra town,” he said, adding that as per the new direction only the pilgrims with online registration would now be allowed to the shrine. Quoting media reports, the PDP leader said that restricting the number of pilgrims to 25,000 per day was another curb the administration was imposing. “Pilgrims from across the country wait for the festival seasons to visit the holy shrine and the proposed restrictions would only create hindrance for the visitors,” he added. He said that the government and the shrine board should instead focus on the widening of the 13km long track, strengthening of the existing infrastructures and putting in place the required security apparatus in order to avoid such incident in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pdp-opposes-curbs-on-pilgrims-at-vaishno-devi-101641423264787.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Man dies, another injured as boulder falls on car in Ramban||A man died on the spot and another was injured when a boulder fell on their car in Ramban district on Jammu-Srinagar national highway on Wednesday, said officials. The deceased was identified as Adil Ahmed, 29, of Budgam and the injured was car driver Nasir Khan,30, of Bemina. “The duo was travelling from Jammu to Srinagar but a big boulder fell on their car at Duggi Pulli near Jaswal bridge at Karol in Ramban district,” said a police officer. The injured was referred to Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Srinagar, from the district hospital, Ramban, in view of his critical condition. Jammu-Srinagar highway shut for traffic Heavy rains in plains and snowfall in upper reaches on Wednesday further intensified cold wave conditions across Jammu region and threw normal life out of gear. Traffic movement on 278-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway was also suspended due to incessant rains and snow. SSP (traffic) Shabir Malik said, “Due to rains and snow, the road has become slippery and shooting stones are also posing a serious risk to the commuters. Though vehicles stranded between Nashri and Banihal are being cleared, we have suspended fresh traffic movement from Srinagar and Jammu.” “However, at least 400 trucks carrying essentials for Valley are being cleared while 500 LMVs for Jammu and Srinagar also being allowed to proceed for their respective destinations,” he added. Malik also informed that the traffic authorities have issued an advisory for the travellers and has decided to keep traffic movement suspended on Thursday as well due to inclement weather. Yatra to Vaishno Devi disruptedDue to inclement weather, the pilgrimage to Vaishno Devi shrine was also suspended on Wednesday. “Due to continual heavy rains, the yatra was suspended at 6pm and it will be restored following improvement in the weather conditions, likely on Thursday morning around 7am,” said an official of the shrine board. However, the CEO of the shrine board, Ramesh Kumar, said, “Yatra has not been suspended. There was a minor incident of shooting stone on Himkoti marg after which it was closed for pilgrims. The yatra is on from the old traditional route,” he said. The CEO, however, said that it can be suspended in view of heavy rains on the tracks leading to the shrine. Meanwhile, boulders damaged a passenger shed near Panchi on Himkoti Marg on Wednesday following which the authorities stopped battery car service and also closed the track for pilgrims. “They were diverted via old traditional route to the cave shrine. Also, four flights from Jammu to Srinagar and Leh were cancelled on Wednesday because of the inclement weather. Trikuta hills received fresh snowfall on Wednesday as well. Jammu airport director SK Garg said, “Only four flights to Srinagar and Leh had to be cancelled because of poor visibility and fog due to heavy rains.” The MeT office has issued an ‘orange’ alert for J&K till January 9. MeT director Sonam Lotus said, “Present weather is most likely to continue till late Wednesday”. “We expect another intense spell of heavy to very heavy rainfall during the intervening night of January 7 and 8,” he added. He advised the people not to venture in avalanche prone area. In view of inclement weather and intense cold wave, the Jammu divisional administration has issued a list of important helpline numbers for people. The numbers are PCR Ramban : 01998266384, 9906925595, 9906926079, SSP Ramban : 9205571332, Addl SP Ramban : 8825057800, DSP Hqrs Ramban: 9858512348, DSP DAR Ramban: 7780939696, 9858619994, SDPO Banihal: 9419989332, 9596072029, SDPO Gool: 7006670969, 9419699624, SHO PS Batote: 9149638978, SHO PS Chanderkote: 7006244910, SHO PS Ramban: 7006773728, SHO PS Ramsoo: 7889758950, SHO PS Banihal: 9596732389, SHO PS Dharamkund: 7889619601, SHO PS Gool: 8803799632, IC PP Patnitop: 9906128583, IC PP Rajgarh: 9797523811, IC PP Sangaldaan: 9796625616, IC PP Ind: 9469710018, IC PP Ukhral: 8803467939, IC PP Neel: 7006194205, IC PP Khari: 9149963818, IC PP Jawahar Tunnel: 9149552325.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-dies-another-injured-as-boulder-falls-on-car-in-ramban-101641423025011.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Flights cancelled, highways shut as snow, rain cripple life in J&K||As many as 37 flights were cancelled at Srinagar airport on Wednesday owing to poor weather conditions. “Light snowfall and low visibility today hampered our operations. We had 42 scheduled flights but only five could operate. Other 37 were cancelled,” the airport said in a tweet.The weather conditions have led to postponement of Kashmir University exams scheduled for the day.“It is notified for the information of all the concerned that due to inclement weather conditions, all undergraduate, postgraduate , professional, BEd examinations of Kashmir University scheduled on Wednesday are hereby postponed,” said controller of examinations, Prof Irshad A Nawchoo in a statement.“Fresh dates for the postponed papers will be issued separately,” he said.The J&K’s meteorological department said that the precipitation continued across the Valley for the night and in the morning.In the past two days, highest snowfall of 84 cm was reported in ski resort of Gulmarg. Deputy director, meteorological department, Mukhtar Ahmad said that 37.1cm snow was witnessed in Pahalgam from the evening of January 3 till evening of January 5.“19.5 cm snowfall was recorded in Kupwara while it was 13cm in Qazigund,” he said, adding that Srinagar received light 1cm of snow. “At many places, it was raining as well. Srinagar mostly witnessed rains with the scale measuring 4.9mm rainfall. In south Kashmir’s Qazigund, there was 15mm rain till morning,” said an official of Srinagar’s MeT department. The Indian Meteorological Department has issued an orange weather warning for J&K and Ladakh and warned of two successive western disturbances with heavy snowfall during January 5-8.Western disturbance is a weather system or winds blowing from the Mediterranean which brings most of the precipitation in Kashmir.Director of J&K and Ladakh’s MeT departments, Sonam Lotus, said that widespread rain/snow with heavy to very heavy snow (more than 2ft over higher reaches) occurred since Tuesday. “There is a forecast of significant decrease in precipitation from today evening. However, expect another intense spell on January 7 and 8,” he added. He asked people once again not to venture in avalanche prone areas. “Our data shows that most avalanches are triggered during intense heavy snowfall, “ he added. Kashmir is under the grip of Chillai Kalan, Valley’s harshest over 40-day winter period which started on December 21. The precipitation has affected surface travel for the past two days. The minimum night temperatures in Kashmir valley improved with Srinagar recording 0.8 degrees Celsius.The meteorological department said that the mercury plunged lowest in the ski resort of Gulmarg to settle at -4.0 degrees Celsius. In the mountain resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir, the mercury recorded -0.4 degree Celsius during the night.It was -0.5 °C in Konibal and 0.8°C in Qazigund.In the union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded lowest of -8.9°C while it was -7.3°C in Leh during the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flights-cancelled-highways-shut-as-snow-rain-cripple-life-in-jk-101641422786041.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: University teachers seek implementation of UGC pay scales||The All University Teachers’ Association (AUTA), Himachal Pradesh, has demanded the implementation of 7th pay scale immediately in the state. A virtual meeting of AUTA was held on Wednesday during which the association demanded to implement the pay scales for the college and university teachers as per the recommendations made by the UGC pay commission. In a statement issued to the press, association’s executive member Prof Kulbhushan Chandel and member secretary Joginder Saklani said the Himachal Pradesh government has released the pay scales to the state employees which is a welcome step but at the same time, the UGC scales have not been implemented by the government. Prof Chandel said there was resentment among the teachers and the government should take immediate decision in this regard. The association also formulated a joint front of all the teachers to take up their demand effectively with the government. We will launch a stir if our demands are not met, the association said.‘Adopt integrated farming models’Vice-chancellor of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar HAPU Prof HK Chaudhary exhorted the farmers to supplement their farm income by adopting avocations like mushroom cultivation, bee keeping, and dairying. He was interacting with around 100 farmers during a training programme on mushroom cultivation at Passal in Jogindernagar subdivision. Lingering conflict still claiming lives in Kashmir: HurriyatHurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq rued the way past year witnessed continuous violence in Kashmir and the new year started with encounters and killings of youth owing to the “lingering Kashmir conflict”. The separatist conglomerate, in a statement, claimed that the force proved to be counterproductive in the long run. “ 2021 was one more year lost to killings, bloodshed and violence in J&K - a result of the lingering Kashmir conflict,” the separatist conglomerate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-university-teachers-seek-implementation-of-ugc-pay-scales-101641422665452.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Closure of schools will have devastating consequences for children: Education body||The National Coalition on the Education Emergency, a consortium of individuals and organisations that work on Right to Education and have been advocating for the reopening of schools, on Tuesday said that the closure of schools would have devastating consequences for children. The group noted that a number of governments including Delhi had ordered the closure of schools while others were planning to do so despite the fact that schools had only opened recently after remaining mostly closed since March 2020. Schools in Delhi had reopened for students of all grades in November last year. Last week, the Delhi government ordered the closure of all schools as it implemented the yellow alert of its Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) amid a spike in Covid-19 cases. “It is evident that the absence of structured learning opportunities has caused severe academic regression, young children have forgotten habits of learning; basic reading and numeracy skills have been affected, and we are seeing a huge dropout as a result,” the group said in a statement issued on Tuesday. The statement has been endorsed by 18 education activists and individuals from forums such as the Right to Education Forum, All India Primary Teachers Federation, Council for Social Development, among others. While making a case of continued learning in schools, the group said that the closure of schools since the beginning of the pandemic had caused “devastating consequences for the nutrition, health and education” of many children. It said that instances of child labour, early marriages and domestic violence against children had also increased. “Complete lockdown has severely affected our economy and jobs earlier. School lockdown will similarly harm our children, and that too, over the long term. Keeping schools open is necessary to reduce this serious harm and resume the processes of learning. Schools must be the last to close and the first to open,” read the statement issued by the group. While outlining that online classes had not been very effective, the group said that “online education will continue to be a meaningless ‘option’. Suraj Kumar, educationist and one of the signatories, said that a vast majority of children did not have access to online classes and was being deprived of learning due to the prolonged closure of schools. Kumar said that it was crucial to reopen schools for children to learn and grow under the guidance of teachers. “Online education cannot be a replacement for school. People in cities might still have phones but in villages and many other remote areas, most people don’t have access to smartphones. Children are losing precious time due to the closure of schools,” said Kumar. The group also suggested using a graded response to the coronavirus waves. It said that schools in urban areas can be asked to operate at 50% capacity while following Covid-19 protocols when the test positivity rate crosses 5%. If the test positivity rate crosses 10%, medium-sized schools can be asked to function with staggered timings. It said that widespread school closure should only be considered if a large number of severe cases affected children. The group also proposed that in-person attendance should be encouraged but not made compulsory so that parents are not forced to send children to school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/closure-of-schools-will-have-devastating-consequences-for-children-education-body-101641419664652.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s east civic body panel rejects all tax hike proposals by commissioner||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has decided to reject all the tax hike proposals made by the municipal commissioner Vikas Anand. With the upcoming municipal elections due in April this year, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led elected wing has decided that the move to increase tax by 2-3% as well as the introduction of new taxes such as betterment tax and professional tax will be declined. Bir Singh Panwar, the EDMC standing committee chairman, while delivering the budget proposal worth ₹3,970 crore for 2022-23 on Wednesday, stated that the standing committee has disallowed any tax increase proposal moved by the commissioner and the corporation will focus on increasing its internal sources of revenue. The standing committee is the final decision-making panel for the financial decisions which are taken up by the general body meeting of corporation.Currently, the financially strained east MCD’s 80% expenditure goes towards paying salaries while 59% of its revenue sources come from the state government in the form of tax allocation and grants. On November 26, 2021, the commissioner proposed a 2-3% hike in property tax for residential properties in east Delhi. The commissioner also pushed for a hike in ‘theatre tax’ and tax on the sanction of new building plans, addition of 5% education cess, introduction of two new discretionary taxes-- betterment tax and professional tax--in order to improve the financial health of the civic body.Panwar said when the civic body was constituted a decade ago, the then Delhi government had assured that a financial package will be provided to the disadvantaged corporation to make it financially viable, but no assistance was ever provided. “If any organisation is forced to start its journey in a financial crisis, the crisis remains perpetual. The Delhi government has always tried to financially cripple the east corporation. The Covid pandemic has made the situation even more challenging as sources of revenue have gone down while burden of additional work has been put on us,” the chairman said. He added that the rules framed by the Delhi government do not allow the municipal councillors to undertake development work in unauthorised colonies, while there is no such restriction on MPs and MLAs. “East Delhi has the most backward areas in its jurisdiction as 87% of the region comprises unauthorised areas while only 13% region is planned, which makes it even more difficult for the corporation to deliver services in the most densely populated part of the city,” he added.Panwar listed several welfare schemes for the next financial year including a 25% or ₹25,000 subsidy for the installation of composting plants or a waste processing unit by residential bulk waste generators, phasing out of garbage receptacle points by installing 38 fixed compactors, 76 mobile waste compactors and 60 material recovery facilities, and the promise of a long-term plan for tackling pollution sources in trans-Yamuna areas. He added that a technology park is being developed by EDMC in New Jaffrabad ward, and will showcase technologies to tackle floating waste material in Kasturba drain. Panwar announced that other east Delhi drains including SSBL drain, Gokulpuri drain and Gandhi Nagar drain will be added to the project. “We will also upgrade the 12MW Ghazipur waste-to-energy plant so that it can be used to its full capacity. A 2,000TPD waste processing integrated facility in Ghonda-Gujran will be completed by December 2022,” he added.The budget lists several steps to deal with the rise in the number of enrolments in municipal primary schools during the pandemic. EDMC operates 354 primary schools with more than 200,000 students. “We will add English medium sections and upgrade all the schools to Nigam Pratibha level. Funding for a foreign training scheme has been proposed, under which initially two teachers will be sent to foreign universities in 2022-23. EDMC will also provide a ₹10,000 subsidy to each teacher to buy laptops for online classes. The engineering department will add more classrooms due to increasing enrolments while the process for hiring new nursery teachers is underway,” he added. Under the remunerative projects cell, the corporation has decided to set up a PPP cell, invite tenders for 37 surface parking sites and levy revenue from EV charging points and cell on wheels.The cash-strapped corporation has repeated several old projects in the current budget including upgradation of SDN hospital, smart classrooms and PPP-based models to manage municipal parks.The standing committee has cleared a proposal to set up a waste-to-art park in East Delhi. This will be third such park in the city after the waste-to-wonder and Bharat Darshan parks.Manoj Tyagi, the leader of the Opposition in EDMC, said the budget proposal made by chairperson was “laughable”. “If we compare the revenue streams to pre-pandemic years, all their collections are down. In parking sector, property tax, advertisement, the corporation is not able to increase the internal sources due to corruption. They should stop blaming the Delhi government for all of their failures. Sanitation is the basic obligatory function and despite privatisation of waste collection, our Swachh ranking remains one of the poorest in the country,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-east-civic-body-panel-rejects-all-tax-hike-proposals-by-commissioner-101641419424875.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Night curfew back in Himachal amid rising Covid cases||In the wake of fresh spike in the daily Covid infections in the state, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet in a meeting decided to reintroduce night curfew in the state with effect from Wednesday. The meeting was presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.The night curfew will be in force from 10pm to 5am. Besides, the cabinet also decided to close indoor sports complexes, cinema halls, multiplexes, stadia, swimming pools, gyms and community kitchens. The gathering in the social events like marriages and other functions has been capped at 50% capacity of the indoor facilities. The cabinet further decided to regularise the services of part-time water carriers of the education department, who have completed 11 years of services as on September 30, 2021. This would benefit 1,782 such carriers. The cabinet also decided to fill up 129 posts of Junior Office Assistant (IT) in the forest department on a contractual basis.It also gave its consent to Maya Digital Media Pvt Ltd, Mumbai-Deepa Roshan Lal Sahi (Consortium) to upgrade, operate and manage the Culture Centre of Tourism Development at Baragran in Manali area. This newly created facility would add leisure tourism to the itinerary and would emerge as an art-and-craft hub for the artisans of the state. In order to transform the transport sector for the development of safe, resilient and high standard infrastructure besides facilitating green growth while strengthening the state-level transport and logistics institutions and improving connectivity and enhancing mobility, the cabinet gave its approval to convert Himachal Pradesh Road and other Infrastructure Development Corporation (HPRIDC) into a public limited company. The cabinet gave its nod for MoU between the government of Himachal Pradesh and the government of Haryana related to the construction of Adi Badri Dam on river Som and its linkage with Saraswati river.The cabinet decided to upgrade 30-bed community health centre in Dehar to 40-bed civil hospital and the civil hospital in to 100-bed hospital along with creation of 33 posts of different categories.It also decided to give district-level status to Aashar Naag Fair, Banikhet in Chamba district.The cabinet decided to open horticulture extension centres at Kindar in Sundernagar and Mahog and Mahunag in Karsog to facilitate the horticulturists of the area. It also decided to upgrade community health centre in Mandap to a 50- bed civil hospital.It decided to fill up seven posts of assistant professors in IGMC, Shimla, and Atal Institute of Medical Superspeciality, Chamiyana, through direct recruitment.The cabinet decided to open new veterinary dispensaries in Heerpur, Bhuppur and Khodari Majri villages in Sirmaur district along with the creation and filling of requisite posts to run these dispensaries.
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||BKU (Krantikari) says they had no plans to block PM Modi’s way||Activists of ultra-Left farm organisation Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) staged the sit-in on the Moga-Ferozepur highway that blocked the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade on Wednesday. While taking the responsibility for the protest on PM cavalcade’s route, organisation’s general secretary Baldev Singh Zira said, “We were not aware that PM would travel by road as we were told, he would reach the rally site by a helicopter. We were already protesting on the spot and came to know about the PM’s journey only after his cavalcade had taken a U-turn,” he said, adding around 500-600 farmers were at the protest site. Sources in different farm organisations, however, said that the plan was to stage a sit-in outside DC offices in the districts against PM’s visit, however, as news of PM travelling to the rally venue by road spread, activists of BKU (Krantikari) blocked the highway on a flyover near the Piareana village. An office-bearer of a farm body on the condition of anonymity said, “They (BKU Krantikari) should have shown restraint and waited for the January 15 meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) for further course of action,” he said. BKU (Krantikari) has some influence in pockets of Zira, Ferozpur and Rampura Phul area. Surjit Singh Phul, who heads the organization, was not available for a comment. Phul was booked under the sections of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and had remained in jail for almost five years. According to Zira, the protest was planned for not accepting the demand for formation of a committee on minimum support price (MSP) that PM had promised when he made announcement for repeal of the three farm laws in November last year. “There is no action against the accused in Lakhimpur Kheri incident, rather two farmers have been arrested. The government has not dismissed the (Union minister of state for home) Ajay Mishra from the cabinet, despite his son Ashish Mishra being chargesheeted,” he added. 
06-01-2022||Noida||Greater Noida: Cab driver held for killing passenger, escaping with belongings||A 32-year-old cab driver was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing a 45-year-old passenger by pushing him in front of a speeding heavy vehicle and escaping with his belongings, in Jewar in November 2021, police said.The victim was identified as Utkarsh Singh, an engineer from Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram, said police officials, adding that the suspect -- identified as Rakesh Kumar, a native of Bulandshahr -- is a resident of Shakti Khand 4 in Indirapuram.Sudhir Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Dankaur police station, said that Singh booked a cab manually from Mathura to Indirapuram on November 7, 2021. “The driver suddenly stopped his car during the ride near the Jewar toll plaza, saying there were some issues with the vehicle. When the passenger got down from the vehicle, the driver pushed him on the road and a speeding vehicle coming from the same direction ran over him,” Kumar said. The suspect escaped with five bags the victim was carrying. Police received a call from a passerby, who informed them about the accident. The victim was taken to a private nearby hospital where he was declared dead.A case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) at the Dankaur police station. “We scanned CCTV footage of nearby areas and identified the cab. We also scanned the victim’s call records and found that the suspect had called him that night to pick him up for the ride from Mathura to Indirapuram. On Wednesday, we got a tip about the suspect’s movement near Galgotias University in Dankaur, and arrested him from there,” Kumar added. Police have also recovered stolen valuables of the victim from the suspect’s residence in Ghaziabad. “Rakesh was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Wednesday,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-cab-driver-held-for-killing-passenger-escaping-with-belongings-101641415644284.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rain, PM Modi’s absence spoil BJP’s Ferozepur rally||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Ferozepur rally that was projected as the mega launch of party’s election campaigning ended up a damp squib due to rain and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s inability to reach the venue due to ‘security breach’.Prime Minister Modi’s rally was much-awaited as the saffron party is contesting the state elections independently (without Akali Dal) for the first time. All eyes were on the rally as there were expectations that Modi may announce mega projects to woo the agrarian community that is annoyed with the BJP since three contentious farm laws were introduced in 2020.But PM’s cavalcade got stuck as protesters squatted on the road near Ferozepur’s Piareana village, less than 10 kms from the rally venue. After assessing safety issues, PM’s security agencies decided to return without visiting Ferozepur.Modi could not enter Ferozepur city even as the state authorities had deployed nearly 10,000 security personnel for today’s event. There was heavy security in the city and roads leading to Ferozepur district headquarters were either sealed or subjected to intense screening of commuters after Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee had given a call to oppose PM’s visit. Similarly, the rain played a spoilsport for the event. Inspite of a forecast of rain and possible hailstorm in Ferozepur and adjoining districts on Wednesday, the programme was not changed. It was raining since early morning and the venue was damp and slushy. There was no cover and only a small number of people made it to venue on a cold afternoon. People were seen using chairs and political placards to protect themselves from the rain as most chairs remained unoccupied. Several Union ministers, including Mansukh Mandaviya, Hardeep Puri, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat were camping in Ferozepur to make Modi’s address a big event.In his address, the state BJP president Ashwani Sharma said several buses ferrying party supporters from different districts were stopped by Punjab Police at various places. Sharma said the police authorities buckled under the political pressure to let mobs to block roads leading to the rally venue.After waiting for over one-and-a-half hours for the PM from the scheduled arrival time, the organisers abruptly announced the culmination of the rally at 2.35 pm, without stating why the star attraction could not turn up at the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-pm-modi-s-absence-spoil-bjp-s-ferozepur-rally-101641415465390.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Amritsar: FIR registered in missing revenue record file case||A first information report (FIR) was registered at the police station in Majitha falling under the Amritsar rural district on Tuesday in relation to a high-profile drugs case registered recently in Mohali.The registry clerk at the office of the sub-registrar, Majitha, Yadwinder Singh had filed a complaint regarding the missing revenue record file from his office.According to sources, the record documented in the file had turned up during the investigation of the Enforcement Directorate in the Jagdish Bhola drug case, on which basis an FIR is registered against former revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia.The record is missing for a long time, however, the FIR was registered only now when an investigation agency sought the related record and it was not found in the office concerned.“The registry number 1820 of a land sale deed of around 39 kanal and 10 marla worth ₹39 lakh is missing from the revenue record,” said Singh in his complaint.Sources claimed that though the details are missing from the office, the land mentioned in the missing file also appeared in the affidavit submitted by a Punjab politician in the 2017 Punjab assembly elections nominations.The case has been registered under Sections 380, 201 and 120-B of the IPC. So far, no arrest is made in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-fir-registered-in-missing-revenue-record-file-case-101641415404121.html
06-01-2022||Noida||Range named after Shooter Dadi inaugurated at Noida Sports Complex in Sector 21A||The Noida authority on Wednesday opened a special facility -- Noida Shooting Range -- and named it after noted Shooter Dadi Chandro Tomar for sports lovers in the city, officials said.Located inside the Noida Sports Complex in Sector 21A, the facility will provide training to budding shooting talent in Noida and neighbouring districts like Bulandshahr, Hapur, Meerut and Ghaziabad among others, said the officials.The authority has spent ₹13.97 crore on the shooting range facility, which will provide spaces for practicing with 10M pistol, and 25M and 50M rifles, and events inside the building.“Shooting is an emerging sport in our country, and a lot of students are opting that as a career now. This facility in Noida is one of its kind, with a world class state-of-the-art infrastructure, where students from western Uttar Pradesh can get their training, and make the country proud by winning medals at world events,” said Pankaj Singh MLA of Noida, who was present at the Wednesday event.Member of Parliament of Gautam Budh Nagar Dr Mahesh Sharma, Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, and Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari were present at the opening ceremony of the shooting range facility.“We requested Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to name the shooting range facility after Dadi Chandro Tomar to pay respect to the great shooter, whom we have lost recently. So, the CM named the facility after the shooter, who has become an icon in our society for her achievements in sports,” said Dhirendra Singh.Several sportspersons, including the family members of Chandro Tomar, were also present at the event.“We have named this facility after Chandro Tomar because it will inspire the new generation to take up shooting as a career,” said Maheshwari.The multi-purpose indoor stadium, which was built at a cost of ₹101 crore and can accommodate 4,000 people will also be up for the use of sports enthusiasts, said the officials. The indoor stadium inside the Noida Stadium in Sector 21A includes facilities for badminton, table tennis, basketball, handball, volleyball, gymnastics, judo, wrestling, fencing, boxing, weight lifting and taekwondo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/range-named-after-shooter-dadi-inaugurated-at-noida-sports-complex-in-sector-21a-101641415344319.html
06-01-2022||Noida||5 new police stations opened across Noida; 22 police stations in GB Nagar so far||The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Wednesday started operating five new police stations in Noida -- Phase 1, and sectors 63, 113, 126 and 142 for better maintenance of law and order there. These police stations will operate from police check posts in their respective areas till their offices are completely built.At present, there are 22 police stations in Gautam Budh Nagar -- six in Noida Zone, six in Noida Central, nine in Greater Noida, and one women police station in Sector 39.Alok Singh, police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the Uttar Pradesh government in August 2018 announced to set up the new police stations in the district. “These five new police stations have been carved out of the existing stations, for better policing,” Singh said.The Phase 1 police station has been carved out from Sector 20, Sector 63 from Phase 3, Sector 113 from Sector 49, Sector 126 from Sector 39, and Sector 142 from Surajpur and Phase 2 police station areas. The Phase 1 police station will operate from the Harolla check post, Sector 126 police station from the Okhla check post, Sector 113 from the Sector 116 check post, Sector 63 from the Block C check post in Sector 63, and Sector 142 from the Sector 144 check post till their buildings are developed, Singh added. Police said the office buildings of the five police stations will be developed within the next two years.“Land for these police stations has been allotted. The Phase 1 and Sector 142 police stations will be developed by the Uttar Pradesh Police Awas Nigam, and the other three stations will be developed by the Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam,” the commissioner said, adding that these police stations will have two-storey state-of-the-art buildings, which will have facilities like a reception, a women’s help desk, a complaint room, a surveillance room, a staff room, an arsenal, a store room, a washroom, a lockup, among others. The campus will also have a separate housing complex for the police personnel. The police commissionerate has deployed five police personnel as in-charges of these new police stations. Singh also said that one more police station in Noida has been proposed, and four other stations in the Jewar airport area. “The land for the four police stations in Jewar has been allotted,” he added.Rajendra Kumar, sub-inspector at the Sector 126 police station, said that the check post covers limited areas and these stations have larger jurisdictions. “Now, we will be able to file FIRs in the police station. This will certainly help the locals. Earlier, complainants had to visit the Sector 39 police station to register FIRs,” Kumar said. KK Jain, secretary general of Federation of Noida residents’ welfare association (FONRWA), said that the new police stations will ensure safety of the residents. “This will also deter the anti-social elements from committing crime in the area. We had urged the government to set up these new police stations. The government has delivered on their promises,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/5-new-police-stations-opened-across-noida-22-police-stations-in-gb-nagar-so-far-101641414624173.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi top cop Asthana says PIL against him driven by ‘personal vendetta’||Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana has submitted in the Supreme Court 31 tweets posted against him by advocate Prashant Bhushan in the last four years, as the 1984-batch IPS officer claimed that the challenge to his appointment as the national capital’s top cop was driven by “personal vendetta” and “vengeance” of NGOs CPIL and Common Cause, both represented by Bhushan.In an affidavit filed in response to CPIL’s petitions challenging his appointment as Delhi Police commissioner on July 27, Asthana highlighted that CPIL and Common Cause have been consistently picking on him out of malice and an “unknown agenda” following his appointment in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as a special director in October 2017. “The conduct of the petitioner (CPIL) herein in maligning the image of Respondent No.2 (Asthana) ever since his appointment in CBI is evident from the following facts and it can be satisfactorily concluded that the petitioner is carrying out personal vengeance against him. These petitions are, therefore, not bonafide public interest litigations but are a flagrant abuse of process and forum that is this Hon’ble Court,” stated the affidavit.It detailed five cases in which Common Cause and CPIL moved the apex court since 2017, raising questions over Asthana’s appointment in CBI; sought his removal as special director in CBI; demanded a probe against him in connection to a bribery case; and finally, through the fresh petitions, filed in August and November 2021, challenged his appointment as commissioner.“The aforesaid petitions were followed by a scathing social media campaign against Respondent No.2 (Asthana) maligning his reputation on multiple social media platforms, which corroborates the apprehension of the answering respondent that these challenges to his appointment were solely a result of some personal vendetta held by the petitioner,” added the affidavit, asking for dismissal of CPIL’s petition. The senior police officer then highlighted Bhushan’s tweets when petitions against him were filed and decided by the top court since 2017. “It is pertinent to mention here that the dates of filing and decisions in the petitions listed in the table above are suspiciously similar to timeline of the tweets between October 22, 2017 and July 28, 2021. True copies of the snapshots of tweets are annexed,” stated the affidavit. Asthana has attached with his affidavit screenshots of 31 tweets posted against him by Bhushan, who has argued all the five cases against him in the Supreme Court on behalf of the NGOs. “This sustained and strategic maligning of the answering respondent’s character further goes on to show the malafide of the present petitioner in carrying out a personal vendetta against the answering respondent. Hence, the present petition is another attempt in furtherance to the personal vendetta and is not even remotely in the interest of general public,” asserted Asthana in his reply. Asthana took charge as commissioner of Delhi Police on July 28, 2021. His appointment for one year came just four days before his superannuation on July 31. Before his appointment, the Indian Police Service officer was granted an inter-cadre deputation to a cadre comprising Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, and Union territories other than Andaman and Nicobar, and an extension of service.CPIL, in its writ petition on August 2021 before the top court, alleged several illegalities in the inter-cadre deputation and extension of service, and claimed the appointment breached the condition stipulated in the Prakash Singh case because Asthana did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months.The other petition by CPIL before the Supreme Court on November 2021 is an appeal against the Delhi high court’s October 12 judgment affirming Asthana’s appointment.The Union government, in its response to CPIL’s petitions filed on Tuesday, justified Asthana’s appointment underlining that there was a “compelling need” to have someone like him head the police force of Delhi, taking into account the national capital’s “extremely challenging situations” of public order, policing issues, and their implications on national security.The Centre had also sought dismissal of CPIL’s petition, calling the NGO a “busybody”. “The petitioner keeps on selectively filing petitions and such selection of selected public interest...are beyond comprehensions...,” it said.On Wednesday, the matter came up before a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna and it was adjourned for a detailed hearing in the week starting January 11. Meanwhile, explaining his appointment as the Delhi Police Commissioner, Asthana maintained that it was done following a well-settled procedure which was also adhered to when eight previous police commissioners in Delhi were appointed. “However, appointment of Respondent No.2 (Asthana)is the only appointment ever challenged by the petitioner herein, for the reasons best known to them. It is evident from this selective criticism and specific challenge with respect to the respondent’s appointment that the petitioner has a specific, malafide and unknown agenda,” he claimed in the affidavit.Asthana further relied upon the the Delhi high court’s October 12 judgment affirming his appointment while pointing out that Delhi, being the capital of India, has its own characteristics, peculiar factors, complexities and sensitivities, which are far lesser in any other Commissionerate. “Any untoward incident in the National Capital or a law-and-order situation will have far reaching consequences, impact, repercussions and implications not only in India but across the international borders. Thus, it is imperative that ‘free movement of joints’ is given to the central government for appointment of Commissioner of Police, Delhi, keeping in mind the complexities obtaining in the Capital,” emphasised the affidavit.It added that the Supreme Court’s 2016 order in the Prakash Singh case, requiring a police chief of a state to have at least six months of service left, applies only to the director general of police or police heads of states but not to Union territories such as Delhi. This was the view taken by the Delhi high court as well. On the challenge to his inter-state cadre deputation and extension of service, the affidavit maintained that the rules provide for inter-cadre deputation of all India service officers by the central government, which also had the power to give service extension to officers on valid grounds. Prashant Bhushan said, “I have personally observed Asthana’s undesirable role in various capacity in police force and CBI, besides his closeness to the central government. I, therefore, commented on those aspects in my tweets. However, the challenge to his appointment as Delhi Police commissioner is purely on legal grounds. Also, I may have personal views on somebody but CPIL and Common Cause have a governing body and a committee that decide on filing of cases in courts.” 
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Amritsar: Villagers detain ‘sacrilege’ accused in Ajnala||The situation at Bhangupur village falling under the Ajnala sub-division turned tense on Wednesday after a person allegedly committed sacrilege in the village gurdwara.The accused, who appears to be in his 20s, was caught by the village people and has been kept in a room of the gurdwara.A large number of Sikh activists who reached the village soon after the incident are not allowing the local police to arrest the accused. They are demanding that the accused should be interrogated in public.The incident took place at 2 pm when Gurdwara Nanaksar’s granthi Hardial Singh was not present there. According to the police, the accused, who appears to be mentally unsound, was found stealing the “Rumala Sahib” and “Chaur Sahib”. The accused was thrashed and detained in a room of the gurdwara sahib.As soon as the police got the information about the incident, the superintendent of police (SP -investigation) Manoj Kumar and deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Attari, Ravinderpal Singh, along with heavy police force reached the spot. However, the police team was not allowed by the people gathered to arrest the accused, demanding his questioning in public.“The accused has not been telling his identification. He appears mentally unfit. Those who caught the accused have told us that he consumed some pills, apparently drugs, immediately after being caught. The Sikh activists have demanded his interrogation in their presence, but we have a system and we can’t interrogate an accused in public. We are yet to file a case in this regard, as the Sikh activists have repeatedly been demanding his questioning before giving their statements,” said SP Manoj Kumar, adding that their teams were keeping a strict watch on the spot and the situation was under control.A police official said the accused appears to be from Uttar Pradesh (UP) or Bihar and they haven’t found any document from which he could be identified from his possession. The DSP said it was a case of sacrilege and they will take further action as per the law.The SP said, “We have questioned the accused, but he is not giving any satisfactory replies. We are also in talks with Sikh activists and the incident would be investigated thoroughly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-villagers-detain-sacrilege-accused-in-ajnala-101641414504475.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||If voted to power, SAD-BSP will ensure MSP for vegetables: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said if the SAD-BSP alliance forms the government in the state, it would ensure minimum support price (MSP) for vegetables and offer crop insurance of ₹50,000 per acre to farmers. He said the government would also reintroduce the pre-2004 pension scheme for government employees and remove all pay commission anomalies. He was interacting with the farmers and employee wings of the party and also met the members of the Mulazam Front at a joint meeting here. Sukhbir referred to his party as pro-farmer and pro-employee because he said it had always led them to the path of progress and resolved all their grievances. The former deputy CM asked for suggestions from farmers and employees so that they could be included in the party’s manifesto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/if-voted-to-power-sad-bsp-will-ensure-msp-for-vegetables-sukhbir-badal-101641414444420.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||No relief to SAD leader Bikram Majithia in drugs case for now, next hearing on Jan 10||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia, 46, failed to get a stay order against arrest in a drugs case from the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday even as the court asked the state government to file “specific response” on the issues raised by him by January 10. The high court bench of justice Lisa Gill heard his plea for one-and-a-half hours. A battery of lawyers led by Supreme Court advocate Mukul Rohatgi and senior advocate RS Cheema appeared for Majithia and pressed for interim protection. It was argued that apart from the fact that there is “inexplicable delay” in lodging of the FIR, the criminal case itself could not have been lodged because, if at all, any material had indeed surfaced against him, it was incumbent upon the authorities to have firstly sought permission of the competent court before proceeding against him. A fresh FIR could not have been registered as the matter was being investigated both by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Special Task Force (STF) as well as the committee constituted under orders of the high court in a suo motu plea pending since 2013. No action for all these long years was taken, it was submitted, adding that the present FIR was vitiated by “political and ulterior motives”. The petitioner has no criminal record and is a mainstream politician and undertakes to join the investigation, fully cooperate with the investigating agency and abide by any conditions which may be imposed by the court, it was undertaken. On the other hand, former Union minister P Chidambaram-led state government’s team and had referred to fresh statements recorded by the police of Niranjan Singh, former deputy director, ED, and Jagdish Singh Bhola, prime accused in 2013 drug haul case, arguing that there is “specific, sufficient and clear cut” material to connect Majithia with the offences alleged. The bench of justice Lisa Gill, taking note of arguments from both sides, deferred the hearing for January 10, seeking a written response from the state government. However, the court has not passed an order on interim protection to Majithia. On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s plea, observing that though his claims are of “political vendetta” but he himself was a powerful person in state politics till 2017 during the SAD rule. Majithia was booked by the Punjab Police on December 20 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, including Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence). Majithia’s whereabouts are not known. The plea terms the criminal case “election stunt” and further alleges that the government has changed three police chiefs in three months to get this FIR registered. The plea also accuses Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards him. The plea also refers to the controversy involving ADGP SK Asthana, claiming that he refused to investigate the matter and raised questions whether the matter can be investigated, STF report being sealed before the court, superseded by other reports and whether an investigation can be initiated without the permission of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-relief-to-sad-leader-bikram-majithia-in-drugs-case-for-now-next-hearing-on-jan-10-101641414384290.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab forest minister Sangat Singh Gilzian inaugurates jungle safari at Hoshiarpur village||Forest minister Sangat Singh Gilzian on Wednesday inaugurated a nature retreat centre and jungle safari at Thana village. The adventure-based eco-tourism project includes three lake-facing eco tents, boating and off-road gypsies. The forest department has set up the camp amid Thana and Dehrian forests which overlooks the Thana reservoir lake. The camp offers three all-weather tents with dining and restaurant facilities to visitors and a boat ride in the lake area of the Thana dam. A dedicated jungle safari was also started on Wednesday which connects Thana to Dehrian and Kukanet.Principal chief conservator of forests Parveen Kumar said a 7-km track from Thana to Dehrian would offer the best ride through sand dunes and a further 5 km from Dehrian to Kukanet through a steady stream of water.“This stream has a natural bamboo canopy on its sides. On the track, it is common to spot caves of wild animals. The nature trail near Dehrian also provides the best scene of the landscape from the watchtower, he added.“These facilities will boost the eco-tourism potential of this area and further enhance the economy of the area through employment opportunities,” said Sanjeev Tiwari, conservator of forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forest-minister-inaugurates-jungle-safari-at-hoshiarpur-village-101641414325413.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab govt invited 3 farmer leaders to meet PM Narendra Modi||In an attempt to appease farmers who had been blocking the roads ahead of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Ferozepur rally, the state government on Wednesday morning invited three leaders of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) for a talk regarding their demands with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi.The KMSC has a considerable hold in the Majha region and Ferozepur and Fazilka districts of Punjab. The three leaders who have been invited to the meeting are KMSC’s state president Satnam Singh Pannu, general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher and Sawinder Singh Chautala. These leaders will meet the PM in the conference hall of the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi, reads a letter from the state government.The KMSC had blocked several roads in various districts of the state, including Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur districts, for BJP leaders and workers who were heading towards the Ferozepur rally which was to be addressed by the PM.Pandher said, “Our farmers had been protesting and blocking the roads leading to Ferozepur since Tuesday. On Tuesday night, we had a three-round talk with Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. During the meeting, it was agreed that a committee would be formed regarding our demand of minimum support price (MSP) on crops till January 15. A consent was also given that within a month, the cases on farmers registered in Delhi and other states will be taken back, besides providing compensation to those families of the farmers who have lost their lives during their struggle in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.”He said, “We waited till 10 am on Wednesday for the written assurance of the above said demands, but nothing happened. Our farmers and labourers started protesting in various districts of Punjab from 10 am and we got the assurance at 1 pm. After this, our workers lifted the blockades and started peaceful protests alongside the roads.” Pandher claimed that their union blocked 45 locations in Punjab from 10:30 am to 1 pm on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-invited-3-farmer-leaders-to-meet-pm-narendra-modi-101641414324745.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Farmers block BJP workers’ way in Amritsar, Tarn Taran||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) blocked the path of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and leaders in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts on the roads leading to Ferozepur where Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi was to address an election rally.Many BJP workers remained stuck for several hours at the Kathu Nangal Toll Plaza in Amritsar and at the Harike bridge, which connects the Majha region to the Malwa region. The situation became tense between the farmers and the BJP workers at the Harike bridge, but it was brought under control after the intervention of the police. The BJP workers waited for several hours to cross the Harike bridge amid heavy rain, but to no avail.The KMSC leaders claimed that they blocked the path from 10.30 am to 1.00 pm. However, the BJP workers claimed that they remained stuck at the sites of the farmers’ protests till 2 pm. Many BJP workers also held protests in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts against the district administrations for not making adequate security arrangements for their passage.KMSC’s Tarn Taran president Sukhwinder Singh Sabhran said from 1 pm, they shifted their protests alongside the road at the Harike bridge allowing the BJP workers to pass. “The BJP workers returned back because the police had installed several barricades on the way,” he claimed.BJP’s Amritsar-rural general secretary Sushil Devgun along with his supporters protested in Amritsar against the state government and the police administration for not ensuring adequate security arrangements for their pass to the PM’s rally. “Under the garb of farmers, the workers of the Congress party had blocked our way. Thousands of BJP workers were not allowed to visit the rally of the PM. Now we will start blocking the ways of the minister of Punjab government and police officials, who have deliberately spoiled our rally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-block-bjp-workers-way-in-amritsar-tarn-taran-101641414206897.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Most Omicron patients have mild symptoms: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||On the day that Delhi recorded over 10,000 new Covid infections, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain assured people that most people contracting the Omicron variant of Covid-19 are reporting mild symptoms and that the government is closely monitoring the rise in cases. He also said that no lockdown will be imposed in the city for the time being. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Jain said that Delhi is rapidly recording Covid cases, with the Omicron variant being the primary cause of the increase. He said that global data showed that the Omicron variant is less dangerous than the Delta variant. “People coming from abroad are the ones who are most affected by the omicron variant. Until now, no patient is in critical need of oxygen, and the majority of patients have mild symptoms,” Jain said in the press briefing. He added, “The government is keeping a close eye on the situation. This is the fifth wave to hit Delhi, and the third for the entire country. For the time being, the situation in Delhi is under control. In Delhi’s hospitals, there are plenty of beds available.” Quoting from official data, Jain said that Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital currently has 650 beds set aside for Covid patients, of which only 20 are occupied. The occupancy rate being around 2-5%. In Delhi, 782 coronavirus-infected patients have been admitted to hospitals. When the cases were equal in number, there was a 15% occupancy rate of beds in the previous wave of Corona, which is around 3% in the current situation, he said. “There was no need for all patients’ genomes to be sequenced; it was just a research process to see if Omicron was spreading in society or not. Because the majority of the patients are Omicron positive, there is no need to perform genome sequencing on all of them. However, random samples’ genomes are still being sequenced,” he said. He also said that there will be no lockdown in Delhi for the time being; construction work will continue as usual; there is no need for workers to panic; some restrictions have been imposed in the interest of public health. Delhi has taken the most stringent steps in the country to stop Corona, such as weekend curfew, shutting down colleges and schools, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/most-omicron-patients-have-mild-symptoms-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-101641414205839.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bike theft on the rise in Ludhiana, 4 cases registered in 7 days||Ludhiana Police have registered four separate cases of motorcycle theft from different locations in the city in the last week.An Indira Colony resident Mehboob Salmani, in his complaint filed at the Sarabha Nagar police station, said his motorcycle had been stolen from outside the Raghunath Hospital on December 28 afternoon.Kripal Nagar Gaurav Kumar also lodged a complaint against unidentified persons after his motorcycle was stolen from outside the Baba Jaswant Singh Dental College in New Motinagar area December 30 evening.Similar cases of motorcycle theft were also reported from Rakhi Bagh and from outside the office of TYC Company on Ferozepur road on January 2 and 3 respectivelyFour separate cases have been registered under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unidentified persons at the concerned police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bike-theft-on-the-rise-in-ludhiana-4-cases-registered-in-7-days-101641414204173.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College holds placement drive||Ludhiana: The Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) officials on Wednesday announced that nearly 450 students from their final year batch were hired by multinational companies (MNC) during their latest placement drive.The training and placement cell representative said recruiters including Samsung Research and Development, Zscaler, ZS Associates, Walmart Inc., Airtel offered a package of 12.5-18 lakh per annum to final year engineering students.Other major recruiters like Infosys, IndiaMART, InterMES., Publicis Sapient, Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Larsen & Toubro (L&T), Cognizant, Hitachi Vantara, IBM, Modak Analytics, VI(Vodafone Idea), Pure Software, Infor, Volvo-Eicher, Paxcom, Byjus, Yatra Freight, Brillio, JSW and Acxiom Consulting offered a package of 5-8.5 lakh per annum.Officials said recruiters like Wipro, XenonStack, RDC Concrete, Hero Cycles, HCL, Capgemini, Bizmerlin HR, Clerisy Solutions, Vardhman, VVDN Technologies among others were also part of the drive.Speaking on the same, training and placement officer professor G.S. Sodhi said various MNCs, micro, small and medium enterprises and leading industries like came forward to provide students with paid internships. “All the internships are eventually converted to the placement in the same company. The companies have one full semester time to convert these interns into trained professionals. The companies are starting the internships in January 2022”, he addedPrincipal Sehijpal Singh said the significantly higher number received job offers at this year’s placement drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-guru-nanak-dev-engineering-college-holds-placement-drive-101641414144138.html
06-01-2022||Noida||In a first, RERA allows transfer of rights between firms for project completion||The Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority (UPRERA) has allowed the “transfer of majority rights” in the realty project -- Bizlife -- in Noida’s Sector 62 from an old promoter to a new one who wants to finish and deliver the delayed project in time, said officials on Wednesday.The move will not only safeguard the interests of buyers but also enable the new promoter to deliver the same according to the rules.The UPRERA has allowed the change under Section 15 of the RERA Act, said the officials.“We have allowed this kind of a transfer of majority rights from an existing promoter to an intending promoter in a company under Section 15 of the RERA Act for the first time. The existing promoter was unable to construct and deliver the proposed project, so we had to bring a new promoter and also got the consent from the majority of the buyers to do so,” said Rajive Kumar, chairman of UPRERA.This project -- Bizlife -- is located in Noida Sector 62 spread over a 20,000-square-metre area. The project started in July 2017, with a completion deadline of October 31, 2023. On November 8, 2021, the transfer of majority rights from the existing company to the new one was done along with the consent of 519 out of the total 750 allottees. According to the proposal submitted before the RERA, the work at the site has been at standstill for four years and the move was crucial for the revival of the work as two-third buyers, including the association, had given their consent for the transfer, Kumar added.Now, the new intending promoter -- Urbanac Building Technologies -- will build and deliver the stalled project according to the UPRERA rules, said the order.The Solutrean Building Technology Limited (SBTL) allegedly failed to deliver the commercial project.“The Urbanac Building Technologies will be responsible to follow all the terms and conditions under the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Act,” said Kumar.In the past, the RERA allowed the buyers’ associations and the contractors to finish stuck projects in the state including Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad among others.“There are at least 12 such cases where we have allowed the buyers associations to make arrangements, paving way for the delivery of stuck realty projects in Noida and Greater Noida under sections 7 or 8 of the Act. But, for the first time, we have used Section 15 of the Act and it may open a window for other projects, which are stuck and the same model can be followed,” said Kumar.Paritosh Goel, managing partner, Urbanac Building Technologies, said, “Strengthening the confidence of all the investors and buyers, our priority will be to implement the approved project rehabilitation plan as soon as possible and proceed with the construction work.”Sandeep Sahni, chairman of Solutrean Building Technology Limited, said, “This is the first such acquisition in the district and we want to assure the existing allottees that we will take every step for the betterment of the project. We will soon start the project site, once the remaining formalities of the UPRERA are completed. We will set up the office, rename the project, and begin the construction work soon after the approval of the new map.”
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Halwara International Airport to be ready by June-end: MP Amar Singh||Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh on Wednesday said that construction of the Halwara International Airport will be competed by June-end, and flights will start soon after. The MP, who laid the foundation stone of a terminal building, said the airport will drive investment, jobs and development in the Halwara and Raikot area. He was accompanied by senior Congress leader Kamil Boparai. Speaking on the occasion, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, said, “Work on the ₹46.91-crore international airport is going on in full swing and flights will be started by July.” Later, the MP laid the foundation stone of two 66KV substations in Barmi and Jalaldiwal villages. He also kicked off the repair and upgrade of a sub-divisional hospital in Raikot and inaugurated an oxygen plant, medical gas pipeline and effluent treatment plant (ETP) on the hospital premises, and the foundation stone of the mother-child block at the sub-divisional hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/halwara-international-airport-to-be-ready-by-june-end-mp-amar-singh-101641414024085.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Cases hit 10k-mark in Delhi, positivity rate at almost 12%||Delhi on Wednesday reported eight Covid-19 deaths, last recorded in June last year when the second wave of the virus was abating, according to government data. Fuelled by the Omicron variant of coronavirus, the number of infections also nearly doubled on Wednesday as compared to the day before, with cases crossing the 10,000 mark and the test positivity rate shooting to 11.88%.Data released by the government on Wednesday showed that Delhi recorded 10,665 new cases, out of 89,742 samples that were tested. The last time the city saw such a high number of new infections was during the peak of the second wave on May 12, 2021, when the number of daily infections climbed to 13,287. The city’s positivity rate also touched 11.88%, last seen on May 14, 2021 (12.4%).On Tuesday, three deaths and 5,481 new infections were reported, and the positivity rate was recorded at 8.37%.Delhi government data shows that nine people had died of Covid-19 in December, 2021. In comparison, seven people died of the infection in November, and four in October.Even as the number of cases rose exponentially this week, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain urged people to not panic.“With the arrival of Omicron, Covid is rapidly spreading; we are constantly monitoring the situation and are fully prepared to take any necessary steps,” Jain said on Wednesday.He added, “People coming from abroad are the ones who are most affected by the Omicron variant. Until now, no patient is in critical need of oxygen, and the majority of patients have mild symptoms.”Government data also showed that as on Wednesday, 782 patients were admitted to hospitals. However, 551 were either asymptomatic or showed mild symptoms. Twenty-two patients showed severe symptoms and required ventilator support and 140 showed moderate symptoms and required oxygen support. The number also included 69 patients who were suspected to be infected.These numbers underline global trends that the Omicron variant appears to be more transmissible but less virulent, and that the variant of concern (VOC) does not crowd hospitals like the Delta variant did.“Covid-appropriate behaviour needs to be followed at all times and since the infections are minor, there is no need to panic. In the case of healthy adults who are vaccinated, the chances are that they would either be completely asymptomatic or show only mild symptoms,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine department at the Safdarjung Hospital.
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||No vaccination, no salary: Ludhiana MC tells staff||With the district witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to stop the salaries of employees who have failed to get both doses of the vaccine.  Around 3,200 MC staffers have not yet received the second dose of the vaccine, and they will not be able draw their salaries till they get their final shots. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has also disallowed the entry of staff or visitors without a face mask. Holding a meeting at the Zone D office on Wednesday Sabharwal warned the staff of action, if they failed to follow Covid protocol. Now, visitors will be provided face masks at the entry gates , and hand sanitisers will be made available at offices. The MC will also purchase sodium hypochlorite, in case the MC has to restart a sanitisation drive in the city.Additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal said there are around 8,400 employees in the MC, and only 50 of them did not get the first dose due to medical reasons. Around 5,200 staffers have got the second shot, and the civic body will soon be holding a vaccination camp to cover the remaining 3,200 employees, which also include a few executive engineers, and junior engineers among others.Around 60 MC staffers, including former joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh, have tested Covid positive since the virus outbreak, while three Class-4 staffers have succumbed to the disease.‘Submit complaints online’ Appealing the residents to avoid visiting the MC office, Sabharwal said, “Residents can submit complaints on the MC’s official website, mcludhiana.gov.in or at the official emails of the additional commissioner (additionalcomm.mcl@gmail.com), Zone A commissioner (acdmcl1@gmail.com), Zone B commissioner (zonalcomm.zb@gmail.com), Zone C commissioner (zonalcomm.zcmcl@gmail.com) and Zone D commissioner (zonalcomm.d@gmail.com). Residents can also reach out to the MC commissioner (commissionermcl@gmail.com) directly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-vaccination-no-salary-ludhiana-mc-tells-staff-101641413724719.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt expedites plan to augment Covid beds by 35K||The Delhi government has pushed its Covid beds augmentation plan and cancelled all leaves, except medical, granted to its staff as the daily count of infections almost doubled on Wednesday to hit 10,665, compared to Tuesday’s 5,481, and hospitalisations went up by about 47% in a single day.The services department, in an order issued on Wednesday, cancelled the leaves granted to all officials and staff to ensure there was no manpower shortage to deal with the crisis.As an immediate measure, the Delhi government has planned to escalate its Covid-19 beds to least 35,500, of which about 10,000 would be at its own hospitals and those run by the three municipal corporations, 3,775 beds at the Central government-run hospitals, 14,000 at private facilities and 7,777 at Covid Care Centres. So far, about 10,300 Covid-19 ICU beds have been identified, data compiled by the Delhi government showed.“The Omicron variant is more contagious and going by global trends, children are also likely to get infected by it. Therefore, the government is also arranging about 2,262 paediatric Covid beds and 858 ICU beds for children,” said a senior government official asking not to be named.Delhi government’s health department also issued an order on Tuesday, directing escalation of bed capacity in nine Covid hospitals in the city. The order proposed to increase the beds at the Indira Gandhi Hospital from 1,181 to 1,500, at Lok Nayak and affiliated facilities from 650 to 750, at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and affiliated facility from 600 to 750, and at the Burari hospital from 300 to 400.At the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, the number of beds was proposed to be increased from 150 to 300 and at the Ambedkar Nagar Hospital, the bed count will be increased from 135 to 200. Apart from this, at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital and Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, the number of beds will to be increased from 100 each to 150.“It seems hospitalisation rates are relatively low. We are watching the situation very closely. In Delhi, the hospitalisation rate is about 3.7% or close to 4%. This is the early input that we have. Compared to this, last year and even in 2020, the typical hospitalisation rate was close to 20%. But please remember, even though the Omicron variant causes a mild infection, if the number of Covid-19 cases increase exponentially, the number of hospitalisations will also increase in proportion. That is why we need to stop this or slow down the pace of this surge as much as possible,” said Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (health) in a press briefing on Wednesday.According to the government’s daily Covid bulletin, tests went up from 65,487 on Tuesday to 89,742 on Wednesday, even as the positivity rate touched 11.88% on Wednesday.Private testing facilities in the city said they have been stretched to their maximum capacity since the second Covid wave, and added that the government agencies should work towards ramping up testing facilities at government hospitals.“To increase capacity we need trained manpower, space, equipment and finances. The testing capacity has been stretched to its maximum limit since the Delta wave. We are running short of manpower, large number of doctors, even as paramedics and lab hands have fallen prey to the virus. We are working at best that we can. The government should also increase the capacity in government hospitals,” said Dr Navin Dang, microbiologist and founder of Dr Dang’s Lab.A second senior government official said that a review of the testing infrastructure is being planned in a day or two. “As of now, no such lag on test results have been reported. But we are monitoring the situation closely. In any case, we are ensuring that all districts and medical centres have adequate stocks of rapid antigen test kits. Besides, we are also checking at all medical stores to ensure Covid home test kits are available in enough quantities for people to buy,” the official said who asked not to be named.As of date, the national capital had 790 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen available. In addition, there is also a buffer stock of 442 MT. A total of 89 PSA plants have been commissioned so far in the city, and another nine will be commissioned by the end of this month, according to the government data.About 691 ambulances of which 320 are cabs-turned-ambulances are operational in the city, the data showed. “The response time is less than 15 minutes for around 1,500 calls at present. Each ambulance has an oxygen support system including a children mask and Ambu bag (used to deliver positive pressure ventilation to a person struggling to breathe). All the vendors have been kept on high alert, and they will provide 250 ambulances on a notice of 1-2 days,” the second official said.Driving licence tests to be suspendedTransport minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday announced that due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the state transport department will be suspending all driving tests and learner’s licence tests in Delhi. Fresh appointments wouldn’t be provided and existing appointments would be rescheduled.“Considering rising Covid cases and the recent DDMA guidelines, all appointments for DL & LL tests (fresh & existing) at all RTOs will be suspended from tomorrow (6.1.22). Details for rescheduled dates will be sent to all applicants via SMS. We will extend the validity of existing LLs,” Gahlot tweeted.However, all other online ‘faceless’ services will continue and fitness tests of commercial vehicles would also be provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-expedites-plan-to-augment-covid-beds-by-35k-101641413604022.html
06-01-2022||Noida||With 510 fresh Covid cases, Noida sees nearly 4 times jump in daily infections||With 510 fresh coronavirus cases reported on Wednesday, Noida recorded a nearly four times jump in the single-day tally of the infections, as compared to 140 infections reported on Tuesday.The active Covid case tally now stands at 1,110, with 929 cases being added in the first five days of January 2022, said the district health department. In view of the increasing Covid cases, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s event scheduled to take place in Gautam Budh Nagar on Thursday to distribute tablet phones and smartphones among fresher college students has also been cancelled. The district last crossed such a high-mark, with 457 fresh Covid cases reported on May 17 last year, during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19.Gautam Budh Nagar has reported a total of 64,651 cases and 468 fatalities so far. As of now, all active Covid patients in the district are showing mild symptoms or are asymptomatic, are most of them are in home isolation. “16 Covid patients are admitted at the Noida Covid hospital, but none of them is on oxygen support or are in critical condition. Most of them have been isolated because of the mandates, or because they do not have adequate arrangements to isolate themselves at their homes. We are closely monitoring our bed requirements and the severity of the cases, and as of now, there is thankfully no rise in the need for ICU admissions,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate. Noida is the only district which has more than 1,000 active cases and thus the restrictions have been imposed in the district. With over 500 cases, the positivity rate now stands at 8.2%. Within 10 days, the positivity rate in Noida has gone from less than 1% to over 8%. A total of 1,771,293 tests have been conducted in the district so far.He also said that the Noida Covid Hospital’s capacity can be expanded up to 400 beds, and alternate arrangements could be made according to the requirements. With active Covid cases going over the 1,000-mark, Uttar Pradesh has imposed restrictions in Gautam Budh Nagar from Thursday (January 6), which includes a night curfew from 10pm to 6pm. Additionally, gyms, water parks and swimming pools will also remain shut, though no restrictions have been imposed on salons. Cinema halls, restaurants and other food joints will be allowed to operate at 50% capacity; and wedding ceremonies and other events in open areas will also be held at 50% capacity. Physical classes till Class 10 have also been suspended till January 14 this year, and those in the 15-18 age group -- who have taken the Covid jab -- will be given a two days’ holiday. “We will impose these restrictions strictly, and we have not added anything to the state’s order since it is quite comprehensive. However, we hope that the people will also follow self-regulations and refrain from any unnecessary contact. It is best to stay at home as much as possible, and avoid crowding. We have also asked our nigrani samitis, RWAs and AOAs to ensure that the norms are followed in their areas,” said Suhas LY. Meanwhile, there are no restrictions at tourist and religious places such as temples, monuments, zoological parks and sanctuaries, except for ensuring a help desk and visitors using masks and sanitisers mandatorily. IT/ITES firms have been asked to encourage working from home policies for as many employees as possible. The state government has also fixed rates for Covid-19 tests and CT scans for all government and private hospitals. If any establishment is found overcharging, action will be taken against it. A rapid-antigen test will be priced at a maximum of ₹250 and TrueNat test will cost ₹1,250 at all private labs. For the RT-PCR test, home collection by a private lab will cost a maximum of ₹900, samples given at the centres will cost ₹700 and samples collected by a government centre to be sent for testing to a private lab will cost ₹500. Additionally, a 16-slice CT scan will cost a maximum of ₹2,000, 16-64 slice CT scan will cost ₹2,250 and those with over 64 slices will cost ₹2,500.The district has also increased testing from around 4,000 samples last week to 6,000 samples at present. However, daily tests being done are still less than the target of 7,900 set by the state government. Meanwhile, 10,956 people were vaccinated on Wednesday, including around 4,500 adolescents in the 15-17 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-510-fresh-covid-cases-noida-sees-nearly-4-times-jump-in-daily-infections-101641413365577.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Electoral rolls revised, Delhi adds 100,000 voters||The total number of voters in Delhi have increased by 100,00 and 31 more polling stations have been added during the pandemic, the city’s chief electoral officer (CEO) Ranbir Singh said on Wednesday.The Delhi CEO on Wednesday published the final electoral roll for this year in the national Capital, which shows that the gender ratio of voters has increased from 826 recorded last year to 831 this year.“There was a net increase of 103,610 electors, including 50,562 males, 52,964 females, and 84 third gender electors, as compared to the previous roll published in January 2021. This increase is a step in realising the ECI’s vision of ‘No Voter to be left behind’,” Singh said in a statement.According to the latest electoral roll, total voters in Delhi are 14, 899,159. This comprises 8,138,593 men, 6,759,534 women and 1,032 third gender voters.“The increase in the number of third gender voters also demonstrates the positive result of intense efforts made by the electoral machinery towards ensuring an inclusive electoral roll,” Singh said.The electoral rolls is significant this year because the three municipal corporations in the city – North, East and South – are due to go to polls in April.Of the 70 Assembly constituencies in Delhi, Matiala is the largest with 431,337 electors, and Delhi Cantonment is the smallest with 107,734 electors. Tilak Nagar had the highest gender ratio (950) and Tughlaqabad had the lowest (687), according to the latest rolls.The CEO said for the convenience of the public, the number of polling stations has been increased from 13,789 to 13,820 this year to ensure that social distancing could be maintained, and there was no crowding at stations.“The primary goal of the Special Summary Revision 2022 was to facilitate new enrolment i.e. those who had reached the age of 18 or more as of the qualifying date of January 1, 2022, and also to provide opportunities for correction in electors’ particulars,” he said.Singh said that during the special summary revision of the electoral roll, various activities were carried out to raise awareness among prospective voters.These included regular announcements in Delhi Metro, advertisements in print media, attention-grabbing jingles on different FM Radio channels and street plays among others.The campaign was branded as “Dilli Ka Voter Utsav 2022”, and its slogan was “Chalo Voter Bane Hum” and “No Voter To Be Left Behind”.“The primary goal of the Special Summary Revision 2022 was to facilitate new enrolment i.e. those who had reached the age of 18 or more as of the qualifying date of January 1, 2022, and also to provide opportunities for correction in electors’ particulars,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/electoral-rolls-revised-delhi-adds-100-000-voters-101641413364108.html
06-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram namaz row: Land grab case against three Muslims||The Gurugram Police on Wednesday registered an FIR against three people, including Mohammad Adeeb, a former Rajya Sabha member who is leading a 21-member committee to resolve the ongoing namaz issue on alleged charges of disrupting communal harmony and attempt to grab government land in Sector 40.Police said the first information report (FIR) registered at Sector 40 police station under sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code names Adeeb, Abdul Haseeb Qasmi and Mufti Mohammad Salim Qasmi. All three accused are members of Gurgaon Muslim Council which has been negotiating with the administration over allotment of sites for Friday namaz and land for building mosques.Adeeb denied the allegations and said he was shocked to know about the case registered against him. “Police have registered a case on the complaint of a person who was recently arrested by them for disrupting namaz in Sector 37. He was also arrested twice earlier, but on his complaint a case has been registered. However, despite our repeated complaints, the police has not registered a single case against members of Hindu right-wing outfits. Why the administration and police is being biased? It is unfair,” he said.The other two said they were equally shocked, and added that Adeeb will speak on their behalf. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said they have registered the case against three persons after they received a complaint from Bharti. “We have already filed cases against Bharti for disrupting namaz and have taken action against other right-wing members. It is a baseless allegation that we are biased and have not taken action against people disrupting namaz,” he said. Kuldeep Singh, station house officer of Sector 40 police station, said Dinesh Bharti, a resident of Friends Colony locality in Gurugram alleged that the accused were trying to grab a land used as a graveyard by the locals. The land was acquired by Huda a few years ago. “A few families have already buried bodies of their ancestors there, but the three people named in the FIR are planning to construct a mosque there following which a Hindu activist approached the police and gave a written complaint,” Singh said. Bharti, president of Bharat Mata Vahini, alleged, “On January 2, I read a report in a Hindi daily that these people announced the construction of a mosque in Sector 40. I, along with other members of the Vahini, spoke with a few residents who said that these people wanted to encroach upon the land. Similarly, they want to grab land between village Kanhai and Jharsa which belongs to Huda and was earmarked for a market.” Bharti has been arrested thrice in the past for disrupting namaz at several sites. He was last arrested from Sector 37 on December 16, and was released on December 23 from Bhondsi jail. “We have not targeted any religion, but we will not let anyone grab and misuse public land. They (accused) are misleading people and trying to disrupt communal harmony,” he alleged. Adeeb said they have complained to police five times in the last three months, including against Bharti, over disruption of namaz every Friday, but no action has been taken. Adeeb approached the Supreme Court in December with a petition to initiate contempt proceedings against the Haryana chief secretary and the state’s director general of police over the Friday namaz row. 
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi issues first caste certificate to son based on mother’s credentials||Changing an age-old system, the Delhi government has started issuing caste certificates and other related documents to single mothers. On Tuesday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia handed over the first caste certificate issued on a mother’s credentials. This was the first time that the son of a single mother belonging to the Scheduled Caste received a caste certificate based on his mother’s caste certificate in Delhi after an eight year struggle, Sisodia said. The deputy CM said the change was made possible due to the intervention of Karol Bagh MLA Vishesh Ravi who followed up the matter with the district administration for over a year, and even raised the matter in the Delhi assembly. “Due to his persistent intervention Geeta Devi’s child received an SC caste certificate based on her caste certificate. Not only Devi, but thousands of single SC/ST mothers like her will benefit from this,” Sisodia said. Previously, SC/ST caste certificates were issued based only on the father’s caste certificate or paternal side documents. Due to this, several single mothers couldn’t get SC/ST caste certificates for their children. “Many times they had to face harassment from the ex-husband/ in-laws to get a caste certificate for their children. Many children of single SC/ST mothers couldn’t get their caste certificate despite growing up in a deprived and vulnerable environment. They couldn’t receive even their basic rights such as reservation and scholarships due to lack of caste certificates,” Ravi said. Devi is one such single mother who had been struggling to get a SC caste certificate for her child for the past eight years. She said her application was rejected multiple times due to lack of her child’s father’s caste certificate. She said she approached Ravi about a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-issues-first-caste-certificate-to-son-based-on-mother-s-credentials-101641413124011.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gym owners unhappy over shutdown order||The fitness industry, which has been ravaged by multiple Covid-induced lockdowns over the last two years, has suffered yet another blow after the state ordered the closure of gyms in the wake of the spike in virus cases.Gym owners say business had just started picking up again when the gyms were closed down again – a decision which has brought several establishments to brink of closure. As per the latest orders, gyms in the state (except those being used by sports persons participating in international, and national-level contests) will remain closed till January 15. There are around 1,000 gyms in Punjab, of which 100 are in Ludhiana. Fitness sector unfairly targeted: Gym owners Asserting that the fitness industry was being unfairly targeted, Punjab Gym Welfare Society general secretary Pardeep Appu said, “How will we pay the rent, power bill and salary for the staff if we remain closed? No restrictions have been imposed on political rallies where thousands of people converge, nor has any other sector been closed down. Only the fitness sector has been unfairly targeted. Last year, Varinder Kohli, a city-based gym owner had died by suicide due to financial constraints. Now, the government is pushing gym owners and their staff towards starvation and debt.” Another gym-owner, Jagdish Sra of Model Town Extension, said, “Most gyms are run in rented accommodations. We have to pay a hefty rent and bear fixed charges such power bills. With the gyms closed, there were a lot of disputes between landlords and tenants. The closure of gyms will lead to unemployment and will push the youth towards drugs or other antisocial activities.” The proprietors say they are taking all precautions to prevent the spread of the virus, and are happy to stagger customers’ arrival, if need be. Agitation on the cardsSaying that fitness sector will not take the orders laying down, Gym Ekta Welfare Association director Ramesh Bangar said, “The ruling Congress will have to face the consequences of this lockdown imposed on the fitness industry in the upcoming assembly elections. The sector will be forced to raise an agitation, if gyms are not opened soon. If not at full capacity, the government should allow us to operate at 50% capacity.” Meanwhile, experts said that it was important to close gyms to stop the spread of the virus. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said that the restrictions had been imposed in the wake of the spike in cases. “Gyms had to be closed down as people work out in closed environment and use the same machines, which can cause the infection to spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gym-owners-unhappy-over-shutdown-order-101641413004093.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt says omicron patients can isolate at home according to revised rules||Delhi government from Wednesday will allow Covid-19 patients infected with the Omicron variant to also isolate at home, following the union health ministry’s new guidelines. Senior Delhi government officials said following the centre’s home isolation guidelines, the home care for Omicron patients will be handled by the same private firm that was roped in by the government during the second wave. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said according to the health ministry’s new guidelines the number of isolation days has been reduced from 14 to 7 for all newly detected patients that are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. “According to the union health ministry’s guidelines, Covid patients now have to isolate themselves for seven days instead of 14 days. In these seven days, if the patient shows no symptoms for three straight days, then they can be discharged from the home isolation without getting a Covid test done,” Jain said. The new set of guidelines released by the centre said that for a patient to be eligible for home isolation, they should be clinically assigned as a mild or asymptomatic case by the treating medical officer. The caregiver of the patient should ideally be fully vaccinated and be available to provide care on 24x7 basis. A regular communication link between the caregiver and the medical officer is required for the entire duration of the home isolation. Elderly patients (those aged above 60 years) and those patients with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes , heart disease and chronic lung, liver or kidney disease will only be allowed to isolate at home after proper evaluation from the treating medical officer. A senior Delhi government official said on Wednesday that while the Capital will largely follow the Centre’s guidelines, all district magistrates have been asked to handle the existing home isolation cases. All the new isolation cases will be handled by a private healthcare service provider, which was managing the care of home isolation patients in Delhi on behalf of the government in the second wave. “The DMs will handle the existing home isolation cases and the private agency, which was handling the home isolation care for us in the second wave as well, will handle the new isolation cases. They will essentially call the patients every day and take stock of their health, if they need a consultation with a doctor that will be arranged etc,” the official said. On Wednesday, after the centre’s guidelines were issued, all district magistrates were directed to allow home isolation for Omicron cases. Till now, for Omicron cases—the latest Covid-19 variant of concern, which is known to be 5.4 times more infectious than the Delta variant—only institutional isolation was being allowed even for asymptomatic and mild cases. Health experts has underlined the need for revised home isolation policy for Omicron cases so that as the infections continue to surge, needy patients are not denied admissions. Dr JA Jayalal, former president of the Indian Medical Association, said home isolation should be the focus of the governments for the Omicron wave. “The hospital beds should be reserved for severe cases; for patients that require oxygen and ventilator support. Otherwise the healthcare system will collapse,” Dr Jayalal said. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine department at the Safdarjung Hospital, said that streamlining of hospital beds will be required considering the new Omicron variant is highly infectious. He also said that if a member of your family is tested positive of this new variant, there is no need to panic as the symptoms are usually mild and period for which symptoms are seen among patients is also shorter—around two to three days. “In this variant we are seeing that symptoms are mild and for this we do not need to hospitalise patients. While transmission of this variant is high, there is no need to panic. Even if you happen to contract the infection, this will help your body build better antibodies. Scientists world over are saying that getting a mild infection is a good way to build antibodies,” Dr Kishore said. 
06-01-2022||Other||At 15°C, Gurugram records first ‘cold day’ of this season||With light intermittent rain throughout the day, Gurugram on Wednesday recorded the first cold day of this season, said officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to IMD, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 15 degrees Celsius (°C), which was six degrees below normal. This is the lowest maximum temperature recorded this season. Before this on December 28, Gurugram had recorded a maximum temperature of 16 °C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was recorded at 11°C, which was five degrees above normal.According to IMD, when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16°C in plains, it is considered a cold day.Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, said, “Wednesday was the first cold day of this year for Gurugram, as maximum temperature dropped due to light rain throughout the day. Gurugram is likely to witness more rain on January 8 as an impact of another intense western disturbance.”The official said that the December 28 was not declared as a cold day, even though maximum temperature was 16°C, because of the difference between actual temperature recorded and departure from normal.On Wednesday, Gurugram recorded 4.6mm of rainfall from 8.30am to 5.30pm, according to the weather bulletin issued by MeT Chandigarh.According to the weekly forecast of IMD, over the next four days one or two spells of rain or thundershowers is likely over Punjab and Haryana. The minimum temperature is likely to be around 11 to 12°C over the next four days and maximum temperature is likely to be around 19°C.The IMD has issued a yellow alert for January 8 predicting thunderstorms or lightning in the south Haryana region which includes Gurugram and Faridabad. The IMD also said that there will be no significant change in minimum temperatures over most parts of northwest India during the next four days. Hence, no cold wave conditions are likely over northwest India during the next four days, said IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-15-c-gurugram-records-first-cold-day-of-this-season-101641412884115.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||As strike continues, SDMC asks new contractors to register themselves||Facing a prolonged strike from contractors’ unions over non-payment of pending dues, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Wednesday decided to allow the registration OF more new contractors in its tendering process.The SDMC contractors’ union has been on strike since November 2021 over the non-payment of dues for the past three years. With municipal elections approaching, the pressure from municipal councillors to showcase development works is growing in the executive wing.On Wednesday, the SDMC spokesperson said that the corporation has allowed the registration of new contractors registered with the central public works department (CPWD), the state public works department and other urban local bodies (ULBs) in the tendering process. “With the decision, contractors registered with CPWD, state PWDs and ULBs are eligible to participate in the e-tendering process of the SDMC. As part of the current system, the SDMC allows only registered and enlisted contractors under various categories in South, North and East Delhi Municipal Corporation to participate in the tendering process,” a senior engineering department official explained.“The step has been taken for better competition and higher quality standards in the tendering process and completion of work. The enlistment rules laid down by SDMC will be applicable to newly registered contractors. The parties will have to be registered on e-tendering website www.etendersgov.in,” the spokesperson said.Leader of the House Inderjeet Sehrawat said that enlisting more contractors will improve the quality of work as more parties will be able to participate in the process. “We have held a meeting with the striking contractors’ unions on Tuesday. Payments worth ₹160 crore have been made this year, and while we are facing an acute financial crunch, we are able to release ₹20-25 crore every month. A solution to the strike will also be found soon,” he added.Netra Kumar Sharma, the head of All SDMC Contractors’ Association said that the expansion of the list is being undertaken to create pressure on the protesting contractors. “We are also being threatened and notices of blacklisting and debarment are being sent to contractors. The corporation has pending dues worth ₹450 crore for the works which have been completed in the last three years. The association has submitted a memorandum to the corporation regarding the threats of debarment being issued by the executive engineers. This is a violation of our basic right to protest. If this does not stop, we will have to move court,” he added.Earlier, HT had reported that municipal councillors have been raising the issues of pending development works over the last two months due to the strikes during the committee and House meetings even as the municipal elections are due in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-strike-continues-sdmc-asks-new-contractors-to-register-themselves-101641412763959.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Group of men assaults labourers, vandalises machine in Panchkula||Panchkula The public health mechanical department, Ambala (sub division Panchkula) contractor Sandeep Singh lodged a complaint against unidentified persons for allegedly vandalising machines and assaulting labourers at the Nichli Chowki village.Sandeep Singh of Badola village alleged that he, his brother and five labourers had on Monday been assaulted by a group of 20-25 men, who according to him were under the influence of drugs.“We had gone to the village to start work on a government tubewell. We parked our machine near a temple. As we were searching the right place for the tubewell, a group of men arrived on the spot and attacked us. One of them stole my wallet,” he said.He said the victims had sustained serious injuries during the attack, adding “The attackers vandalised our machine. We all ran and hid in bushes and called our SDO Mechanical Vikas Seth. The goons fled from the spot when the police came.”A case was registered under sections 148 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 379B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/group-of-men-assaults-labourers-vandalises-machine-in-panchkula-101641412657997.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid spike: Schools shut in Punjab, Haryana; no word from Chandigarh yet||Even as neighbouring Punjab and Haryana have decided to close schools due to the spike in Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh has yet to take a call on the matter.Government schools are currently closed for winter vacations till January 8. “We are keeping a watch on the situation and higher officials will take a decision before the schools reopen,” a senior official of the UT education department said.Meanwhile, though the department had advised private schools to follow the same winter vacations’ schedule, most have different holiday spans. St John’s High School, Sector 26, had declared its winter vacations from December 27 to January 6. However, principal Kavita Das confirmed that the school will be opting for online classes till further directions from the administration. At St Kabir Public School, Sector 26, administrator Gurpreet Bakshi said the school plans to reopen in hybrid mode from January 11.President of the Independent Schools’ Association, HS Mamik said they had reached out to the UT administration and the UT education department, but were told that a decision on this was likely by Thursday after which the schools will decide the next course of action.Meanwhile, parents are demanding clarity soon. “Parents are worried about the situation and have been left hanging in balance by the authorities. We also need to plan in advance based on what the administration has to say,” said Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents’ Association.After staying closed during the second wave, city schools had started reopening in a phased manner from July 2021 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-spike-schools-shut-in-punjab-haryana-no-word-from-chandigarh-yet-101641412656698.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panel approves compassionate appointments, PU’s non-teaching staff suspend protest||Protesting since December 27, the non-teaching staff of Panjab University (PU) suspended their stir on Wednesday after a newly constituted varsity panel accepted their demands and cleared the cases of compassionate appointments.In December, a varsity panel, headed by dean university instruction (DUI) VR Sinha, had cleared only a few cases of compassionate appointments and deferred nine. However, on the demand of the non-teaching staff, the new panel, headed by dean research SK Tomar, cleared seven of these cases on Wednesday.The development was confirmed by president of the Panjab University Staff (Non-Teaching) Association (PUSA), Honey Thakur, who attended the meeting. A member of the panel, on condition of anonymity, said, “Seven cases were cleared by the panel during the meeting, while there was some issue with the documentation of two other cases and they will be asked to provide the requisite documents.”After the panel headed by the DUI had deferred the appointments, non-teaching employees had started a protest on December 27 and also held a protest march on Monday.According to sources, even the minutes of the meeting, which was held in December, were not documented, following which a new panel was constituted to take up the matter. The DUI was not part of the new committee.Appreciating varsity’s latest decision, Thakur said, “We have postponed the protest for now and will await the written approval for the next three days.”Teachers to hold protest in Morinda todayUniversity and college teachers will hold a protest rally in Morinda on Thursday to press for their demand for higher pay scales. Teachers from Chandigarh and Punjab had started the indefinite strike on December 1 over Punjab government’s delay in implementing the revised UGC pay scales as per the Seventh Pay Commission. The protest will be organised under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO).Meanwhile, members of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) continued their protest on the varsity campus on Wednesday, over their pending demands. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar, who appealed to teachers to take part in the protest rally in Morinda, said, “It is difficult to understand the resistance shown by the Punjab government in meeting the teachers’ demands.”
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cyclists’ fatalities last year were highest since 2016||While the total road accident fatalities in Chandigarh in 2021 were lower compared to the pre-Covid years, the number of cyclists dying was the highest since 2016, according to the data compiled by the traffic police.As many as 16 cyclists were killed on city roads last year, the highest since 2016 when there were 28 such deaths, even as the city is working on a Public Bike Sharing (PBS) project to encourage cycling among residents.In 2017, the number of cyclist deaths had lowered to 13, further to 11 in 2018, while 10 cyclists each were killed in the subsequent two years.Talking about the reason behind the spike last year, Kamaljeet Singh Soi, member of National Road Safety Council, said, “Cycling picked up amid the pandemic, especially during the lockdown, which may be behind the increase in fatalities.” Soi added that before encouraging cycling, the administration should ensure the right infrastructure for cyclists, as the average main roads were not safe for them. “Further, cyclists should also adhere to traffic rules and wear helmets to protect themselves from head injury,” he said.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Road Safety) Jaswinder Singh said just ensuring the right road infrastructure wasn’t enough, as traffic awareness was also crucial. “Last year, a pedestrian was killed on a Zebra crossing. This reflects the need for increased awareness among commuters regarding the right of way, adhering to lanes, and various road signs and markings,” he added. On traffic police’s initiatives, senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic) Manisha Choudhary said, “We have recommended cycle tracks wherever they are missing and are conducting drives for cyclists to encourage the use of dedicated tracks. We have also advised improved visibility of these tracks for all road users. Further, the administration is considering penalising cyclists who don’t use the tracks.”In 2021, the traffic police had also issued over 2,500 challans to commuters for driving on footpaths and cycle tracks.Meanwhile , NP Sharma, chief general manager of Chandigarh Smart City Limited, that launched the PBS project in the city, said, “An awareness campaign for cyclists, to encourage safe riding, is in the works. The administration is also working on a draft cycling policy to further improve safety of cyclists.”As part of the four-phase project, the city will get 5,000 cycles and 617 docking stations, making it the densest cycle-sharing project of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhcyclists-fatalities-last-year-were-highest-since-2016-101641412653917.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Rounak, Darpan log easy wins in sub-junior badminton tourney||Rounak Chouhan of Chhattisgarh and Darpan Sane of Gujarat won their respective boys’ U-17 qualifying round-4 matches during the Yonex Sunrise 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex, Sector 3, Panchkula, on Wednesday. The tournament is being organised by the Sports Promotion Society, Panchkula, under the aegis of the Haryana Badminton Association.Chouhan outplayed Tamil Nadu’s Sugi Sai Bala Singha G 15-5 15-9, while Darpan Sane defeated Sushanth Reddy Molugu 15-12 15-12 to surge ahead. In other boys’ U-17 qualifying round-4 matches, Uttar Pradesh’s Ryan Ranjan beat Punjab’s Mridul Jha 15-10 15-13, Andhra Pradesh’s Viswa Tej Gobburu got the better of Assam’s Yohenba Singh N 15-8 13-15 15-11, Tushar Suveer of Karnataka pipped Maharashtra’s Soham Phatak 15-9 14-16 15-11 and Rohan Kumar Anandas Raj Kumar ousted Sushanta Moirangthem 15-5 16-14.Results: Boys’ U-17 qualifying round 4Rounak Chouhan (CG) bt (TN) Sugi Sai Bala Singha G. 15-5 15-9, Darpan Sane (GUJ) bt (TG) Sushanth Reddy Molugu 15-12 15-12, Ryan Ranjan (UP) bt (PNB) Mridul Jha 15-10 15-13, Viswa Tej Gobburu (AP) bt (ASM) Yohenba Singh N 15-8 13-15 15-11, Adityom Joshi (MP) bt (TG) Venkata Mounish Davu Siva Naga 15-9 15-11, Tushar Suveer (KTK) bt (MAH) Soham Phatak 15-9 14-16 15-11, Rohan Kumar Anandas Raj Kumar (TG) bt (MNP) Sushanta Moirangthem 15-5 16-14, Abhishek KK (KTK) bt (DLI) Manthan Bobal 15-8 15-9, Bharadwaj Balasubramanian (TN) bt (MP) Ujjawal Goyal 16-14 13-15 15-10, Pranauv Ram N (TG) bt (MAH) Shreyas Sane 15-8 15-12,Malemnganba Singh Hemam (MNP) bt (RAJ) Kunal Choudhary 15-10 15-6, Vishwajeet Chaudhary (DLI) bt (DLI) Mayank 15-13 15-13, Vinayak Parihar (UTR) bt (CHG) Aabhav Goyal 15-9 16-14, Ajay Karthik Manchala (TG) bt (HAR) Harshit Nain 15-2 15-10,Venkata Sai Harshit Tummala (TG) bt (AP) Mehad Shah Shaikh 15-11 15-6, Swastik Matharasan (TN) bt (ASM) Anirban Gogoi 15-7 15-8, Devang Tomar (DLI) bt (TN) Poopesh G. 15-7 15-7, Aaraadhya Sharma (UP) bt (KER) Pranav Vallathoor 12-15 15-11 15- 3, Mohith Kumar (TG) bt (DLI) Yogansh Singh 15-10 15-13, Adith KP (TN) bt (DLI) Aayush Kapoor 13-15 15-8 15-13, Tanishq Parashar (DLI) bt (TN) Sathvik Gururaghavendran 15-5 15-11.Abhishek Kanapala (TG) bt (KTK) Pravararchith R.M 7-15 15-9 15-7Ajithesh Kishan Komal Noonela (AP) bt (UP) Farhan Khan 15-10 15-2, Uma Maheswar Reddy Gopireddy (AP) bt (TN) Srikanth Sundara Srinivasan 15-9 15-10, Nicholas Nathan Raj (KTK) bt (HAR) Royal Tongar 13-15 15-12 15-7, Prabhas Kumar Kushwaha (UP) (RAJ) Jangjeet Singh Kajla 15-9 15-5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkularounak-darpan-log-easy-wins-in-sub-junior-badminton-tourney-101641412651685.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||30-year-old pedestrian killed in hit-and-run mishap in Mohali||A 30-year-old man was killed in a hit-and-run accident while crossing the road in Sector 82 on Tuesday night.Police said the victim, Amrish Saini, was left bleeding on the road after a speeding Toyota Etios hit him and sped away.A native of Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, Saini lived in Chajumajra, Mohali.Investigating officer Sahib Singh said the victim was rushed to a private hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.The car driver has been identified as Yogesh Sharma, a resident of Maya Garden Society, Zirakpur. “He has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the victim’s brother Neeraj Saini and will be arrested soon,” he added. The victim worked for a private company in Sector 82 and was living in Mohali for the past one year. After autopsy, the body was handed over to the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30yearold-pedestrian-killed-in-hit-and-run-mishap-in-mohali-101641412650330.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khanna man, three aides held for kidnapping friend, extorting cash, gold||A man and his three accomplices have been arrested for kidnapping his friend, and extorting ₹1.5 lakh and gold jewellery from his family by threatening to implicate them in a false drug case.The accused, Amrik Singh from Khanna, Ludhiana, and his accomplices, Vishal Kumar and Sandeep from Nayagaon, Mohali, and Mukesh Kumar from Gobind Nagar, Mohali, were nabbed by the detective staff, led by in-charge Mohinder Singh, on Tuesday.The arrests came following a complaint by Anju, sister of the victim, Dilawar Singh, a resident of Delhi.In her December 31 complaint, Anju, who lives in Mauli Complex, Chandigarh, stated that her brother was visiting her from Delhi. As his friend Amrik was coming to Pinjore from Khanna, Dilawar booked a hotel room for him. Around 4am on December 30, Amrik called him over to the hotel and later, she received a call from him that he had kidnapped her brother. “Amrik called me to Bangla Basti on Nalagarh Road, where four men arrived in a car. One of them was wearing a police uniform and claimed that he was from the narcotics department and had recovered an illegal substance from Dilawar. They threatened to arrest me as well if I didn’t pay them. They snatched ₹1.5 lakh and gold ornaments from me, and left after releasing my brother,” Anju alleged.Acting on her complaint, police nabbed the accused on Tuesday.They were produced before a court and sent to three-day police remand.The accused are facing a case under Sections 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 379-A (snatching), 364-A (kidnapping or abduction for ransom), 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence in order to commit extortion), 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khanna-man-three-aides-held-for-kidnapping-friend-extorting-cash-gold-101641412648897.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: Drug peddler nabbed with 25kg opium awarded 10-year RI||A drug peddler caught with 25kg opium in July 2018 has been sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment by a local court.The court of additional district and sessions judge Devinder Kumar Gupta also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on the convict, Raj Dev Giri, who will undergo another one-year RI if the fine is not paid. According to the case files, Gupta was arrested on July 13, 2018, following secret information. Mohali police had laid a trap opposite a mall in Balongi and nabbed the accused while he was in possession of 25kg opium.In the charge sheet, the police stated that Gupta used to source opium from Bihar and sold it to migrant labours in Balongi, Barmajra, Jujhar Nagar and Kurali for ₹75 to ₹100 per pouch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalidrug-peddler-nabbed-with-25kg-opium-awarded-10-year-ri-101641412647447.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Third Covid wave to reach peak by January-end: Report||With Covid again emerging as a threat, a report that the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), had submitted to the Punjab health department over a week ago suggests that by Wednesday (January 6), the state will see around 1,000 cases a day. According to the premier health institute’s report, the third wave will reach its peak by January-end and cases will witness a down-trend by the second week of February.CMCH principal Dr Jeyaraj Durai Pandian said the community medicine department had compiled the report. Dr Clarence J Samuel, community medicine department head, at the CMCM said, “Each day, we are now seeing 40% increase in cases. To date, we do not have the genome sequencing report to establish that the current spread is due to the Omicron variant of the virus. However, the speed at which the virus is spreading is enough to suggest that it is Omicron.”Epidemiologist and Punjab’s nodal officer for covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “Pathankot and Patiala are the worst-hit districts in terms of Covid cases, Ludhiana is also seeing a surge of patients.”Dr Bishav Mohan, a member of the Covid task force, who is with the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), said, “In certain cases, patients reach us when the virus has already infected the lungs. As this time, the virus spreads faster, so the danger of organ damage is higher. Technically, this is called cytokine storm.”Dr Samuel also attributes the gap in the period of vaccination to be one of the causes behind the sudden spike in cases. “There are a significant number of people who did not get the second dose of vaccine, expecting that the virus will never return. It is important to get vaccinated as it will mitigate the risk of serious illness. The government is also launching booster doses,” said Dr Samuel.“The opening of schools and colleges had proved to be the driver during the second wave. This time, the prevalence of infection will be more while the percentage of hospitalisation over the previous wave will be low. There will, however, be considerable stress on hospitals. Health authorities must remain alert,” said Dr Pandian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/third-covid-wave-to-reach-peak-by-january-end-report-101641412645737.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||10-month-old girl among three found Omicron positive in Ambala||Ambala has confirmed its first cases of Omicron after three members of a family, including a 10-month-old girl, tested positive for the variant.According to the civil surgeon office, apart from the infant, the patients included a 70-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman, who were all stable. District epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari said the child’s father had returned from Dublin, Ireland, on December 21 and on December 29, three of his family members tested positive for the virus, while he was found negative.“Their samples were sent to Delhi the next day for genome sequencing and the reports arriving on Wednesday confirmed they are all infected with Omicron,” he added. The district also confirmed 124 new Covid cases on Wednesday, taking the active case tally to 350. Among the fresh cases, 51 were from Ambala City, 41 from Ambala Cantt and rest from other parts of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10monthold-girl-among-three-found-omicron-positive-in-ambala-101641412644024.html
06-01-2022||Other||Markets in Gurugram finding it tough to implement vax mandate||While the vaccination mandate announced by the government is being implemented in shopping malls and offices, traditional markets like Sadar Bazar and sector markets are finding it difficult to implement the rule.The Haryana government had announced last month that only fully vaccinated persons will be allowed to enter public places such as malls, markets, and government offices from January 1.Market associations said that they have asked individual shopkeepers to check shoppers’ vaccination certificates and also ensure strict masking, their open design and lack of security guards make it difficult for them to enforce discipline. Shopkeepers and market associations want the government to intervene and send teams to take action against violators.Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar Market Association said that the area was accessible from multiple roads and it was not possible for traders alone to enforce the vaccination rule. “A trader can’t ask for certificates but only request people to follow rules. Our members are asking people to mask up and follow norms, he said, while criticising the government for not consulting the business community while taking such decisions.Traders said that authorities must understand that limiting business hours would hit their bottomlines and many of them were already facing losses due to two years of the pandemic. “We are with authorities in this drive but our viewpoint should also be heard,” said Gupta.In Sector 23, representatives of the market association said that they are depending upon the wisdom of the shop owners and visitors to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “A major eatery in our market has set up a sound system outside the shop and is warning people constantly,” said Gunjan Sharma, general secretary of the Sector 23 market association.Sharma said that there was a need for more enforcement by government authorities as many people were violating the shop closure timings. “We can’t perform the role of police, neither do we have the ability to deploy security guards on our own in the entire market,” he said.Trader bodies also said that the closed design of malls was helpful in securing those areas, but markets spread over acres or along roads needed a different strategy.Rakesh Malik, president, Sector 22 market association, said that their team visited major shops in the market and asked everyone to follow the vaccine mandate and other Covid norms. “We will be keeping a regular watch on our members as Covid-19 is spreading like wildfire in Delhi-NCR,” he said.On Wednesday, Gurugram recorded 1,166 fresh Covid-19 cases, of which 12 were of the Omicron variant.When asked about the enforcement of the vaccine mandate and other Covid-19 norms, the health department on Wednesday said that teams will be delayed in all public places to ensure people don’t violate rules.“Strict action will be taken against individuals and institutions who violate norms. Thursday onwards, incident commanders appointed by the district administration will visit markets, public and private places and ensure strict adherence to norms. All visitors and those employed in an establishment must be vaccinated,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees another big Covid spike, three test +ve for Omicron||The district witnessed a 100% increase in coronavirus cases on Wednesday, even as three foreign returnees tested positive for the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the virus. Those who tested positive for the ‘variant of concern’ include a 17-year-old Aggar Nagar resident, who had returned from France on December 27, and two Raikot residents, aged 35 and 38, who had returned from the United Kingdom on December 28. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said the foreign returnees had landed at Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, where they were tested for Covid. The three patients were asked to isolate themselves after they tested positive, and their reports were sent for genome sequencing. “The patients’ condition is stable and they are exhibiting mild symptoms,” he said, adding that the contact tracing procedure had been initiated. 203 new infections, 8 micro-containment zones formed As many as 203 people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Incidentally, the last time the district had logged as many cases was June 6 during the devastating second wave of the pandemic. Among those tested positive were 32 contacts of patients, 87 flu-corner patients, 11 health workers, a police officer and three foreign travellers – two from the UK and one from Canada. The new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 88,247, of which 85,638 people have recovered so far. Now, the number of active cases in the district stands at 490, of which 468 people are under home isolation. Twenty patients are undergoing treatment at private hospitals, two have been admitted to government health facilities, while one patient is also on the ventilator.To grapple with the sudden spurt in cases, the health department has established eight micro containment zones – Baba Than Singh Chowk, Basant Vihar, Maya Nagar, Pakhowal Road, Madhopur, Shdhwan Bet and Aggar Nagar.Salaries of NHM employee withheldThe salaries of 400 health workers, including National Health Mission (NHM) doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff, who have been protesting for over a month have been withheld. The NHM employees have been demanding regularisation of services. The civil sugeon said the salaries were withheld on the orders of the authorities. The NHM employees’ protest had had crippled the health infrastructure of the district, particularly sampling and vaccination. Earlier, vaccination was carried out at around 50 to 80 centres’, but since the NHM employees went on strike, the number of centres have been reduced to 10 -15 which has caused winding queues at vaccination centres. Similarly, against the 7,000 to 10,000 samples being collected each day earlier, only 2,000 to 2,500 samples are collected in a day now.Clash at vaccination counter, cops deployedWith people thronging vaccination counters, a scuffle took place at the civil surgeon office where people were seen jostling and hackling each other. After the scuffle broke out, vaccination was stopped, and the cops were called. Inoculation, then proceeded under the watchful eyes of the cops. Meanwhile, 538 teenagers were vaccinated in the 15-18 age group at 15 centres in the district on Tuesday. Around, 1,228 minors have been vaccinated over the last three days.Week at a glanceThe new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 88,247, of which 85,638 people have recovered.Date Cases January 4 103January 3 56January 2 40January 1 37December 31 18December 29 11||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-another-big-covid-spike-three-test-ve-for-omicron-101641412343985.html
06-01-2022||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar brings in restrictions as active Covid cases cross 1,000-mark||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration decided to put more restrictions in place from January 6 as the tally of Covid-19 cases in the district crossed 1,000 with the emergence of 510 new cases on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the Uttar Pradesh government had directed that more restrictions must be brought in districts where the active case tally crosses 1,000. According to official figures till Wednesday, the district recorded a total of 1,110 active Covid-19 cases, followed by Ghaziabad which reported an active case count of 815 with 255 fresh cases. The UP government, in its directions on Tuesday, increased the night curfew timings from 11pm-5am to 10pm-6am. The directions also said that districts, where the number of active cases is over 1,000, should operate cinema halls/banquet halls and restaurants with a 50% capacity. “The Gautam Budh Nagar district crossed the figure of 1,000 active cases, and we have decided to put restrictions in place from January 6. In line with government directions, swimming pools, water parks and gyms will be closed in the district till January 14, while restaurants/cinema halls will operate at 50% capacity. We have also advised companies in the IT sector to encourage employees to work from home while different organisations/companies and industrial units have been asked to set up Covid help desks,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. The state government has already directed the closure of schools, up to Class 10, till January 14. “In markets and malls, we will start with a ‘no mask, no sale’ campaign, wherein traders will be encouraged not to sell items to people who come in without masks. Although we are recording a high number of cases, the severity of symptoms is very low or negligible; patients hardly require hospitalisation or oxygen,” Suhas added. As part of the restrictions amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the government has directed that for events such as marriages,a maximum of 100 people will be allowed in enclosed spaces and 50% of the venue capacity will be allowed if events are held in open spaces.In another set of directions under the Graded Response, Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Durga Shankar Mishra issued guidelines, which said that a two-day off will be given to children in the 15-18 age category after they get vaccinated. The vaccination for the children started on January 3 this year, and nearly 76,7321 from across Uttar Pradesh have received the first dose of Covid vaccine ‘Covaxin’ till Wednesday evening.The chief secretary also said that there should be strict enforcement of Covid protocols at weekly or daily markets, and if needed, such markets should be relocated to different areas. Different shops at these markets should be opened at different timings to avoid overcrowding. Traders have been directed to paint circles outside their shops to make customers stand at a distance and maintain social distancingThe two districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad occupy the first two respective positions across UP in terms of the highest number of active Covid-19 cases. According to state control room figures on Tuesday, the Gautam Budh Nagar district stood first with 597 active cases while Ghaziabad stood second with 561 active cases. On Wednesday, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded the highest number of active Covid cases in the state at 1,110, Ghaziabad 806 and Lucknow 757.“We will also bring in more restrictions once our case tally crosses the 1,000-figure mark. It is likely that this will take place in a day or two,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city) of Ghaziabad. With fresh cases coming in, the sample positivity rate in Ghaziabad was recorded at 2.94% in January as against the overall rate of 2.64% recorded since the start of the pandemic. Rates for Covid testsIn another order, the state government fixed the rates of RT-PCR tests carried out by private laboratories. If a private hospital sends RT-PCR samples to a private lab, the rate of test will be ₹700 (including GST) while it will be ₹900 (including GST) if private labs collect samples themselves.In case a designated government officer sends samples to a private lab, the rate would be ₹500 (including GST).The rates for rapid antigen test will be priced at ₹250 while the test through TrueNat will be ₹1,250 with ₹200 extra if a sample is collected from the house of a suspected case.The rates for high-resolution CT scans have also been fixed from ₹2,000 to ₹2,500 for different categories of CT scan tests. The rates are inclusive of the cost of PPE kit/sanitisation and other expenses.The directions were issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).
06-01-2022||Other||Gurugram reports 1,178 Covid cases with positivity rate of 12%||The district on Wednesday reported 1,178 new Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 12%, according to the bulletin from the district health department. With this, Gurugram now has 3,418 active cases. The district also reported 12 new cases of Omicron variant, taking the tally of such cases to 51. “At present, three patients of Omicron variant are active in the district and are undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Six of the 12 patients detected on Wednesday are vaccinated and three are under the age of 18 years. They all have international travel history from countries such as the UK, Maldives, the USA, the UAE, Ireland and Uganda.Our focus is on testing and contact tracing to curb the spread of the infection,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. The last time the district recorded over 1,100 daily cases was on May 19 (1,161 cases). The active case tally was over 3,000 last on May 25 when the district had 3,360 active cases. Of the 3,418 active cases, 19 patients are hospitalised in the district and 3,399 are under home isolation, said the health officials. On Tuesday, 2,299 patients were under home isolation in the district. On Wednesday, the health department collected 9,517 samples for testing, which takes the total testing numbers to 2,333,571, shows the data. The district also reported 71 recoveries on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Anil Vij, state health minister while speaking to the media in Manesar on Wednesday, said that the state government is fully prepared to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, with sufficient number of beds including ICU and ventilator beds. “The problem of oxygen shortage that we faced in the second wave has been solved now, with 84 oxygen plants installed at government hospitals and medical colleges and 54 such plants at private hospitals. We had decided during the second wave itself that all hospitals with over 50 beds will have oxygen plants,” said Vij.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-reports-1-178-covid-cases-with-positivity-rate-of-12-101641412044073.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC setting up temporary night shelters amid rise in mercury||In view of the bone-chilling winter, the municipal corporation (MC) has started setting up temporary shelters for the homeless. One such shelter has already been established at the green belt near Durga Mata Mandir (Jagraon bridge), while talks are underway to set up two more at the railway station and bus stand.The decision has been taken as low footfall is being witnessed at the MC’s four permanent shelters, even though transportation facilities are being provided to ferry the homeless. The temporary shelters are now being set up at places where there is a larger population of homeless people.MC officials stated that the temporary shelter has a capacity of around 30 people and has been made using waterproof material. Mattresses have also been provided. MC staff have been deputed to keep a check on anti-social activities.One of the officials said that there are four permanent night shelters - at Haibowal dairy complex, near Clock tower, Moti Nagar and in Millerganj near Manju cinema, having capacity of over 220 people. However, low footfall is witnessed, as the homeless are reluctant to travel till these locations. Also, they find it convenient to stay at their respective places, as people offer food and blankets to them. Filthy mattresses and unhygienic conditions in and around the shelters are also a reason behind low footfall. MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal, said,”The temporary shelter has been established near Jagraon bridge and we are in talks with the railway and bus stand authorities for setting up shelters in their respective premises. Zonal Commissioners have also been directed to ensure proper arrangements at the permanent night shelters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-setting-up-temporary-night-shelters-amid-rise-in-mercury-101641411864379.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: As online classes resume, students without smartphones in fix||With schools in Punjab closed till January 15 amid the Covid surge, online classes have resumed, leaving students of government schools without smartphones in a fix.A principal of a government school, said, “Smartphones are must for online classes, but there are still many students in government schools whose parents cannot afford to buy them one. Moreover, many of them face connectivity issues, due to which they miss out on important lectures.”Offering a solution, a few schools have asked students to participate in group studies or jointly attend classes with those having necessary resources. “We already have WhatsApp groups of students and their class teachers. Those who don’t have access to smartphones have been suggested to visit the house of those who do and jointly attend classes. Physical classes are thus always a better option, but closing schools was the need of the hour”, stated the principal of another government school.Meanwhile, schools have prepared the latest schedules for online classes. “Since the final exams are nearing, our target is to take classes of at least three subjects in a day. Our online classes amid the second wave were a great success, since all the teachers jointly worked towards keeping the students in touch with academics. Our teachers have made their schedules and online classes have already resumed,” said Taskim Akhtar, principal of government school on Cemetery Road.The schools have also planned special classes pertaining to a 100-day online campaign initiated by the central government. “Along with the schedule of the mainstream syllabus, the time table for classes related to the Centre’s special reading campaign has also been prepared,” said Florence, principal of GSSS Jamalpur.A teacher said, “After the reading campaign kicked off on January 1, students were supposed to have a library period daily. The idea is to inculcate the habit of reading among them. Now, we have requested the parents to get the books issued from the school library and make sure that the children read.”
06-01-2022||Other||Gurugram plans to vaccinate all eligible teens by January 10||The district plans to administer Covid-19 vaccine to all eligible children aged between 15 and 18 years by January 10, said officials on Wednesday. The officials also said that the district administration has identified 40,000 people who are eligible for a booster dose which will start from January 10. The announcements were made during a district task force meeting held on Wednesday which was chaired by Vishram Kumar Meena, additional deputy commissioner, Gurugram. Of 151,000 children in the 15-18 age bracket in Gurugram, over 25,500 have been vaccinated, the officials said.“Medical officers of different health centres, in coordination with schools, should ensure that vaccination camps are organised across the district. We are aiming to complete 100% immunisation of all adolescents in the age group of 15 to 18 years by January 10,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, who attended the meeting. On Wednesday, 10,527 children were vaccinated in the district, of which 10,006 received their first dose at government sites and 521 at private vaccination sites. A total of 31,326 doses were administered on Wednesday, including 21,064 first doses and 10,262 second doses, according to data from the district health department. With this, over 4.37 million doses have been administered in Gurugram till now. The CMO also said that from January 10, booster doses will be administered to senior citizens, health care workers and front line workers. The health department has identified 40,000 people who are eligible for the booster dose in the district, as they have completed nine months or 39 weeks since their second dose of Covid vaccine. The CMO appealed to the senior citizens falling in this category to register themselves on the CoWIN portal at the earliest for getting the booster dose so that they do not have to wait unnecessarily. ‘Private hospitals must not admit patients with mild symptoms’Meanwhile, Yadav asked private hospitals in Gurugram to avoid admitting Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms and warned that action will be taken against those who do so. In the meeting, he asked the representatives from private hospitals to treat the patients as per the guidelines set by the government. He said that teams from the district administration would visit private hospitals for inspection and if irregularities are found, then strict action would be taken against the hospital concerned as per rules. All hospitals have also been asked to paste citizen charters on their hospital premises giving all information related to Covid-19. The district task force also said that action will be taken against those who violate Covid-19 norms. From Thursday, teams deployed by the district administration will conduct inspections at government and private institutions to check if guidelines issued by the government regarding the prevention of Covid-19 infection are being followed properly or not. Fines will be imposed for violations, it said. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, instructed representatives of the hospitals to upload the details of beds available with them, details of patients and other logistics on the S3 portal (government portal for tracking Covid-19 facilities in hospitals) every day. “All hospitals, in which the number of beds is more than 50, will have to update this information on the portal daily, otherwise their names will be removed from the list of Covid hospitals and action will also be taken,” he said. The additional deputy commissioner said that all stakeholders have to work together to provide better facilities to the residents. “There is no doubt that Omicron, the new variant of coronavirus, is spreading rapidly but we all have to work together. All the hospitals will be sent a Google form where they must update regarding the availability of oxygen and other health facilities. The form must be sent to the health department by filling the correct information so that the current status of oxygen in the district can be ascertained and an action plan be prepared accordingly,” said Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-plans-to-vaccinate-all-eligible-teens-by-january-10-101641411684056.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||ICICI bank to pay Ludhiana man ₹10k for deficiency in service||For wrongfully not allowing a customer to withdraw ₹1.92 lakh from his account, the district consumer disputes redressal commission has directed ICICI bank to disburse the aforesaid amount to the complainant and pay ₹10,000 compensation.Chander Parkash of Harbanspura, Ludhiana, stated in his complaint that he had taken a personal loan from ICICI Bank through its Feroze Gandhi Market branch, which he repaid on November 29, 2008.He had a joint account with his son at the bank, which had ₹1.92 lakh as of October 3, 2018. However, he couldn’t withdraw cash from it, as the bank falsely alleged that ₹2.42 lakh was outstanding with regard to the loan which he had settled in 2008.Parkash immediately provided a copy of full and settlement to the bank and requested them to square up the loan, but to no avail.The bank stated that the loan account was closed in the records of the bank as settled on November 5, 2008 . “In addition to this, the lien was also removed and the complainant was informed. However, the complainant has still not withdrawn the complaint with malafide intentions,” stated the bank counsel.The commission in its order observed that the action of the bank to not allow withdrawal from the joint account cannot be justified and amounts to deficiency in service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/icici-bank-to-pay-ludhiana-man-10k-for-deficiency-in-service-101641411444137.html
06-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Worker dies as heap of metal scrap falls on him, employer booked||A daily wage worker was allegedly killed when a heap of metal scrap fell on him at a yard in Bajghera village on Sunday. The owner of the scrapyard and its manager have been booked for negligence, police said on Wednesday.The deceased was identified as Ramesh Kumar (20), a native of Basti district in Uttar Pradesh. He lived at Bajghera in a rented accommodation and had started working at the metal scrapyard only four days before the incident, police said. Aman Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Bajghera police station, said that Anita Devi, wife of the deceased, lodged a complaint against the yard owner and the manager. “A heap of metal scrap fell on the victim inside the yard. The co-workers rushed him to a hospital where he was declared dead by doctors,” the SHO said, adding that they were investigating the matter. According to police, they came to know about the incident after the hospital authorities called them up. The body was handed over to the family after an autopsy on Monday, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-worker-dies-as-heap-of-metal-scrap-falls-on-him-employer-booked-101641411385322.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi hospitals hit hard, 400 medics infected with Covid||As Delhi records a rapid surge in Covid-19 infections, at least 400 doctors and healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last week, doctors’ and nurses’ associations from hospitals across the Capital confirmed on Wednesday.Healthcare experts said that with the uptick in cases expected to continue over at least the next two weeks, hospitals will have to take steps to protect their staff and backup teams will have to be readied in Covid hospitals to ensure that the healthcare system does not collapse when the surge is at its peak.Data collated from Covid hospitals across the Capital showed that over the last week, at least 50 doctors and 53 other healthcare workers tested positive for the virus, while 49 doctors and six nurses were infected at the Safdarjung Hospital. A similar spike in infections among healthcare professionals is being observed in many other hospitals in the Capital, healthcare experts said.At the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Covid-19 hospital in the city, 10 doctors and three nurses tested positive for Covid over the last week.At the Central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, 30 doctors and 65 healthcare workers tested positive, at Lady Hardinge Medical College, 30 doctors tested positive, at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, 25 healthcare workers were infected and at Hindu Rao Hospital, 12 doctors and three nurses tested positive for the virus. At Ambedkar Hospital, eight doctors and two nurses tested positive over the last week.“The situation is very grim and is only expected to get worse from here. A large number of the medics who are getting infected are junior doctors because they are the ones who interact with patients the most. At this juncture, because we will probably have to live with the virus for a while, the government needs to make arrangements to hire more doctors and ensure that they get ample time to quarantine after their Covid duties. Otherwise, the entire healthcare system will collapse,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital, requesting anonymity.As the number of daily coronavirus infections among doctors continued to rise because of the highly infectious Omicron variant, Lady Hardinge Medical College and its affiliated hospitals issued a circular on Tuesday directing that medics exposed to Covid patients will have to continue to work till they produce a positive RT-PCR report.“Anyone who is exposed to a positive case of Sars-CoV-2 will have to continue work with a tightly fitted mask maximum possible social distancing, preferably more than one metre, irrespective of the degree of exposure,” the circular read.It added, “...They should get tested with RT-PCR as soon as any symptoms develop. Depending on their RT-PCR report they may be advised for home isolation (if positive) or continue to work (if negative).”The circular also said that home isolation for five days will be allowed for asymptomatic and mild cases among healthcare professionals in affiliated hospitals, seven days of isolation after discharge will be allowed for moderate infections and 10 days after discharge for severe cases. Severely infected doctors will not be allowed to stay away for more than 17 days.“They have not conducted NEET-PG counselling and now they do not have doctors. They want the existing doctors to work even after contracting the infection. Is this how we treat our frontline professionals?” said a doctor, who did not want to be identified, from one of the affiliated hospitals of Lady Hardinge Medical College.The NEET-PG (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test -Postgraduate) counselling process, based on which doctors were to be assigned hospitals, was delayed due to several reasons, including cases in the Supreme Court over reservations for economically weaker sections. The Supreme Court will be hearing a plea challenging the OBC and EWS quota introduced for NEET counselling or medical college admissions on Thursday.A nurse from the Hindu Rao Hospital, which is run by the north Delhi municipal corporation, said that the hospital was already short of manpower and the existing staff does not get their salaries regularly.“We are risking our lives every day and not even getting remuneration for the work we do. The nursing staff is overworked and over-exposed. There is no salary, let alone overtime pay. How do you expect healthcare workers to fight this battle against Covid, if you are sending us to the frontline with sticks and stones?” said the nurse, requesting anonymity.Medics at private hospitals are also heavily exposed to the infection.“We have ensured strict compliance to PPE (personal protective equipment) and that reduces the risk significantly. We have also sealed the most common areas where people gather because that can easily become a hotspot. We are also ensuring very tight screening,” said Anil Vinayak, group COO (chief operating officer), Fortis Healthcare.The Indian Medical Association on Wednesday said, “...doctors are expected to have 5-10 times more Covid infections as compared to the general public.”The association released a list of suggestions for government and private hospitals to follow, in order to ensure the safety of doctors. The list included—Covid duty of resident doctors should not exceed eight hours a day and seven days, after which they should be quarantined for 10-14 days in an accommodation prescribed by the hospital, there should be a provision of taking care of their mental health, in the event of a Covid duty doctor falling ill hospitals should immediately admit the doctor to the respective hospital, and in case of untimely death, the status of Covid martyr should be given to the deceased doctor and financial assistance should be provided to the family.“These measures are being suggested so that the safety of doctors can be ensured to a great extent, because doctors are the backbone of Indian health services during the pandemic,” IMA said on Wednesday.Dr KK Talwar, former head of the Medical Council of India, who was also heading the Punjab government’s expert group on Covid during the second wave of the pandemic, said the Delhi government should start identifying intern doctors and nurses who can be roped in when the surge begins and there is a shortage of manpower.“We had tried something similar in Punjab during the second wave. Intern doctors and nurses are trained hands. The government needs to make a plan from now to make teams of such interns who can be roped in when the situation becomes worse. Apart from this, doctors from all departments should also be put on Covid care. For instance, during peak surge, other departments such as community medicine or surgery are fairly free, so they can also be put on Covid duty. But this will have to be planned in advance,” Dr Talwar said.
06-01-2022||Lucknow||UP schools till Class 10 closed till Jan 16||All Uttar Pradesh schools up to Class 10 shall remain closed from January 6 (Thursday) till January 16 (Sunday) chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed on Wednesday.Students of Class 11 and 12 can only be called for vaccination. Students getting a jab will get two days leave – on vaccination day and the next day – as a precautionary measure, as some children may run a mild fever after getting the shot.Schools, however, are free to run online classes for students of Class 11 and 12, according to ACS, information, Navneet Sehgal.The CM’s directives have put an end to confusion since late Tuesday night when a government spokesperson announced that schools up to Class 10 to remain closed till Makar Sankranti.The detailed order issued by chief secretary dated January 4 had mentioned that districts which have 1,000 active cases to close down schools up to class 10 between January 6 and 14.On Wednesday morning district inspector of schools, Amar Kant, addressed school administrations and press reiterating the CS’s order that said if a district records 1000 active cases only then schools up to Class 10 will remain closed otherwise all schools shall remain open.A district administration official on Wednesday evening in a WhatsApp message said that schools up to Class 10 shall remain closed from January 6 to 14.Soon there came a clarification from ACS, home, Awanish Awasthi, that all schools up to Class 10 will remain closed till January 16. ACS, information, Navneet Sehgal, also issued an order exactly on the same lines to bring an end to an entire day of confusion being fuelled by a section of schools, determined to run on-campus classes from pre-primary section to Class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-schools-till-class-10-closed-till-jan-16-101641411205580.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh’s default bail plea untenable: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday filed an affidavit before the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, opposing the default bail plea of former home minister, Anil Deshmukh.The ED in its affidavit said that Deshmukh’s plea was devoid of merit and liable to be rejected as it was against settled principles of law. The agency maintained that a default bail plea cannot be considered once the charge-sheet and supplementary charge-sheet has been filed within the stipulated period of 60 days from the date of arrest of the concerned accused. Special PMLA judge R N Rokade adjourned the plea to January 11 for hearing both the sides. The ED said that Deshmukh was arrested under section 19 of the PMLA in accordance with the law, under reasonable belief that he was guilty of the offence of money laundering.The ED in its reply said, “It is submitted that the concept of statutory bail/default bail cannot be considered once the charge-sheet and supplementary charge-sheet have been filed. The supplementary prosecution complaint against Deshmukh and 11 others has been filed on December 29, 2021, within a period of 60 days from the date of arrest.”Deshmukh was arrested by the ED in a money laundering case on November 2, 2021 and sought default bail on grounds that the special court did not take cognisance of the ED’s supplementary charge-sheet against him, within a period of 60 days, as stipulated under section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code.The ED reply read, “It is further submitted that the question of cognisance is not relevant for ascertaining the right of default bail of the accused persons under section 167 (2) of the CrPC since the section is only for completing the investigation within the stipulated time period. It is a well settled law that default bail cannot be granted merely on grounds that cognisance had not yet been taken within the statutory prescribed time period even though the report and the complaint have been filed as per the provisions of the act.”“It is submitted that the stage of cognisance is a stage that occurs after filing of the criminal complaint (charge-sheet). It is submitted that the right to default bail is dependent upon completion of investigation which is a stage that comes before the taking of cognisance,” the ED reply stated.The former Maharashtra home minister on Tuesday moved for default bail through his counsel, advocate Aniket Nikam. He said that he was arrested on November 2 and excluding the date of his first remand, the period of 60 days had since elapsed. He was ready to accept bail bonds and that there was an embargo in continuing his further remand under section 167 of the CrPC. He said that though the ED had filed a charge-sheet against him, the court had not taken cognisance of it, so he should be granted default bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-s-default-bail-plea-untenable-ed-101641411204075.html
06-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: DTCP demolishes illegal colony in IMT Manesar||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Wednesday demolished an illegal colony in the heart of IMT Manesar which was being developed for setting up small industrial units, officials said. An enforcement team, assisted by police, demolished 20 shops and 50 plinths at Baskusla village, they said. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said that an illegal colony was being developed over 10 acres of land, and the plots were being developed to accommodate primarily industrial units. “Notices were given to the colonisers in the past and an FIR was also registered in the matter, but the construction was not stopped. The enforcement team demolished 20 shops that were constructed illegally,” he said. The DTCP officials said that around 50 plinths constructed on the land, boundary walls and a road network were demolished with the support of around 100 personnel from the Gurugram police. “It has been made clear to the violators that if construction is carried out again, then separate FIRs would be registered against each of them,” said Bhath. In a separate development, an enforcement team of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Wednesday carried out a demolition drive in Sector 23 where 30 shops constructed illegally over the authority’s land were demolished. The HSVP officials said that a demolition drive was carried out on the directions of estate officer - 1. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said that an enforcement team started the demolition drive in the morning and cleared the area of encroachments in about four hours. The officials said that land owned by the authority which has been encroached illegally is being cleared so that it can be sold through auctions. “We have around 200 acres of land under illegal occupation in the city, and steps are being taken to get it cleared,” said an HSVP official, who wished anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-dtcp-demolishes-illegal-colony-in-imt-manesar-101641411086037.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||IIT-Kanpur launches project to develop advanced artificial heart||The School of Medical Research and Technology (SMRT) of IIT Kanpur has announced the launch of Hridyantra, a challenge-based programme to develop advanced artificial heart also called Left Ventricular Assist device (LVAD) for patients with end-stage heart failure. A left ventricular assist device (LVAD) or artificial heart is a pump used in patients with end-stage heart failure as a bridge while awaiting a heart transplant or as a destination therapy for those unable to go in for a transplant. It is an implantable battery-operated, mechanical pump, which helps the left ventricle (main pumping chamber of the heart) pump blood to the rest of the body. The programme has been launched in collaboration with nation’s leading hospitals and will be steered by a team of innovators with relevant experience selected under the mentorship of a task force comprising industry experts, the institute said in a press release. “The programme that provides an innovative platform for enterprising problem solvers will not only enrich the health ecosystem of the country, but will also lead the way in interdisciplinary biomedical research and innovation. This is also a step towards realizing the vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) by supporting indigenous talent with critical R&D support,” said IIT-K director prof Abhay Karandikar. Prof S Ganesh, deputy director of IIT Kanpur and overall in-charge of SMRT said, “The execution of this unique competition based programme will commence with the deployment of a multi-disciplinary team of fellows who will undergo clinical immersion at Narayana Health Hospitals for understanding the clinical nuances associated with cardiac surgery. Upon its completion, the fellows will move to IIT Kanpur to begin the product development process.” The deputy director furthers said so far LVADs have to be imported and are very expensive. The aim of the initiative is to bring down the cost through indigenous technology at the same time not compromise on the quality. The challenge to develop India’s first LVAD system will be open to basic sciences, medical and engineering graduates or graduates of any stream with relevant experience, according to the press note. Selected candidates will receive a fellowship and a milestone based ownership in the commercial entity once the LVAD is successfully commercialized and launched. The project is seed-funded by Padma awardee Sudha Murthy and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). IIT-Kanpur has created a task force that includes engineering faculty members from IIT Kanpur, industry experts from the USA and clinical experts from Narayana Health, All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Delhi (AIIMS Delhi), Apollo, Fortis Healthcare, Medanta, KIMS and UN Mehta Heart Institute to train the selected fellows on developing the artificial heart.
06-01-2022||Other||BJP, protesters upload videos, claiming major breach in PM Modi’s security||Chandigarh Contrary to Punjab government claims that protesters, who blocked the way of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cavalcade when it was stuck on the flyover, were quite distant from him, videos have emerged on social media, showing a number of persons, in proximity to Modi’s car. These videos, which protesters and the BJP leaders have uploaded, show that a few party workers also managed to sneak into the PM’s cavalcade. In one of the videos, people are seen raising slogans, both for and against Modi. A video that a Chandigarh-based journalist uploaded on twitter, a group of youngsters is seen chasing the PM’s cavalcade, as the cars took a U-turn and to go back on the flyover. Another video captures the U-turn of the cars itself, with the person shooting the video commentating, “Oh Dekho Mod Ditta Modi, (See, we have forced Modi to turn back).” The same video also shows two youngsters moving on the road under the flyover, just beneath the PM’s car. No policemen, however, is seen standing near or under the flyover to check any activity. Jalandhar BJP leader, Amit Taneja, whose car was struck on the same road in which the PM’s cavalcade was coming back, uploaded a video showing how the PM was being ‘ill-treated’. Modi is visible in his car in the video. Spot where PM was stuck had been problematic since morningThe road where the PM was struck, and finally could not cross, had witnessed high drama since morning, sources said. Punjab Police sources said that just half-an-hour before the PM was to cross, the spot had seen a clash between protesters and BJP workers. In a video that National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairman Vijay Sampla uploaded on his Facebook page, a group of protesters are seen attacking the BJP cavalcade on the same spot. “We had, twice, told the Punjab DGP that our buses had been stuck at the same spot for two hours. Still, the PM’s cavalcade was cleared to cross from the same road,” said BJP state general secretary Dr Subhash Sharma. Other BJP leaders present on the spot, where Modi was stuck, claimed that previously the protesters had been sitting at the toll point near the flyover, but they shifted to the flyover, just a few minutes before the PM’s cavalcade reached. 
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DM allows schools to conduct practical exams||The district magistrate on Wednesday allowed schools affiliated to CBSE, ICSE, CISE and PSEB to conduct practical exams while adhering to proper Covid protocols.After schools in the state were directed to remain closed due to the surge in Covid cases, the principal of Sacred Heart Convent Senior Secondary School had submitted before the DM that schools have been directed to conduct examinations as per schedule of the board.As per the DM’s order, the schools must call students for the practical exams in two groups-from 9am to 12pm and 2pm to 5pm. “Each group can have a maximum of 25 students. The school authorities must ensure compliance with all Covid guidelines issued by central and state governments,” the order states.The order added that the school premises must be sanitised twice a day and all activities must be recorded through CCTV cameras or videography.The schools have been warned of legal action in case of any violation of the aforesaid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dm-allows-schools-to-conduct-practical-exams-101641411023859.html
06-01-2022||Other||Covid-19 cases’ spike: HC seeks UP govt reply on PIL on adequate ambulance staff||The Allahabad High Court has directed the state government to apprise it with measures taken to maintain adequate numbers of drivers and staff in ‘108’ and ‘102’ ambulances, on a PIL raising the issue.The bench comprising chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Piyush Agrawal passed the order, on Wednesday, on a public interest litigation filed by Bharatiya Majdur Sangh, Uttar Pradesh, a registered society.According to the petitioner, the state government had purchased around 4,515 Ambulances in order to provide emergency medical transport services in Uttar Pradesh and in order to provide smooth running of these ambulances, an agreement was reached between the state government and the service provider companies. The purpose of these companies was to run the ambulances through a centralised call centre and also provide manpower including drivers and technical staff.In the petition, it was stated that in case of spread of the pandemic, there may be a requirement of ambulance staff 24*7 and in order to maintain shifts of eight hours there is need of around 27,090 drivers and technical staff each for running 102 and 108 ambulances every day. However, only 6,000 drivers and technicians are hired by the company.Senior advocate RK Ojha assisted by advocates Gaurav Bishan and Sandeep argued, “During the second wave many ambulance drivers got infected and were quarantined for 14 days. If such a situation arises again, the state government and service providers must ensure sufficient staff for proper ambulance service in the state.The petitioner had requested that for each ambulance, at least three drivers and three technical staff be appointed for their regular shift of eight hours as any shift of more than eight hours will overburden drivers and technical staff, increasing the risk of accidents and mishaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-cases-spike-hc-seeks-up-govt-reply-on-pil-on-adequate-ambulance-staff-101641410544060.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC to private hospitals: Prepare for maximum capacity of beds to treat Covid patients||Mumbai: Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has directed 142 private hospitals in the city to prepare for the worst-case scenario as Covid-19 cases go up drastically in the city. Chahal has asked all private hospitals to prepare beds anticipating further surge. According to BMC officials, the third wave is expected to last in the city for four to five weeks on the basis of the experience in South Africa, where the Omicron variant was first detected. The civic officials say, as maximum cases are being reported from high-rises, there is a surge in demand for beds at private hospitals. Further, in a circular issued on Wednesday, it was informed that 80% of the total beds and 100% ICU beds shall be kept reserved for COVID-19 patients, as per the rule earlier. The BMC added that no asymptomatic patient without comorbidity be alloted beds in private hospitals, and that discharge period for asymptomatic patients shall be three days, down from the earlier seven days period. The circular also warned hospitals against overcharging patients failing to which action shall be taken under the Epidemic, Act 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005. According to BMC data, out of over 35,000 beds in the city, 5,104 are occupied and the bed occupancy rate is 14.4%.Chahal in his message to 142 private hospitals of the city has said, “Considering the fact that approximately 10-12% patients are symptomatic everyday, the requirement of hospital beds is likely to increase sharply now. Since more than 95% cases are being detected from non-slum areas, there is tremendous demand for seeking beds in private hospitals. Patients are reluctant to go to Covid jumbo hospitals and BMC hospitals.”Chahal also informed, “It has come to my notice that symptomatic Covid patients are pointing out the need for Covid beds in private hospitals. Therefore, all private hospitals are hereby directed that they shall immediately spruce up the number of Covid beds to the highest level which existed during the peak of the second wave in 2021.”According to the directions issued by Chahal, all private hospitals shall restore their peak level of Covid beds by January 10 following this BMC staff will start inspecting private hospitals from January 11 2022 onwards to cross check if the number of Covid beds in each private hospital has been restored to its peak level earlier. In the context of the third wave, Chahal in his message further to the private hospitals said, “I wish to place on record that private hospitals have done outstanding work in handling the pandemic in Mumbai since May 2020. Therefore, I humbly request all private hospitals to rise to the occasion and maintain their credibility in the eyes of citizens of Mumbai. I would also like to mention here that the present third wave of Covid in Mumbai may not last for more than 4 - 5 weeks as per experience of South Africa.”Dr Gautam Bhansali of Bombay Hospital who is nodal officer of all private Covid-19 hospitals in the city said, “There are 142 private hospitals in the city who have around 5,000 beds active at the moment. At Bombay Hospital, we have 45 beds empty on Wednesday afternoon. However, in the coming days private hospitals will be able to offer 11,000 active beds for handling COVID-19. Considering the turnaround time is very less, we will be able to discharge every patient within 4-5 days. Hence, bed availability will not be an issue.”Meanwhile, on the third wave lasting for more than 4-5 weeks, Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital who is also a member of Maharashtra Covid-19 Task Force said, “We all also feel the same considering that is how the behaviour of viruses has been so far in the past. There is a high chance that the same pattern might be this time.”Further, in a circular issued on Wednesday, it was informed that 80% of the total beds and 100% ICU beds shall be kept reserved for COVID-19 patients, as per the rule earlier. The BMC added that no asymptomatic patient without comorbidity be alloted beds in private hospitals, and that discharge period for asymptomatic patients shall be three days, down from the earlier seven days period. The circular also warned hospitals against overcharging patients failing to which action shall be taken under the Epidemic, Act 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005. According to BMC data, out of over 35,000 beds in the city, 5,104 are occupied and the bed occupancy rate is 14.4%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-private-hospitals-prepare-for-maximum-capacity-of-beds-to-treat-covid-patients-101641410485214.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Man held for duping women doctors in Delhi by promising them seats in AIIMS||Police have arrested a man who duped several women doctors on the pretext of providing them with PG seats in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Police said the suspect, whom they identified as Shahduzamman (32), a school drop-out, cheated over a dozen women doctors by creating fake Facebook profiles and promising them PG seats in AIIMS at the rate of ₹6 lakh per seat.Police said they formed a team to crack the case after receiving a complaint from a woman doctor on December 21, 2020. They said the doctor told them that she was contacted by a person named Anshu Vinay through Facebook, who introduced himself as a doctor in AIIMS Hospital and cheated her for ₹6 Lakh on the pretext of helping her get a PG seat.After taking money from her, he started avoiding her calls and switched off his mobile phone, which is when she realized that she was cheated.DCP (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said that during the course of the investigation, the complainant was thoroughly questioned, and accordingly, a case was registered. “The relevant bank transactions were analysed at length. With the help of technical surveillance, details of the alleged phone number were also obtained and a raid was conducted at the address but it was found that the suspect rarely went to his house,” said the DCP.The team started investigating different angles and through surveillance and technical analysis, zeroed in on his location at PVR Anupam, Saket.Police arrested him there before he could meet another woman doctor.Police said they are making efforts to trace other victims who have been cheated by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-duping-women-doctors-in-delhi-by-promising-them-seats-in-aiims-101641410483950.html
06-01-2022||Other||{CONSTITUENCY WATCH/SAS NAGAR} Multi-party contest likely in changed political scenario||There are three assembly constituencies in Mohali (now SAS Nagar) district created in 2006. The Congress has a stronghold in Mohali assembly seat with its MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, also former Punjab health minister, having a hat-trick of wins under his belt from this seat since 2007. In the Dera Bassi constituency, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has held firm for three decades. The Kharar assembly seat, which was created only in 2012, went to the Congress in the assembly polls that year. In 2017, Kanwar Sandhu of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerged as the winner. In the current political scenario, the BJP and the Captain Amarinder Singh faction, are also in the picture and all three seats are expected to see a multi-party contest. Mohali and Kharar assembly seats are under Anandpur Sahib parliamentary constituency; Dera Bassi is in Patiala parliamentary constituency, reports Hillary Victor.MOHALI: ALL CONGRESS FOR PAST THREE POLLSSitting MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu of the Congress has won the seat three times in a row since 2007, and after the party formed the government in 2017, he was awarded a cabinet berth. His clout rose under the then chief minister Amarinder Singh; and he managed to install his brother, Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, as Mohali mayor. When Charanjit Singh Channi became the chief minister, Sidhu was dropped from the state cabinet; later, Channi and Sidhu decided to patch up, and he was even assured of a Congress election ticket from Mohali. AAP has already declared former mayor and real estate baron Kulwant Singh as its candidate from Mohali. The SAD and the BJP are yet to declare their candidates. In municipal corporation elections in 2021, the Congress won 37 of 50 seats; the Azad group, led by former mayor Kulwant Singh, won 11 seats. Both the BJP and the SAD drew a blank. KHARAR: CM’s HOME-TOWN TO SEE HIGH-STAKES BATTLEThe home-town of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, stakes are high in this semi-urban constituency, which is located on national highway-21. In 2017 polls, Kanwar Sandhu secured victory, with Congress’ Jagmohan Singh Kang finishing second. This time, the AAP has already fielded Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Mann. Other parties are yet to name their candidates. In the civic body elections, of 27 seats, Congress got 10; SAD got eight, with AAP bagging one and Independents bagging eight. With Channi’s elevation as the CM, the town has become an epicentre of protests, much to the chagrin of commuters. DERA BASSI: SAD STRONGHOLD, BUT CONG TASTED WIN IN 3 CIVIC BODIES Located on the Chandigarh-Delhi national highway, Dera Bassi assembly constituency has always remained a stronghold of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Former Punjab cabinet minister Captain Kanwaljit Singh was a strong leader, with the Akalis triumphing over the seat for three decades and more. NK Sharma, sitting SAD MLA won the elections in 2012 and 2017. Congress candidate Deepinder Singh Dhillon finished second in both the elections. The AAP has already declared Kuljeet Singh Randhawa as candidate, with other parties yet to name nominees. In civic body elections in April 2021, the Congress won Dera Bassi, Lalru, and Zirakpur. In Dera Bassi and Lalru, the Congress had tasted victory after a decade; in Zirakpur, it won after two decades. With the BJP also expected to field candidates, the contest will turn multi-cornered. 
06-01-2022||Delhi||DCPCR sets up inquiry into legal challenges faced by kids in conflict with law||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) set up an inquiry to investigate challenges experienced by children in conflict with the law in securing bail and accessing other legal help. The inquiry will also explore reasons behind the delay in bail and vet the effectiveness of legal aid available to children in conflict with the law, officials said on Wednesday.The inquiry panel is chaired by former judge Madan B Lokur and three other lawyers. The panel will assess the awareness of legal proceedings among children alleged to be in conflict with the law, and children in conflict with the law residing in various observation homes across the capital. It will also take stock of the cases of various children and the duration of their stay in the institutions.“The inquiry panel shall inquire into the identification of issues and challenges experienced by such children in securing bail or release (where applicable) and in securing leave, quality and effectiveness of legal services available to them and their experiences with the police,” stated the circular of the inquiry issued by DCPCR on Monday.It also said that the panel would visit observation homes, interact with children, their families, and examine the case files as part of its inquiry. The inquiry report is expected by mid-February 2022.Welcoming the move, experts said that the inquiry could lead to a better understanding of the challenges faced by families and children. “One can put in place lawyers to take up cases of children in conflict with the law but at the same time, it is crucial to ensure that services required under the law are provided to families of such children. An inquiry into the manner in which the services work is welcome,” said Bharti Ali, director of HAQ: Centre for Child Rights, a child rights NGO.Ali said that legal aid for children required that lawyers stay in regular touch with children, keep families updated about the developments in the case, and ensure that the child is not forced to plead guilty. “An inquiry into the way the legal aid system works is happening for the first time. The findings of the inquiry can be used for strengthening the legal aid system,” said Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/child-rights-body-sets-up-inquiry-into-legal-challenges-faced-by-kids-in-conflict-with-the-law-101641410244449.html
06-01-2022||Other||UP polls 2022: Over 2.65 lakh new voters added to list in Prayagraj district||Over 46 lakh voters of Prayagraj district will be eligible to use their right of franchise in the forthcoming assembly polls of Uttar Pradesh. This number is over 2.65 lakh more voters as compared to those registered in the last assembly elections held in 2017, district officials said.In terms of fresh names added to the voter list this time, women voters have surpassed men in the district. Barring Meja, the other 11 assembly constituencies of Prayagraj district have witnessed names of more women voters being added to the voter list as compared to new men voters. New women voters - 19,900 of them - have come forward to get their names registered in Allahabad West assembly constituency, they added. As per the revised voter list, which was published by the district election office on Wednesday, now the total number of registered voters in the district stands at 46,02,812 whereas in the last assembly elections there were 43,37,119 voters in the district, informed ADM (Administration) Harsh Dev Pandey. Following the campaign carried out under systematic voter’s education and electoral participation (SVEEP) program, under which the work of adding new voters was done continuously, the district now has over 2.65 lakh more voters. A day before the publication of the final list, the administration got the list matched with that of the last election, he added. According to the voter list, the maximum numbers of voters are in the Allahabad West assembly constituency of the district. There are a total 4,54,293 voters in this assembly seat. Women voters are also highest in this assembly constituency with the count standing at 2,06,355 women voters. Even if the electoral rolls of the 2017 assembly elections are matched, Allahabad West seat was at the forefront. This time 37,994 new voters have been added in this assembly seat.Following Allahabad West, Pratappur stands second in terms of adding new voters. In this assembly constituency, 31,272 new voters have been added. Likewise, 31,195 new voters have been added to the list in Handia and 26,718 in Allahabad North assembly constituency. In the list of voters, Meja has the least number of voters amongst the 12 assembly constituencies of the district. There are 3,24,789 voters here of which 1,45,905 are women voters. Meja is the only assembly constituency of Prayagraj district where 7,976 more new men voters have been added to the list, while the new female voters’ count stands at 7,383. A maximum of 19,900 new women voters have come forward in Allahabad West assembly constituency. This time the Election Commission had emphasised on increasing the count of women voters. The result of the efforts is visible in the final voter list of Prayagraj district. The difference is evident in terms of even Bara, Phaphamau, Soraon and Pratappur assembly constituencies. If the count of male voters is compared to women voters in these assembly constituencies, then names of around 3,000 to 4,000 new women voters have been added to the voter list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-polls-2022-over-2-65-lakh-new-voters-added-to-list-in-prayagraj-district-101641410065247.html
06-01-2022||Other||Aligarh reports two Omicron cases||Aligarh reported two cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Wednesday after local residents having travel history tested positive for Omicron in genome sequencing of the samples.The persons testing positive for Omicron have recently returned from Saudi Arabia and Nigeria. “A resident of Aligarh aged 41 was tested positive for Omicron on Wednesday in genome sequencing of sample. The person had recently returned from Saudi Arabia,” said DM Aligarh, Selva Kumari J. Sources at CMO office said that another resident of Aligarh aged 37 also tested positive for Omicron variant of COVID-19. He had returned from Nigeria. Both the residents of Aligarh had tested positive for COVID-19 in December month and were amongst 17 who had tested positive for COVID-19 in Aligarh during December month. Those coming in their contact were being asked to isolate themselves and get their tests done, said sources at health department in Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aligarh-reports-two-omicron-cases-101641410063824.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Police bust gang involved in hacking online competitive exams; 6 held||The Delhi Police on Wednesday said they had busted an interstate module involved in hacking into various online competitive examination websites, including graduate management admission test (GMAT) and joint entrance examination (JEE), solving candidates’ papers and manipulating their results--for which they charged hefty fees.Six members of the gang, including a fugitive wanted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Haryana Police, were arrested by the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit, following 10-day-long raids across Delhi, Mumbai, Gurugram, and Jaipur. Fifteen laptops and nine mobile phones were seized from the arrested persons, the police said.The arrested men include hackers, solvers, trainers, and coaching institute owners. The investigation so far has revealed that the syndicate was instrumental in helping 18 candidates clear the GMAT exam and around 500 candidates clear other exams over a period of about three years. The gang charged each client between ₹5 lakh and ₹20 lakh.They helped a candidate, who was actually a police decoy, score 780 out of 800 marks in the GMAT, said deputy commissioner of police (IFSO) KPS Malhotra.“The arrested fugitive, Raj Teotia, carried ₹1 lakh reward from Haryana Police for his arrest. He was also wanted by the CBI. Teotia had been part of this syndicate for nearly five years. He had even hired Russian hackers to hack into the examination sites. Three Russians, including a woman, were in touch with him. They had stayed at his Faridabad house between 2019 and 2020. The trio left India after the first lockdown in 2020,” said Malhotra.The other arrested persons were identified as Arshad Dhunna and his brother Salman Dhunna, both from Mumbai, Hemal Shah from Gujarat’s Gandhi Nagar (currently residing in Mumbai), Kunal Goel from Delhi, and Mohit Sharma from Haryana’s Karnal.A few weeks ago, DCP Malhotra said, the IFSO team received information that some syndicate, involved in the unauthorised access of various competition exams, was charging hefty amounts for getting candidates desired scores in reputed online examinations. These syndicates were advertising or claiming to have access to online examinations of GMAT, JEE, Cisco- Associate, Professional, Specialty, IBM-All Exams Comptia - All exams EC Council-CEH, CHFI, and CCISO etc, he said.The team contacted the alleged hackers through a decoy for cracking the GMAT exam. The hackers agreed on the payment of ₹5 lakh and the decoy deposited the token money in their bank account. On the day of the examination (December 26), the suspects asked the candidate to download the software “Ultraviewer” through which they gained remote access to his laptop. They also connected the candidate’s laptop to the solver, who attempted the whole examination and evaded detection from the proctor and other safety measures. The hacker got access to the laptop and disguised the remote access file as the system file. The decoy candidate, a police officer, scored 780 out of 800, which is in the 97th percentile and could have gotten him admission to top MBA colleges worldwide, said DCP Malhotra.After witnessing what the suspects were capable of, the team members, through technical investigation, located and arrested three of the suspects, the Dhunna brothers, and Shah, from Mumbai on January 1. They were primarily involved in striking the deal with the decoy and then connecting the decoy customer with another module of the syndicate, which gained access to his system and solved the exam. Their interrogation led to the arrest of Goel, who had arranged the solver for the trio. Goel led the police to the solver, Mohit Sharma, who was arrested from Gurugram.Police said Goel and Sharma had been active for nearly one and a half years. Sharma revealed that he was lured into the gang by Teotia.Teotia was arrested from Jaipur on January 3, the police said.Police said Arshad, 39, is a BCom graduate and is running a firm involved in CISCO training (CCNA and CCNT) while his 28-year-old brother Salman is a BTech graduate and is a partner in Arshad’s business. Shah,42, managed payment issues and played the role of negotiator with clients. Goel, 39, also runs a similar network training institute in Delhi’s Tilak Nagar. Sharma, 35, is a B.tech graduate who tutors GMAT aspirants. In 2020, he became a solver, they said.DCP Malhotra said that 33-year-old Teotia from Faridabad dropped out of a BA course and started working in private companies. In 2017, he started hacking online examinations in Agra. He started similar labs in Jaipur and Kota with other partners. Later, his examination centre was blacklisted but he opened new ones at different locations.“At one point in time, he got in touch with Russian hackers. He had even gone to Russia to meet hackers in 2018. Russian hackers developed a tool for remotely accessing the online examination system. Teotia disclosed that he and his associates remotely hacked recruitment exams of government organisations as well,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-gang-involved-in-hacking-online-competitive-exams-six-held-101641409885168.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Malwani module: NIA court accepts guilty pleas, convicts both ISIS recruiters||MUMBAI: A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday accepted the guilty plea of the two accused booked for radicalising youth from Malwani in Malad to join the banned terror outfit Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and held them guilty under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The special court has now posted the case for hearing the convicts and their lawyers on the quantum of sentence on Friday.Special NIA judge A T Wankhede on Wednesday accepted the pleas of Rizwan Ahmed, 25, and Mohsin Sayyed, 32, and held them guilty under IPC 120 B for conspiracy, section 18 of UAPA for conspiracy, section 20 of UAPA for being a member of a terrorist organisation, section 38 of UAPA for having committed offences related to membership of a terrorist organisation, and section 39 for offences related to support given to a terrorist organisation. The judge told the accused that he will decide their quantum of sentence after hearing both sides on Friday. The accused face punishment ranging from five years’ imprisonment to a life term.The two accused had pleaded guilty before the court mid-trial in the first week of December. The court had by then already examined 39 of the 220 enlisted prosecution witnesses.Sayyed had submitted in his plea filed before the judge, “I have been lodged in prison since the last six years, and that I was influenced by the videos and propaganda of ISIS which was widely circulated on the internet. Due to the said material, I tried to flee the country to join ISIS. I was unsuccessful after which I was arrested by the police. That while in prison reflecting upon my actions, I realised my mistakes and sincerely regret my errors. I am remorseful and regretful for my acts of omission and for commission of unlawful acts. I have suffered greatly due to my mistake and I wish to rectify it and start a new life and be a better person and take care of my old ailing parents and my family who have also suffered due to my error. I want to return to the mainstream and rehabilitate myself. My conduct in jail was satisfactory and there is nothing adverse against me. I am pleading guilty voluntarily without any pressure, threat, coercion; inducement or undue influence; and that I understand the consequences.”While Rizwan Ahmed had submitted in his plea filed before the judge, “I want to to return to mainstream society and rehabilitate. I am having clean antecedents; even my conduct in jail was satisfactory and there is nothing adverse against me. I am remorseful for the acts alleged against me and undertake not to indulge in similar acts in the future. I was merely involved in propagation of the banned terrorist organisation and was never involved in any type of violence or killings. I may be sentenced for the period already spent in jail by me. I belong to a very poor family and have a wife and two minor children, and aged parents to look after. I have already undergone six years in jail and further punishment would cause great prejudice to my wife, old ailing parents and minor children.”NIA special prosecutor, Prakash Shetty had said that the court should accept the unconditional pleas.Sayyed and Ahmed are both facing trial for instigating youth including Ayaz Sultan, Mohsin Abdul Bashir and Noor Mohammad from Malwani to join the Islamic State in 2015. Maharashtra ATS and later the NIA claimed that Ahmed was the second-in-command of the ISIS wing in India. The agencies said that the duo instigated, intimidated and influenced vulnerable Muslim youth of Malwani (Malad), Mumbai, with a view to compel them to become Fidayeen or leave for Hijart with the ultimate objective of motivating them to join ISIS. The agencies claimed that the youth were hard-core followers of the ISIS ideology and its members, and had conspired with absconding accused persons Ayaz Sultan and Yusuf Al-Hindi to propagate the ideology and propel youth to join ISIS. Sultan had even managed to get a visa in 2015, and gone to Kabul and joined the terrorist outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malwani-module-nia-court-accepts-guilty-pleas-convicts-both-isis-recruiters-101641409823856.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi shivers at season’s lowest max temperature||Delhi witnessed overcast and gloomy conditions on Wednesday. Light rain persisted throughout the day, and maximum temperature fell to 15.7 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal -- the lowest maximum temperature recorded so far this season, according to India Meteorological Department. However, the minimum temperature was recorded at 10.9°C -- four notches above normal.The rain, coupled with low clouds also created a haze that prevailed during the day, keeping visibility between 400 and 1,200 metres, which led to a slight deterioration in air quality, despite the rain, IMD scientists said.Delhi’s air quality index was recorded at 397 (very poor) according to Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4 pm bulletin, up from Tuesday’s reading of 378 (very poor). Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station for weather data, received 7.3mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Wednesday, and Palam and Lodhi Road stations recorded 6.1mm and 6mm rain respectively. The IMD, despite the lowest maximum of the season, did not classify it as a ‘cold day’ in Delhi, stating that the criteria for the minimum temperature was not met. The IMD classifies it as a ‘coldwave’ if the minimum temperature is 4.5 degrees below normal, or when it drops to 4 degrees or lower. Similarly, it classifies a ‘cold day’ when the maximum is 4.5 degrees below normal, along with the minimum at 10 degrees or lower. On Wednesday, Delhi’s minimum was 10.9 degrees – four notches above normal. “This is the lowest maximum of the season so far, however, it is not a cold day as the minimum was above 10 degrees. The low clouds and consistent rain did not allow the maximum temperature to cross the 15-16 degree mark and we can expect a similar spell on Saturday, with perhaps an even more rain and wind speed,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD.He said the visibility improved to 1,200 metres by afternoon at Palam, but it remained around 400 to 500 metres at Safdarjung. The IMD has forecast light rain on Thursday as well. But, Jenamani said there were good chances of the sun coming out during the day. “It will be cloudy and we will see some drizzle activity, but the maximum will be around 20 degrees on Thursday. From the night again, it will become overcast and the intensity of rain can increase gradually, peaking on Saturday,” he said.Prior to this, Delhi’s lowest maximum temperature was recorded on December 19, when it fell down to 17.8 degrees Celsius. It was also the season’s only ‘cold day’ so far, with the maximum at the time, five degrees below the normal mark. The air quality is also expected to see an improvement, with wind speeds likely to pick up between January 6 and 8, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a government forecasting body, said.Gufran Beig, founder project director at Safar, said when temperatures are low during winter and there is a drizzle, there are chances of the air becoming heavier, and instead of removing pollutants immediately, it traps local pollutants in the air. “There was a slight haze and the pollutants remained trapped in the air longer. This is possibly why the AQI increased slightly, but an increase in wind speed and the gradual impact of the rain will lead to an improvement in air quality by Thursday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-shivers-at-season-s-lowest-max-temperature-101641409645058.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Cordelia cruise: 139 more Covid positive||Another 139 passengers of the Cordelia cruise ship, currently docked in Mumbai, tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) reported.This is in addition to the 66, including crew members, who tested positive on MV Empress on January 1, forcing it to return to Mumbai. A total of 205 persons on the ship have now tested positive.The BMC collected 1,827 samples on Tuesday after the ship docked at Green Gate port in South Mumbai’s Ballard Pier. The luxury cruise ship had reached Goa’s Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) on New Year’s eve. On January 1, a crew member developed flu-like symptoms and tested positive on a rapid antigen test, following which 66 members on-board also tested positive for the virus. Of them, six crew members were allowed to disembark in Goa and were admitted to a local hospital in Vasco Da Gama for treatment.Earlier on Wednesday, BMC shifted 41 passengers out of the ship and admitted them to various civic-run isolation centres and hospitals in the city. While most of them had mild symptoms, one passenger was transferred to St. George’s Hospital for treatment.“The patients have been shifted to facilities like the Richardson and Crudas in Byculla, Suncity residency, Pacific residency and other private hotels at their own expenses,” said an official.The remaining 19 were allowed to stay back on the ship as they were largely asymptomatic and were with families. They were isolated inside the ship itself, another senior official confirmed.Shivadas Gurav, assistant municipal commissioner from A-ward (where the ship is anchored) confirmed the development.“Most of the patients that have tested positive are asymptomatic. We have passed the reports to the operator of the cruise which will carry out further health test to check if they have other co-morbidities or not. If a patient is fully asymptomatic and doesn’t have any co-morbidities then he/she will be allowed to go home with a stamp on his hand so that they follow isolation norms and protocols. If anyone is co-morbid and has serious symptoms, then he/she will be transferred for treatment,” said Gurav.All the passengers who tested negative are being allowed to disembark the ship, Gurav said.“The BMC officials present at the port has put a stamp on the hands of the passengers who have tested negative so that they compulsorily follow home quarantine for seven days and the local ward office will track their health status,” he said.The cruise ship with over 2,000 passengers left from Mumbai on December 31 and was meant to stop at Goa, Kochi and Lakshadweep islands before sailing back to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cordelia-cruise-139-more-covid-positive-101641409643852.html
06-01-2022||Other||In biggest spike in 7 months, Punjab sees 1,871 new Covid cases; 7 of Omicron||Chandigarh In a major Covid spike in Punjab, 1,871 cases were reported on Wednesday, the biggest single-day spike over the past seven months. Of these patients, at least seven were found to be infected with Omicron, the virus variant that spreads far more rapidly than the previous strain. The active cases of the infection in the state is now at 4,434. There were four deaths on Wednesday. The state’s positivity rate has also registered a high at 7.95%, with Patiala district registering 598 fresh cases with 20.565% positivity rate. SAS Nagar registered 300 cases followed by 203 in Ludhiana.LUDHIANA REPORTS THREE OMICRON CASESThe industrial district of Ludhiana saw three Omicron cases, with overall Covid cases increasing 100% to 203; such a large number of cases was last reported on June 6, 2021. Of the three Omicron cases, the first is a 17-year-old resident of Aggar Nagar who had returned from France; the other two, who had returned from the United Kingdom (UK), are from Raikot.PATIALA DC, MAYOR TEST POSITIVE;TWO OMICRON CASES DETECTEDA Patiala couple, who returned from the UK last week, tested positive for Omicron on Wednesday, as the district reported 598 fresh Covid cases. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans and mayor Sanjeev Sharma are among those who have been infected. District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said, “The couple were found positive for Omicron, which is highly infectious, after genome sequence testing. The couple, in their 40s, have been shifted to the isolation centre at Government Rajindra Hospital,” he said.Hoshiarpur also reported its first Omicron case with a 42-year-old woman, who had recently returned from Portugal, testing positive for the Covid-19 variant. The woman belongs to a village in Tanda. District epidemiologist DP Singh said the woman had travelled back on December 28 and was tested for Covid-19 at the Delhi airport. Jalandhar reported 179 positive cases, with a US-returned 30-year-old man testing positive for Omicron. Initially he had tested positive on December 22 and had been discharged from hospital, after testing negative.Overall, 1,69,05,814 samples have been collected for testing in Punjab, of which 22,794 were tested on Wednesday. The number of doses of vaccine administered on Wednesday was over 1.26 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-biggest-spike-in-7-months-punjab-sees-1-871-new-covid-cases-7-of-omicron-101641409525547.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||Education minister: No physical classes in colleges till Feb 15||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government announced on Wednesday that all physical classes in colleges and universities across the state will be stopped and online classes will start with immediate effect till February 15 on account of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Examinations scheduled in this duration will also be conducted online except in Gondwana, Jalgaon and Nanded universities, as regular power supply is an issue in these districts.“The safety of students, teaching and non-teaching staff is utmost important for us. Following the directives of the chief minister, we have decided to stop physical classes in colleges and universities until February 15. The exams scheduled in this period will also be held online. The decision on the examination scheduled to be conducted post February 15 will be taken in the coming days,” state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said.The minister held a virtual review meeting with district collectors, divisional commissioners and vice chancellors of various universities to assess the situation on Tuesday. “A virtual meeting with all divisional commissioners, district collectors and vice chancellors was taken to review Covid-19. We discussed the safety of the students, parents, professors and non-teaching staff and a decision will be announced on Wednesday evening,” Samant tweeted after the meeting on January 4.The state will allow 50% of the teaching and non-teaching staff to attend work while the rest will be required to work from home. “This is being done to ensure they are not infected with the virus,” Samant said in a virtual address on social platforms on Wednesday.The decision applies to all universities including deemed, self-financed and private universities.Samant said students between 15 to 18 years as well as teaching and non-teaching staff who are yet to be vaccinated must get their jabs at the earliest. “Those teaching and non-teaching staff who are yet to be vaccinated will be directed to get vaccinated as early as possible. Since the Centre has allowed children between 15-18 years of age, it means colleges and polytechnics need to ensure their first and second year students will be vaccinated. This can be done by holding vaccination camps in consultation with district collectors.” “We want to reopen colleges and varsities after February 15 and want students, parents, teachers and non-teaching staff to cooperate with the state government by following all Covid norms so that third wave can subside at the earliest,” he said.Physical classes for college and university students across the state were restarted on October 20 after being closed for over one-and-a-half years due to the pandemic. The state allowed fully vaccinated students to attend physical classes, but asked colleges to make the provision to broadcast lectures live as well.City colleges welcome moveThe state government’s decision has brought cheer and relief to students as well as colleges, many of who have personally contracted Covid in the last one week.While the official announcement by the state government came only on Wednesday, several colleges had already decided to move their physical classes into online mode amidst rising cases. “We reached out to the education department and enquired if the college principal can take a call to shut college and conduct online classes instead. Immediately, a decision was taken and staff and students were informed that classes, as well as ongoing practical exams, will be conducted online only,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal KC College, Churchgate. Post-Christmas break, all classes starting January 3 have been conducted online and the non-teaching staff has been requested to attend college at 50% attendance only.“Every second person in our college was under the weather and symptoms are so similar to flu, no one was sure what they had. Post-Christmas, we decided to move classes online because only a handful of students were ready to come for physical classes. I’m glad the government took the call to shut college campuses,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College Bandra. She herself is currently unwell and is awaiting her test results, she said.In October 2021, state education minister Uday Samant announced the reopening of colleges in hybrid mode and requested colleges to bring back fully vaccinated staff and students for physical classes in a phased manner starting October 20. All MU affiliated colleges had been conducting hybrid classes since then and a handful of institutes have been conducting offline exams for smaller batches.Recently, a handful of colleges came under fire for conducting offline classes as well as exams in January. Students of Mithibai College, Narsee Monjee College as well as the Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) have been raising objections against the decision of respective college managements for conducting physical exams amidst rising Covid-19 cases among students and staff.“There have been cases where students have caught the virus by attending lectures and despite bringing this to the notice of college authorities, nothing was changing. We are glad the government finally gave clarity in this matter and shut down college campuses,” said the parent of a student of NMIMS.Krutika Desai, principal of Mithibai College in Vile Parle told HT that the institute has been taking all necessary steps to ensure students’ safety. “Every protocol on paper is being followed religiously and despite that, a student tested positive after failing to avoid public functions a day before exams. Our college has been insisting on physical exams for the advantage of students but now with the latest announcement, we might have to opt for postponement of offline exams,” she said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/education-minister-no-physical-classes-in-colleges-till-feb-15-101641409225357.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Local SP leader killed in Balrampur district, cops probe political angle||Local Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Feroz Khan alias Pappu, 46, was murdered by masked assailants in Balrampur district late on Tuesday night, police officials said on Wednesday. After attacking him with blunt object, the assailants slit his throat barely 20 meters from his house, police said. Pappu was the former chairman of Tulsipur Nagar Panchayat, a position currently held by his wife, Kahkasha Feroz. Pappu was preparing to contest the assembly elections from Tulsipur constituency and was seeking ticket from the Samajwadi Party. Superintendent of police (SP), Balrampur, Hemant Kutiyal said the assailants struck as Pappu was walking towards the lane of his house on Jarava road. “He had just returned from Lucknow around 11 pm and had begun to walk towards his house around 11 pm after parking his vehicle outside the lane,” Kutiyal said. Kutiyal said some eyewitness told the police that two masked assailants attacked him from behind on the head with some blunt object. He said the assailants slit Pappu’s throat with a sharp weapon, leaving him no chance to pull out his licensed pistol to protect himself. Another police official privy with investigation said scanning of the CCTV footage revealed that five assailants were present outside the lane but only two of them attacked Pappu. The assailants also took away the victim’s licensed pistol after the crime, police said. Police said the locals rushed Pappu to Tulsipur community health centre where he was declared brought dead. Pappu’s aide Musheer informed the police about the incident and later his family members registered an FIR against unidentified people in this connection. Political angle Police feels crime could be linked to Pappu’s political aspirations and his desire to contest the upcoming assembly polls. The police officials said the incident took place when Pappu returned from Lucknow after meeting some people to ensure a assembly ticket for himself from the Samajwadi Party. Role of another politician who too had similar aspirations and felt that Pappu could spoil his political plans is being probed, police said. Police is also looking into personal and professional reasons for the murder too, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/local-sp-leader-killed-in-balrampur-district-cops-probe-political-angle-101641409224046.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: 196 PGIMER doctors, staffers test positive in 10 days||As many as 196 healthcare workers, including doctors, were found positive for Covid-19 at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in 10 days (from December 26 to January 4), the hospital authorities confirmed on Wednesday.As many as 87 (44%) are doctors, with most of them resident doctors. Also, a total of 90 healthcare workers, including 37 doctors, were found infected on January 4 (Tuesday) alone. For the PGIMER, an institute of national importance, the high positivity rate among staffers is an added worry as it already suffers from inadequate staff to cater to patient load from across the region. Since the pandemic broke out in March 2020, 2,300 health workers of the institute, including doctors, nurses and sanitary staff, have been tested positive, with some getting reinfected in the second surge and in present spike.Dr PVM Lakshmi, professor, Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, said: “The healthcare workers, especially doctors and nurses, come in direct contact with hundreds of patients daily. Not only from the Covid-19 ward or emergency ward, but staffers of almost all the departments are found infected.”Dr Lakshmi said that in the peak of the first and second wave of the pandemic, maximum of 50 to 60 healthcare workers were found positive in a single day. “Ninety cases reported on Tuesday is the highest single-day count so far. Some employees were found positive on Wednesday as well, but the data will be compiled on Thursday,” she said.98% +ve staffers double vaccinatedAs per data, 193 healthcare workers of the total 196 infected have taken both doses of the Covid vaccines. Of the remaining three, one has taken only one shot while two have not taken even the first dose yet.“Vaccination is definitely helping in controlling the severity of the infection. None of the 196 infected staffers required hospitalisation. All are isolated either at their homes or institutional isolation centres, with mild symptoms,” said Dr Lakshmi. GMCH, GMSH docs Covid +ve too Meanwhile, seven doctors have tested positive at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, in the past two days. Also, on Tuesday, two doctors of the Civil Hospital at Sector 22, and two doctors and a clerk of Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, were found positive for Covid-19.During the first and second wave, the cases were increasing gradually, but this time there is a sudden spike. Dr Lakshmi said it is definitely the beginning of the third wave.“But, we cannot say if it is driven by the Omicron variant, as the last genome sequencing reports showed Delta as the dominant variant. To check the variant of concern among the PGIMER staff, we will send some fresh samples for genome sequencing,” she said, adding that Chandigarh and neighbouring states will witness a peak in January, as earlier the cases peaked within 10 days of doctors testing positive in large numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-196-pgimer-doctors-staffers-test-positive-in-10-days-101641408928905.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayoral polls: Fearing poaching, BJP moves its councillors to Shimla||Fearing poaching ahead of the Chandigarh mayoral elections scheduled on January 8, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday shifted all its elected councillors to Shimla. Earlier, on January 3, the Congress had sent all its seven councillors to Jaipur, while AAP councillors were shifted to Delhi. Though AAP councillors have now returned to Chandigarh, Congress ones are still in Jaipur. The BJP councillors are staying at the Circuit House run by the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Department Corporation near Hotel Peterhoff in posh Willy’s Park area of Shimla.The rooms for councillors were booked in the names of different BJP ministers and legislators, it is learnt. According to sources, the Himachal Pradesh Police have deployed tight security around the Circuit House and are keeping a strict vigil over the guests. Most councillors stayed indoors throughout the day amid rain, while a few went out to take a stroll on the empty roads. “Our entire family is here; I cannot divulge the names of those staying here, “ said a BJP councillor, on the condition of anonymity.Chandigarh BJP chief Arun Sood alleged that the AAP was spreading rumours of three BJP councillors coming forward to support the AAP. “It is to show that the party’s flock is together. We want to tell them (AAP) that our councillors cannot be bought,” he said. NUMBER GAMEIn the municipal corporation elections result declared on December 24, the AAP had bagged 14 seats, while the BJP got 12, the Congress eight and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) a lone seat in the 35-member House. With Congress vice-president Devinder Singh Babla along with his councillor wife Harpreet Kaur Babla switching sides to the BJP, the number of saffron party votes has gone up to 14, which includes the vote of Member Parliament and ex-officio member Kirron Kher. With this, both the AAP and BJP have an equal number of votes.On Tuesday, both BJP and AAP had filed nominations for mayoral polls, while the Congress abstained. Anju Katyal is in the fray from the AAP, and the BJP has fielded Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon. To get elected, they would need 19 votes of the total 36. In case the Congress abstains from voting, then 15 votes will be needed, making the lone SAD councillor’s vote the game-changer.However, if the SAD councillor also abstains from voting, then there will be a tie and the mayor will be picked through a draw of lots. SAD councillor Hardeep Singh said: “I am holding a meeting with the party high command on Thursday, and I will vote according to their directions.”Congress spokesperson Rajesh Sharma said that the final decision on voting will be taken by the party along with the councillors on January 7. “All councillors will be returning from Jaipur on that day,” he said. Meanwhile, AAP’s Chandigarh unit president Prem Garg said that if the Congress abstains from voting, it will be an “illegal and immoral” act that is not good for democracy. The AAP has earlier suggested to the Congress to elect mayors from the two parties alternately.
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Admn declares 22 more containment zones in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Wednesday declared 22 new micro-containment zones in the city, taking the total to 47 since Christmas. Fresh curbs are being imposed after Covid-19 cases started rising in the city after December 25. As many as 229 cases surfaced on Wednesday, highest in about seven months.The areas where curbs were imposed on Wednesday are located in Sectors 7-A, 7-C, 15-C, 16-A, 20-A, 20-D, 21-B, 33-B, 35-C, 36-A, 36-B, 39-A, 40-A, 40-B, 42, 43-A, 44-A, 46 and 49-D besides Shanti Nagar in Manimajra. Other micro-containment zones are located in Sectors 22-A, 23-D, 26, 33-D, 37-B, 38-C, 38-West, 42-B, 43-B, 47-C and 50 (Paradise Enclave) besides Makhanmajra and Dadumajra.Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that regular screening and monitoring will be conducted in these areas by medical teams and frequent sanitisation will be carried out by the municipal staff. “Residents are advised to strictly follow social distancing norms, wear masks and take care of hand hygiene,” he said.“A containment zone is declared when three or more people from the same area are tested positive. The transmissibility of the infections is being reported among close contacts or family members only, and hence, containment zones are being made in parts of particular houses. The infected people and non-infected people of that house are advised to quarantine for at least seven days. In Chandigarh, we do not have any cluster or hot spot of infection as the infected people are scattered across the UT,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services.Dr Singh added that even when one of the family members is tested positive, the entire family has to undergo Covid-19 testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-admn-declares-22-more-containment-zones-in-chandigarh-101641408926378.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Contractor booked for illegally axing trees in Sector 54||A contractor hired to prune trees has been booked for illegally axing three trees in Sector 54. Harjeet Singh from MC’s horticulture division number 1, Sector 23, complained to the police that Anil Kumar of Goyal Enterprises, Dhanas, was given the contract to prune trees.But the contractor axed three trees in the reserve area in Sector 54 without permission on January 2. Police have recovered a tractor-trolley loaded with the wood of the felled trees from Dhanas, but the accused has not been arrested yet.He has been booked under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 39 police station.Kharar man held with heroin The operation cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested a Kharar resident with 302-gram heroin. Identified as Jatinder Singh, alias Ricku, the accused was apprehended after he tried to escape on spotting the police team near the Kishangarh Chowk on Tuesday. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act at the IT Park police station. Theft at house in Raipur KalanBurglars fled with ₹28,000 besides gold and silver jewellery from a house in Raipur Kalan while the family was asleep on Tuesday night. Complainant Gurmeet Singh told police that his family had gone to sleep after dinner. On waking up, they found one of the rooms ransacked and an almirah left ajar. Besides cash, a gold chain, three gold earrings and two silver anklets were missing. Police are scanning CCTV footage after registering a case of theft. UIET: Indo-UK workshop beginsAn Indo-UK partnership development workshop started at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University, on Wednesday. The three-day workshop is being jointly organised by the UIET and Birmingham City University, UK, till January 7 under the UK-India Education and Research Initiative in hybrid (online and offline) mode. It deals with solar pump-based village microgrids and their potential for tackling energy, water and food issues in Punjab.IGNOU extends re-registrationThe Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date of submission of online re-registration for all masters and bachelors programmes up to January 15, for the January 2022 session. The details of the IGNOU academic programmes for the January 2022 session can be accessed from the link https://ignouadmission.samarth.edu.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-contractor-booked-for-illegally-axing-trees-in-sector-54-101641408925112.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: With 692 cases, 92% jump in Chandigarh tricity’s daily tally||As many as 692 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Wednesday, a 92% jump from 361 cases the day before and the highest single-day tally since the second wave started receding in the third week of May last year. A 72-year-old woman also succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh. A resident of Behlana, she was fully vaccinated against Covid-19 but was suffering from artery disease, diabetes, hypertension and hyperthyroidism. It is the first death reported in the UT in 15 days, and third in the tricity this year.The Wednesday’s tally comprises 292 cases from Mohali, 229 from Chandigarh and 171 from Panchkula. Their previous day tally stood at 139, 128 and 94, respectively. During the second wave, the tricity’s daily tally had peaked at 2,612 on May 10. Mohali, Chandigarh and Panchkula had recorded the peak at 1,382 (May 10), 895 (May 9) and 654 (May 5), respectively. Meanwhile, from 457 on the New Year day, the active caseload has shot up to 1,640 in the tricity.Positivity rate above 10% in Mohali, UTBoth Mohali and Chandigarh on Wednesday crossed the 200 mark for the first time since June last year. Mohali’s total count has reached 69,705 cases and 1,075 deaths, with 534 cases and one fatality this month so far. In December last year, 214 cases and two deaths were reported. Among the fresh cases, 133 cases surfaced in Mohali, 62 in Dhakoli and 44 in Kharar while the remaining were spread across Dera Bassi, Boothgarh, Gharuan, Lalru and Kurali. Meanwhile, just one patient recovered from the disease, taking the number of active cases to 603 and the total of those cured to 68,027. The positivity rate stood at 14.6%.In Chandigarh, the positivity rate for the day was 12.1%. Of 1,898 samples tested by the health department, 229 were found positive.The new cases were spread across the city, with 18 reported from Sector 15, 17 from Manimajra and 16 from the PGIMER campus. According to the health department data, 183 of the 229 infected people are fully vaccinated, three have taken the first dose and 30 have not been jabbed yet. Meanwhile, 12 are below the age of 15, and are ineligible for vaccination. So far in Chandigarh, as many as 66,493 people have tested positive, of whom 1,080 have succumbed to the virus and 64,748 have recovered. The active caseload stands at 665. Only 7% need hospitalisation in P’kulaIn Panchkula, the single-day tally has jumped from 26 on January 1 to 171 on January 5, and the positivity rate has shot up from 1% to 8% within these five days.It was on May 25, 2021, when a similar scenario — 174 cases and positivity rate of 9% — was last reported. Even the recovery rate has dropped by 1% after a long gap.Clusters have been witnessed across sectors. For instance, 21 cases each have been reported from Sectors 20 and 21. Meanwhile, around half a dozen cases each were reported from Sectors 4 to 9.The total count has reached 31,358, of which 30,604 patients have been cured, 382 have died and 372 are still positive. However, only 26 patients are hospitalised, while 346 are isolated at their homes.“We have sufficient arrangements in place. There are enough oxygen beds in both government and private sectors. While asymptomatic people are kept at their homes, for those suffering from mild symptoms, there is an arrangement of Covid Care Centre near Mansa Devi Temple,” said Dr Mankirat, the spokesperson of the Civil Hospital, Sector 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-with-692-cases-92-jump-in-chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-tally-101641408923828.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh now known for women’s participation in police force:Yogi||Lucknow While addressing the passing out parade of 519 women police constable recruits in Lucknow reserve police lines, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said UP, which was earlier infamous for women’s safety and crime before 2017, was now known for women’s participation in police force. He congratulated the women recruits for completing their training successfully. During his address, the CM said the state government had decided to recruit 20 percent women in the police force soon after coming into power in 2017. He said several experiments had been done on the policing front with the help of women cops which had been appreciated by other states. The CM said only 6000 recruits could be trained in different police training centres across the state before 2017 but now as many as 15428 recruits were being trained at a time. He said as many as 1.28 lakh recruitments had been made in the police force since 2017. After taking salute from the all women parade, the CM inaugurated the new building of Lucknow police commissionerate and the new buildings constructed at 33 other reserve police lines through virtual medium. UP DGP Mukul Goel, chief secretary Durga Shankar Mishra, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi and Lucknow commissioner of police DK Thakur were present on this occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-now-known-for-women-s-participation-in-police-forceyogi-101641408503966.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi airport’s British-era runway refurbished||Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport operator Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) refurbished a British-era runway, the airport’s first runway built during World War II, and handed it over to Air Traffic Control (ATC) for commercial operations on December 24.Runway 09/27 was the first-ever runway built at the Delhi airport for military purposes and has now been transformed into a modern one for commercial use, authorities said. According to authorities, the newly rehabilitated runway has a design life of 20 years and will be instrumental in handling increased air traffic movement (ATM) once it reaches pre-pandemic level.Delhi airport is India’s biggest and busiest domestic and international airport with three terminals. The newly rehabilitated runway complies with Category-I (CAT-I) Instrument Landing System (ILS), which assists pilots during the landing of an aircraft in low visibility conditions.DIAL undertook the rehabilitation work of Runway 09/27 as part of Delhi airport’s phase expansion project. Post the completion of phase 3A expansion work, an official said, the Delhi airport’s passenger-handling capacity will increase to 100 million passengers per annum (MPPA) and the airside capacity will be enhanced to handle 140 MPPA.“DIAL has successfully completed the rehabilitation work of Runway 09/27 and its taxiways. The British-era runway was rehabilitated for commercial operations as part of DIAL’s effort to enhance the infrastructure and passenger experience at Delhi airport to make it future-ready. The newly rehabilitated runway will have a design life of 20 years, and be instrumental in handling the increased air traffic movement (ATMs) once pre-pandemic level traffic returns to Delhi airport,” said Mr I Prabhakar Rao, deputy managing director of GMR Group, which runs DIAL.DIAL refurbished the 2,816-metre-long and 60-metre-wide runway, including milling down the entire length of the runway’s flexible pavement to a depth of 60mm and overlaying it with Polymer Modified Bitumen (PMB).Polymer modified bitumen (PMB) is bitumen combined with one or more polymer materials that enhance the mechanical properties of the bitumen. PMB can withstand heavy-duty traffic and extreme weather conditions.Runway 09/27, which is on the northern side of Delhi airport, comprises a network of nine taxiways of which six are connecting taxiways and three are rapid exit taxiways (RETs).All the existing lights of the runway and taxiways (around 850) have been upgraded to LED systems for higher efficiency and reliability as a part of the rehabilitation work. DIAL is constructing drains (around 7.3km-long) on both sides of the runway, to cater for the runoff water from the newly rehabilitated runway and its associated taxiways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-s-british-era-runway-refurbished-101641408443723.html
06-01-2022||Mumbai||City may lose an acre of green space for EVM warehouse||Mumbai The urban development department this week issued a public notice proposing to delete 3,846.08 square meters of land (just under an acre) from the ‘Natural Area’ classification in the Development Plan (2034) for the Greater Mumbai region.They have decided to do this to make way for the construction of a warehouse to store electronic voting machines (EVMs) and voter-verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines. The land parcel in question, located in F/N Ward (Matunga east), is currently being used as a temporary depot by the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRCL).However, environmentalists have opposed the move on grounds that the land parcel is covered under the Centre’s coastal regulatory zone (CRZ), and that no such development may be permitted there. It has also been pointed out that the said plot was part of a larger green belt in Mumbai’s 1991 Development Plan, which has since been shrunk and taken over for development on all sides. In 20 years that the adjoining lands have all been developed, a natural water body has been paved over to make way for the monorail depot and a terminal for trucks has been developed into multi-storey buildings and the size of the larger green belt area has also been reduced, a comparison of satellite images between 2013 and 2022 shows.In a letter to the deputy director, town planning on Wednesday, environmentalist Zoru Bhatena pointed out that “the said plot abuts a saltwater creek and falls under CRZ-II on the landward side of the High Tide Line and cannot be developed for a govt office nor a Warehouse under the CRZ Regulations.” He explained that since the entire vicinity of this ‘Natural Area’ has been developed rapidly over the last 20 years, it is all the more important to protect and preserve the few open, green spaces that remain.“The DCR 2034 defines a ‘Natural Area’ as an environmentally sensitive zone where buildable development is permissible for uses as notified by the union environment ministry. Since the plot falls under CRZ on the landward side of High Tide Line and is not developable for the purpose of either a warehouse or a government office, the state government is indirectly proposing a type of change in land reservation -- under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act -- that is not in consonance with the law,” said Bhatena, whose letter also states that “a government office/EVM & VVPAT machine warehouse can be built anywhere in Mumbai. There is no requirement that such a warehouse can be built only at this spot.”Environmentalists also pointed out that the MMRCL is duty-bound to restore the area to its natural state after temporary use, as mandated by an undertaking it gave to the Bombay High Court as part of a 2017 writ petition, in which it was stated that “MMRCL will ensure that there is no dimunition/attrition in the extent of tree cover in the areas affected by the Metro construction.” To propose built-up development on the banks of a seawater creek will lead to an increase in the region’s flood risk, and runs counter to the DP 2034’s requirement for flood control measures, environmentalists said about this development.The deputy director, urban development, has not yet responded to HT’s request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-may-lose-an-acre-of-green-space-for-evm-warehouse-101641408083676.html
06-01-2022||Other||Modi cancelled rally due to vacant chairs in Ferozepur, claims Ugrahan||Sangrur Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 16 districts of the state to oppose his visit to Punjab. Later, with Modi going back without visiting Ferozepur, union leaders claimed that Modi cancelled his visit there as chairs were lying vacant at the rally venue. Joginder Singh Ugrahan, state president, BKU Ugrahan, said, “The PM gets information of every second and he was aware that chairs were vacant at the venue. Though the BJP had already planned a limited gathering, there was no impressive crowd in the rally.” The Ugrahan group held a massive rally at the Sangrur grain market, amid rain, and burnt the effigy of the PM opposite the district administration complex.Ugrahan also appealed to farmers to unite ahead of the state assembly elections, as ‘political parties only make promises of freebies’ but he emphasized to change the system.“As we dump crops in grain markets but never get their adequate prices, we also dump our votes to traditional political parties. Political parties, however, do not fulfil promises. A few farmer unions are also trying to get political power in next state assembly elections. Even if BKU (Rajewal) chief Balbir Singh Rajewal becomes the CM, he cannot change the fate of the people of the state. The need of the hour is to change the system,” Ugrahan claimed.“I want to warn that we have won only one battle against the three black laws. We should not become overconfident. We need to save agriculture, education and other sectors. The unity of farmers can free jailed farmers like Manjit Singh Dhaner and save our future,” he added.Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, state general secretary of the Union, said farmers held massive protests in Punjab to oppose the PM’s visit, because the Centre did not suspend minister of state Ajay Mishra (in Lakhimpuri Kheri case) but is arresting farmers. “The government is also escaping from providing MSP and quashing FIRs registered against farmers in Delhi and other parts of the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modi-cancelled-rally-due-to-vacant-chairs-in-ferozepur-claims-ugrahan-101641408025166.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Political parties in Uttar Pradesh gear up for digital campaign amid Covid surge||Political parties in Uttar Pradesh have started preparing to run a digital election campaign after a surge in Covid-19 cases across the state.The move comes in the background of Uttar Pradesh recording 2,038 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of active cases in the state to 5,158.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress are strengthening their information technology (IT) infrastructure to hold virtual rallies as well as digital public meetings on various social media platforms, including Twitter, You Tube and Facebook.During its three-day visit to Uttar Pradesh in December, the Election Commission of India had said that all political parties wanted polls on schedule following all the Covid-19 protocols. “While announcing the schedule for the assembly elections, the poll panel will take cognizance of the Covid-19 situation in the poll-bound states. A decision on curtailing big political rallies and holding virtual rallies will be taken according to the Covid-19 graph,” Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra had said. The commission will also take notice of the Allahabad high court’s request to defer the assembly elections in the state as well as to ban rallies and public meetings in view of the growing concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, he had added. BJP state unit spokesperson Sameer Singh said the party is organising digital and virtual meetings with its workers across the state during the Covid pandemic. Party offices in the 75 districts and 18 divisions up to the booth level in Uttar Pradesh are equipped with devices to conduct virtual meetings, he said, adding that regular feedback is being collected from party workers to strengthen the infrastructure. The BJP rallies and public meetings are available on all the social media platforms. In view of an increase in the Covid-19 cases or ECI’s instructions, the BJP is geared up to hold virtual public meetings, he said. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, the party delegation had told the ECI to curtail big rallies and road shows organised by the rival political parties in various districts.Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati has plans to launch her party’s election campaign after ECI announces the poll schedule. And, in view of the Covid spike, the BSP will also make preparations for holding digital public meetings, he said. The BSP is using various social media platforms to communicate with party workers and supporters across the state, Mishra said.Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said the party has geared up its information technology infrastructure. Along with party leaders, office bearers and workers, senior party leaders are interacting with the supporters across the state through the digital medium as well as social media. The public meetings and rallies of SP national president Akhilesh Yadav are streamed on various digital mediums, he said. The SP had told ECI to hold the assembly election on time by following the Covid-19 protocol, he further said.UP Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu said in view of the sudden surge in the Covid-19 cases, the party on Wednesday sent a letter to ECI to direct political parties to hold small, nukkad (street corner) meetings, chaupal and door-to-door campaign. The Congress has started preparations for holding virtual public meetings and the party is interacting with its workers and supporters on all the social media platforms, he said. A political observer, Manoj Kumar Singh, said that after the second wave all the political parties organised an extensive election campaign as well as rallies and road shows across the state since July. The BJP and SP have completed the first and second round of the election campaign. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, as well as BSP national general secretary SC Mishra, have addressed public meetings in various districts. With an increase in Covid-19 cases, the political parties should follow the Covid protocol and focus on digital meetings, he said. 
06-01-2022||Lucknow||SP youth leader’s hoarding creates a flutter in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A hoarding put up by a Samajwadi Party leader claiming ‘Fark Saaf Hai– Bhajapa Saaf Hai’ (difference is clear, BJP is gone)i created quite a stir here on Wednesday, ahead of the 2022 UP assembly elections. The SP youth leader installed the hoarding at the busy Subhash Crossing in the heart of the city in an apparent reply to BJP’s much-hyped hoarding with tagline ‘Fark saaf hai’ and also to woo the voters. The hoarding carried two pictures with the title “2017 ke pehle and 2017 ke baad” (before and after 2017) and “Fark saaf Hain—Bhajapa saaf hain” (Difference is clear, BJP is gone) showing former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav distributing laptops among 18 lakh students and ‘2017 ke baad’ showing ‘Hathras ki beti ko kerosene se jalaya ( daughter burnt alive)” and ‘Mahila ka cheerharan (woman disrobed)’. Sandeep Yadav, state vice-president of Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha who put up the hoarding said, “The BJP has constantly been making attempts to malign the image of SP among people of the state by levelling baseless allegations. I have installed this hoarding to give a befitting reply to the ruling BJP.” He said that the BJP had done nothing for the people of the state and its leaders were fooling them in the name of development. The SP leader also slammed the BJP over its hoardings under the theme of “Fark Saaf Hai” and accused the ruling party of misleading people over development and religion. Countering the charge, BJP leaders said the SP leaders had lost their cool, sensing defeat in the forthcoming assembly polls. Senior BJP leader and state co-convener (Media) Ashish Gupta said, “People of the state are well aware of the deteriorating law and order situation in the state before 2017. Two slogans “Khali plot hamara hai (empty plot is mine)” and “Jis gadi mai laga Sapa ka jhanda, usme baitha hai ek gunda (Vehicles with SP flag carry goons)” were common before the 2017. Meanwhile, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav also tweeted in Hindi that “BJP government has disappointed the people after turning Sangam city as capital of unemployed where once youngsters (aspirants) across the country used to arrive to make preparations to get jobs”. He also referred to Tuesday night’s incident where youths took out a march, claiming youths had made it clear that BJP would be wiped out from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-youth-leader-s-hoarding-creates-a-fluttter-in-prayagraj-101641407963837.html
06-01-2022||Delhi||Central Vista avenue races to completion ahead of R-Day||New Delhi: With just three weeks left for the Republic Day celebrations, work on the Central Vista, where the parade will be held, is almost complete, said two senior officials with the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA).The Ministry of Defence and the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) are making arrangements for the parade.“For the Republic Day parade, the construction work is complete. The Rajpath, pathways adjacent to it, lawns, canals, parking lots, etc are ready. Currently, arrangements for the Republic Day parade are being made. The canals have been repaired, but water will be filled later on,” said a senior ministry official who asked not to be named.The redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue, part of the Centre’s ₹13,500-crore Central Vista redevelopment project, started in February last year. The project was to be completed by December end.While large parts of the ₹608-crore project have been completed ahead of the parade, pedestrian underpasses at Janpath and India Gate and amenity blocks will be completed after January 26, said a second senior ministry official.There are four pedestrian underpasses and eight amenity blocks planned along Rajpath; work on these will be completed after the parade.According to a spokesperson for HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited, the consultant of the entire Central Vista redevelopment project, “Only the area required for the Republic Day Parade will be accessible to the public this time. Some facilities, such as the amenity blocks and underpasses, will be completed later.”CPWD officials said a lot of work has been carried out to upgrade the infrastructure and make it pedestrian-friendly.In a written reply, the HCP spokesperson said that the avenue lawns have been refurbished and pathways along Rajpath and across the lawns paved with Lakha Granite. The heritage light poles along Rajpath have been refurbished and new light poles near the lawns and canals have been installed. New signages have been put in place for better directions.According to the HCP spokesperson, “A total of 16 permanent bridges have been constructed over the canals for cross connectivity between the lawns on either side of the canals and to aid VIP and VVIP movement during the parade.”An important part of the revamp was to construct the underground utility ducts. “Provisions for all new underground utilities are in place. For the Republic Day parade, underground utilities will be used for power supply, public announcement systems, Parade Control System, and for Doordarshan, All India Radio and MTNL,” said the HCP spokesperson.When contacted, Shapoorji Pallonji Engineering and Construction, contractor for the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project, refused to comment.While the road relaying work at Rajpath is complete, CPWD officials said work on nearby arterial roads is being carried out.A senior CPWD official said, “At C-Hexagon near India Gate and Janpath, we have completed the road relaying work and will be starting the work at Mansingh Road next week. We can’t do it now due to the weather.”As per forecasts by the India Meteorological Department, Delhi is expected to receive light rain every day until Sunday, with peak intensity expected on Saturday.According to defence ministry officials, the practice for the parade will start from January 7, though in batches, and full rehearsals will happen as per old schedule. A senior Delhi Traffic police official said, “Rehearsals for the parade will happen on January 17,18, 20 and 21. This followed by full dress rehearsal on January 23. We will make necessary traffic arrangements for it. Routine traffic diversions will be made, like every year, during the parade.”For the parade, CPWD will be installing a new modular multi-tiered seating system (also called bleachers). “Around 30,000-32,000 bleachers will be installed,” said a CPWD official, requesting anonymity.Defence ministry officials quoted above said no decision has been taken on the capacity of audience as of now. “We are regularly monitoring the Covid situation in Delhi. All Covid protocols will be followed during the parade. Social distancing will be ensured, so the capacity may be lower than usual,” the official said.Last month (December 2), in a written response to a question in the Lok Sabha, minister of state at MoHUA Kaushal Kishore said that the physical progress of Central Vista Avenue stands at 60% and the project will be completed by December 2021.Apart from the avenue itself , the construction work of the new Parliament building is going on and is expected to be completed before the winter session this year. The work on the Common Central Secretariat and the Vice-President’s enclave has also started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-vista-avenue-races-to-completion-ahead-of-rday-101641407604257.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||2038 new Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh in a single day||LUCKNOW: Fresh Covid cases doubled in Uttar Pradesh in 24 hours, while the number of active cases under treatment went up by over 300% since January 1. In all, 2038 new Covid cases were reported in the state on Wednesday against 992 on Tuesday. The number of active cases under treatment is now 5198, in the state. As many as 51 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. Earlier, new cases numbered around 2000 in the last week of May 2021. On May 30 2021, there were 1908 fresh cases and on May 29, 2287 new cases were reported. The number of active cases under treatment is now 5198, similar to the number in the third week of June 2021. On June 18, 2021 there were 5343 active cases and on June 19, 4957 active cases in the state. “As many as 192430 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate has gone up but need for hospitalisation among Covid positive cases is minimal as they have mild symptoms,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press statement. Prasad said as per the new government order, districts with more than 1000 active cases would follow certain restrictions. “In districts with over 1000 active cases, schools up to Class 10 will remain till January 14 while places such as cinema halls, gyms, spas, banquet halls and restaurants will have to operate with 50% capacity. At present, only Gautam Buddha Nagar has over 1000 active cases,” he said. “There is no need to panic but take adequate precaution. A new guideline has been issued on home isolation by the Government of India. It says 7 days of home isolation is required for patients,” said Prasad. The 24-hour test positivity rate in state is 1.05%. Till now 9,37,993,314 Covid samples have been tested in the state. The number of total first dose of Covid vaccine administered in Uttar Pradesh till now crossed the 13-crore mark on Wednesday. By 5 pm on Wednesday. 20,63,18,100 doses of the vaccine were administered in the state, including 13,04,33,024 first dose and 7,58,85,076 second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2038-new-covid-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-in-a-single-day-101641407483574.html
06-01-2022||Lucknow||Jayant, Akhilesh likely to hold meeting on seat sharing for UP polls||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Chaudhary Jayant Singh and Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav are expected to meet in Lucknow in a day or two to end the purported logjam over seat sharing between the two parties for the UP polls, RLD leaders aware of the developments said.“We guess that Chaudhary Jayant Singh is arriving here on Thursday to have a meeting with SP national president Akhilesh Yadav to finalise the seat sharing between two poll partners for assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh,” a senior RLD leader said here requesting anonymity.The crucial meeting will take place amid speculation about Jayant being somewhat unhappy with his SP counterpart for the latter not agreeing to the seat sharing formula as being put forward by the former. Jayant’s silence over the raids being conducted at the SP leaders’ premises and the premises of traders allegedly close to the SP is also being seen as an indication of all not being well between the two leaders.According to party leaders, Jayant is demanding 40 Jat dominant assembly seats in western UP, while the SP is not ready to commit more than 28-30 seats to it, a situation that has resulted in a stalemate. “The SP is changing its stand every now and then,” another RLD leader said.“It is not only offering a fewer number of seats than what we are demanding, but also insisting that on some of the seats SP candidates contest on the RLD poll symbol. We are obviously not ready for this because of which an announcement on the seat-sharing is getting delayed,” he added.Senior RLD leader and party national general secretary Trilok Tyagi, however, denied reports about there being any major differences over seat-sharing or any other issue between the two parties.“The seat sharing issue will be sorted out by Jayant Chaudhary and Akhilesh Yadav in a day or two,” he claimed. The alliance between the parties, Tyagi claimed, was firm and sought to scotch rumours that the BJP was trying to stop the RLD from going with the SP.Jayant and Akhilesh Yadav last met at the latter’s residence in Lucknow on November 11, 2021 to give a final shape to the alliance.After the meeting, two leaders did put out tweets confirming finalisation of the poll partnership, but the seat-sharing issue still remains unresolved even as the Election Commission is gearing up to declare the poll schedule soon.The RLD, it is said, is trying to get as many seats out of the alliance as possible whereas the SP, the senior partner, is doing the reverse by taking the minimalist position on the seat sharing issue.Jayant is believed to be more confident of his party performing well in western UP this time because of a “favourable” political climate created by the farmers’ agitation that continued for around a year in the region. He also hopes to get sympathy votes due to the death of his father and party founder Chaudhary Ajit Singh in April last year.“This is probably the reason why Jayant has taken a maximalist stand on the seat sharing issue without being pragmatic,” a Samajwadi Party functionary said. 
06-01-2022||Delhi||Phone mechanic held for hoax PCR van robbery call in east Delhi||A 51-year-old TV and mobile phone mechanic was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly making a hoax call about a police patrolling (PCR) van being robbed by four motorcycle-borne men outside Vivek Vihar police station on Monday night, police said, adding that no such carjacking had taken place anywhere in the city.Police said the suspect was arrested from his home after a technical investigation.Police identified the arrested man as Anil Jain, a resident of Gandhi Nagar in east Delhi. He has been booked for giving false information under Indian Penal Code’s Section 182, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.On Monday around 10.45pm, Jain called the police control room and claimed that four men on two motorcycles snatched a mobile phone and a patrolling van from one sub-inspector Bane Singh outside the Vivek Vihar police station. Jain also claimed that the registration number plates of the two motocycles of the robbers were covered with mud.Two recordings of the calls began circulating on social media from Tuesday morning. When senior police officers, including the DCP, were contacted, they clarified that no such incident had taken place and they were not aware of any such call either. However, on Wednesday, the city police confirmed receiving a hoax call at the police control room and registering a case.Although Jain switched off his mobile number, the investigating team collected its call records from the concerned service provider and analysed it and traced Jain. “We interrogated Jain and arrested him after confirming that he made the hoax call. His voice was identical to that of the person who made that fake call,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.“Jain claimed that he made the hoax call in an inebriated condition. He used the name of his brother-in-law, Vimal Jain, while making that call. When our police personnel called him back on the mobile number and began enquiring about the incident, Jain switched off his cellphone,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.
06-01-2022||Pune||Pune police gets one day custody of Kalicharan Maharaj||PUNE The Pune police were granted one day’s police custody of a self-proclaimed godman on Wednesday, accused of making threatening and religious inflammatory statements at an event organised by a Hindutva organisation in Pune on December 19, 2021. The police had sought police custody of seven days for various reasons, including to record a voice sample of the arrested man. The man was identified as Kalicharan alias Abhijeet Dhanajay Saraag, 43, a resident of Shivajinagar in Akola. He was brought to Pune by the police on Wednesday morning from Raipur, Chattirsgarh, where he was booked for making offensive remarks about Mahatma Gandhi. The decision was granted by Judicial Magistrate First Class MA Shaikh in the presence of public prosecutor Yogesh Kadam and defence lawyer Advocate Amol Dange. Khadak police station officials and the judge ensured that journalists were not allowed inside an open courtroom. The police formed a chain outside the court to prevent reporters from entering. Kalicharan was speaking at an event organised by the Samasta Hindu Aghadi, led by Milind Ramakant Ekbote, who is also facing charges in at least two cases of causing violence in Bhima Koregaon in 2018. On December 19, between 7pm and 10pm, the godman spoke at the event held at Natubaug ground in Shukrawar peth. The godman made comments against members of the Muslim and Christian communities. “The arguments advanced by he defence were that the arrest is illegal as procedure of 41(a) of CrPC was not followed as per the Arnesh Kumar guidelines as punishment is less than 7 years. The police are duty-bound to issue notice and then arrest a person if there was possibility of tampering of evidence. As per remand report nothing is to be recovered at the instance from the accused. This is a politically motivated FIR. The FIR is filed after delay of 10 days. In this matter, notice was issued to all accused under Section 149 of CrPC and police officials were present on the spot and they could have arrested the accused under Section 151 of CrPC. However, they did not act on the spot as no such words have been uttered so the delay was to register a preplanned FIR,” said Advocate Dange. However, video recordings of the speech are available with the police for the event that was themed “Shivpratapdin - celebration of Afzalkhan’s assassination”. A complaint has been lodged by a police official. Along with Ekbote and Kalicharan, the others accused in the case include Mohanrao Shete, Deepak Babulal Nagpure, Captain (retired) Digendra Kumar. They have been booked in a case registered under Sections 295(a) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class), 298 (uttering any word or making any sound etc with intention to wound religious feelings), 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred of ill-will between classes) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Khadak police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-gets-one-day-custody-of-kalicharan-maharaj-101641398306367.html
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Heavy snowfall in Himachal hits road traffic, power supply||Heavy snowfall in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh since Tuesday night has brought life to a standstill in the remote areas of tribal Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba, Kullu and Shimla districts.A total of 248 roads, including two national highways, a state highway and the Rohtang tunnel, have been blocked for traffic due to inclement weather. Maximum 137 roads are closed in Lahaul and Spiti district. Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass has been closed after a foot of snow was recorded at the North Portal, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, the director of state disaster management authority, said. The 3,978m Rohtang Pass has got more than four feet of snow. Multhan in Kangra, Prasher Lake in Mandi and Rakchham in Kinnaur also got 1ft of snow each that is still continuing. Sangla got 10 inches of snow, while Chanshal, Kalpa, Gulaba and Shikari got 8 inches each. Solang near Manali got 7 inches of snow, Jalori Jot 6 inches, Koksar and Sissu 5 inches each, Dodra Kwar 3 inches and Pangi valley 2.5 inches. Triund, the trekkers’ destination above Dharamshala, also received snow, while the Dhauladhar Range wore a white mantle. Shimla SP Monika Bhutungru said the road from Kufri to Fagu has been completely blocked due to snowfall. People travelling between Shimla and Theog may use the Bhekhalti-Mashobra route. We suggest to avoid unnecessary travel during night time, she said. More than 160 transformers, including nearly 66 in Chamba, were hit due to the snowfall, causing the suspension of power supply in the remote areas. At least 39 water supply schemes, 32 in Chamba alone, have also been affected. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has urged tourists and local residents to avoid travelling to snowbound areas. He said the departments concerned are working to restore water and power supply besides reopening roads in the affected areas at earliest. Rain in Manali and Dalhousie; Keylong coldest in state The middle and lower hills experienced moderate to heavy rainfall. Dalhousie got 41mm of rainfall, Manali 40mm, Bhunter 32mm, Palampur 24.6mm, Dharamshala and Chamba 20mm each, Mandi 12.2mm and Shimla 11.6mm. The fresh spell of snow has led to maximum temperatures falling by several degrees. The minimum temperatures were 3-4 degrees above normal. Keylong was the coldest place in the state with a night temperature of minus 3.1°C followed by minus 1°C in Kufri. Kalpa recorded a low of minus 0.6°C, while the minimum temperature in Manali was 1.2 °C and Dalhousie 1.3°C. The meteorological department has issued a ‘yellow’ alert for heavy rain and snowfall over the weekend. “Heavy snowfall is likely in the districts of Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur and heavy rainfall is expected in Una, Hamirpur and Bilaspur on January 8 and 9,” said Shimla MeT centre director Surender Paul. It may cause disruptions of essential services like water and electricity supply and communications, he said, adding the low visibility conditions would prevail and there is also possibility of landslides in the hilly regions. 
