08-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid scare: Another Mathura temple imposes curbs on devotees||Agra After loads of restriction on ‘darshan’ by devotees at Bankey Behari Temple in Vrindavan in view of the spread of Covid-19, Oon Saturday t was the turn of Dwarkadheesh temple in Mathura to announce curbs. Here restrictions were imposed on distribution of ‘prasad’ to devotees. The entry and exit would be made from different gates from January 10, along with ban on ‘parikrama’ within the temple premises. Spokesperson of Dwarkadheesh Temple in Mathura Rakesh Tiwari informed on Saturday that the restrictions were being imposed in view of the fast spreading pandemic. “Our intention is ensuring safety of devotees. So ‘distribution of ‘prasad’ will be discontinued at Dwarkadeesh Temple from now onwards till further orders. The devotees will have separate entry and exits and will not be allowed to offer ‘parikrama’,” said Tiwari. “No devotee coming without mask will be allowed entry to the temple and we expect devotees to follow Covid -19 protocol while visiting the temple,” he added. Meanwhile in Agra, 271 more people tested positive for Covid -19 on Saturday, taking the overall number of positive cases here since March 2020 to 26525. The number of active cases rose to 743 in the district where till date 25323 people have been cured and discharged since March 2020. The cure rate slid further and reached at 95.46 % on Saturday. Agra district with fatality rate at 1.72 % has seen 458 deaths due to the pandemic since March 2020. The number of those vaccinated in the age group of 15 to 18 rose to 21680 in the district on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-scare-another-mathura-temple-imposes-curbs-on-devotees-101641666420363.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Over 36k Molnupiravir doses in private hospitals, govt centres prep to purchase stock||Pune: As per the Pune Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), Pune city’s private hospitals have over 36,000 capsules of Molnupiravir which was the most recent drug approved for the treatment of mild Covid patients whose symptoms could worsen from mild to moderate. However, in addition to this, Pune hospitals have more than enough stock of Favipiravir in both government and private hospitals while government hospitals in Pune are yet to stock Molnupiravir which was only recently added to the protocol of treatment of Covid patients. Also, for the treatment of moderate patients, Pune has close to 3.5 lakh vials of remdesivir. As the number of Covid cases surge in the district and the doubling rate comes down to one or two days, the administration is rushing to stock the essential drugs. While most new Covid cases are being reported among those who are vaccinated and the reported symptoms are mild, most patients might need the drugs used to treat patients suffering from the mild to moderate symptoms. While private hospitals have enough stock, government hospitals are in the process to procure the Molnupiravir which is the latest drug to get approval of Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for the treatment of adult patients with Covid, with SpO2 >93% and who have high risk of progression of the disease, including hospitalisation or death. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, civil surgeon for Pune district, said, “The drug Molnupiravir was only recently added to the list of drugs approved for the treatment of Covid patients and so we are in the process of procuring the drugs. However, Favipiravir which was already in use even in the second wave and is also used to treat Covid patients with mild symptoms is available in large stocks. We have enough stock as of now and there is no scarcity given the current situation.” Pune district also has over 1.28 lakh vials of remdesivir of which 1.24 lakh are in government hospitals and 4,772 in private hospitals. As of Friday (January 7), of the 7,665 active Covid cases in Pune district, close to 10% or 770 required remdesivir as per data from the Pune FDA office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-36k-molnupiravir-doses-in-private-hospitals-govt-centres-prep-to-purchase-stock-101641666419107.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Seven-phase UP assembly polls to begin from western districts that currently have high Covid caseload||The seven-phase Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly polls to be held between February 10 and March 7 will commence from the western districts that account for about 50% of the state’s Covid-19 caseload after a surge in the infection graph since the last week of December 2021. The polling dates in UP are: February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and 7. The counting of votes will be taken up on March 10, the election commission announced on Saturday.In the first phase, polling will be held on February 10 in 58 assembly constituencies in 11 districts, including Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida), Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura and Agra.About 50% of UP’s 6,411 fresh cases – 3,402 — were reported in these 11 districts going to polls in the first phase. These districts also account for over 50% of the active cases (10,128), making the task of holding poll challenging for the poll panel.With the 6,411 fresh Covid-19 cases across the state in the last 24 hours, the tally of active cases in UP has gone up to 18,551, according to data released by the state health and family welfare department on Saturday.The positivity rate increased to 2.91% while the recovery rate that was 98.6% in December declined to 97.6% on Saturday.The second phase voting will take place on February 14 in 55 assembly constituencies in nine districts.The third phase will have voting in 59 assembly constituencies in 16 districts, the fourth phase in 60 assembly constituencies in nine districts and the fifth phase in 60 assembly constituencies in 11 districts. During the sixth phase, polling will take place in 57 assembly constituencies in 10 districts. The seventh phase will see polling in 54 assembly constituencies in nine districts.Acknowledging that the Covid-19 situation in the poll bound states is dynamic and not static, the poll preparations have been made to hold a Covid safe election, said chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra in New Delhi.For his part, Uttar Pradesh chief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said the direction issued by EC for ensuring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour during the election campaign and polling will be implemented strictly. A ban has been imposed on physical rallies, road shows, padyatras, street corner meetings till January 15. The political parties have been urged to hold virtual and digital campaigning on various social media platforms, he said. The election commission’s guidelines have been sent to all the district magistrates and they have been directed to ensure that there is no violation of the poll panel order. The district magistrates will be held responsible for the violation of Covid guidelines issued by the ECI, he said. EC has also directed the chief secretary and state health department officers to ensure that maximum people are fully vaccinated with the double dose, personnel deployed in the poll duty get the precautionary booster dose and the polling stations are fully sanitised. The political parties have been told to furnish an undertaking that they would abide by the Covid-19 guidelines, Shukla said. Although the Covid-19 infection is spreading fast in the state, the virus is mild and this can be gauged from the fact that during the second wave on March 29, 2021, out of the 2,556 active cases in Lucknow, 312 people were admitted in hospitals but on Saturday, out of the 2,573 cases in the city, merely 15 patients are admitted in hospitals, said additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad.Uttar Pradesh has ramped up Covid-19 vaccination by administering 21.5 crore doses. While 7.7 crore people (53%) have received two doses, 13.11 crore (88.98 %) have been given the first dose. Strict measures have implemented in the districts in which the active Covid tally is 1,000, he said. Dr PK Gupta, former president of Lucknow branch of the Indian Medical Association, said two-month long poll process in Uttar Pradesh will commence on January 14 amid the surge in Covid cases in UP.With the third wave likely to peak by January-end or the first week of February, EC’s guidelines to check gatherings should be implemented strictly till then and political parties should be motivated to hold virtual meetings, he said. The notification for the first phase of the UP assembly elections will be issued on January 14, Uttar Pradesh chief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said on Saturday.With the announcement of the assembly election schedule, the mode code of conduct (MCC) has come into effect in Uttar Pradesh, Shukla said. Directions have been issued for effective implementation of MCC. He also said orders have been issued for a ban on the transfer of officials and employees associated with the election work.For the first phase, the last date for filing nominations is January 21 and scrutiny will take place on January 24. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is January 27.The second phase notification will be issued on January 21, and the last date of nominations is January 28. The notification for third phase will be issued on January 25 and for fourth phase on January 27. The notification for the fifth phase will be issued on February 1,sixth phase on February and seventh and last phase on February 10. 
08-01-2022||Pune||Hospitalisation among vaccinated, unvaccinated in proportion, more data needed: officials||While the perception that more breakthrough Covid cases are being reported and most report only mild symptoms has led to a general public consensus that the Omicron variant could not be as fatal as the Delta variant, the data from Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department shows that the number of those who require hospitalisation, ICU beds or ventilators is almost proportionate irrespective of the vaccination status. It further pushes the requirement for the third dose which the civic body will start administering from Monday as the waning antibodies could be the reason for reinfection or breakthrough cases, if civic data is to be believed. As per the PMC health department, of the 3,976 Covid positives tracked for their vaccination status by the civic body up until January 5, 627 had not taken a single dose of the vaccine while 3,243 were breakthrough infections. However, out of the 627 patients reported who have not taken a single vaccine dose, two required ICU beds while out of the 3,243 breakthrough infections, four required ICU beds. While the perception of Omicron being milder is leading to leniency among those vaccinated, the PMC data shows that with comorbidity factor and waning antibodies in place, both vaccinated and unvaccinated population could be at equal risk. The data up to January 5 includes only those with vaccination status and needs to be updated, said civic officials to get a holistic picture. Earlier, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol had said that 80% of the new cases are breakthrough infections and not require hospitalisations. A senior doctor from KEM requesting anonymity said, “As per the data from our hospital admissions, of the 48 active Covid-19 cases, 34 or 70.8% are fully vaccinated. Of the three on ventilators, two have had no doses and one has had both doses. One on High Flow Nasal Cannula or HFNC has had no dose and one on oxygen has had two doses. All others are on room air and only isolated and 22 or (45%) have comorbidities. Of these 48, one is 9 months old, one is 13 years old and 21 of the 48 are over 60 years.” The data shows that of the 3,900 new Covid cases reported, over 3,200 are breakthrough infections and despite fully vaccinated status, three needed oxygen beds and four needed ICU. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer said, “Although currently the data might show that there is no huge disparity in those admitted in terms of their vaccination status, this would be too early to conclude anything based on this data alone. We have little information to jump to any conclusion. The number of cases is doubling in one or two days and so the picture could change drastically. However, we can say that despite such a surge the number of hospitalisations has not risen in proportion because compared to the second wave we have a large number of people vaccinated.” Starting from Monday, the civic body will start a precautionary dose or the third dose for those who have completed nine months post second dose and for healthcare and frontline workers who will be given the third dose. Earlier studies had indicated that the antibodies developed post vaccination could wane off in a couple of months and so the government is now pushing for a third dose given the much anticipated third wave driven by Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospitalisation-among-vaccinated-unvaccinated-in-proportion-more-data-needed-officials-101641666000077.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC to start rolling out third precautionary doses from Jan 10||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday said that it will start administering the third ‘precautionary’ dose of Covid-19 vaccine to health and frontline workers and citizens above 60 years of age with comorbidities from January 10 onwards.The BMC has said that an individual who has completed nine months or 39 weeks since the second dose will be eligible to take the third dose. The municipal corporation also maintained that a person needs to take the same vaccine for the third dose which they have taken earlier. Which means, if an individual has been administered with Covishield then they will have to take Covishield only and not any other vaccination.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of public health in BMC said that the third dose will be administered in all the operational vaccination centres across Mumbai. He shared that for the time being no dedicated booths will be required for inoculating beneficiaries exclusively with third dose.“At present, the footfall for general public is really low at the vaccination centres, as majority of the population are vaccinated. Which is why we are not starting any dedicated booths for the time being and have decided to wait and watch for now,” Kakani said.Both online and walk-in facilities will be made available for the precautionary doses and eligible citizens by the BMC. Citizens can also get their doses from private hospitals as well.The BMC on Saturday also informed that the online registration window has opened from January 8 and incase if an eligible frontline or health-worker who is less than 60 years of age is unable to get registered online then he/she will be have to register on spot by displaying their identity cards.“Those who are under 60 years of age is categorised as general citizens so they need to register themselves first at government centres physically by showing their proof of occupation. If they wish to take the dose in a private centre then they will have to first come at government centre for registration and then go to private centre to take the dose as the registration facility is unavailable at private centres,” the BMC statement said.“The senior citizens taking the precautionary dose will also have to display a doctor’s document and consent certificate as a proof of comorbidity,” said the statement.Kakani also informed, “At present we can say that only 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh citizens have finished their nine month window, which is why we are not expecting a high footfall on the first day itself. But as time will progess, more people will become eligible for their dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-start-rolling-out-third-precautionary-doses-from-jan-10-101641665459038.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Overnight rain spell gives Delhi its wettest Jan in 22 years||A widespread spell of rain on Friday night gave Delhi its wettest January in 22 years, just eight days into the new year, showed data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), as the showers mopped up the city’s pollution, giving the Capital an air quality index (AQI) lower than 100 for the first time since mid-October.The IMD’s Safdarjung observatory, considered to be the official marker of the city’s weather, recorded 41mm of rain on Saturday. The last time Delhi saw more rain in January was in 1999, when the city recorded 46mm of precipitation on January 7. The Palam weather station received 47.6mm rain during the same period, which according to IMD, is the highest rainfall in 27 years. On January 9, 1995, the Palam station recorded 52.2mm of rainfall. Weather officials attributed the rain to a western disturbance and the induced cyclonic circulation. The western disturbance is over north Pakistan and neighbouring areas, while the induced cyclonic circulation is over east Rajasthan and neighbouring areas, the IMD said in a press release on Saturday.RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD, said while the western disturbance is a routine phenomenon, the widespread rain this time is due to a “strong” western disturbance. “Some western disturbances are so strong that their tail lies till the central part of the Arabian Sea. The weather activity that we witnessed was on account of a huge western disturbance that picked up moisture from a vast area of the central Arabian Sea and covered areas such as Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” said Jenamani. He said Punjab, Haryana, and parts of Rajasthan also recorded high rainfall. “The western disturbance resulted in high rainfall in a number of areas. That doesn’t happen normally. The western disturbance was very active this time,” he said.The rain resulted in temperatures dropping in the national capital; on Saturday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung station was 16.4 degrees Celsius (°C), three degrees below normal and nearly four lower than Friday’s reading of 20.3°C. The minimum temperature on Saturday was 15.2 degrees Celsius, with the difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures on Saturday being just 1.2 degrees. “An interesting thing to note is that the difference between the day and night temperature is only one degree. That is very unique,” said Jenamani. The IMD said fairly widespread rainfall is likely to continue in Delhi on Saturday and decrease thereafter. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, a cloudy sky with light rain is expected on Sunday. The air quality in the city also improved on Saturday, thanks to the rain. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) reading of 91 (satisfactory), an improvement from Friday’s AQI of 182, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin. The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 400 as “severe”. The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) attributed the improvement in AQI to strong dispersion of pollutants and wet deposition of particulate matter on account of rain. “From 9th (Sunday) onwards air quality is likely to degrade due to gradual decrease in maximum and minimum temperatures as well as wind speed, all contributing to low dispersion of pollutants,” the forecast said. In the aftermath of rain, waterlogging was reported from various parts of the capital. Areas such as New Friends Colony, Dabri, Bindapur, Tilak Nagar, and Chattarpur were inundated, traffic officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/overnight-rain-spell-gives-delhi-its-wettest-jan-in-22-years-101641665279193.html
08-01-2022||Pune||No rains likely in Pune for few days||According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune city may not experience rainfall in the next few days, but may see drop in temperature. “Pune city has no chances of rainfall. But the skies across the city may get clear from January 9. Maximum temperature will be around 29 to 30 degrees Celsius in the next few days. After January 9, the night temperature may see a drop of three to four degrees,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune. On Saturday, city’s day temperature was 30.3 degrees Celsius which was 1.3 degrees Celsius warmer than normal. And night temperature was 13.5 which was 2.5 degrees Celsius warmer than normal. The days are likely to remain warmer in many parts of the state with temporary temperature drop likely in the next few days. Many rural parts of Pune district reported fog and haze during early hours which continued in some areas till mid-morning hours. Though the phenomenon has become a common occurrence, as per climatology data, fog-filled days are rare, as per the weather department. Kashyapi said the western disturbance (WD) as a cyclonic circulation lies over north Pakistan and neighbourhoods in lower and middle tropospheric levels. “The induced cyclonic circulation lies over east Rajasthan and neighbourhoods at lower tropospheric levels. High moisture feeding from Arabian sea over northwest and adjoining central India in lower and middle tropospheric levels is very likely to continue till January 10. The confluence of winds from Arabian sea and Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels is very likely over central India till January 12,” he said. In other subdivisions of Maharashtra, rainfall along with thunderstorms is likely. “On January 9, Marathwada may receive lightning and thunderstorms at isolated places. On January 9 and January 10, moderate rainfall along with lightning and thunderstorms may continue in Vidarbha as well,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-rains-likely-in-pune-for-few-days-101641664860824.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Misbehaviour by ‘drunk’ doc: Nurses, ward boys protest at Prayagraj hospital||Upset over an alleged incident of ​misbehaviour by a doctor in an inebriated state on Friday night, nurses along with ward boys and other staff boycotted work at SRN Hospital on Saturday. The hospital staff alleged that the doctor first misbehaved with a nurse and when a ward boy tried to stop him, he slapped him. The staff also staged a protest and demanded strict action against the doctor.The protest saw the routine functioning of the hospital remaining hit for around five hours. The staff returned to their duties only after assurances by city magistrate Gaurav Srivastava and hospital superintendent Dr Ajay Saxena.As per reports, a nurse was on duty in wards 1 and 2 of orthopaedic department on Friday night. It is alleged that a doctor of the department came there and started misbehaving with the nurse. Ward boy Mayaram, who reached there, stopped the doctor who reportedly slapped the ward boy and left.On Saturday, the news of the incident spread among the hospital staff. Within moments, the nurses, ward boys and other staff of the hospital assembled at a site near the pathology centre on the hospital campus and started staging a protest.They also raised slogans demanding action against the guilty doctor who they alleged had been harassing the nurse for the past many days and despite complaints no action had been taken against him. In the afternoon, city magistrate Gaurav Srivastava reached the hospital. He along with the hospital superintendent Dr Ajay Saxena assured the protesting staff to probe the matter. Hospital superintendent Dr Ajay Saxena said following assurances, the nurses and other staff were back to work. He said a five-member team would be set up to inquire in to the incident. “The committee will be formed on Sunday as the MLN Medical College principal Dr SP Singh is out of town. The inquiry committee will give its report within 48 hours. After that further action will be taken,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/misbehaviour-by-drunk-doc-nurses-ward-boys-protest-at-prayagraj-hospital-101641664619224.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Lawyers pitch in to help two girls pay their tuition fee||Several lawyers, who were awaiting their turn for video conferencing hearings at the Delhi high court, on Friday pitched in to help two underprivileged girls, who would have otherwise had to forgo their studies for lack of funds. Not only did the lawyers help the two girls pay the admission fee for the current session, but the Delhi high court bar association president Mohit Mathur also assured justice Najmi Waziri that the bar will take care of the further expenses of the two girls whose parents were divorced and their father did not have the means to pay their fee.While hearing a contempt plea filed by the mother against the father for not paying maintenance, the court was informed that the younger daughter is pursuing her bachelors in law from a college in Ghaziabad and is currently in the third year. She missed out on the midterms of the fifth semester due to non-payment of tuition fee, the court was told.The court was also told that if the outstanding amount is not paid by January 10; the law student would lose an academic year. The mother also told the judge that the older daughter, who is pursuing B-2 Level Certificate German Language Course (External) from Goethe Institute, Max Mueller Bhawan, on KG Marg in New Delhi, has been made an external student due to non-payment of ₹12,400 towards tuition fee.The father was engaged in photocopying and bookbinding business at the Tis Hazari court and said he does not have the wherewithal to meet the expenses. On an earlier date, he had informed the court that the shop has been taken away by the Delhi Bar Association (DBA). Following this, the court posted the matter to February 1 for further hearing.However, the mother approached the court with an urgent application saying she was facing financial difficulties due to which the girls would have to leave their studies.As the court was mulling a solution, lawyers logged in to the virtual hearing and offered to contribute the fee. Immediately, 10 lawyers contributed towards the educational expenses and gathered over ₹1 lakh to support the girls.Seeing the overwhelming response, the court asked the advocates to jointly contribute towards the children’s education and deposit money in the petitioner mother’s bank account.Later, speaking to HT, the mother said she wants her daughter to become a judge so that she can help similarly placed women in distress.“I wanted to make my daughters independent, especially after what I have suffered at the hands of my in-laws and husband whose behaviour deteriorated after I gave birth to my second daughter. I want my younger daughter, pursuing law, to become a judge and ensure that none has to face the situation that we have faced,” the woman said.The woman, who was married in 1998, left home in 2011 and instituted proceedings to dissolve the marriage while also filing a domestic violence case against her husband and in-laws. She alleged that in the last 11 years, she has been bearing the educational expenses of her children by taking money from her retired father, doing petty jobs and borrowing heavily from others. She also claimed that the husband, being rich, has the clout and has given false submission to the court. “I think that the law should be amended to such an extent that all maintenance orders passed by the family courts are strictly adhered to and no one should face the hardships due to a broken marriage, just like I did,” she said.
08-01-2022||Delhi||300,000 people in Delhi eligible to get Covid booster shots from Monday||Senior citizens and at least 300,000 fully vaccinated health and front line workers will be eligible for a third precautionary jab that will start being administered in Delhi from Monday, according to estimates by local authorities. The directorate of family welfare of the Delhi government issued an order on Friday, asking all district magistrates, hospitals and vaccination centres to administer the precautionary dose to eligible beneficiaries based on the reference number mentioned on their vaccination certificates. Online appointments on the CoWIN portal for the booster jabs began on Saturday evening. Those who got the second dose 39 weeks ago (roughly nine months) will be eligible for the precautionary shots, health officials said.“The reference number generated on the vaccination certificate identifies the beneficiaries as health care workers, front line workers, senior citizens, or the general people. That is how the verification of eligible people will be done to avoid discrepancies,” a government spokesperson said. “If by chance an eligible beneficiary does not have his or her status assigned as a health or fornt line worker, then they will first have to get their status appropriately assigned to get the precautionary dose,” the spokesperson added. “For those aged 60 years and above, there will not be any problems in obtaining the shot as their age is clearly mentioned on the certificates.”To assign the status of a health or front line worker, the beneficiary will have to produce his or her employment certificate at any government-run vaccination centre. For senior citizens, the booster shot will be available at all vaccination centres across the city. The CoWIN system will send a text alert to the beneficiaries when their booster dose becomes due.In its Friday order, the Delhi government urged private hospitals to ensure that their staff get the booster dose. “Private hospitals that function as Covid-19 vaccination centres can vaccinate their staff (doctors, paramedics etc.) at the hospital itself,” the January 7 order said. “District magistrates, chief medical officers and district immunization officers are requested to issue necessary instructions to the hospitals concerned in this regard.”“The number of daily eligible beneficiaries will keep changing depending on the 39-week gap,” a health official said on condition of anonymity. “Text messages will be sent to the eligible people accordingly. Districts are also spreading awareness among senior citizens about the programme. A doctor’s certificate is not required for senior citizens with comorbidities to obtain the shot.” On December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the Centre’s decision to start precautionary third doses for high priority categories from January 10. The same vaccine that was administered as the first and second doses is to be administered as the booster shot as well. It means those who were administered Covaxin as their first and second doses will receive the same as their precautionary dose. People who received Covishield and the first and second does will likewise get the same vaccine as a booster dose, officials said.The booster dose programme comes at a time when the country is in the clutch of a third wave of Covid-19 infections. The emergence of a highly transmissible Omicron variant is contributing to the surge, though the severity and fatality of the disease is currently low.Delhi on Saturday reported 20,181 fresh Covid-19 infections and seven deaths. The number of containment zones in Delhi on Saturday was 9,227.All arrangements are in place to start administering booster shots for the high priority groups, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said. “We have adequate doses and proper infrastructure in place to vaccinate about 300,000 people everyday,” he said. “Delhi has full stock of booster doses to start the drive.” 
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Like NZ PM Ardern, grandma Indira my inspiration: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday said she liked New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern among the present women leaders though her grandmother the late Indira Gandhi was her inspiration.She connected with the people on social media, responded to questions from them a few hours before the Election Commission of India announced a ban on physical rallies till January 15 while announcing the schedule for assembly elections in five states including Uttar Pradesh.Priyanka responded to some of the questions sent to her. “Who is your favourite leader,” was one of the questions. “I will say Jacinda Ardern. She is Prime Minister of New Zealand. I like her because she is natural. She is courageous…. She is connected to people. She carried her child to parliament,” replied Priyanka. She, however, added if she talked about leaders of the past, it was her grandmother the late Indira Gandhi. “She was an inspiration to me,” said Priyanka.Asked to narrate an incident about Indira Gandhi, Priyanka referred to an incident of stone pelting at her to make her point, “She was fearless. She continued to speak though her nose was bleeding (when a stone hit her). She left only when security persons insisted,” said Priyanka.About the Congress’ newly coined slogan “Ladki Hun, Lad Sakti Hun”, Priyanka said the same was worked out collectively at a meeting. She used the occasion to read out some of the promises the Congress has made in the women manifesto titled “Shakti Vidhan” and said her party’s campaign had elicited a good response from the people.Replying to a question about striking a balance between her married life and politics, Priyanka said she would complete 25 years of her married life next month and she did not face any issues in striking a balance as her children had grown up and her husband was cooperative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/like-nz-pm-ardern-grandma-indira-my-inspiration-priyanka-101641664078818.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Alld HC junks PIL against ECI order reserving Cong, BJP’s poll symbols||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition challenging the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) September 1989 orders reserving symbols of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress and according them the status of national parties. In one of two orders passed on September 19, 1989, the ECI had accorded the status of a national party to the BJP and reserved “Lotus” symbol for it. Similarly on September 23, 1989, the poll panel passed another order granting the status of a national party to the Congress and reserving “Hand” symbol for it. Petitioner Sheshmani Nath Tripathi, who is a member of the Samajwadi Party, had contended that the Election Commission of India lacked the authority to issue such an order under the Representation of the People Act, 1951.A division bench of Justice DK Upadhyay and Justice Saroj Yadav on January 5 said: “Thus, so far as recognition of political parties as a national party or a state party is concerned, the Allotment Order, 1968 contains provisions empowering the Election Commission to do so.” “The writ petition also, in our considered opinion, suffers from non-joinder of necessary parties,” the court said. “In this regard, it is noticeable that though it has been prayed in the writ petition that paragraph 3 of the letters of recognition dated 19th September, 1989 and 23rd September, 1989 may be quashed and struck down, however, the political parties, which are likely to be affected in case the prayer made in this petition is granted, have not been impleaded as respondents,” the court observed. The court examined provisions of the Representation of People Act, 1951 and Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) order. The court further observed: “The petitioner has also submitted that in absence of any statutory powers vested in the Election Commission of India in the field covered by the Act, the power to recognize a political party and to reserve the election symbol could not have been exercised by the Election Commission.”“The said submission is completely misconceived and is untenable. The recognition of a political party as a National Party or a State Party and reservation of election symbol are the functions which are exercised by the Election Commission under the provisions of Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968, as amended from time to time,” the court said. “Thus, the argument of the petitioner that the Election Commission does not have any authority to recognize a political party or to reserve an election symbol also fails,” the court observed. “For the discussions made and reasons given above we find that the writ petition is highly misconceived which is hereby dismissed,” it said.
08-01-2022||Lucknow||UP govt bans school fee hike for upcoming academic session||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday banned any increase in school fees across all the boards for the upcoming academic session (2022-23) because of the prevailing pandemic situation. The schools will continue to charge fees as per the 2019-20 session.Additional chief secretary, secondary education, Aradhana Shukla has issued directives to all private schools across the state in this regard. This is for the second successive year that the state government has prohibited schools from increasing fees. “All schools in the state affiliated to CBSE, ICSE or UP Board will not be allowed to increase fees for the academic session 2022-23. The schools will only be allowed to charge fees which were applicable in the year 2019-20,” the officer said.Shukla also communicated the same to the director education, the secretary, secondary education, along with the divisional education director and the district inspectors of schools through a letter dated January 7.As per the letter, the officer has also warned strict action against schools violating the order by increase fee. The decision was taken in the interest of parents to save them from inconvenience caused due to hike in school fees, education department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-bans-school-fee-hike-for-upcoming-academic-session-101641663238727.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Custodial death cases must be viewed with greatest sensitivity and concern: HC||Expressing concern over delay in submission of judicial enquiry report in a 2020 custodial death case, the Allahabad High Court said where there is allegation of death in police custody, the judicial enquiry cannot be allowed to drag for long, as “these are instances which have to be viewed with greatest sensitivity and concern”. Hearing a writ petition filed by one Suresh Devi and Ghurmal, a division bench comprising Justice Ashwani Kumar Mishra and Justice Deepak Verma directed the registry of Allahabad High Court to enquire from the district judge, Bulandshahr as to when the enquiry report has been submitted in the custodial death of one Somdutt alias Sonu Bairagi.“In the event, such a report is not submitted, the explanation of the judicial officer concerned in that regard shall be placed before the court by the next date fixed as a period of more than one year has expired,” the court added.While directing to list this case on January 27, 2022 for the next hearing, the court in its order dated January 7 further directed that in the event, such enquiry has not been concluded so far, the same shall be concluded most expeditiously by following the procedure in law. In the petition filed by Suresh Devi and her husband Ghurmal of Bulandshahr, it has been alleged that their son - Somdutt died in police custody on the intervening night of December 11/12, 2020 after he was arrested by Khurja Nagar police of Bulandshahar in a case under section 366 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).In the petition, they have requested the court to direct the authorities concerned to protect the life and liberty of the petitioners as their son was subjected to torture and murder as he had contracted inter-caste marriage out of his own free will. The petitioners’ counsel Jamil Ahamad Azmi and Ashutosh Kumar Tiwari drew the attention of the court to the provision contained in section 176 (1)A of criminal procedure code (CrPC), which contemplates holding of a judicial enquiry where death is caused in police custody. It was also stated that no post mortem was carried out and instead the policemen cremated the body contrary to all settled norms. The additional government advocate (AGA), representing the state government, did not dispute the fact that a judicial enquiry was initiated with a request made to district judge on January 6, 2021 and stated that a report was still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/custodial-death-cases-must-be-viewed-with-greatest-sensitivity-and-concern-hc-101641663058811.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi announces advanced paediatric centre at SGPGI||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced that a ₹500 crore advanced paediatric centre will be developed at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow.He also said the government will ensure that the project comes up in a time-bound manner. “It will be a centre for children with all the components existing as departments under one roof. It would provide holistic care to children,” said a press release issued by SGPGIMS soon after the CM’s announcement.Yogi said this while dedicating to people the newly constructed emergency medicine and renal transplant centre at the medical institute. The centre houses a host of advanced facilities under one roof. The inauguration ceremony took place in CV Raman auditorium at the SGPGIMS. He said kidney patients in Uttar Pradesh will now get best treatment facilities. “The day is not far when SGPGI will become the hub of organ transplant. Not only will the kidney transplant project expand here but liver transplant will also get a boost,” Yogi said.“When the foundation stone of the emergency medicine and kidney transplant centre was laid three years ago, we were not sure if it could be established on time. But despite Covid, it has been inaugurated today with the help of the central government and that too within time,” the CM said.Various projects worth more than ₹600 crores have been inaugurated at SGPGI, a CM tweet reads. It says with this people of UP will be able to get better medical facilities. His tweet says, “With a view to providing best facilities to kidney patients in UP, the emergency medicine and kidney transplant centre has been inaugurated at SGPGI today.”“We will not let any challenges to become a breaker,” Yogi said while lauding the efforts put up by the team of SGPGI for excellent management of Covid 19 pandemic without being affected by the criticism which was also a part of this difficult journey.Stating that the SGPGI played an important role during the first and second wave of Covid, the CM said in fight against the pandemic, medical institutions like SGPGI worked relentlessly. Yogi also shared his intensive and extensive planning and research work done to eradicate Japanese Encephalitis (JE) from eastern UP, particularly Kushinagar district, which could only be done with the interdepartmental coordination.“Today, when someone asks me what is the biggest achievement of our government, I say that earlier thousands of children would lose their lives due to encephalitis. But after coming to power in 2017, we have been able to control encephalitis to a great extent. Our government has given a new life to eastern Uttar Pradesh,” the CM said.The kidney transplant centre will enhance the capacity of dialysis to 110 dialysis stations from the existing 55 stations, clinical beds from 62 to 97, critical care nephrology from 8 to 11 beds and there will be two operation theatres dedicated for intervention nephrology to cater to estimated 50,000 patients of end-stage kidney disease requiring dialysis and kidney transplant in UP.Referring to the achievements of the government in the medical field, the CM said before 2017 the medical infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh was like a challenge. The state had 12 medical colleges. “Today we are moving towards setting up medical colleges in every district,” he added.The new emergency medicine centre is built to cater to over one lakh emergency patients per year. This is a seven-fold increase in the number emergency beds from the current 30 to 210 beds. It will have multiple (over 20) emergency care segments, including a dedicated radiology wing with MRI/CT/ultrasound/DSA/x-rays.Speaking on the occasion, SGPGIMS director prof Radha Krishan Dhiman presented a detailed report of the facilities of the centre. He also expressed his gratitude to the state government for extending its full support in completing the centre within record time.Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs Kaushal Kishore; UP minister, medical education, Suresh Kumar Khanna; UP minister of state, medical education, Sandeep Kumar Singh; chief secretary, Uttar Pradesh, Durga Shankar Mishra and principal secretary, medical education, UP, Alok Kumar were also present on the occasion.
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Hindu organisations demand arrest of Jawed Habib under NSA for spitting on woman’s hair||Various Hindu organisations have demanded immediate arrest of celebrity hairstylist Jawed Habib under National Security Act (NSA) amid a major uproar over a viral video wherein he is seen spitting on a Baghpat-based beautician’s hair during a workshop in Muzaffarnagar on Wednesday.A case has already been lodged against Habib on the complaint of the beautician with Mansoorpur police of Muzaffarnagar on Thursday under sections 355 and 504 of IPC and Epidemic Act. “The CCTV footage of the hotel, where the event was organised, is being scanned and hotel staff are being quizzed about the incident. Appropriate action will be taken after collecting evidences,” SHO of Mansoorpur police station Sunil Kumar Saini had said.Meanwhile, Hindu organisations held a meeting at the house of Bhawani Sena’s district general secretary Santosh Devi at Nawala village in Muzaffarnagar on Friday evening and demanded immediate arrest of Habib under NSA for insulting women. Shiv Sena district president Bittu Sikhera and Sarv Shakti Sena district incharge Vinay Bindal and their supporters also attended the meet. They also declared that Habib will not be allowed to enter the district. Bhairav Sena’s district incharge Ashok Sharma has pledged to remove all posters of Habib from saloons in the district. The controversy erupted on Thursday after the video of Habib spitting on the woman’s hair started making rounds on social media, drawing a major backlash from people and caught the attention of the National Commission for Women (NCW) that has sent a notice to Habib and summoned him on January 11.In the video, the hairstylist can be seen using his saliva while parting the woman’s hair and saying that in case of a dearth of water, one can use saliva. The woman, who runs her beauty parlor in Baraut town of Baghpat told mediapersons that the act had destroyed her career.Meanwhile, Habib took to Instagram to apologise for the incident and said his act was an attempt to make the workshop “humorous”. “What can I say? If you are truly hurt, I apologise from the bottom of my heart. Please forgive me, I’m sorry,” he added in the video statement. However, the beautician dismissed the apology as “drama” and said she will fight for justice till her last breath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hindu-organisations-demand-arrest-of-jawed-habib-under-nsa-for-spitting-on-woman-s-hair-101641662698611.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Woman attempts self-immolation at police station in Mathura||A 35-year-old woman attempted self-immolation at the gate of Raya police station of Mathura on Saturday after being allegedly pressurized by the accused against whom she had lodged a case of molestation in 2017.The woman with 90% burns was shifted to Agra in serious condition, SSP Mathura Gaurav Grover said.“The woman came to Raya police station in Mathura at about 12 noon on Saturday along with her husband to lodge a case against some people of her village who had lodged a plaint against her husband on Friday. Later she set herself afire,” Grover said. The SSP further said the woman was immediately rushed to district hospital in Mathura where from she was shifted to SN Medical College in Agra. “A probe by SP Rural Sirish Chand has been ordered,” he said.Husband of the woman alleged that those accused in the molestation were pressuring them to withdraw their case by lodging fake cases against him. To note, the woman had lodged a case of molestation under section 354 of IPC against Harish Chandra at Raya police station on Mathura in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-attempts-self-immolation-at-police-station-in-mathura-101641662338968.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Y+ security cover to Punjab MLA Fatehjang Bajwa who recently joined BJP||New Delhi: The Union government has provided Y+ category VIP security cover to Punjab MLA Fatehjang Singh Bajwa who recently joined the BJP, according to official sources.The 63-year-old is a legislator from the Qadian assembly seat of the state and switched over the BJP from the Congress on December 28. He is the younger brother of Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa.Sources in the security establishment told PTI that Fatehjang Bajwa has been provided the Y+ security cover for his movement in poll-bound Punjab.The Union home ministry sanctioned the deployment on the basis of a recommendation sent by central intelligence agencies that underlined potential security threats to him, they said.The task has been given to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and as part of this security categorisation, Bajwa will have a team of 3-4 armed commandos every time he travels in the state.Recently, the Union government had granted a higher Z-category VIP security cover to Punjab politician Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi who had joined the BJP in December.The security cover of Manjinder Singh Sirsa, former Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief, was also upgraded by the Centre from the lower category of Y to Z. He also joined the BJP last month in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/y-security-cover-to-punjab-mla-fatehjang-bajwa-who-recently-joined-bjp-101641662038374.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Covid numbers show marginal dip, experts think curve may be reaching a plateau||Mumbai Mumbai’s Covid numbers showed a marginal dip on Saturday, even though the overall case tally stayed above the 20,000-mark for the second consecutive day. In the last 24 hours, the city saw 20,318 fresh infections taking the overall case tally to 8,95,098 and five deaths, taking the overall toll to 16,399.A total of 71,019 tests were conducted in Mumbai on Saturday. This was for the third consecutive day that nearly 70,000 tests have been conducted. The daily positivity rate stood at 28.6 per cent.With the new cases hovering around 20,000, doctors are wondering whether the third wave is reaching a plateau, which means that the daily cases will remain constant for some time, before a gradual decline. However, experts said that they need to wait for one more week to reach a concrete conclusion. “For every 65,000 to70,000 tests that are being done, about 15,000 to 20,000 fresh cases are being reported now. So, clearly, there is not much difference in the ratio between the tests conducted and positive cases. It’s possible that if more tests are done, then more cases could be reported,” Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of both the National and Maharashtra Covid task force.On Friday, municipal commissioner, Iqbal Singh Chahal had cited the example of Omicron spread in South Africa and said that the infection rate started to recede after the fifth week, and added that Mumbai is in the third week.However, Pandit on Saturday said it will be unfair to compare the scenario of Mumbai with that of South Africa. “The vaccination rate and seropositivity rate in Mumbai is much higher than South Africa. So scientifically, we are in a much better situation. It’s safe to say that we are inching towards the saturation point and the graph is slowly moving towards a plateau. But we need to wait for some more time,” he added. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force, said that there are many people in the city who have taken self Covid tests, and these numbers are not getting added to the final tally. “It is still premature to say that whether we have reached the plateau or peak. We need to see one more week as the cases can go up by next week as well. However, the key takeaway is that the severity of the fresh cases is lower now,” said Joshi.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in charge of public health in Mumbai, however, said that the next one week will be important to decide the further course of action.“In many cases, we can see that patients are developing symptoms two days after testing positive and require immediate medical attention. Keeping this factor in mind, it is safe to assume that hospital admissions may go up next week and we are prepared for that,” said Kakani. He further added that if the positivity rate goes up, then certain curbs may be modified. Out of the fresh infections reported on Friday, 16,661 (82%) patients were asymptomatic and the BMC data also showed that nearly 1,257 patients were hospitalised in the past 24 hours and the overall hospital bed occupancy level stood at 21 per cent on Saturday.According to data available on the civic dashboard, as of January 8, nearly 42 per cent of the beds in the private hospitals were full. Senior doctors and medical experts also said that the demand for hospital beds is higher in three private hospitals, which includes Bombay Hospital, Breach Candy and Lilavati Hospital.Dr Gautam Bhansali, who is a doctor of Bombay Hospital and the coordinator of all the private hospitals for Covid management in the city, said that the occupancy rate of the Covid beds in these three hospitals is around 60 per cent.“The hospital admissions that are happening now are mostly senior citizens who are coming for the antibody cocktail and these are not long-term admissions as they are getting discharged within 24-48 hours after their treatment,” said Dr V Ravishankar from Lilavati Hospital.Mayor confirms no weekend curfewMumbai mayor, Kishori Pednekar on Saturday said that weekend lockdown will not be imposed in the city and urged Mumbaikars to remain cautious and not panic.“Even though 20,000 plus cases are being reported in the city regularly, more than 17,000 patients are asymptomatic and doesn’t need medical treatment. Out of the total available beds in Mumbai, more than 80 per cent are still unoccupied and the admission demand for the oxygen beds is also very marginal,” said the mayor on Saturday.“We can see the transmission rate this time is higher and the positivity rate is also four times than what we have seen last year, but I would urge Mumbaikars to not panic. The situation is well under control and there’s nothing to worry as the symptoms of the latest variant is very mild and our medical infrastructure is well equipped to handle the cases. Instead, citizens must follow all the Covid appropriate behaviour and must not step out without their mask,” said the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-numbers-show-marginal-dip-experts-think-curve-may-be-reaching-a-plateau-101641661018263.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 4,390 new Covid cases, 1 death on Saturday||PUNE According to the state health department, Pune district reported 4,390 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection on Saturday. This took the progressive count to 1.18 million out of which 1.15 million have recovered, 20,204 deaths reported and 15,376 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.Pune also saw 88,770 vaccinations on Saturday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 794 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 372,818 and the death toll stood at 7,047 as one more death was reported.Pune city reported 2,521 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 538,550 and the death toll stood at 9,279.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 1,075 new Covid19 cases and the progressive count went up to 275,528 and the toll stood at 3,528.Pune district also saw 88,770 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Saturday and in total, 15 million doses have been registered in the district. Out of which 9.03 million are first doses and 6.62 million are second doses. A total of 655 sites saw vaccination out of which 479 were government centres and 176 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-4-390-new-covid-cases-1-death-on-saturday-101641658020334.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||5 arrested for murdering 21-year-old over trivial matter in Thane||A 21-year-old man was allegedly killed by five people after a fight broke out between them over a trivial matter at Kasarvadavali, Ghodbunder in Thane, on Thursday.The deceased and the accused gang had fights on January 5. The accused called his friends the next day and assaulted the deceased and stabbed him several times to death. Kasarvadavali police have nabbed all the five accused.The deceased was identified as Shamel David, a resident of Kasarvadavali. His father is an electrician. David’s friend Khandu Kamble, on Wednesday evening, called David and alerted him about a gang smoking and drinking outside his house. The two asked the gang to stop these activities.The group, however, came the next day and called both David and Kamble out. The two came with some of their friends and a scuffle broke out between the two groups on Thursday night.An officer from the Kasarvadavali police station said, “While both the groups were fighting with iron rods, someone from the accused group stabbed David. He suffered injuries on his head and body and did not survive. We got a call from the residents during the fight. We reached the spot immediately and nabbed the five accused who had allegedly stabbed the deceased. One of David’s friends and Kamble are also injured and have been admitted to a hospital. The accused are arrested under Sections 302, 307, 142, 143, 144, 148, 149 of the IPC Act.”The accused have been identified as Rupesh Mare, Swapnil Mare, Mukesh Mare, Kalpesh Maknekar and Marendra Madhumore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-arrested-for-murdering-21-year-old-over-trivial-matter-in-thane-101641657297432.html
08-01-2022||Other||50 companies of CAPF arriving on Jan 10: Punjab CEO||Chandigarh Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju said on Saturday said that with the announcement of date of assembly polls, 75 companies of the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) had been allotted to the state, with 50 of these reaching on January 10. “As soon as these companies arrive, they will start area domination operations,” he said, adding that immediately after the enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct, he had held a meeting with Deputy Commissioners-cum-District Electoral Officers (DCs-cum-DEOs) and police commissioner and SSPs, adding that directions to strictly implement the Model Code of Conduct and ensure its compliance in letter and spirit were issued. Dr Raju also brought all ECI guidelines to the notice of the Punjab chief secretary and other higher officials. He added that a mobile app, C-vigil, had been launched and complaints registered in this app would be redressed within 100 minutes. In another IT App, Suvidha, candidates can apply for permissions for rallies etc, which would be quickly responded to, he added. Static surveillance teams and flying squads have been operational across the state to check the any violation of model code of conduct, he said, adding that adequate arrangements were in place for the conduct of free, fair and safe electoral processes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-companies-of-capf-arriving-on-jan-10-punjab-ceo-101641656757433.html
08-01-2022||Patna||Patna accounts for 43% new Covid cases in Bihar||Patna accounted for 1,956 new Covid-19 cases in Bihar, which was over 43% of the total 4,526 cases reported in the state on Saturday, and the state capital’s test positivity rate jumped from 12.26% to over 20% in the last three days, said officials in the state health department. The state also reported the first case of Omicron on the national portal, when a resident of Chapra tested positive for Covid-19. The man returned from London on December 15 last year. He tested positive at Delhi airport and spent 14 days under institutional quarantine in New Delhi. He was discharged after testing negative on December 29. His sample tested positive for Omicron variant on the whole genomic sequencing test. The person has fully recovered now, said officials. “The state’s test positivity rate has gone up from 0.29% to 2.15% in the last seven days, and that of Patna was 18.71% yesterday, which is an indication of the high transmissibility rate of the virus. Though there is nothing to be scared, there is need to exercise utmost caution,” Pratyaya Amrit, additional chief secretary (health) said at a virtual press conference on Saturday. The test positivity rate of Muzaffarpur, which reported 263 new cases on Saturday, Nalanda (212 cases), Begusarai (276), Gaya (284), Saharsa (37) and Arwal (45 new cases) was higher than Bihar’s average positivity of 2.15% said Amrit. As many as 300 blocks of Bihar against 79 on January 1 were now affected by Covid, he added. He said the government was fully prepared and had 25,794 beds for management of Covid-19 in the state of which only 0.9% were occupied, which was a pointer to the fact that home isolation was the new norm. Over 8,253 Covid-positive people were under home isolation, as per government’s Covid-19 bulletin on Friday. Meanwhile, health minister Mangal Pandey reviewed the preparedness for Covid management at AIIMS-Patna on Saturday. Executive director of the State Health Society, Sanjay Kumar Singh, who accompanied Pandey to AIIMS, said half of the 38 Covid-19 patients admitted there were unvaccinated. This, he said, was a pointer to the important role of vaccination in the fight against the pandemic. Around 96% of the Bihar’s eligible target population had taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 89% of those eligible for the second dose had taken the jab so far, added Singh. He said 96 doctors and nurses from the state would be trained under the National Oxygen Stewardship Programme of the Central government for management of moderate to critical cases of Covid-19. Meanwhile, four doctors of the Patna Medical College Hospital also tested positive for Covid-19. Already, over 42 doctors at AIIMS and around 180 at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital have been infected by the virus. 
08-01-2022||Patna||CAG report: Gap in Bihar govt books swells to ₹80K cr in 10 years||Since 2010-11, the Bihar government has not submitted utilisation certificates (UCs) for nearly ₹80,000 crore of funds despite finance department’s 1975 executive order prescribing a deadline of one year from the date of sanction of fund for submission of UCs, which was extended to 18 months by a 2011 executive order, says the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) for the financial year ending March 31, 2020, which was tabled in the state Assembly in December last year.Of the total outstanding UCs, departments of panchayati raj, education, social welfare and rural development department account for 67.12%. This is so when data regarding the number of pending UCs/ misreporting, keeping funds in fixed deposit accounts or any other type of account with lesser returns could not be ascertained due to non-availability, says the report. “Though such instances of non-submission of UCs feature in the CAG reports regularly, there has been no improvement, while in many cases the same recipients continue to get further grants from the same departments despite pending UCs. High pendency of UCs is fraught with the risk of misappropriation of funds,” says the report.An audit officer said that the fact that UCs remaining pending for so long means there are no chances of their submission, unless bills are fudged. “Of the total outstanding UCs, ₹7,516 crore (9.43%) are for the 2010-11 to 2013-14 period, while the rest over 90% outstanding UCs are for the period since 2014-15, which covers almost the previous term of the government. There is no way old claims can be verified,” he said, citing the report.Finance department principal secretary S Siddharth said the government was reviewing the matter on a monthly basis to reduce backlog and had succeeded to a great extent. “It is a matter of interpretation. Imagine the state annual budget is of over ₹2 lakh crore rupees. It means the spending in the last 10 years on an average may have touched at least ₹15 lakh crore. It means the non-submission of UCs account for only 5.53%. And it is an ongoing process. Every year, some new entry is added and some subtracted after submission. Besides, the panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies are the biggest source for delayed submission of UCs. We constantly work on it,” he said.State’s panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary said the department was working to put in place a mechanism for regular monitoring of spending and auditing of funds spent. “The problem is there and that is why I decided to create a new system as soon as I assumed charge of the department barely 10 months ago,” he said.Similarly, the CAG report has pointed out how a total of 20,642 abstract contingent (AC) bills amounting to ₹9155.44 crore had not been adjusted till March 2019-20, while 1,383 AC bills amounting to ₹644.13 crore had been drawn in March 2020 alone. Abstract contingent (AC) bills are charges on items of expenditure by a state government, for which final classification and supporting vouchers is not available at the time of drawl. “Substantial expenditure against AC bills in March 2020 indicates that the drawls was primarily to exhaust the budget provisions and reveals inadequate budgetary control. The fact that 5,689 AC bills amounting to ₹4231.06 crore were drawn under various capital heads for creation of capital assets indicate lack of objective planning and poor public expenditure management. The maximum pending AC bills ( ₹3390 crore) are under the head of relief on account of natural calamities,” says the report. The report says that Bihar Treasury Code, 2011, provides that a certificate shall be furnished by the drawing and disbursing officer (DDO) to the effect that the money withdrawn on the contingent bills shall be spent within the same financial year and the unspent amount shall be remitted to the treasury before March 31 of that year. “The code also specifies that the detailed contingent (DC) bills shall be submitted within six months and no abstract bill shall be cashed after that period unless the detailed bill has been submitted,” says the report, highlighting how unadjusted amount has been growing since 2016-17, when it was just ₹2,375 crore.The issue of AC-DC bills from 2003-04 to 2018-19 had snowballed into a major controversy a few years ago and had landed in the Patna High Court, which sought latest status from the departments concerned.“The pendency was big, but now it has been almost controlled and things will further improve,” he said.The finance department has recently also written to all the department heads, commissioners, district magistrates, treasury and drawing & disbursing officers to ensure timely submission of all contingency bills to avoid the usual last-minute rush at the end of the fiscal.“It has been observed that there is usually a rush of contingency bills at the end of the fiscal, which causes undue stress on the software system and leads to difficulty in their disposal. To avoid this, all bills up to January 2022 must be submitted by February 28, 2022, and all February bills must be submitted by March 15, as intimated earlier. The March bills should also reach by March 22,” said a letter from the principal secretary. A decade of lapsesPiling backlogUtilisation certificates (UCs) for nearly ₹80,000 crore of funds not submitted since 2010-11. Current deadline for submission of UCs is 18 months from the date of sanction of fund.The laggardsDepartments of panchayati raj, education, social welfare and rural development account for 67.12% of the total backlog, according to the CAG report tabled in the Assembly. 
08-01-2022||Patna||Bihar allies BJP, VIP in shadow boxing ahead of UP polls||The Mukesh Sahni-led Vikashsheel Insaan Party’s plan to contest the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls has not gone down well with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has reportedly started talking tough with its ally in Bihar, people familiar with the matter said.In 2020, the VIP, which fought Bihar assembly polls as part of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), had won four seats, of which Bochacha fell vacant in December last year with the death of Musafir Paswan, the party MLA. The by-poll for the seat is due in coming months. Sahni, 40, himself lost his maiden election, but was made fisheries and animal husbandry minister in the Nitish Kumar government and later elected to the Legislative Council in a by-election in January 2021 for a truncated term of less than two years, which ends in July this year.Reliable sources in the NDA said Sahni was recently told by BJP brass he should not expect support for a second term in Legislative Council if he decides to press ahead with plans to contest UP polls. It was also conveyed to him that BJP may stake claim on Bochacha seat if he doesn’t fall in line. Sahni, a former set designer in Bollywood, though, said he had not received any such message. “I am firm on contesting UP polls. If BJP does not give me a second term as MLC, it would be a betrayal of its own promise made to me when I had come to NDA before 2020 assembly polls. I am not bothered at all,” he told HT on phone.State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal said, “We have cordial relations with all our allies. I have no further comment to make.” He said such matters are dealt by the central leadership.Sahni, who calls himself “son of Mallah (fishermen community), has been trying to rally Nishads and Mallahs in eastern UP on the demand for including the community in scheduled castes instead of OBCs. BJP fears this could damage its prospects in UP polls, for which it has already made a tie-up with NISAD party chief Sanjay Nishad.“Our party is no mood to give him any seat in UP. Of course, there is a looming threat that Sahni could upset poll arithmetic of many parties, including of BJP, if he fields candidates in UP,” said a senior BJP leader, wishing not to be named. He said the BJP leadership is also not intimidated with Sahni’s recent statements hinting at leaving NDA and align with RJD-led opposition alliance since his three MLAs were not in mood to leave go along.Sahini, however, sounded defiant. “ Even if my own people back-stab me, I have no problem. The 2024 parliamentary election is not too far. Many MLAs are eager to contest. Switching sides will hurt them. Besides, one should remember LJP too suffered a split, but it has not affected Jamui MP Chirag Paswan or his stature,” he said.The VIP chief, however, said he was ready to support BJP in UP polls if it makes a commitment in coming days that it would give reservation to Nishads in scheduled caste class.“In Bengal, Nishads are categorised as SCs. But in Bihar, Jharkhand and UP, they are in OBCs. It just requires a modification in a notification to include them in scheduled caste class in UP,” he said, adding that he was getting offers from some big parties in UP to strike an alliance.“I have not made up my mind so far. But I have plans to field candidates in 165 seats and that could damage the BJP,” he said. 
08-01-2022||Patna||JD(U) rejects RJD offer as ‘hypothetical’||The ruling Janata Dal (United) on Saturday dismissed opposition RJD’s offer of support should it go ahead with its demand for special status for Bihar and a caste census despite ally BJP’s apparent indifference.“RJD’s offer is hypothetical. There is no cause of friction in the NDA. For RJD, special status demand is a political issue, while for us it is a commitment. They want to show it is their demand, while the fact is they thwarted it. Had the RJD put pressure on the then Manmohan Singh government, it would have got it for the state before the NDA came to power, but they only played politics with it, despite being part of the UPA,” said JD(U) national president Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh.Former JD(U) president Vashishtha Narayan Singh also echoed similar sentiments. “There is no need to react to what a senior RJD leader has said. Where is the question of government falling? The NDA is one and the government is stable. Caste census is an issue, but Nitish Kumar has already cleared his stand in it. That also remains the party stand,” he said.
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal sees record one-day spike of 728 infections||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 728 fresh Covid cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,31,587. However, no fatality was recorded in the state.In the first eight days of January, the state has recorded 2,730 fresh infections. The positivity rate in Himachal has gone up to 5.57%.Highest 219 cases were reported in Kangra. Of them, 68 were students and staffers of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University, Palampur. Besides, 19 children and staff tested positive at the Mewoen Tsuglag Petoen (Model) School, a Tibetan educational facility at Dharamshala.Kangra chief medical officer GD Gupta said that Covid cases have been rising alarmingly in the district. He said that active cases, which were 80 on December 8, have climbed up to 925. The positivity rate in the district has jumped from 1% to over 15% and this is a time for all of us for self-discipline and follow Covid norms strictly, he added.Meanwhile, 116 cases have been reported from Solan, 75 from Hamirpur, 68 from Kullu, 63 from Shimla, 48 from Sirmaur, 36 from Una, 33 from Mandi, 26 from Bilaspur, 25 from Kinnaur, 15 from Chamba and four from Lahaul-Spiti.The active cases have gone up to 2,811. There has been over 700% increase in the active cases since December 27 when the state was left with just 344 active cases.Kangra is the worst-hit district with total case tally reaching 53,240, followed by 32,260 cases in Mandi and 28,469 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-sees-record-one-day-spike-of-728-coronavirus-cases-101641655856163.html
08-01-2022||Other||People relieved at date of polls, signals end of anarchy: Sukhbir||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday hailed the announcement of Vidhan Sabha polls in Punjab on February 14. “People of the state will immediately heave a big sigh of relief as the model code of conduct signals the end of anarchy, chaos, confusion and misgovernance in Punjab,” he said, adding that the people of the state are ready and eagerly looking forward to voting in a strong, stable and development oriented SAD-BSP govt.“Punjab is now ready for a return to a government that cares for its people with peace, communal harmony and people’s welfare as its top priorities. The SAD thanks the Election Commission of India (ECI) that the polls on schedule. We are the happiest . We are ready for action and were eagerly waiting for the bugle to be blown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-relieved-at-date-of-polls-signals-end-of-anarchy-sukhbir-101641655616947.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Airport at Purandar is still possible: Chandrakant Patil||PUNE If Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government decides to go ahead with the old site for Purandar airport then the project is still possible, said Chandrakant Patil, Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president“The airport is still possible in Purandar if the MVA government decides to opt for the original site. The proposal of the old site had lapsed after the current government wanted a new site,” said Patil, on Saturday.Patil spoke on the same line as MP Girish Bapat who in an interview to Hindustan Times on January 6 had said, “If the state government expedites the process, the airport is very much possible on the old site in Purandar.”“Why current government cancelled old site that I cannot comment, even after getting no-objection certificate (NOC) farmer’s agitation continued, whether its cost was getting high or any another reason that I cannot say,” added PatilThe originally proposed site for the Pune international airport was changed because of the opposition from the villagers in Purandar tehsil. Then a revised proposal, with the change in the location site, was submitted to the Centre for approval. The NOC was cancelled by the Ministry of Defence on September 29, 2020.“Both the MP’s Girish Bapat and Supriya Sule assured that they will be meeting Rajnath Singh in coming days to discuss the issues regarding Pune airport. The meeting was to be actually held on December 3 but got delayed,” said Patil.“Both the MP’s have cleared that Purandar site was not cancelled due to political conflicts between ruling and the opposition party, it was cancelled due to technical issues,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/airport-at-purandar-is-still-possible-chandrakant-patil-101641655436861.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Stolen sound system: PMC to request police to solve case on priority basis||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has requested police to start an enquiry on priority basis in a case related to a stolen sound system at the municipal corporation-owned Anna Bhau Sathe auditorium at Padmavati.Recently it is found that almost Rs1 crore worth sound system was replaced with duplicate equipment.The issue was discussed in the general body meeting on Saturday.Srinivas Kandul, head of the electric department, said, “We filed a police case in the matter, but there is no progress yet. Now, we will write to senior police officers and request to solve the case at the earliest.”Kandul said, “The sound system is big and a single person cannot handle it. And it can be replaced only through a technician.”PMC officials said that they had installed a branded company’s sound system in the auditorium but it was replaced during the lockdown period when the auditoriums were closed.PMC, meanwhile, has filed another police case related to bogus bills worth Rs1 crore. The works were shown in the five crematoriums and bills were submitted for the same.PMC officials blamed that their signatures are forged. Kandul said, “Police conducted an enquiry and arrested the contractor for submitting bogus bills but in sound system stolen case, there is no progress. We would submit a letter to police soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stolen-sound-system-pmc-to-request-police-to-solve-case-on-priority-basis-101641655256951.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Breach in 40-year-old dam in Palghar, NDRF set to evacuate 5 villages||Mumbai A massive three-metre breach was reported in a 40-year-old earthen dam with a 260 crore litre capacity at Zanzorli in Palghar on Saturday morning. As a result, around 1,200 litre per minute was discharged downstream.Due to the breach, five villages namely Zanzorli, Bandate, Dondhalpada, Patharipada and Navinpada, were to be evacuated. An NDRF team from Andheri, comprising of 47 jawans with Flood Water Rescue (FWR) arrived in Kelwe to evacuate the villagers if the need arises, said Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant, NDRF who reached the spot. “We were called by the Palghar collector Dr Manik Gursal and if needed, we will call motorboats and other equipment in case we need to evacuate the villagers to a higher place to avoid flooding,” said the official.The dam will be repaired by placing sand and other materials where the breach has been found to control the seepage, informed Prabhakar Giri, deputy engineer, Irrigation Department Palghar. He added that the dam supplied water to 17 gram panchayats.Fortunately, the monsoon season is over or else there were chances of a dam burst due to the leakage, said Giri.“We first noticed a minor leakage in the dam during the pre-monsoon period and the leakage increased during the monsoon in July,” said Giri. he added that they informed the Dam Safety Organisation (DSO) Nashik of the Irrigation Department and the diver went underwater to videograph the situation. They said they wanted the monsoon to be over to start the repairs of the dam, but noticed the breach on Saturday. “We will cover the breach with around 300-400 dumpers full of sand and other materials. Right now, there is no need for evacuation,” Giri said. Around 100 policemen and 30 jawans from the Riot Control Police are at the spot and villagers are on alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/breach-in-40-year-old-dam-in-palghar-ndrf-set-to-evacuate-5-villages-101641653995816.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra's Omicron case count tops 1000-mark; state logs 41,434 fresh Covid infections||Maharashtra has become the first state to record more than 1000 cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus thus far, as 133 more people in the state were on Saturday found positive for the strain.Also Read | India's daily Covid cases top 1.40 lakh, Omicron count mounts to 3,071With this, a total of 1009 infections of Omicron have been detected in Maharashtra till now, of which 439 patients were discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, leaving the active case count at 570.Of the fresh infections, Pune city alone accounted for 118, while eight cases were detected in Pimpri-Chinchwad and three in Pune rural. Two patients were found in Vasai-Virar, with Mumbai and Ahmednagar accounting for one case each.Meanwhile, Maharashtra witnessed a marginal rise in its daily Covid-19 infections, as 41,434 more people tested positive, as against 40,925 a day ago. Fresh fatalities stood at 13, down from 20 on January 7. Its cumulative case count is at 6,875,656, including 141,627 people who have succumbed due to the viral illness.Mumbai, the state capital, saw 20,318 new cases and five related deaths, pushing the city's overall tally to 893,048, including 16,399 deaths.Also Read | Mumbai daily infections remain above 20,000; no major change from yesterdayAlso on Saturday, the state government announced fresh curbs, including a night curfew, which will come into effect from January 10, and be in place from 11pm to 5am. All educational institutions have been closed till February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-omicron-case-count-tops-1000-mark-state-logs-41-434-fresh-covid-infections-101641652642921.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||CIDCO appointed as Special Planning Authority for Khopta New Town notified area||The Government of Maharashtra (GoM) has appointed City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) as the Special Planning Authority for Khopta New Town notified area comprising 32 villages.Accordingly, CIDCO has published a notice with the intention of preparing the draft development plan for the development of New Khopta Town.The primary objective of the development plan is to develop world-class infrastructure and to create the development opportunities for various sectors. The development plan of six villages that is already approved and the development plan of the remaining 26 villages should comply with the Unified Development Control Promotion Regulations.Therefore, while preparing the development plan of 26 villages, the development plan of six villages also needs to be revised and suitable changes would be made.The Khopta New Town notified area lies between Navi Mumbai and CIDCO’s Navi Mumbai Airport Influence Notified Area (NAINA). After the planned development of the area with world-class infrastructure, it would rise to a well-planned city.CIDCO vice-chairman and managing director, Sanjay Mukherjee, said, “To draft the development plan, CIDCO has requested the Gram Panchayats to provide complete information of the villages. The Development Plan (DP) and the Development Control Regulations (DCR) will be prepared in the stipulated time frame as per the guidelines in the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966, and suggestions and objections will be invited. After due consultation over the received suggestions and objections, the development plan will then be submitted to the Government of Maharashtra for its approval. Only after the approval of the GoM, CIDCO will formulate policies for the implementation of infrastructure facilities in Khopta area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cidco-appointed-as-special-planning-authority-for-khopta-new-town-notified-area-101641653636526.html
08-01-2022||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Ravindra Jugran quits AAP, rejoins BJP||AAP leader Ravindra Jugran on Saturday quit the party and rejoined the ruling BJP, saying it was like homecoming for him.Welcoming Jugran back into the party fold, Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik said the party will benefit from his experience and capabilities in the upcoming Assembly polls.Jugran said he had served the BJP for 25 years in the past and returning to the party was like homecoming for him.He was a prominent face of the Uttarakhand statehood movement and considered close to former chief minister Bhuvan Chandra Khanduri.He held the rank of a state minister during Khanduri's chief ministership.The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced the schedule for the Assembly polls, which will be held on February 14 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-ravindra-jugran-quits-aap-rejoins-bjp-101641652878140.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi announces relaxation in weekend curfew for birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has announced a relaxation in the weekend curfew norms for the occasion of the birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, to be observed on Sunday.According an order issued by the authority, devotees will be permitted to visit and offer prayers at Gurudwaras on Sunday. The devotees will have to adhere to Covid-19  appropriate behavior and protocols during their visits, the order added, according to news agency ANI.A weekend curfew has been imposed in Delhi in wake of the rising Covid-19 cases, being driven by the Omicron variant of Coronavirus. As per the orders, non-essential movement has been barred during the weekend curfew.Only essential movement, including food, groceries and medicine, has been allowed during the weekends. The decision was announced by the DDMA on January 4 following a meeting with officials over the pandemic situation in the Union territory.A report in news agency PTI stated that another DDMA meeting is expected to take place on Monday to discuss further restrictions, including 'total curfew', under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP). Other discussion points may include implementation of GRAP (Level 4 Red), and review of vaccination programme.Also read | Weekend curfew in Delhi: DDMA to meet again to discuss further restrictionsMeanwhile, Delhi reported more than 20,000 cases of coronavirus disease on Saturday, pushing the overall tally to reach 1,526,979, according to the daily bulletin by the state health department.The positivity rate has now climbed to 19.6 per cent, the health department data also showed.The city has now a total of 48,178 active cases. According to the data, seven others lost their lives to the viral disease and the death toll now stands at 25,143.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-announces-relaxation-in-weekend-curfew-for-birth-anniversary-of-guru-gobind-singh-101641649119899.html
08-01-2022||Other||Be ready to face questions on alliance with BJP: Dhindsa junior||Sangrur Defending an alliance with the BJP and Capt Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) senior leader and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Saturday said party workers needed to be ready to face tough questions in the field, during poll campaign.Over the past week, farmers have, twice, gheraoed and questioned Parminder Dhindsa’s mother Harjit Kaur in the Lehra assembly segment over the alliance. “We allied with the BJP for long-term benefit of the state. People will question you, but we should prepare for it. There might be some people who will differ from us, but it is the beauty of democracy and we must accept it,” said Dhindsa, addressing his supporters at a local restaurant.Dhindsa junior termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach as unfortunate, and advised the Punjab government to avoid any confrontation with the Centre for the development of Punjab, amid the slugfest between the state and the Centre over the Ferozepur incident.“The incident of the PM’s security breach was unfortunate. It should have not happened because it will harm Punjab’s interests. The PM was going to inaugurate development projects and he might have announced a package for the state. These announcements might have reduced farmers’ anger,” he added. The former state finance minister also claimed that the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had been making false promises of freebies, which could not be fulfilled.“They need to think on the lines of what Punjab requires? How can we stop the brain-drain? As of now, Punjab can provide 5 lakh jobs, but we need to make our youth eligible,” he claimed from the dais.Dhindsa junior added that his father and founder of the SAD (S) Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa had submitted a charter of 12 demands, including release of Sikh prisoners, fresh elections of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and making Punjabi language the second language in neighbouring states, to the PM and home minister’s office earlier. “We will fight for these demands,” he added.
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Central Railway cancels AC train services on trans-harbour line||Due to the poor response received from commuters, the Central Railway (CR) has cancelled the air-conditioned train services on the trans-harbour line from last Monday.The trans-harbour line, which connects Navi Mumbai with Thane, has two divisions. While the first one connects Vashi station with Thane, the second connects Nerul and Panvel stations with Thane. The AC trains on both the divisions were introduced in the first week of November. However, due to exorbitant fares, the commuters hardly boarded those trains. A senior railway officer from Navi Mumbai said, “The authorities had provided only one AC rake on this line and that would make around twelve trips between Thane and Vashi, and between Thane and Nerul/Panvel on a day. There was, however, a huge difference between the fares of AC and non-AC trains. For example, the price of a non-AC ticket for travelling from Vashi to Thane is just ₹15 while the price of an AC ticket for the same distance is ₹145. Secondly, the gap between every two AC trains was big. So, the commuters did not want to take the risk of waiting on platforms even after purchasing an expensive ticket.”The officer informed that AC rake on trans-harbour line is now being run between Panvel and CSMT, and between CSMT and Goregaon. The CR has provided a non-AC rake as a replacement for the AC rake on the trans-harbour line.“The response received by the AC trains was so poor that at times the number of railway staff in a train (including the GRP officials) used to be more than the number of commuters travelling in it. So, CR had no other option but to cancel the services,” he added.Dattaram Patil, a 40-year-old resident of Vashi, said, “I once travelled from Vashi to Thane station in an AC train in December. The climate was very pleasant then and hence the AC coach hardly served any purpose. So I did not see any reason for shelling out an extra ₹130 to travel in an AC train and decided not to do it again.”
08-01-2022||Other||Covid positivity rate at Amritsar airport dips 5-times after lab change||Amritsar With every seventh person of 10 arriving at the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport over Thursday and Friday testing positive for Covid 19 (translating into a worryingly high positivity rate of 65%) creating panic and forcing authorities to investigate, there was some respite on Saturday, after the laboratory, SpiceHealth, was changed. “Of 192 passengers, 25 tested positive (13% positivity rate) for Covid-19 on Saturday,” said airport director VK Seth. On the drastic dip in the positivity rate, he said, “Three state health authorities and our expert team are working to ascertain the reason. For now, we changed the lab that conducted tests on Thursday and Friday.”The new lab that a Dr Tejinder Bhasin heads conducted Covid-19 test of 192 passengers who landed at the airport in an Air India flight from Birmingham about 10am on Saturday. This lab had been operating at the airport for six months, being replaced by SpiceHealth in the last week of December. Punjab’s health authorities are also probing the testing mechanism of SpiceHealth. On Thursday, 125 of 179 (70%) passengers had tested positive upon landing at the airport from Italy; on Friday, 172 of 285 (60%) flyers, again from Italy, were found positive. A state health department official said, “We have asked airport authorities to submit their probe report into the testing mechanism of SpiceHealth lab. There might be a technical glitch with their machines, or a chemical that the lab was using could be the issue.”RETESTING ON FOR NEARLY 300Amritsar assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh said, “Those who tested positive on Thursday and Friday are being retested by respective district administrations. Of 125 who tested positive on Thursday, 11 were from Amritsar district; of 172 tested positive on Friday, 20 were from Amritsar. We are conducting re-testing of these 31 passengers by approaching them at their homes; four have tested negative as of now.”A 42-year-old man from Amritsar, who returned from Italy with his son, was among 125 passengers tested positive on Thursday. Talking to HT over phone, his nephew said, “We conducted a rapid test and a RT-PCR test of our uncle from a private lab in Amritsar; the result of both was negative. This is contrary to the report of the Amritsar airport lab. Before boarding the flight, my uncle and his son had undergone the RT-PCR test in Italy, which was valid for 72 hours. How could he be found positive merely eight hours after boarding the plane? This is a big scam that needs investigation.” Another 31-year-old passenger and his wife, both declared positive at the airport, have tested negative after being retested from a private lab in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-positivity-rate-at-amritsar-airport-dips-5-times-after-lab-change-101641651956152.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane, Navi, Kalyan Dombivli municipal corporations impose restrictions on markets, housing societies to fight Covid||With the increase in Covid cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region in the last week, the local bodies have imposed several restrictions on markets and housing societies.With the Thane city surpassing 2,500 cases, the Thane Municipal Corporation has imposed restrictions on housing societies.The TMC guidelines state, “Any person residing or working in a residential building and showing any symptoms will have to get tested immediately. The people who test positive in the society will have to quarantine themselves for seven days after the test results are positive. The close contacts of those infected also should be tested immediately if they show any symptoms. If they do not show symptoms, they will still be tested on the fifth and seventh days from which their contact has tested positive.”If the family that has tested positive has a caregiver, he/she shall be fully vaccinated and in constant contact with the family and the society members. The society committee shall co-operate with the flats with positive cases and ensure that they get all the essentials delivered so that they do not have to go out.The biomedical waste from the flats that have positive patients would be collected separately in yellow garbage bags.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (NMMC) commissioner issued notification to housing societies stating that if a particular society has less than 25 Covid positive cases, only the floors with cases would be sealed henceforth.“The building or the society will get sealed if the cases are above 25. If only a particular wing of the society has cases above 25, only the wing will be sealed and not the whole society. In such cases house helps and security guards who are fully vaccinated can enter the society except for the sealed floor or building,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.Also, patients with comorbidities above the age of 60 and pregnant women would be admitted to Covid centres or hospitals for treatment. Due to the large number of asymptomatic positive patients at present, emphasis is being placed on home isolation. The commissioner also directed the health department and the departmental offices to implement the containment zone rules for a period of seven days. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) chief, Vijay Suryavanshi, gave directives that the weekly markets would not be allowed in KDMC limits. Retailers would not be allowed in APMC market while wholesalers and workers in the market should be fully vaccinated.“Vehicles arriving into the market should abide by norms or else we will have to only allow 50% of vehicles to the market in coming days,” added Suryavanshi.Vendors at Lakshmi Market will be only allowed on alternate days. For housing societies, if 25% of the flats have positive cases, then all the residents should go for Covid test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-navi-kalyan-dombivli-municipal-corporations-impose-restrictions-on-markets-housing-societies-to-fight-covid-101641651901697.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Covid positive PSI dies of heart attack, active cases in police dept touch 400||Mumbai A 57-year-old Covid positive police sub-inspector (PSI) attached to the Deonar police station died of a heart attack last night. He was fully vaccinated. The Covid death toll of Mumbai police has now reached 124.Senior Mumbai police officials have said that in view of the surge in cases, the city police would reopen its Covid Care Centres (CCC) for its police personnel. Sub-inspector Rau Ramu Redkar, a resident of Tilaknagar in Chembur, complained of back pain on Friday morning while he was on duty.Following this, he was taken to Shatabdi Hospital, Chembur, where after examination, the doctor advised him home rest. In the evening at 4 pm, he again complained of pain, following which his son first rushed him to a private hospital in Chembur and then to the MGM Hospital in Navi Mumbai. “He was kept in ICU. During the treatment, he breathed his last at 9.30 pm on Friday. Redkar tested positive for Covid-19,” said Savlaram Agawane, senior inspector of Deonar police station. Kolhapur native Redkar joined the police service as a constable in March 1987 and was promoted as sub-inspector in November 2020. He was posted as the preventive officer at Deonar police station. Redkar was survived by his wife Surekha, son Shirish and daughter Shweta. Deputy commissioner of police, zone 6, Krishnakant Upadhyay said that Redkar was fully vaccinated. “He was a very good officer and his untimely demise has left his family and colleagues in shock,” the DCP said. The police department too has seen a sudden spike in Covid infection cases among its personnel recently. On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 48, 73 and 91 more policemen have tested Covid positive, respectively, taking the total caseload to 9,657.At present, nearly 400 police personnel are active Covid patients in the department. Five senior police officers, including a joint commissioner of police, three additional commissioners and a DCP rank officer, have gone on sick leave reportedly due to health issues. In view of the surge, Kalina police Covid Care Centre, one of the four Covid care centres set up dedicatedly for the police, would soon be reopened. The four centres have a capacity of 726 beds and were shut after the decline in Covid cases. If the number of Covid infections among cops continues to rise alarmingly, then other CCCs may also be opened, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-positive-psi-dies-of-heart-attack-active-cases-in-police-dept-touch-400-101641649436091.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Man arrested for threatening to kill BJP leader Ashish Shelar||Mumbai The Mumbai crime branch has apprehended a 48-year-old Mahim resident for allegedly threatening BJP leader Ashish Shelar to death. The accused claims his mother has an ancestral land in Bandra reclamation, which was taken over by the MHADA. Suspecting Shelar was eying this land, the accused gave him death threats over a phone call.He would be handed over to the Bandra police station. Shelar on Saturday wrote to home minister Dilip Walse Patil and said that for the past few days he has been receiving threat calls. On Saturday, his representative lodged a complaint at the Bandra police station. Crime branch unit-9 officials launched a parallel probe and analysed the phone call details and on Saturday nabbed the suspect, Osama Shamshed Khan, a resident of Mahim Causeway. A police officer said that Khan’s mother’s land in Bandra reclamation was disputed and MHADA has deputed a guard on the said property. In November last year, Khan and his son had allegedly assaulted the guard over the possession of the land. Bandra police had then registered an FIR on the guard’s complaint. Khan managed to secure an anticipatory bail in the case while his son was arrested and is still in jail on charges of attempt to murder. Khan suspected Shelar could be behind the disputed land and gave death threats to him over phone using his own phone. However, reasons for his suspicion are still unverified, said an officer. DCP detection-1 Neelotpal said that Khan would be handed over to the Bandra police station for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-threatening-to-kill-bjp-leader-ashish-shelar-101641649195857.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about startup, business news in Pune||KPIT and dSPACE team up for EV solutionsKPIT Technologies and dSPACE have teamed up to offer a comprehensive solutions test suite for smart charging of electric vehicles. The suite enables automotive OEMs and charging station companies to accelerate the development and testing of technologies involved in the electric vehicle charging process.The test libraries are not limited to the ones defined in the standard. The entire setup is easy to integrate with in-house or existing tools. The test suite can be used for charging communication, power tests for charging, and other electrification applications. The companies are working towards launching ready-to-use suites for upcoming standards such as ISO 15118-20, SAE J2984, SAE J2593-2, GB/T 34657-2, and ChaoJi.Anup Sable, chief technology officer and member of board, KPIT Technologies, said, “The focus and expertise dSPACE bring together for validation hardware and solutions will be a great combination and offer mobility ecosystem a key technology component in their electrification roadmap. This will compliment KPITs focus on powertrain software for two decades and experience of working on leading electrification programs.”udChalo acquires Dimentrix to strengthen business intelligenceudChalo, a consumer technology company exclusively serving India’s defence forces and their dependents, announced the acquisition of software company Dimentrix. This acquisition will augment the start-ups portfolio and accelerate the growth chart using business intelligence via AI and ML-driven data insights to serve its loyal consumer base with tailor-made products.With ‘DeepInsight’, the business intelligence platform, udChalo can now rely on getting a unified solution for its teams where they can visualise, analyse, and gain meaningful insights about the business faster and effectively, on any device.Vikram Roopchand, CTO, udChalo said, “With udChalo, Dimentrix can not only bring in ML-driven real-time analytics to the travel segment but also scale up much faster and provide value to a larger segment of customers.”Ravi Kumar, CEO, udChalo said, “Data and analytics are vital to all business strategies, Dimentrix will bolster our agility, adaptability backed with data science to have informed decisions. This acquisition will further strengthen our goal of using data and insights to provide better and more relevant products and services to our customers. This will catapult our capabilities across the board and reinforce cyber resilience in the organisation.”Bambrew bags $2.35 million in pre-series A roundGreen Tech sustainable packaging start-up ‘Bambrew’ has raised pre-Series-A funding of $2.35 Million led by Blue Ashva Capital and Supack Industries. The round also saw participation from Mumbai Angels and notable angel investors.The latest infusion of funds will be utilized to build India’s first tech enabled platform for sourcing green packaging, increase the supply capacity, expand in multiple cities, invest in R&D of new sustainable materials and further strengthen the team.Vaibhav Anant, founder at Bambrew, said, “We have been able to scale our operations manifold over these past few years and take great pride in our collaboration with the largest e-commerce player in the world as well as other major players in this space. Over past 2 years, we have seen 50x growth and envision further higher growth scale in the upcoming year. This latest infusion of funds will help us increase our footprint and supply capacity across metros like Delhi, Mumbai, and Kolkata, as well as global markets including the US, Europe, and the Middle East.”RESET TECH appoints Shirin Johari as Creative HeadHealth-tech company RESET TECH (K&L Wellness Technology) has appointed Shirin Johari as its creative head. With 16 years of experience in the advertising, brand building and social impact space, Shirin has donned the role of creative director at leading organisations like JWT, Ogilvy & Mather, Creativeland Asia, DDB Mudra and TBWA and led creative initiatives for brands like Vodafone, Indian Ministry of Tourism, BookMyShow, Puma, Nissan, Volkswagen, Cadbury, Philips, Big Bazaar, Baskin Robbins and many more. Said RESET TECH Founder Karan Talreja, “I believe our brand’s messaging and outreach will specifically benefit immensely from Shirin’s creative direction. Her rich experience in design, brand building and storytelling will surely make the brand stronger and create a fresh outlook for our existing and prospective consumers.”Said RESET TECH creative head Shirin Johari, “To build exciting, enlightening and impactful work in the confluence of mindfulness, science and creativity, is a space that deeply resonates with and thrills me. So coming on board RESET TECH to launch and build the Aayu app, with such a fabulous team seems serendipitous!”PlanetSpark’s volume 2 of Global Public Speaking championshipIndia-based global EdTech, PlanetSpark has announced the second season of its flagship international event, ‘Global Public Speaking Championship’. Kids below 17 years will showcase their brilliance in Public Speaking through a series of engaging activities such as Slam Poetry, Debates, Speech, Stand-up Comedy, to compete in this Olympiad-grade competition and earn the Championship Title. In the event spanning a total of 8 weeks, kids from geographies across the world will participate in 3 different age-categories, i.e., 4-8 YO, 9-11 YO, and 12-17 YO, termed as ‘Juniors’, Seniors’, and ‘Super Seniors’, respectively.Kunal Malik, co-founder said, “The vision behind PlanetSpark’s GPSC is to incentivse Public Speaking for children, and help them showcase their skills in a truly exciting and entertaining manner.”Aspirants can register before January 20, 2022. To register the entry students need to fill up an interest form through PlanetSpark’s website, post which, a registration link will be emailed to them. Post the following screening rounds, 25 finalists will be announced on March 7, 2022, who will perform in the Finale event to be held live on YouTube, on March 12, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-startup-business-news-in-pune-101641639594479.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Startup Mantra: Businesses get open-access to big data||Pune-based start-up Finarkein Analytics has built a privacy-first, data analytics platform working seamlessly with various open digital ecosystems (ODEs), to help small and large businesses access open data standards (also known as digital public goods).Finarkein’s holistic data ecosystem will provide a unified solution across data collection, transformation, modelling and analytics with a collaborative approach. Founded by Nikhil Kurhe and Dheeraj Kumar, volunteer architects helping build the account aggregator (AA) framework, Finarkein’s products are designed to solve massive problems faced by India and at a global level due to lack of “access to data”.In the beginning…Finarkein is a five-co-founder team with Kurhe (27) as CEO and youngest team member, Kumar as CTO and Aakash Agarwal as COO. Although two cofounders are yet to join the start-up, officially, they all have a very common computer science and data engineering background and complementary skill sets. Kurhe is a student of Pune Institute of Computer Technology (PICT – 2016), Kumar is from Sinhgad College of Engineering Pune (SCOE - 2013) and Agarwal from Vishwakarma Institute of Technology (VIT - 2013). They all met while working at a business intelligence company as a core data science and data engineering team.Says Kurhe, “We were solving problems in a different domain. The amount of scale we were working on in the big-data field there was fairly massive. That’s when we realised that we have a very unique skill set, but the problems that we are working on are very niche and are not making any impact with the skillset we had. So, we started looking at financial services’ sector initially, because we were struggling to manage our own finances and we wanted to automate our money management. That led us to discover the ‘account aggregator’ framework and Reserve Bank of India’s NBFC master circular in 2016. We started working afterhours on a part-time basis, trying to build and understand what this ecosystem is. We also reached out to volunteers and architects who were actually building these ecosystems.”“While Finarkein as a company was incorporated in October 2019, the code for one of our flagship products, Flux – a no-code low-code platform – ranges back to 2017 while we were working part-time. My other cofounders were able to work two jobs, but I could not. So, I quit my job in August 2019 and started building out the technology front-end. Since I was the face, my role transcended more into business development, product roadmap and ecosystem evangelism,” adds Kurhe.Leveraging dataDerived from the Greek root word “Arkein”, meaning self-reliance, independence – Finarkein means data and financial independence by the ability to extract information and value to solve massive problems. According to Kurhe and his team’s assessment, India as a nation is probably five to ten years ahead of others in terms of open data standards. He says, “There are many digital public goods in the works like the Ayushman Bharat Health Mission, DigiLocker, AgriStack. Everyone is trying to access these systems, get data, extract relevant information, go into a specific vertical and solve a problem statement. It is still very difficult to leverage that data. There are many inefficiencies in the current system. Most of these steps are repetitive and the unique bit is only where a business applies some business logic. It’s here that we are automating about 75 per cent work done by all businesses.”“When you have inefficiencies and data silos, then to solve challenges like financial inclusion, better healthcare access, climate change, you need to first make them solvable from the unit economics perspective. That’s when we felt that Open Data standards coming up in India and globally are a good equaliser. It levels the playing field for everyone to focus on the problems in the value chain,” Kurhe said.Enterprise-readyIndia is a data-rich nation with an added benefit of demographic dividend, believes Kurhe. He along with Kumar is actively pushing ode.dev, a community of builders and enablers working in and around the Open Digital Ecosystems. Says Kurhe, “We had participated and won the ‘Sahamati’ organised Account Aggregator hackathon in August 2020. We got a good feedback post-hackathon and we realised that what we are solving is a very tangible and real problem statement. Our core minimum viable product was ready. However, the customers we wanted to go after were looking for additional security features like enterprise grade security, audit logs, compliance, certifications. Getting from the MVP to enterprise-ready stage we spent another six months.”First customerKurhe and his team saw an opportunity with one of the insurers in February-March 2021. Finarkein was among the four start-ups selected by Max Life Insurance to engage under the second edition its flagship InsurTech accelerator programme - ‘Max Life Innovation Labs 2.0’.Kurhe said, “We were able to convince their leadership to explore this new problem statement of leveraging India’s Open Data Standards – both in the financial and health sector. That is how we got our first enterprise client and Max Life Insurance became the first insurer to join the ‘Account Aggregator ecosystem’ using Finarkein software. At the same time, we got into IIM Ahmedabad’s CIIE (Centre for Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship). We were a part of the third cohort of their financial inclusion lab.”Learning curveSays Kurhe, “We did not immediately ramp up as we didn’t have the experience of dealing with enterprises. As the anchor client we wanted to get some experience for the product and Max Life Insurance was willing to experiment and work on it. There were some very tough lessons learnt that is now allowing us to have a very improved turn-around time. From the first meeting to contract signing, we are able to close a deal in 70 to 75 days which is very good for the enterprise B2B sales. Going from 0 to first client was a long undertaking and from 1 to 5 clients happened in less than a month. We were able to build very strong network and now we aim to have 40 enterprise clients by end of 2022.”Open-banking applicationsKurhe explains one of the use cases of their product ‘Flux’ for any insurer to successfully financially underwrite a customer. “Usually when an end-customer uploads their payslips or other documents, there is scope for editing or tampering the document and thereby resulting in a fraud. Finarkein’s platform provides insurers a trusted execution environment in which their business logic like financial underwriting can run on the customer data and obtain desired output. Not only the data is coming in a very good machine-readable format to do analytics, it is coming encrypted and digitally signed directly from the bank. From insurers’ perspective, they are able to leverage a very reliable data to successfully financially underwrite the customer,” Kurhe said.Future plansSays Kurhe, “We are working on around seven more projects which will start paying off every six to eight months from Q3 2022. We are also raising a $1 million seed round and we have good investors like Sanjeev Bikhchandani-led Info Edge and others. At present we have about six employees and we are ramping up our hiring from engineering colleges. Soon, we will capture around 35 per cent market share of the financial services sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-businesses-get-open-access-to-big-data-101641638634697.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cong, BJP joined hands to defeat AAP in Chandigarh mayoral poll: Raghav Chadha||Punjab Aam Aadmi Party unit co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Saturday alleged that BJP and the Congress came together to defeat the AAP in the mayoral elections on Saturday despite the party emerging as the single largest party in the municipal corporation House. Also read: BJP’s Sarabjit Kaur is the new Chandigarh mayorHe said that the mayor should have been from the AAP as it had the highest number of 14 councillors in the House. Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon of the BJP was declared winner after she polled 14 votes and the AAP candidate got 13 votes and one vote was declared invalid. The seven Congress councillors and the lone Shiromani Akali Dal member abstained from voting. “The BJP and the Congress came together. One councillor shifted to the BJP and then the MP was allowed to vote,” he said, adding that even the administration colluded with the BJP to ensure their candidate’s win. He questioned why Congress abstained from voting. When the result was declared, Chadha came to the MC office along with councillors and staged a protest, demanding a meeting with deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh. Chadha’s claims, however, go against Section 38 of the Punjab MC Act, 1976, as extended to Chandigarh. According to it, an MP can vote in mayoral elections and if there are two candidates, the person who gets 50% and more votes of the total strength of the House, he or she is declared the winner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-bjp-joined-hands-to-defeat-aap-in-chandigarh-mayoral-poll-raghav-chadha-101641637374077.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Season’s first snowfall blankets Shimla||Residents and tourists in Shimla woke up to white wonder on Saturday morning as the Queen of the Hills got 14.6cm of snowfall overnight, its first this winter. Also read: VK Bhawra is new Punjab Police chiefShimla superintendent of police (SP) Monika Bhutungru said all roads connecting the state capital with the upper areas of the district were blocked due to snow. She said the Theog-Chopal road was blocked at Khirki, Theog-Rampur road at Narkanda, Theog-Rohru road at Kharapathar, and Shimla-Theog road at Kufri. The Lakkar Bazaar road in Shimla town was also blocked. People and tourists were advised to cancel their travel plans or at least hire experienced drivers before venturing in snowbound areas. The Shimla Municipal Corporation has deployed men and machinery to open the roads within the city. The higher reaches of the state received widespread snowfall for the second day. Rohtang tunnel got 12 inches of snow, Triund in Kangra 1-ft, Atal Tunnel 7 inches and Gulaba and Jalori 5 inches and 6 inches, respectively. Kaza got 1inch of snow, Koksar 4 inches, Keylong 3 inches, Barot in Mandi 4 inches, Prashar 9 inches and Shikari got 11 inches of snow. Shimla’s Chanshal received 6 inches of snow, Fagu 2 inches, Kharapathar 1 inch, Khirki 6 inches, Narkanda 2 inches and Theog 1inch of snow. Shimla meteorological centre director Surender Paul said inclement weather will prevail till January 12. A yellow weather alert has been sounded for heavy snowfall and rains on Saturday and Sunday. Keylong was the coldest place in the state, recording a night temperture of minus 5.1 degrees Celsius followed by minus 2 degrees each in Kufri and Kalpa. Shimla and Dalhousie were cold at 0.2 degree C, while Manali saw a night temperature of 2.4 degrees Celsius. Paul said that there was no appreciable change in the minimum temperatures in the last 24 hours and these were 2-3 degrees above normal in most parts of the state. 
08-01-2022||Uttar||‘Can’t match BJP’s infra for digital campaign’: Akhilesh Yadav’s message to EC||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said that if the election commission leans in favour of a virtual campaign for political parties in the UP Assembly elections 2022, then the commission should also make it a level-playing field for all the political parties.At a Press conference in Lucknow hours before the Election Commission declares the poll schedule in New Delhi, Akhilesh Yadav said: “The Election Commission should give some funds to political parties so that they (the political parties) create a step-up, infrastructure because we cannot compete with the BJP infrastructure. So we appeal that EC should get the political parties some funds from the government so that in the democratic set up all political parties who do not have strong set up like BJP’s should be able to compete”.Akhilesh Yadav’s request to the election commission came in response to a question on the SP’s preparedness to run a digital campaign if the poll panel backs the suggestion that political parties should hold a virtual campaign.Will repeat free laptop schemeAkhilesh Yadav also announced that the Samajwadi Party will repeat its free laptop scheme of the 2012 manifesto if the SP returns to power in 2022.“It will be the second promise after the first promise of free 300 units power to all domestic consumers and free power to farmers for irrigation. As the SP government did in its previous government... if the party forms the government in 2022, then it will again give laptops to youth and students for higher studies. Earlier we had given lakhs of laptops which led many of the beneficiaries to get self-employed”.Akhilesh Yadav has already promised free 300 units free power to domestic consumers and free power to farmers for irrigation, a caste census in the state, ₹25 lakh to the families of those farmers who died in the farmers’ agitation, ₹5 lakh to those cyclists who die in a road accident, ₹5 lakh to those who die in the bull attack.Will file FIRAkhilesh Yadav also said his party’s legal cell will file an FIR against a BJP IT cell member who sits in Delhi who posted his photograph and claimed that the perfumer recently raided by tax authorities in Kanpur was standing with him. “BJP is doing false propaganda against the SP. We will file FIR now, and act against the person when we form the government. Because if anyone says anything against me, no action is taken but if anyone says anything against BJP leader, then immediate action is taken”About the Uttar Pradesh government’s ad campaign, Akhilesh Yadav reiterated: “A government does campaign of its works, but here the government is doing party’s campaign on government expense. When the time comes, we will act against the government people and ad agencies involved in all this”.Akhilesh also said that SP and RLD alliance was firm and seat-sharing with alliance partners has been decided and will be announced after the election notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cant-match-bjp-s-infra-for-digital-campaign-akhilesh-yadav-s-message-to-ec-101641635453784.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Governance picks up pace with flurry of orders in Uttar Pradesh before polls||Governance has picked up pace with a flurry of orders clearing pending work in Uttar Pradesh and beating Election Commission of India’s model code of conduct amid a spree of public rallies, inaugurations and laying of foundation stones every day ahead of the assembly elections.The motto that “closer the elections faster the work” appears to have worked well in the state over the years and the current situation is no different.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Yogi Adityanath take part in various ceremonies to inaugurate or lay the foundation stones of projects ahead of polls, various state government departments are busy issuing government orders (GOs) on a number of issues.A close scrutiny of GOs issued in the past four years indicates that the most orders have been issued in 2021, the last full year of the BJP government’s current tenure with elections due early this year. Most of the government orders of 2021 have been issued in the last quarter of the calendar year making faster decision making in the last three months obvious.The Uttar Pradesh government issued 13,141 GOs in 2021 against 12,916 in 2018, 10,058 in 2019 and 10,779 in 2020. A break-up indicates the maximum work in the last three months of 2021 when 3514 GOs were issued against 2131 during the same period in 2017, 2647 in 2018, 2033 in 2019 and 2754 in 2020.The number of GOs issued was the highest in the last month every year with 1553 GOs in December 2021, 759 in the last month of 2017, 868, 655 and 1144 in the same month in 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively.“Yes, when elections come near, the pending issues are resolved. Use of the annual budget is low in the first three months and the most funds are used in the last three months every year. But this is more so in an election year,” agreed Alok Ranjan, former Uttar Pradesh chief secretary.Ranjan further said this should, however, not be done.“There should be uniformity in work all across the year be it an election year or otherwise,” he said.This becomes more evident when the Election Commission of India is about to announce its model code of conduct for any election. About 326 GOs have been already issued in the first eight days of 2022 at the time of filing of this report and more may come as the day progresses. The state cabinet has also approved a large number of decisions at least thrice this month in an obvious bid to beat the ECI’s model of code of conduct. The state cabinet’s decision included restoration of secretariat allowance to its employees working in secretariat and other higher offices and reducing rate of Value Added Tax on Aviation Turbine Fuel from 21 per cent to one per cent.)“Yes, issues remain pending for years. The decisions are made at the last minute and GOs are issued at a faster pace to beat the ECI’s model conduct and woo voters. This should not be done and there should not be any pendency at any stage,” said VP Mishra, national president of the Indian Public Service Employees’ Federation.Does the last-minute work help any political party or government?“Public memory is very short. So, the ruling parties always try to take advantage of this and decide to go for last minute decision making and the higher number of GOs issued in the last year, quarter or month reflects this,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, the former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||VK Bhawra is new Punjab Police chief||Hours before the announcement of the Punjab assembly election date, the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government on Saturday appointed VK Bhawra, a 1987-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, as the state’s new director general of police (DGP). Also read: Khalistan separatists plan to show PM Modi as anti-PunjabBhawra takes over from acting DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, who is facing scrutiny following the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit on January 5. Viresh Kumar Bhawra’s term shall be for a minimum of two years from the date of assumption of office, the government order issued in Chandigarh said. Earlier, the Union Public Service Commission had sent a panel of three names to the state government, including former DGP Dinkar Gupta, Bhawra and Prabodh Kumar, for the top police post in the state. Bhawra is the third DGP to take charge in as many months of the Channi government’s tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vkbhawra-is-new-punjab-police-chief-101641633113191.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Manish Gupta death case: CBI chargesheet names six policemen||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has named six policemen in its chargesheet for their alleged role in the death of Kanpur-based businessman Manish Gupta.Gupta, a property dealer and resident of Kanpur, was allegedly beaten to death by the police in a hotel in Gorakhpur during a late-night raid on September 28 last year.The accused policemen, named in the chargesheet, were identified as SHO Jagat Narayan Singh, SI Akshay Kumar Mishra, SI Vijay Yadav, SI Rahul Dubey, head constable Kamlesh Singh Yadav and constable Prashant Kumar.CBI submitted its charge sheet on Friday in the Court of Special Judicial Magistrate, Lucknow.CBI took over the case on November 2 last year. Initial FIR was registered at Ramgarh Tal Police Station in Gorakhpur on the complaint from the wife of Manish Gupta.CBI stated that Manish Gupta checked in a hotel room of Gorakhpur on September 27, 2021. It was further mentioned in the charge sheet that on the intervening night of September 27 and 28 at about 12:00 am, the SHO, along with two Sub-Inspectors and three other police personnel, entered the room of the said hotel and started misbehaving with Manish Gupta.It is alleged that on protest by Manish Gupta, police officers started beating him, resulting in grievous injuries which led to his death on spot.Then, an FIR was registered under section 302 (Murder) of the Indian Penal Code and among other charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/manish-gupta-death-case-cbi-chargesheet-names-six-policemen-101641630607021.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai wakes up to light rains, temperature to drop||Mumbai woke up to an overcast sky on Saturday, with several parts of the suburbs reporting light rains in the morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials attributed the unseasonal rains to the passage of a western disturbance in the north, due to which moisture is being drawn from the Arabian Sea and carried to parts of Maharashtra, including interior districts such as Nashik and Dhule. Officials also said temperatures in Mumbai are likely to fall sharply today.Today 07.20 hrs pic.twitter.com/a4U2Q2xhfq“There are two western disturbances expected to pass over the region in the next seven days, creating an upper air cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan. These weather systems will pull moisture from the sea, and the wind direction is such that Mumbai, Thane, parts of Palghar and also some interior districts will see light to moderate rain, with a possibility of hailstorms in the interiors as well,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Winters or monsoon?#Mumbai #MumbaiRains pic.twitter.com/Wyqto0qX6iThe official also said that the temperature, both during the day and night, will likely remain below normal till at least January 12.“The minimum temperature could fall to as much as 15-16 degrees Celsius and the maximum will also fall to about 24 to 26 degrees Celsius. It will depend on how much more rain the city gets today. We don’t expect widespread rain, and any showers will be isolated,” the official cited above said.Kaisa yeh madhosh sa pal hain.#MumbaiRains pic.twitter.com/TmKPyvHdhyAs per IMD’s monitoring station at Santacruz, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 21.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday morning, up from 20.4 degrees Celsius on Friday. The maximum temperature recorded on Friday was 30.1 degrees Celsius.Isolated drizzles and high wind speeds on Saturday also helped improve the air, with the air quality index on Saturday morning entering the ‘moderate’ category with an index value of 176, down from ‘poor’ air the day prior.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-wakes-up-to-light-rains-temperature-to-drop-101641628252797.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain releases list of dos and don'ts for Covid patients isolating at home||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain took to Koo app today to share a set of instructions that all Covid-19 patients, who are under home isolation, need to adhere to. This comes days after the Centre released a set of fresh guidelines for all mildly and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, including those infected with Omicron, who can undergo home isolation.Jain also shared an image of the official guidelines released by the Centre for home isolation patients. In that, it has been instructed that all Covid-19 patients under home isolation must discard their masks after every eight hours or earlier if it becomes soiled. Further, both patients and their caregiver should preferably wear N-95 masks.
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP’s Sarabjit Kaur is the new Chandigarh mayor||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon was on Saturday elected the new Chandigarh mayor after she defeated Aam Aadmi Party’s Anju Katyal by one vote. Seven councillors of the Congress and the lone member of the Shiromani Akali Dal in the 35-member House abstained from voting in the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) mayoral election. Also read: Punjab CM’s wife, son, daughter-in-law Covid positive; Channi tests negativeSarabjit Kaur got 14 votes, while Katyal got 13 votes and one vote was declared invalid. Both the BJP and the AAP had 14 votes each in the House. Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon, a councillor from ward number 6 is the wife of Jagtar Singh Dhillon, a former councillor and lives in Mani Majra. She has studied till BA second year. She entered politics after her husband’s ward was reserved for a woman candidate. BJP’s Dalip Sharma won the senior deputy mayor election, defeating AAP’s Prem Lata. Sharma got 15 votes and Lata 13 out of the 28 votes cast. BJP candidate Anup Gupta won the deputy mayor’s election. He was declared the winner by draw of lots. Earlier, Gupta and Ram Chander Yadav of the AAP were tied with 14 votes each in the House with a strength of 28 members. The Congress and the SAD abstained from this election as well. In the December 24 election, the AAP bagged 14 seats, BJP 12 seats, Congress eight and the SAD one seat. The number of BJP votes in the House has gone up to 14 as Harpreet Kaur Babla, the wife of former Chandigarh Congress vice-president, Devinder Babla, joined the BJP. Another vote it has is of city MP Kirron Kher. Soon after the declaration of the result, AAP councillors resorted to sloganeering. The result is disappointing for the AAP, which became largest party in the House, in its maiden election but lost the mayoral polls. In the last five years, this is the first time when no clear winner could be predicted in the mayoral battle. In the previous term of the House, the BJP had a majority of 20 of the 26 seats, and even though there were some hiccups in a couple of mayoral elections, the results were always a foregone conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mayor-election-close-call-for-aap-bjp-as-congress-sad-abstain-101641625972488.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM’s wife, son, daughter-in-law Covid positive; Channi tests negative||Three members of the family of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi have tested positive for Covid-19, while the CM’s samples were negative. Also read: Khalistan separatists plan to show PM Modi as anti-PunjabMohali civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said on Saturday that the chief minister’s wife Dr Kamaljit Kaur, his son Navjit Singh and daughter-in-law Simrandheer Kaur have tested positive for Covid-19. “They have been infected with coronavirus infection and are now in home isolation in Kharar,” Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, adding that the chief minister’s samples had tested negative. On Wednesday evening, chief minister Channi had addressed a press conference in Chandigarh to say that he decided not to attend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s official programme in Ferozepur because his principal secretary Hussan Lal and a personal assistant had tested positive a few days ago.
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Malad trader gets letter demanding ₹1 crore from gangster in jail: Mumbai cops||MUMBAI: A Malad-based trader on Thursday received a threatening letter by registered post from a gangster in jail, threatening to kill him or one of his sons if he failed to pay ₹1 crore.The letter was sent by a local goon, Uday Pathak, who is facing multiple cases including the murder of four men in June 2011, after their partially charred, naked bodies were found in Kurar in North Mumbai.According to the complainant, Babulal Jain (53), who trades in imitation jewellery under the banner of Rokadiya Traders in Malad east, he received a letter at 11.30am on Thursday when he was at his shop. The letter was in a brown envelope, with names of Pathak and two other gang members.Jain, in his statement to the police, said the letter extended new year wishes from the gang before it went on to remind the trader that he hadn’t complied with their instructions to meet Pathak or send the money demanded by them.“This time I have sent the letter by post. Next time I will send a bullet which will not be aimed at the cupboard, but directly in the head),” the letter, written in Hindi, said, a reference to a February 21, 2021 attack when a member of the Pathak gang allegedly fired at Jain’s shop.The police had then found a chit thrown by the shooter with the gang’s name on it (‘Uday Pathak Rahul Mandri Vicky Pise Pathak gang’) and made a demand of ₹1crore against a death threat.Jain approached the Kurar police with the letter.“We have registered a case of extortion and are conducting investigations,” said Somnath Jadhav, senior police inspector of Kurar police station.Police said Pathak has sent similar letters in three other extortion cases registered against him after being jailed in 2011 in the Kurar murder case. He is also booked in 12 other major crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malad-trader-gets-letter-demanding-rs-1-crore-from-gangster-in-jail-mumbai-cops-101641624532352.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||BSF seizes Pakistani boat near Ferozepur in Punjab||Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday seized an abandoned Pakistani boat near the border outpost in Ferozepur district of Punjab.Ferozepur is a sensitive district because of its proximity to the international border with Pakistan. Earlier, many drones from Pakistan breached Indian territory in the district.A senior BSF officer said that the wooden boat was spotted by the personnel belonging to the 136 Battalion during patrol duty near the DT Mall border outpost along the international border."In winters, the area remained covered under thick fog. After the boat was recovered, we conducted a search operation in the area and alerted local villages to inform BSF in case they see any suspicious activity. Such boats are often used for smuggling of narcotics substance and arms from across the border," he said.On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's convoy was stuck for 15-20 minutes due to a road blockade in Punjab's Ferozepur in a security breach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-seizes-pakistani-boat-near-ferozepur-in-punjab-101641617814600.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Can I walk my pet? Can I hail an e-rickshaw? Qs on Delhi weekend curfew answered||Delhi is under a 55-hour-long weekend curfew, which has been imposed by the Delhi government to check the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. It started at 10pm on Friday and will remain in place till 5am on Monday.Also Read | DDMA to meet again on Monday to discuss further restrictions in DelhiThe curfew and other restrictions were announced by the DDMA as Delhi’s positivity rate went past 15 per cent and the number of daily Covid-19 cases crossed the 15,000-mark. On Friday, Covid-19 cases went beyond 17,000 and positivity mounted to 17.73 per cent.The positivity rate was below 1 per cent on December 28.While all the non-essential services have been banned, certain exemptions have been given to people who are associated with emergency services, to patients availing medical services, those going for Covid test or vaccination and students appearing for exams.What is a weekend curfew?These are the restrictions imposed by competent authorities to stop people coming out for non-essential work since Covid-19 cases are increasing at a rapid pace in the national capital.Since weekends are the time when people go out with families, these measures have been implemented to check overcrowding. Malls and shopping centres have reported 25 per cent drop due to these restrictions, industry body SCAI said in a report.The weekend curfew started on January 7 (10pm) and will be in place till 5 am on January 10. An existing night curfew is already in place in Delhi from 10pm to 5am.What if I don’t follow the orders?In case people are found violating the instructions, they shall be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 88 of Indian Penal Code and other applicable laws.Will e-passes be needed, or will identity cards work?Government officials, healthcare and frontline workers, diplomats and journalists will need to produce identity cards; those providing essential services will need to produce e-passes upon request.What if I need to travel outside Delhi? Can I travel on an inter-state bus?Yes, movement of inter-state buses is allowed. However, you will need an e-pass or valid ticket to travel to the ISBT you are riding your bus from.Can I hail an auto-rickshaw, e-rickshaw or cycle rickshaw?You can, if you are commuting in an auto-rickshaw, e-rickshaw or cycle rickshaw for essential services or are going to get vaccinated against Covid-19 (with an e-pass), or for medical treatment. However, if you are stopped while travelling for reasons other than this, you will be prosecuted.Can I get a ride on app-based cab aggregator?You can, if you are travelling for an essential service or travel, or have arrived in the city via train, flight etc. In that case, you need to have a valid identity card, and e-pass or travel ticket.Can I go to a shopping mall/cinema hall/theatre/gym/restaurant over the weekend?No. Cinemas, theatres, gyms and spas are shut on all days until further orders. Shops located inside shopping malls are operating on an odd-even basis (10am-8pm) and dine-in services at restaurants and bars is capped at 50% seating capacity on weekdays. These will, however, be shut during the weekend curfew. Only takeaways and deliveries will be allowed during this period.Can I walk my pet during the curfew?Yes, if it is extremely urgent, but only within your residential colony. You may be questioned, though.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-i-walk-my-pet-can-i-hail-an-e-rickshaw-qs-on-delhi-weekend-curfew-answered-101641613604669.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Weekend curfew in Delhi: DDMA to meet again to discuss further restrictions||National capital Delhi is under a weekend curfew, which started on Friday evening, due to a huge spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. It is among the several curbs announced by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) after recent meeting.Watch: New curbs including weekend curfew in Delhi as Covid cases riseAnd now, news agency PTI reported that another DDMA meeting is expected to take place on Monday to discuss further restrictions, including 'total curfew', under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP).The agenda of the meeting include review of the Covid-19 situation and preparation in the wake of rising Omicron cases in Delhi, discussion on implementation of GRAP (Level 4 Red), and review of vaccination programme, PTI reported citing from a notice listing the official agenda of the meeting.Also Read | Can I walk my pet? Qs on Delhi weekend curfew answeredAccording to GRAP, Red Alert is the topmost level of restrictions, which includes total curfew, closure of all non-essential shops, Metro trains, government offices, except those dealing with essential services.The Red Alert is sounded under GRAP when Covid-19 positivity goes beyond five per cent and stays above it for two consecutive days.Delhi on Friday recorded 17,335 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 8, and nine deaths, while the positivity rate mounted to 17.73 per cent, according to data shared by the health department.This is a significant rise from Thursday when the city recorded 15,097 new cases at a positivity rate of 15.34 per cent.The positivity rate was below 1 per cent on December 28.Meanwhile, under the 10pm to 5am weekend curfew, all non-essential activities are prohibited. But people coming from or going to airports, railway stations or bus terminals will be allowed travel with valid tickets, as will those who work for services such as grocery shops, internet service providers, banks and petrol pumps. Delivery of food and online shopping deliveries will be allowed, and people can attend weddings, which will need to have at most 20 attendees, by showing an invitation card.In the current set of restrictions, the DDMA has allowed 100 per cent seating capacity in the buses and Metro trains. Standing passengers, however, are not allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-curfew-in-delhi-ddma-to-meet-again-to-discuss-further-restrictions-101641611286535.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||542 more test positive for virus in J&K, 574 in HP||Jammu and Kashmir continued to see a spike in daily Covid cases after recording 542 infections and one death on Friday, taking the number of active cases to 2,492. Of the total cases on Friday, 288 and one death was reported in Jammu division while Kashmir valley saw 254 infections. Jammu district reported the highest 176 cases followed by 20 in Kathua. Kashmir witnessed 118 cases in Srinagar followed by 46 in Baramulla and 20 in Budgam. Jammu district has taken over from Srinagar with the highest number of active cases at 744 followed by Srinagar with 618.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 98. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,36,284, pushing the recovery rate to 98.03%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K climbed up to 3,43,310 and the death toll stood at 4,534. The officials said that 55,129 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,159 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 884 deaths. In Himachal, 574 persons tested positive for Covid, while 73 recovered. The state also recorded one death.Meanwhile, senior IAS officer from Jammu and Kashmir Shahid Iqbal Choudhary has added another national award to his kitty, this time for his yeoman’s service in the fight against Covid and providing relief to lakhs of people in Srinagar.During the 24th National Conference on e-governance at Hyderabad on Friday, the ‘Covid Call Centre and Management System’ project was selected for the ‘gold’ award for using information and communication technology in Covid management.The award was presented by Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office and Personnel Ministry Jitendra Singh in the presence of Minister of State for Information Technology (IT) K T Rama Rao and other senior bureaucrats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/542-more-test-positive-for-virus-in-j-k-574-in-hp-101641611510938.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Weatherman issues ‘red’ alert for J&K||Snow and rains continued in the Valley and Jammu region on Friday as MeT has predicted heavy to moderate snowfall for Saturday. The MeT office has issued ‘red’ warning.While the plains observed rainfall, snowfall was reported from higher reaches of Kashmir. “Currently, it is snowing at most places of Kashmir and hilly areas of Jammu and raining at a few places of Jammu region. Expect further increase in rain/snow intensity as the day progresses with main intensity of heavy to very heavy rain/snow during January 7 (night) and 8. There could be gradual improvement from January 9 morning onwards in J&K,” said MeT office in a statement issued on Friday evening.On Wednesday, the Valley had witnessed heavy snowfall on the upper reaches and at the tourist resorts of Gulmarg, Pahalgam, Sonmarg, northern and southern parts of Kashmir. The upper areas of Gulmarg and north Kashmir witnessed more than three feet of snow causing the closure of Srinagar-Gurez, Kupwara-Tanghdar and Srinagar-Leh highways. Due to heavy snowfall, men and machinery were put to service to clear snow from the roads and highways. Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as it recorded minus 5.5 degrees Celsius during the night followed by minus 0.1 degree at Pahalgam during the night.Srinagar recorded 2.6 degrees Celsius during the night. Leh in Ladakh recorded minus 1.5 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, the Jammu-Srinagar national highway was closed for traffic on Friday evening following massive slides at three to four places in Ramban district, said officials. SSP traffic, national highway, Shabir Malik said, “Heavy rains triggered fresh landslides at Duggi Pulli, Cafetaria Morh, Sita Ram Passi and Magerkot. As a result the highway has been blocked.” The pilgrimage to famous cave shrine of Vaishno Devi was restored on Friday morning but was suspended in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weatherman-issues-red-alert-for-jk-101641611330777.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||J&K Police hounding PDP workers: Mehbooba||Former J&K chief minister and the People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday blamed police for ‘hounding’ party workers who went to the grave of her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed on his sixth death anniversary at Bijbhera in South Kashmir’s Anantnag district.Many PDP workers were reportedly not allowed inside the graveyard of the former J&K chief minister on his death anniversary. However, after the protest from Mehbooba Mufti and other PDP leaders, the workers were allowed to offer prayers at the grave of the PDP founder who passed away in New Delhi in 2016 when he was heading a coalition government of the PDP and BJP in J&K. “On Mufti Sahab’s sixth death anniversary, Id like to thank everybody who paid rich tributes to him. We continue to believe & strive for his vision of a dignified & empowered J&K,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.“Meanwhile J&K police is hounding my party workers who dared to offer fatiha at his grave today. Outlawing & criminalising even a simple act of paying respect & tribute to one’s leader shows state administration’s deep paranoia & intolerance,” PDP president said in another tweet.PDP resolves to strengthen resistance The PDP leaders resolved to strengthen the battle of resistance against ‘onslaught’ on democratic, constitutional and legal rights of Jammu and Kashmir residents by divisive and communal forces. The party leaders assembled at party headquarters here and paid floral tributes to the deceased leader remembering his contributions and service to the erstwhile state. Party’s vice-president Abdul Hamid Choudhary said that PDP workers have faced the worst over the last few years due to constant plot to weaken PDP across Jammu and Kashmir. He said the battle of resistance aimed at restoration of constitutional and legal rights of J&K residents was tough but “nothing was impossible if we have the determination and will”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-police-hounding-pdp-workers-mehbooba-101641611150835.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Covid norms go for toss at CM’s Bilaspur meeting||A day after government announced slews of restrictions to contain the surging Covid-19 cases, VIPs and public paid scant regards to safety protocols during a public meeting at Bilaspur. The largely attended public meeting was addressed by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who a day earlier had been urging people to adhere to the Covid norms.There was almost no social distancing while most of the people, including some political leaders, were seen without masks. This was after the repeated warnings given by the Centre that situation may go worse if proper steps are not taken. Meanwhile, Jai Ram inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 26 development projects worth about ₹ 210 crore at Kandraur. The major projects he inaugurated included ₹64.66-crore source level augmentation of various waters supply schemes from Koldam; ₹70-lakh office building of HPSEB subdivision-II at Nihal; ₹ 4.26-crore 144 metre girder bridge over Seer khad at Mityal; and ₹11.83-crore Markanday Temple precinct and visitors’ facilities complex at Makri-Markand. The CM also laid foundation stones of veterinary dispensary in Hawan and more than half a dozen source augmentation water supply schemes and irrigation schemes. Later, while addressing a public meeting at senior secondary school in Kandraur, the chief minister announced opening of Jal Shakti subdivision at Kuthera, and opening of sub-tehsil at Harlog. He also announced increasing bed capacity of civil hospital in Bilaspur from 270 to 300 beds. Jai Ram also announced that water sports and other tourism development activities would be started in Govindsagar lake under an ADB project to attract tourists.He said that National BJP president JP Nadda has represented Bilaspur for several years and it was indeed a matter of pride for every citizen of the district and the state. He said that Bilaspur has emerged as a pioneer district in the state due to setting up of AIIMS. He said that the credit of this goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Nadda. He said that this premier institution would be dedicated to the state by the Prime Minister probably during the month of June this year.Accusing the previous Congress government of the ‘financial mess’ in the state, the chief minister said that the present HP government inherited financial burden of about ₹50,000 crore from the previous regime. He said that despite the pandemic, the present state government took numerous steps to strengthen the economy of Himachal. He said that Congress leaders did nothing in this crisis and even tried to politicise this sensitive issue.Jai Ram said that the four years of the present government were dedicated towards the development of the state with special focus on upliftment of the poor and downtrodden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-covid-norms-go-for-toss-at-cm-s-bilaspur-meeting-101641610977644.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||No relief from biting cold in Himachal||There was no relief from biting cold in Himachal as rains and snow continued relentlessly for fourth consecutive day, bringing down the temperatures across the state. On Friday, two people were killed in weather-related incidents in Chamba and Shimla districts while three people were injured.In Chamba, a 24-year-old youth died and two others were injured when the car they were travelling in was hit by a rolling boulder. The incident took place at Alerh near Dalhousie town. The victim has been identified as Saurav, a resident of Nurpur. In another incident, one person was killed after and other injured after their car fell into a gorge in Nerwa of Shimla district. The victim has been identified as Rajesh , 33. Meanwhile, more than 180 roads are blocked for the traffic across the state due to snow and rains. Maximum 137 are closed in Lahaul-Spiti district, 18 in Mandi and 16 in Kinnaur.Eighty electricity transformers are also out of order and seven water supply schemes have been hit. As per the data released by state emergency operation centre, remote Pangi valley in Chamba experienced around 2 feet snowfall, Rackchham in Kinnaur got 5 inches of snow and Kalpa and Sangla 3 inches each. Rohtang Pass and Jalori Pass got three-an-half feet snow. Udaipur in Lahaul-Spiti got a foot of snowfall, Koksar 7 inches, Tindi 8 inches, Darcha, Losar and Jahalma 6 inches each and Kaza and Gondhla 5 inches. Minimum temperatures have also dropped across the state. At minus 9 degrees Celsius, Keylong was the coldest place in the state followed by Kalpa at minus 4 degrees. Kufri was cold at minus 1 degree C while Manali and Shimla shivered at 0 degrees C and 3.2 degrees C, respectively. Dalhousie saw a minimum temperature of 1.5 degrees whereas Dharamshala and Palampur 4.2 and 6.5 degrees C, respectively.The MeT department has forecast bad weather till January 11. A yellow alert has been sounded for heavy rains and snowfall on January 8 and 9. Avalanche alert issued in Kashmir, heavy snowfall predictedHeavy rains, snow lash J&K, slides shut Jammu-Srinagar highway in Ramban HT Correspondent JAMMU: The 278 km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway, the only all weather surface link that connects Kashmir with the rest of India, was closed for traffic on Friday evening following massive slides at three to four places in Ramban district, said officials. Heavy rains and snow continue to lash the region. SSP traffic national highway, Shabir Malik said, “Heavy rains triggered fresh landslides at Duggi Pulli ,Cafetaria Morh ,Sita Ram Passi and Magerkot. As a result the highway has been blocked.” He informed that till Friday afternoon the traffic authorities cleared the vehicles for Srinagar and Jammu. “However, heavy rains in the evening triggered fresh slides and as of now we have 20 to 25 light motor vehicles stranded in Ramban. Around 300 trucks carrying essentials to Valley have been parked in a parking lot in Ramban.” Malik said in view of inclement weather and red alert issued by the Met office, the traffic will remain suspended on Saturday. Earlier during the morning traffic on was getting intermittently blocked due to shooting stones, mudslides and slush triggered by the incessant rains at Cafeteria Morh. The traffic authorities have fixed cut off timing of 1pm from Qaziqund and Udhampur for fresh traffic in view of the inclement weather. However, the pilgrimage to famous cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi was restored on Friday morning but it was again suspended in the evening around 6 pm. Officials said, the yatra was suspended around 6 pm on Friday till 6 am on Saturday. “After overnight suspension, it will be restored in the morning. The decision to suspend the pilgrimage after sunset has been taken because of the hostile weather conditions and poor visibility,” they said. They also informed that the chopper service to the shrine remained suspended for the third consecutive day. “Battery car service also remains suspended following a minor landslide on Himkoti Marg. The pilgrimage is being allowed during the day time from old traditional route,” they added. The Met Office on Friday issued a red alert for Friday night and Saturday. “Expect further increase in the intensity of rain and snow as the day progresses with main intensity of heavy to very heavy rain and during Friday night and on Saturday. Gradual improvement is expected from Sunday morning,” said Sonam Lotus, director of the Met office. “People are again requested not to venture in avalanche prone area,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-relief-from-biting-cold-in-himachal-101641610731036.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cheap Iranian import now threatening stored Himachal apples||After a lean apple season that was marred by weather vagaries and pandemic-induced lockdown last year, there was a huge yield in the hilly state also known as the fruit bowl of the country. Total 2.84 crore apple boxes were produced this year while the last year recorded a 3.43 crore yield. The varieties produced in Himachal were sold in the open market during the season, but about one lakh metric tonnes of apples were kept in the cold stores as well as the controlled atmospheric stores in different parts of the country including, Chandigarh, Kundli and Sonepat in Haryana, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Hyderabad and Vijayawada. But now again, the cheap apples from Iran are threatening the Himachal apples. “The cheap imports from Iran have killed the market for Kashmiri apples and conventional cold-stored apples from Himachal as Iranian apples are also bound to impact the controlled atmosphere stored apples, making the trade unviable and non-remunerative,” said Lokinder Singh Bisht, president, PGA Progressive Growers’ Association. Growers from Himachal and Kashmir have been repeatedly demanding the government to raise import duty on apples. For the last two years, home-grown apples have been facing stiff competition from duty-free fruits being imported from Iran under the India‘s Free Trade Agreement. Large consignments of apples are also shipped to ports in Gujarat and Maharashtra, while some are routed to markets in north India through the Attari-Wagah border. “It is mostly the Red Delicious variety grown in Iran, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan that makes its way into India. Despite numerous representations to the Centre by orchardists in Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, duty-free import of fruits has not been rolled back. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur recently asked the Union government to raise the duty on apple import, but we have been constantly demanding the same for long,” said Harish Chauhan, convener, Hill State Horticulture Forum comprising growers from Himachal, Jammu, Kashmir and Uttarakhand. “Cheap Iranian apple is definitely giving competition to the apple produced in Himachal and Kashmir,” said a young entrepreneur, Abhinav Jaggi, who owns online Agri Fresh stores. A 10-kilogram box of Iranian apples cost about ₹400 to ₹600 per kilogram of apples, “he said, adding that Iranian apples are gaining ground with retail fruit sellers. Despite erratic weather and unseasonal rains, Himachal Pradesh witnessed the production of more than 3.43 crore boxes in the 2021 apple season, which is also the highest production in the last five years. The previous record is of 3.88 crore boxes in the year 2015. The highest ever production of 5.11 crore boxes was achieved in the year 2010. Compared to the previous five years, apple production in 2021 has been good. Though the production was large, orchardists didn’t get the price for the product as the hailstorm and unseasonal snow and rain had battered the crop. Due to the dented produce, the B-grade apple didn’t fetch expected prices in the market after mid-August. Till the first week of August, when the good quality produce arrived in the market, the orchardists got a price of ₹3,500 per box. However, the prices fell sharply in the second week and one box could hardly fetch between ₹1,800 to ₹2,200 which resulted in huge losses to the marginal and small farmers. In 2021, a record 73,216.67 metric tonnes, which comes around 36 lakh boxes, were procured by the government undertakings like Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Produce Marketing & Processing Corporation (HPMC) and Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing And Consumer’s Federation (Himfed) under the market intervention scheme. The government had fixed a price of ₹9.50 per kilogram apple under the MIS scheme which was quite low as compared to the MIS prices in Jammu and Kashmir. This wasn’t enough for the orchardists to recover their input cost. 
08-01-2022||Kolkata||Gangasagar Mela starts today, lakhs of pilgrims head to Bengal as HC gives nod||The Gangasagar Mela, which occurs at West Bengal's Gangasagar (also known as Sagar) Island during Makar Sankranti every year, starts today and will continue till January 16. There was a major cry regarding its cancellation owing to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the recent surge in cases across the country amid Omicron variant outbreak. However, the Calcutta high court on Friday gave a go-ahead to the Trinamool Congress-led state government to conduct the event after taking necessary measures to check Covid-19.On Makar Sankranti, thousands of pilgrims, seers and tourists are expected to take a holy dip in the confluence of Ganga and Bay of Bengal, and offer prayers at the Kapil Muni Temple.The court showed concerns regarding the virus spreading due to oral and nasal droplets transmitting through river water after the pilgrims take dips in the confluence. Advocate General SN Mukherjee, representing West Bengal government, however, reportedly informed that residents of Sagar Island have been inoculated with both jabs of Covid-19 vaccine and the test-positivity rate in Diamond Harbour was under control.The state further stated that it wasn't expecting the headcounts at the annual pilgrimage this year to exceed 5 lakh, while adding that nearly 30,000 seers have already visited the fair (mela) and around 50,000 people, including more seers, have reached the event ground from various locations of the country.High court's instructions to contain Covid-19 at Gangasagar Mela 2022:The court directed the state government to constitute a three-member panel comprising the leader of opposition at the state assembly, chairman of West Bengal Human Rights Commission, and representative of the state, to ensure compliance of Covid-19 measures in the Sagar Island.Should there be any laxity in compliance, the committee has been asked to make recommendations to the state government without any delay to prohibit entry in the island, on which the competent state authority will take immediate action. The court also stated that the secretary of West Bengal Human Rights Commission will coordinate with the committee members on the matter.The high court has instructed the state to ensure that all persons and pilgrims at the Gangasagar Mela ground mandatorily wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and use sanitisers. The same protocols are applicable for individuals associated with the control and management of the event such as police personnel, medical personnel, volunteers and government officials.As many as five RT-PCR testing facilities along with some rapid antigen testing centres must be set up at all entry points, including Howrah and Sealdah railway stations.Concerns from doctors:Despite the green signal from the high court, the Doctors' Forum is sceptical on how the Covid-19 measures suggested by the former will be conducted by the state government. It also stated that the affidavit filed by the state on January 6 to the high court is a mere eyewash to go ahead with the mela.The forum has claimed that the medical facilities made available in the mela premises are not adequate to cater to lakhs of pilgrims.Covid-19 situation in West BengalAs many as 18,213 new Covid-19 cases were reported in West Bengal on Friday, up from 15,421 the day before. There are 51,384 active cases in the state with the case positivity rate as high as 26.34%. The number of people hospitalised in the state due to the virus also saw a rise to 2,444 on Friday from Thursday's 2,228, according to the state Covid-19 bulletin data.South 24 Parganas where the Sagar Island is situated logged a total of 704 new Covid-19 cases on Friday of the overall 18,213 infections. It is one of the most affected districts in the state apart from Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Paschim Bardhaman.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/gangasagar-mela-starts-today-lakhs-of-pilgrims-head-to-bengal-as-hc-gives-nod-101641599958018.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi, NCR witness heavy rainfall, thunderstorms||Delhi and its adjoining areas witnessed heavy rainfall with thunderstorms in the early hours of Saturday."Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi and Delhi NCR (Gurugram, Faridabad, Manesar, Ballabhgarh) Karnal, Panipat, Gannaur, Sonipat, Kharkhoda, Jhajjar, Sohana, Palwal, Nuh (Haryana) Baraut, Bagpat (UP) and Tizara (Rajasthan)," tweeted India Meteorological Department.With rain lashing several parts of Delhi and the temperature dipping further, homeless people are taking refuge in night shelters. The Weather Department has predicted a cloudy sky for Delhi till January 9.Meanwhile, the air quality in the national capital improved to 'poor' from 'very poor' category on Friday, a day after the national capital experienced intermittent rain spells, with the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) at 273, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-witness-heavy-rainfall-thunderstorms-101641602249612.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: The lost world||The street is teeming with market people. The street-side is taken over by two tailors. They are mending torn suitcases. More of such damaged suitcases are piled up behind them.But who will mend the damaged building (see photo) further behind?On a closer survey, the building turns out to be as haunting as a lost world. Staircases are going up to rooms that no longer exist. The cobwebbed niches on the walls joyfully stare into the air, like an eternal grin of skulls. Some parts of the house appear to be made of lakhori bricks, the building material of yesteryear.This ruin is in Gurugram, considered to be the land of office high-rises and shopping malls. This house is very old, remarks a rat poison vendor hawking his ware. The building is obviously abandoned. No human can live in it, here in Sadar Bazar, just opposite a much-loved sweet shop (who hasn’t heard of the famous Sardar Jalebi!). Squirrels are running about the fallen bricks. A black cat darts across and instantly disappears from view. An all-knowing shopkeeper in the vicinity once gossiped some stories about the landmark, but you don’t need to bother with telltales. A connoisseur of the city street is required to simply gaze upon the dilapidated structure from a polite distance, and imagine the extinct house’s daily life that must have played out within — the celebrations and deaths, the happiness and grief.Today, the roof is gone and the broken walls make the place resemble a tatty book with missing pages. The innards of the residence lie exposed for all the world to ogle at. Discarded plastic bags adorn the rubble. The only element that seems to show some bit of sympathy to the building is a giant neem. Its sprawling branches are reaching out to the vastness of the untended concrete like a protective parent wanting to embrace the unlucky child.One day, these remnants might be replaced with a smart modern building, designed after contemporary aesthetics. And then this place as we see it today will go out of our mind, as if it had never been.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-lost-world-101641602189461.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP protest leads to massive traffic jam outside Ludhiana DC office||Ludhiana Protests by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers outside the mini secretariat at Ludhiana-Ferozepur road on Friday caused a traffic jam, causing problems for the local commuters who found themselves stranded in the rain for at least one and a half hour.The protest hit various neighbourhoods including the Bharat Nagar chowk, a busy locality, Link road, Mall road, Ferozepur road and surrounding roads.Police diverted the traffic to other routes, bur with buses and three-wheelers entering narrow streets, the traffic situation in the locality turned was worsened.Sompal Sharma of Rajguru Nagar, one of the commuters, said he was stuck in traffic for over an hour whale on his way to the railway station.Gurmeet Singh, another commuter, highlighted that blocking roads was not the solution but the practice had become routine in the city. He added that the ongoing projects had made traffic jams an everyday affair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-protest-leads-to-massive-traffic-jam-outside-ludhiana-dc-office-101641598909589.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | BJP workers block Ferozepur road after man abuses protesters||Ludhiana Angered by the abuses hurled at a peaceful protest outside the deputy commissioner (DC) office in the mini secretariat by an unidentified man, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) workers on Friday blocked the Ferozepur road.The man engaged in a heated exchange with the BJP district president Pushpinder Singhal, who was leading the party’s protest condemning the security breach during Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s rally in Ferozepur, before being apprehended by the police.The party workers, however, broke past the police barricade installed at the protest site after the incident and staged a dharna on the Ferozepur road.Speaking of the incident, Singhal accused the Congress party of enlisting goons to disrupt their planned rally.“Today, when we are protesting against the lawlessness prevailing in the state, the Congress government is sending their stooges to disrupt the protest. But such acts will make only make BJP stronger” he saidSinghal further alleged that the PM’s security breach incident was a well-planned act orchestrated by the Congress party, adding that the state has suffered as the PM had planned to launch projects worth ₹42000 crore, which included laying the foundation stone of the PGI satellite centre at Ferozepur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bjp-workers-block-ferozepur-road-after-man-abuses-protesters-101641598850252.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Police enforce night curfew in Ludhiana||Ludhiana Police on Thursday night forced shut eateries, shops in the vicinity of Haibowal, Dandi Swami road, Humbran road and a few liquor vends near the railway station that they found operating past the 10pm curfew. The authorities did not issue challans to the businesses, but warned them of strict action in case of future violation.Police vehicles made announcements in the evening informing the shopkeepers, malls, and restaurants to shut down operations by 10pm and carried out patrols to ensure none of the businesses remained open.The state government had imposed a night curfew in the state from Tuesday in the wake of the rising Covid cases. Residents, however, continue to flout the norms, offering excuses about not being aware of the night curfew being imposed again.Notably, in addition to the patrol carried out to ensure that businesses are shut down at time, police have been carrying out drives to ensure no individuals were found flouting the curfew.Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said people with medical emergencies, delivery vehicles and people travelling to transport hubs were allowed to move during curfew hours adding that the rationale behind the curfew was to discourage social gatherings at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-enforce-night-curfew-in-ludhiana-101641598730033.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana NGO stages play highlighting poor condition of road, sewerage||Ludhiana Taking a dig at politicians on the issue of poor condition of North constituency, Kumar Gaurav, who runs a non-government organisation (NGO), on Friday presented a street play at Chander Nagar main road to highlighting the neighbourhood’s choked sewerage and damaged roads.The play focussed on the alleged failure of members of legislative assembly (MLAs) in carrying out any development work in their constituencies and their indifferent attitude towards the grievances of their constituents.Gaurav said his organisation aimed to make people aware of the hollow promises being made by candidates who are contesting the elections.Further discussing the inconvenience faced by residents due to the poor road condition, he said, “Several months have passed but the roads, the condition of which worsen with the rain, have not been repaired yet.”He further alleged that the residents of North Constituency are still living without the provision of the very basic facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ngo-stages-play-highlighting-poor-condition-of-road-sewerage-101641598669538.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana resident lodges FIR against daughter-in-law for cheque book theft||Ludhiana A Model Town resident lodged an FIR against his daughter-in-law, her father and other relatives for stealing his son’s cheque book. According to the complainant Indertejpal Singh, the accused, identified as Manpreet Kaur, who married his son Shaminderpal Singh in December 2012, had stolen his son’s cheque book in October 2020 while visiting them after having lived at her maternal home for over a year.The accused allegedly later tried to encash cheques worth ₹40 lakh, ₹20 lakh and ₹28 lakh.The complainant added that the accused filed cheque bounce cases against him in different states after he approached the bank to stop the payments.The complainant said they first filed to the police on November 6, 2020, following which the accused lodged a complaint against them at the Janakpuri police station in Delhi and an FIR citing harassment for dowry.Assistant sub inspector Harmesh Singh, investigating officer, said an FIR under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 471 (dishonest use as genuine any document), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused. The police have arrested Kuldeep Singh Aneja, a relative of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-resident-lodges-fir-against-daughter-in-law-for-cheque-book-theft-101641598549531.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ahead of Lohri, 744 spools of banned kite string recovered in Ludhiana||Ludhiana Ahead of Lohri festival, police on Thursday arrested three accused in two separate cases for selling banned plastic kite string, recovering 744 spools made from the banned material.Police arrested Raman Thukral of Atwal Nagar and his brother Vishesh Thukral for storing and selling the plastic kite string, having come across the vendors during a special checking in the first case. Sub inspector Harpreet Singh, station head office at the station, said the police conducted a raid on the shop of the accused near Jawala Singh Chowk following a tip-off and recovered 600 spools from the shop.In the second incident, authorities arrested arrested Amit Saharan of Vishwakarma Colony. The accused was allegedly selling the banned kite string near Balmiki Ghati, with authorities recovering 144 spools from his possession on the location. Cases under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant.) and section 188 and 336 (negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at the Haibowal and Daresi police stations in the two cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-lohri-744-spools-of-banned-kite-string-recovered-in-ludhiana-101641598489880.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tailed by 4 men at night, Ludhiana man carjacked||Four men thrashed a Raikot resident and made away with his vehicle on Thursday night. The victim, Manpreet Singh of Raikot said he was going to Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk from the Raikot civil hospital in his Maruti Suzuki Alto car when he noticed that a black-coloured Mahindra Scorpio was tailing him. When he turned towards his home from Johla Road, he was intercepted by the men in the SUV. “The four occupants approached me, and tried to take my car keys. When, I resisted they hit me and threw me on the road. One of the accused persons drove off with my car. I was able to jot down the registration number of the SUV, and alerted the police,” he said.Assistant sub-inspector, Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 379B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint ) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against unidentified accused. The police have contacted the Regional Transport Office to get details of the SUV’s owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tailed-by-4-men-at-night-ludhiana-man-carjacked-101641598429709.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana receives 25.8mm rainfall in a week, breaks 23-year record for January||The city registered record-breaking rainfall in the first week of January, the highest for the month in 23 years. The city usually receives an average rainfall of 7.6mm in January, but , this year, Ludhiana logged 25.8mm rainfall in the first week alone. As per Punjab Agricultural University department of climate change and agriculture meteorology it was last in 1999 that the city had recorded 28.7mm of rainfall in January.Department head Prabhjyot Kaur said, “Usually we witness around 4.6mm rainfall in the first week of January, but this time, the city received 10.2mm rain in 24 hours, double the expected precipitation. The current system of western disturbance will prevail till January 9.Experts say the rainfall will be beneficial for wheat after a dry November and December.The maximum temperature was 16.4°C, while the minimum temperature dropped by five degrees to settle at 11.4°C. Experts say the mercury may drop further over the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-receives-25-8mm-rainfall-in-a-week-breaks-23-year-record-for-january-101641597829360.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana street vendor sustains ‘bullet injuries’, cops say accused used crackers||A street vendor suffered “bullet injuries” after an assailant allegedly opened fire on him near Pippal Chowk in Daba on Thursday night. The complainant, Ramesh, 34, of Pippal Chowk, said he was returning home when the masked man opened fire him. While the bullets missed him, he says the splinters hit his back. The Daba police suspected that the man sustained injuries due to a firecracker.Ramesh owns several carts which he rents out. He also sells spices on his cart. The accused has been captured on CCTV camera. The footage shows a bike-borne man alighting from his bike, and opening fire on Ramesh.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, Daba station house officer, said it seemed that the accused had burst a firecracker using a gun like structure, which injured the victim. “The exact nature of the complainant’s injury will be clear after a medical examination is conducted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-street-vendor-sustains-bullet-injuries-cops-say-accused-used-crackers-101641597589370.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi adds 17,335 Covid infections, 9 more fatalities||The Capital added 17,335 cases of Covid-19 on Friday, as the daily spike in the city hit its highest level since May 9 last year, even as nine more people succumbed to the infection on the day.The fresh infections on Friday came at a test positivity rate of 17.73%, showed data from the state’s daily health bulletin, as this statistic also continued to rise amid Delhi’s fifth wave of infections, which is likely fuelled by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.The positivity rate in Delhi stayed below 5% for 227 days, but breached that mark on January 3.The nine deaths on Thursday is the most in one day since June 21, when 11 people died of Covid-19.The city added 8,370 cases each day over the past week, up from 771 a week ago, and 116 the week before that.Hospitalisations have not risen at the same pace or magnitude in that time, however, confirming global trends that have shown that the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is more transmissible than the Delta variant, but does not cause severe illness or hospitalisations to the same degree.The number of active cases – patients currently recovering from the illness -- in the city is now just short of 40,000.However, just 1,390 hospital beds in the city are currently occupied, including by suspected Covid-19 patients, showed the state’s health bulletin. Of these, 1,159 are patients from Delhi. A vast majority of those admitted are not on oxygen support, while 31 patients are on ventilator support.Experts affirmed that while the Omicron variant did appear to cause milder infection, residents should keep their guard up.Dr Ambrish Mithal, chairperson and head of endocrinology and diabetes division, Max Healthcare, said, “When we say the Omicron variant causes ‘mild disease’, we mean mild in comparison to the deadly Delta variant. Omicron can result in just a mild cough, sore throat, but can also cause a full blown viral with severe headache, body ache, fever, cough lasting several days.”Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the peak of infections may likely be reached in the first week of February according to current trends.“The experience of different Omicron-hit countries of the world shows that the number of cases will further increase in the country, especially in the weeks to come. Omicron spreads four times faster than the delta variant, but infection is mild and only 25% cases are required hospitalisation. The peak is likely to hit in the first week of February. People should avoid gatherings and comply with the guidelines,” said Dr Kant. He also stressed on the importance of using high-quality masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-17-335-covid-infections-9-more-fatalities-101641597112665.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Despite Covid surge, single counter set for vaccination, testing in Ludhiana||Paying no mind to the surge in coronavirus cases in the city, health authorities have set up a single vaccination and testing counter at the civil surgeon’s office, increasing the risk of exposure. Incidentally, with people hurrying to get their vaccine shots as the third wave of the virus begins its ascend, the single Covid counter at the civil surgeon’s office is the most crowded area on the premises. Among those at the civil surgeon’s office were a few people who were exhibiting flu-like symptoms, including cough and cold, and were waiting to get an RT-PCR test.The queue grew longer after the vaccination centre opened an hour late. One of the persons, Surinder Kumar of Kundan Puri, said he had arrived at the vaccination unit at around 8am, but no one was present. ‘Stampede-like situation’ “Soon a huge crowd gathered at the Covid counter. As the crowd continued to swell, cops deployed at the venue had to use force to avoid a stampede-like situation,” he said. “The cotton swabs given after administering the vaccine were scattered on the floor at the vaccination point. When I raised the issue, a policeman standing at the vaccination counter started handing out tokens ,” said Rakesh Kumar.While standing in line in the drizzle, a local, Gurpreet Singh, who was waiting to get his tests done, said, “I am suffering from cough, cold and fever and have been waiting for over half-an-hour to get the test done. Why can’t the testing counter be set-up at a separate location,” said he said. “There are so many vacant rooms at the civil surgeon’s office and the testing centre could be shifted anywhere. The health department authorities know best why both vaccination and testing is being done at the same place,” said Sushil Kumar, who wanted to get vaccinated.Residents’ reports delayed Some residents were in line to find out the status of their Covid report, two days after they had been taken. “I have a body ache, cough and fever. I had given my Covid samples on Thursday morning, but have still not received my report,” said a resident.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said due caution was being taken to avoid mingling of the two groups visiting the Covid counter. “The issue will be resolved soon,” he said. Additional deputy commissioner- cum- nodal officer Nayan Jassal took note of the anomaly, and said guidelines will be issued to set-up Covid testing centres at a separate location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-covid-surge-single-counter-set-for-vaccination-testing-in-ludhiana-101641597109364.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi downs its shutters for the weekend||A weekend curfew was imposed in the Capital on Friday night as the city entered a crucial phase of its Covid-19 outbreak, with 17,335 new cases taking the number of active infections in the city to 39,873.Activities have gradually wound down in the city after the highly transmissible Omicron variant sent case rates spiralling, although fewer people are in hospitals – a trend that will be crucial to watch over the coming week.Delhi recorded over 17,000 new cases on Friday, rising from 5,481 on Tuesday, 10,665 on Wednesday, and 15,097 on Thursday. The positivity rate, which was below 1% on December 28, is now 17.73%.The weekend curfew prohibits all non-essential activity, and exempts some categories of businesses and workers such as health care professionals, government and judicial officials, diplomats, and media persons.People coming from or going to airports, railway stations or bus terminals will be allowed travel with valid tickets, as will those who work for services such as grocery shops, internet service providers, banks and petrol pumps. Delivery of food and online shopping deliveries will be allowed, and people can attend weddings, which will need to have at most 20 attendees, by showing an invitation card.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said the rate of hospitalisation has been roughly six times lower compared to previous waves in the city, urging people not to panic, but at the same time exhorting them to continue wearing masks and maintaining distance properly.“The best way to avoid corona is to wear a mask and practise social distancing. Only go to hospitals if you have severe symptoms; treatment at home is entirely feasible,” he said on Friday, before adding that there will be no lockdown and construction work will be allowed to continue as well.The Omicron variant has been established in scientific studies to be significantly less likely to lead to severe disease, partly due to the large number of people with vaccination or a previous infection and because the virus intrinsically may have mutated to become less virulent.But it has spread rapidly, causing cases to accelerate at an unprecedented pace. The sharp jump has forced staff shortages and raised fears that the tsunami of cases could still lead to a large number of people who need medical attention, even if they are fewer as a proportion of all infected than those needing critical care before.Some of the disruption seemed to set in as two of cities biggest hospitals closed regular clinical services on Friday: the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Safdarjung Hospital issued orders to restrict non-Covid services for outpatient departments (OPD), speciality clinics and centres till “further decision”.Jain, while speaking at the briefing where he made the above remarks, said the city was prepared with adequate number of beds in case hospitalisations were to surge.Experts said while lockdowns will not be particularly helpful in reducing the spread, a weekend lockdown drives public messaging since voluntary compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour is lacking.“The occupancy of Covid beds is currently very low as compared to what was witnessed in the previous waves. The government should monitor the situation and enforce Covid appropriate behavior among general public strictly. Not all people have self-discipline in the society that is why restrictions are needed. In the national perspective, however, avoiding rallies may be better strategy than imposing curfew,” said Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“A complete lockdown was necessary in earlier waves to prepare the health systems and check the transmission so that unprepared systems can’t handle the patient load. The cases surging now are primarily asymptomatic or mild in nature,” said Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.“A lockdown is economically devastating for poor people and does not yield added benefits at this stage when the health systems have been boosted to handle patient load. A complete ban on all mass gatherings (especially indoor) is what is needed now along with strict compliance of mask use,” he added.The relatively milder nature of the current outbreak has led to some alterations in protocol in order to minimise the disruption to everyday life. The home isolation period has been reduced from 10 days to seven, as long as there has been no fever for three consecutive days, and the Delhi administration has not announced the strictest of restrictions that would have otherwise been enforced as part of the graded response action plan (Grap) on Covid-19.Nonetheless, the rise has put some people on edge and the government has assured there will be no lockdown, which in the past has sparked large movement among migrant workers, which led to further spread of the infection as they crowded at train and bus stops to head back home.“The construction activities are allowed and labourers who are staying on the site can work or those who are going to work on foot are also allowed,” said a senior revenue department official who asked not to be named.A Delhi Disaster Management Authority order lacked clarity on the movement of domestic help, but a senior revenue department official said they are allowed to move about if going to work on foot.“There is no lockdown in Delhi, and construction work will continue as usual so there is no reason for labourers and migrant workers to be concerned,” Jain said.During the weekend, to facilitate commute for essential workers, the Delhi Metro and buses are permitted to use 100% seating capacity.Authorities across Delhi’s revenue districts said they were prepared to strictly enforce the weekend curfew, and had mobilised enforcement and awareness teams from Friday evening.Traders said the curbs are hurting them economically. Manpreet Singh, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India, said the restrictions have come as a blow to industry. “With odd-even, stores open only 2-3 times a week. How does the government expect shopkeepers and restaurants to pay the salaries and other fixed expenses when the shops reopening is restricted? It will hit jobs also. Restrictions should be linked to occupation of hospital beds and not with number of cases,” Singh said.Harsh Vardhan Bansal, director of Vegas Mall in Dwarka, said the precautions are necessary in fighting Covid but livelihood needs were equally important, asking the government to strike a finer balance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-downs-its-shutters-for-the-weekend-101641596552845.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Scissors found inside patient : Doctor’s goof up costs Ludhiana cancer hospital ₹7.5 lakh||Ten years after a major goof up, in which an oncologist forgot eight-inch scissors within a patient’s body, causing major embarrassment to a premier cancer hospital, the Ludhiana consumer disputes redressal commission directed the hospital in-charge and “negligent” doctor to pay ₹7.5 lakh as compensation. The legal heirs of the patient, Gurcharan Singh (who has passed away), had filed a complaint against Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Treatment and Research Foundation, Ludhiana, in-charge and authorised signatory Dr Yogesh Arora and the operating doctor Dr Nitin Aggarwal, accusing them of sheer negligence. The case The patient, who was suffering from urinary ailments, had been examined by Dr Raman Arora on March 10, 2012, and referred to Dr Nitin Arora, who diagnosed the patient with urinary bladder cancer, which required immediate surgery. On March 31, 2012, Dr Nitin Arora operated on the patient, and advised him to go through chemotherapy. In the last week of May 2012, the patient allegedly developed severe pain in his belly. On being contacted, Dr Nitin Arora told the family to not panic. On August 9, 2012, the patient again complained of acute pain and was again developed pain in his belly and was taken to Civil Hospital, Dhanaula, where Dr Rajesh Kumar found scissors in the patient’s body. It is estimated that the scissors were 7 to 10 inches long. The patient was taken to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, where he was operated upon. The complainants said around ₹15 lakh was spent on the hospital. Vague allegations, says doctor Defending himself, the accused doctor said that the complainants had been sent by his rivals, and that the complainants had not approached him to show him any retained surgical instrument nor had they been able to produce the discharge ticket from PGI, to substantiate “the vague allegations.”The commission, while finding the doctor negligent, dismissed the complaint against Dr Yogesh Arora, but directed the hospital and Dr Nitin Arora to jointly pay ₹7 lakh compensation to the complainants with 7% per annum interest and ₹50,000 as litigation expenses.
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||17 doctors among 324 fresh Covid cases in Ludhiana||The district saw yet another big spike with 324 people, including 17 doctors, testing Covid positive on Friday. The seventeen doctors who tested positive were working at the civil hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). Ten doctors, including interns, tested positive at CMC, four at DMCH, and three at the civil hospital. Hospital authorities say the infected doctors have been isolated. Ten travellers who had returned from Italy, and one who had been visiting Dubai also tested positive. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said, “The travellers had taken a chartered flight to Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport where they tested positive for the virus. They were sent home, after a check-up.” Twenty-two health workers, and 158 persons who had shown up at the outpatient department also tested positive. The new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 88,863, of which 85,646 people have recovered, while 1,097 cases are active. Around 1,064 people are under home isolation, while 29 patients are undergoing treatment at private hospitals, four at government health facilities. The civil surgeon and district health officer have urged dhaba, restaurant and hotel owners and food suppliers to get their staff fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17-doctors-among-324-fresh-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-101641596449325.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Male foetus found in GMSH-16 toilet||A four-month-old male foetus was found in a toilet of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Thursday. Police have lodged an FIR under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of Dr Namita of the hospital’s gynaecology department. Man held with 32,000 banned tablets in Zirakpur
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: 27-year-old scooterist killed in hit-and-run mishap||A 27-year-old scooterist was killed in a hit-and-run accident near Airport Chowk in Mohali on Friday evening. The victim, Sneh Ankur, worked for a private company in Industrial Area, Phase 2, Chandigarh, and lived in a rented apartment on VIP Road in Zirakpur. His father is a senior journalist in Delhi.Investigating officer Dharampal Singh said Ankur was on his way home around 6pm. As he reached Airport Chowk, an unidentified vehicle hit his scooter and drove off.Ankur was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, with serious head injuries. But he was declared brought dead. “The unidentified vehicle driver has been booked. We are checking CCTV cameras near the accident scene and hope to arrest the driver soon,” Singh said. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali27yearold-scooterist-killed-in-hit-and-run-mishap-101641594593909.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula to get genome sequencing lab: Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday said a genome sequencing lab will soon be set up in Panchkula. He was addressing the media after conducting a surprise inspection at the Panchkula civil hospital, where he examined the functioning of the PSA oxygen plant and took stock of the health services.“Earlier, a similar lab was set up in Rohtak. With the establishment of another lab in Panchkula, there would be one each in both ends of the state,” the minister said. He added that 84 PSA oxygen plants had been installed in government hospitals and medical colleges of the state, while another 54 were available at private hospitals, making Haryana self-sufficient in terms of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-to-get-genome-sequencing-lab-vij-101641594592251.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP demands high-level inquiry into lapse in PM’s security||A delegation of the Chandigarh Bharatiya Janata Party met the Punjab governor and UT administrator on Friday and submitted a memorandum, demanding a high-level inquiry into the lapses in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security at Ferozepur on January 5.The delegation was led by state president Arun Sood, Himachal Pradesh co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain and senior leader Raghubir Arora.In its memorandum, the BJP alleged, “The whole nation was shocked to see the manner in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security was compromised by the Congress-led Punjab government. It was a major lapse in his security when he was stuck atop a flyover for 15-20 minutes while on his way to Ferozepur, Punjab, due to the road being blocked by some protesters.”Sood alleged that this was an exhibition of the anti-Modi narrative of the Congress. “It shows the mentality of those who could not go beyond their family’s interest and accept Narendra Modi as the Prime Minister. There has been negligence on the part of the Punjab government, but they are trying to put the blame on others,” he added.Later in the day, the party organised a “Congress Sadbuddhi Maun Dharna” in Sector 46. Sood said the silent dharna was organised for the good wisdom of the Congress party, its leaders and chief ministers in different states across the country.Party protests outside Mohali DC’s office Mohali Upset over the lapses in the security arrangements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 5, members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held a protest outside the District Administrative Complex in Sector 76 on Friday.Speaking on the occasion, senior BJP leaders Ramesh Kumar and Ashok Kumar Jha alleged that the Punjab government had miserably failed in enforcing law and order. “It should be dismissed immediately and President’s rule should be imposed and elections should be conducted,” they added.Later, protesters handed over a memorandum to deputy commissioner Isha Kalia.Youth Congress raps Shah for blaming Punjab govtThe Chandigarh Youth Congress (CYC) on Friday held a protest against Union home minister Amit Shah for blaming the Congress-led Punjab government for lapses in the security of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.CYC president Manoj Lubana said, “The BJP should stop blaming the Punjab government. We strongly stand by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The responsibility of PM’s security lies with the SPG, through the home ministry. With daily expenditure on PM’s SPG security cover reaching over ₹1.62 crore, the blame cannot be placed on anyone else.”He added that when hundreds of lives were lost during peaceful farmers protest, not a single word was spoken by the PM, but when he was made to wait 15-20 minutes, he created a huge drama.“The PM returned to the airport as his scheduled rally attracted only 700 people, as opposed to the expected 70,000. In 2009, when Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister and went on a visit to Ahmedabad, he was opposed, but he did not attack the then chief minister, Modi, who is now creating such a big ruckus on the same matter,” said Lubana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-bjp-demands-high-level-inquiry-into-lapse-in-pm-s-security-101641594590447.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid curbs in Chandigarh: Ailing hospitality sector staring at another blow||Yet to recover from pangs of past pandemic restrictions, city’s hospitality industry is facing another struggling time with the UT administration imposing fresh curbs in view of the rising Covid-19 cases.In 2020, the sector was completely shut down for around three months and thereafter allowed to reopen partially, causing many units to close down and leaving hundreds jobless.It was only after June 2021 that the hospitality sector started to get a semblance of normalcy. Seven months later, restrictions have once again returned in Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana.On Thursday, the UT administration had imposed night curfew from 10pm to 5am and mandated that all bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, museums, etc., operate at 50% capacity with fully vaccinated staff.Gatherings for any purpose have been restricted to 50 persons for indoor and 100 persons for outdoor events. Besides, the total number of persons should not exceed 50% of the venue’s capacity.Further, the Chandigarh district magistrate on Friday, under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), directed that kitchens of restaurants, eating places, hotels, and food joints in various malls will run only at 50% capacity and close by 10pm. The last order can be accepted till 9pm.Similar restrictions were imposed by the Punjab and Haryana governments earlier.Smaller units worst hit“Every time Covid cases go up, the hospitality industry is made a scapegoat. The industry has not even recovered from the deadly collapse in 2020 and now this,” said Gurpreet Singh Virk, head, Punjab and Chandigarh chapter of the Hotel Association of India.Stating that the industry will not be able to sustain if the restrictions stayed for long, Manmohan Kohli, chairman, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association, Chandigarh, said, “We are with the administration on bringing the Covid cases down, but if the curbs stretch out for more than 10 days, many units in the industry will collapse, especially the small and medium establishments. Their large workforce will also lose their jobs.”Another hotelier, on condition of anonymity, said, “The governments are so lax when it comes to political events where large crowds gather and Covid protocols are ignored. Governments should focus their energy on controlling these mass spreader events. The hospitality industry, in contrast, already maintains high discipline with regard to safety protocols. This should be kept in mind while imposing restrictions.”‘Allow relaxations’Hoteliers have also demanded “scientific approach” by the government for restrictions. Virk said, “Time has little relevance in terms of Covid. Hotels and restaurants should be allowed to operate till 11pm, instead of 10pm. Also hotels should be allowed to rent all available rooms, as each customer is fully vaccinated and remains in their room, which is a bubble arrangement in itself. Gatherings at banquet halls should be as per their size. On the other hand, night clubs and lounge bars may be asked to close as there is zero possibility of maintaining social distance there.”He added that with cases rising, people were already putting off their dining-out plans, and with the new restrictions, the sector was staring at another major crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-curbs-in-chandigarh-ailing-hospitality-sector-staring-at-another-blow-101641594589101.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Up to 40mm rain likely in Chandigarh till tomorrow||The city received 6.9mm rain on Friday and more showers are likely till Sunday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).“A fresh western disturbance started affecting the city on Friday and will intensify from Saturday. Moderate rain up to 40mm can be expected on Saturday and Sunday. After Monday, chances of rain will reduce, but cloudy weather and fog can be expected,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, the day temperature went down from 19.5°C on Thursday to 18.5°C on Friday, two notches below normal. The night temperature also reduced from 12.5°C to 11.3°C, but was six degrees above normal. The maximum temperature may drop further to 17°C over the next three days, while the minimum temperature will hover between 10°C and 12°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-to-40mm-rain-likely-in-chandigarh-till-tomorrow-101641594536963.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Employee arrested for ₹7.3 lakh theft at Manimajra shop||Police have cracked the ₹7.3-lakh theft at a shop in Manimajra motor market in November last year with the arrest of an employee. The accused, Puneet Kumar, alias Vicky, 28, continued to work at the shop after committing the theft to avoid suspicion, said police.“ ₹42,000, along with a cheque book of the complainant, and a gold pendant bought from the stolen money have been recovered from his possession,” said inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO, Manimajra police station. The accused was produced before a court on Friday and sent to one-day police remand. On November 23, 2021, Varinder Pal Singh, of Sector 4, Panchkula, who owns a spare parts shop in the Manimajra motor market, had reported theft of ₹7.3 lakh, a CCTV camera and its DVR, from his shop. A case under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC was registered on his complaint. During investigation, police zeroed in on Puneet, a mechanic at the shop.Police said a school dropout and resident of Ravindra Enclave, Baltana, Puneet was well-versed with the ongoings at the shop and had even disconnected the inverter’s wire before executing the theft. Committed theft for easy moneyAn investigator said a drug addict, Puneet committed the theft to make easy money to fuel his drug needs. Using the stolen money, he also bought a gold pendant for his wife. The accused was also booked for battery theft in December 2019.During questioning, he revealed that purchased drugs from Vikas of Railly village, Sector 12-A, Panchkula, and Mehul of Sector 10, Panchkula. Vikas was arrested by the Panchkula police on November 26 and is presently lodged in Ambala Central Jail, while Mehul was arrested by Panchkula police on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/employee-arrested-for-7-3-lakh-theft-at-manimajra-shop-101641594535391.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Decks cleared for Chandigarh power dept’s privatisation||In a month’s time, the city’s electricity management will be in a private company’s hand with the Union cabinet giving its nod to the ₹871-crore bid made by a private company in August last year.The electricity department will now be bundled into a company and its shares transferred to the private company.Stating that the legal and technical formalities are left to complete the process of power privatisation, UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “The consultant (Deloitte) for the entire process is chalking out the plan for conversion of the department into a company. Thereafter, agreements, including share agreement, will be signed and shares of the newly created company will be transferred to the private company. The entire process is likely to take another month.”The consultant will also formulate the final plan for the employees within the new dispensation. Administration has assured that their interests will be protected. Kolkata-based industrial and services conglomerate RP-Sanjiv Goenka (RPSG) Group had quoted the highest bid for the department.The group’s flagship Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC)’s wholly-owned subsidiary Eminent Electricity Distribution (EED) quoted a bid of around ₹871 crore against the reserve price of ₹175 crore. The next highest bid of ₹606 crore was made by Torrent Power.Others among the seven companies in the race were Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited, Adani Transmission Limited and Tata Power.Originally, 21 companies had bought the request for proposal, but only these seven entered the bidding stage.The decision to privatise the UT electricity department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. The UT had committed to finish the process by year-end, but it got entangled in legal battles after the UT Powermen Union approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against privatisation. The move also elicited criticism from resident welfare associations and opposition parties.The process was stayed by the high court twice. Most recently, on May 28, HC had applied brakes on privatisation and even pulled up the administration for its “undue hurry” during a raging pandemic. On both occasions, the administration had approached the Supreme Court, which allowed the process to continue. HC will be taking up the case again on Thursday.Tariff still within JERC’s ambitThe UT electricity department caters to a city with a relatively low demand of around 400MW. As there are only 2.3 lakh consumers, if privatised, the department’s efficiency is expected to improve, specifically in terms of distribution of power. “The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission will continue to oversee and fix the tariff for the private sector operator, as being done for the government department,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.Employees to go on strikeMeanwhile, the UT Powermen Union has called a protest rally in Sector 17 on January 11. Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary of the body, said, “We are still awaiting HC’s decision on the petition filed on the issue, but the administration has finalised the privatisation. We will announce a strike call against UT’s decision.” The process so farMay 12, 2020: UT decides to privatise the power dept November 9: Bids invited December 1: HC orders stay on process January 12, 2021: SC stays HC orderFebruary 9: SC remands back matter to HC April 19: UT announces it will fast-track the process May 28: HC stays the process again June 28: SC once again stays HC orderAugust 4: Bids opened, EED quotes ₹871 croreJanuary 6, 2022: Union Cabinet approves the bid.
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayoral polls today: In AAP vs BJP, SAD may prove game changer||After the historical municipal corporation poll results, suspense remains over the results of the mayoral election scheduled on Saturday. Debutant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are set to fight it out with 14 votes each, while the Congress,with its seven councillors, has decided to sit the election out. With the Congress refusing to pick sides, it can be anyone’s game, especially considering the strong history of cross voting in the mayoral polls. The lone Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor, if he does not abstain, can well be the game-changer. In case, both the parties are tied, a draw of lots may be the determiner. The House meeting will start at 11am and BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu will be the presiding authority. Charges of horse-trading have been flying high, with parties going so far as moving their councillors out of town to prevent poaching. The AAP had taken its councillors first to Delhi and then to Kasauli-Barog in Himachal Pradesh, the Congress arranged for its councillors stay in Jaipur, Rajasthan, and the BJP opted for the cool climes of Shimla. The candidates in frayThe AAP has fielded Anju Katyal and the BJP Sarabjit Kaur, both first-timers, as the post is reserved for a woman councillor in the new House’s first year. While both candidates filed their nomination papers on the last date, the Congress had opted out of the race. The SAD also did not pitch a candidate. The BJP has fielded Dalip Sharma for the post of senior deputy mayor and Anup Gupta for the post of deputy mayor, while the AAP has fielded Prem Lata for the post of senior deputy mayor and Ram Chander Yadav for the post of deputy mayor. A hung House In the December 27 results, no single party had secured majority, throwing up a hung House. The AAP had won 14 seats, while the BJP’s strength was reduced to 12 seats from the 20 it had won in 2016. Congress had won eight seats, and the SAD one seat. However, after Harpreet Kaur Babla, who won on a Congress ticket, switched to the BJP, Congress’ strength dropped to seven and BJP’s increased to 13. In the full House of 36, including one vote of Chandigarh MP, who is currently from BJP, the total votes of the saffron fold stand at 14, equal to AAP’s strength in the House. The BJP and AAP leaders are confident that their candidates will win the election. Congress’ spokesperson Rajesh Sharma said, “We have principally decided that we will not vote for any party and abstain from it. We are ideologically different from both BJP and AAP, and will not support any of them.” Meanwhile, it is unclear whether SAD’s Hardeep Singh will support the BJP or AAP, or abstain from voting. The party has not issued any categorical statement. 
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases surge past 1,000 mark after 8 months||A week after the tricity rang in the New Year, its daily Covid-19 cases breached the 1,000 mark on Friday, a first since the second wave in May last year.As many as 1,022 people tested positive for the virus, a 717% spike from 125 cases on January 1 and only lower than the 1,102 infections recorded on May 22, 2021.Chandigarh led the daily tally with 390 cases, 18% higher than 331 the day before.At 93%, Panchkula saw the biggest 24-hour jump, as cases rose from 162 to 313. In some relief, Mohali’s figure dropped slightly from 364 to 319.Tricity’s highest daily tally so far was 2,612 on May 10, 2021, during the peak of the second wave.Mohali had logged its all-time high of 1,382 cases the same day, while Chandigarh saw its cases peaking to 895 a day before and Panchkula to 654 on May 5.Active cases cross 3,000 markIncreasing the worries of the respective health departments, tricity’s active cases shot up to 3,372, highest since June 4 last year when 3,502 people were infected.Both Chandigarh and Mohali saw their active caseload soaring past the 1,000 mark, with 1,323 and 1,274 people, respectively, still infected, while the number rose to 775 in Panchkula.Positivity rate improves in UT, MohaliChandigarh’s daily positivity rate reduced to 10.77% from 14.4% the day before, and Mohali, too, saw the proportion of positive samples dropping from 10.7% to 7% in the past 24 hours.However, in Panchkula, the figure jumped from 6.5% to 11.7%.At 45, majority of the fresh cases in Panchkula were reported from Sector 20, followed by Sectors 15 and 21, which logged over 30 cases.In Mohali, maximum cases (175) came from Mohali city, 83 from Kharar and 61 from Dera Bassi. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur asked people to visit hospitals only in case of serious infection: “In case of mild symptoms, they should contact the health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice.”Mohali’s total cases have reached 70,388. While 68,038 people have recovered, 1,076 have died till date.Panchkula’s caseload of 31,833 includes 30,676 recoveries and 382 deaths. In Chandigarh, 67,214 people have tested positive so far. As many as 64,811 have been cured and 1,080 have succumbed to the virus.Only 4% patients requiring hospitalisationOf the 1,323 active patients in Chandigarh, only 49 are currently hospitalised in government and private hospitals. Most of these patients have co-morbidities or severe infection. Remaining 1,274 are isolated at home or at mini-Covid care centres.“Even though daily cases are increasing drastically, hospitalisation is very low. The oxygen requirement at present is minimal and we can meet the requirement in the coming days,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh. Bed occupancy in UT increases by 35% in 24 hoursThe total number of beds occupied by Covid patients in government and private hospitals of Chandigarh increased by 35% in a day.On Thursday, 94 out of 409 oxygen beds and five out of 131 ventilator beds were occupied by patients (including residents of Chandigarh and other states). All 16 ICU beds were vacant.But on Friday, 130 oxygen beds (out of 417) and four ventilator beds (out of 126) were taken. The 16 ICU beds remained unoccupied. The health department is increasing the beds reserved for Covid patients in view of the rising cases.14 more areas sealed in UTImposing curbs in more areas, the UT administration on Friday declared 14 new micro-containment zones, taking their total count to 72.The affected areas are located in Sectors 21, 22-B, 33-A, 33-B, 40, 41,42, 46, 51-B, 38 and 37-D, and parts of PGIMER campus and Maloya.88 more PGI staffers contract virusThe number of Covid cases among PGIMER employees continues to increase, as 88 more healthcare workers, including 34 doctors, tested positive on Friday.Since December 20, a total of 352 healthcare workers, including 157 doctors, have been found infected at the institute, the hospital authorities confirmed. The doctors include junior residents, senior residents and faculty members. In an official statement, PGIMER said, “The increase in cases among healthcare workers (HCW) is commensurate with increase in cases among the population at large. More than 95% of HCWs, who tested positive, have received both doses of Covid vaccine and have mild symptoms.”Restrictions on PGIMER campusPGIMER authorities confirmed that the hospital administration, in association with the Association of Resident Doctors, had decided to allow only take-away facility at all mess facilities in PGIMER hostels.“Also, all sport events are cancelled and indoor courts have been closed. Teaching activities in the institute are being conducted through online mode,” they added.Get pass for night curfew exemption In view of the night curfew imposed in Chandigarh from 10pm to 5am, those seeking movement pass may contact 0172-270-0076 and 0172-270-0341 or apply online on www.admser. chd.nic.in/dpc. As per an order issued by the district magistrate, kitchens of all eating places will close by 10pm, and the last order can be accepted only till 9pm. Home delivery will be allowed on production of valid ID card.Shopkeeper held for violating 5pm deadline
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Convoy breach in Punjab ‘rarest of rare’: Govt to SC||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered that all materials related to the breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security in Punjab be kept safe with the registrar general of the Punjab and Haryana high court, as it agreed to examine a request for setting up a court-monitored independent panel to investigate the unprecedented lapse.The apex court also asked the central and state governments to suspend the proceedings of their respective inquiry committees into the incident until its next order.The central government told the three-member bench that the breach was a “potential international embarrassment” and might have involved “cross-border terrorism”.“Please, understand the seriousness of the situation. A serious mishap could have happened and a serious international embarrassment could be there,” said solicitor general (SG)Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre.“The matter is rarest of rare,” he added.The Prime Minister was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes on the road from Bathinda to Ferozepur on Wednesday afternoon due to a blockade by protesters, sparking a furious political battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).
08-01-2022||Noida||Man dies two days after being hit by speeding truck in Greater Noida||In an alleged hit-and-run case, a 25-year-old man died on Thursday after he was hit by a speeding truck in Greater Noida on Tuesday when he was returning home after work, said police on Friday. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Rajnish Yadav, a native of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. He was living in Sutyana village in Greater Noida under the jurisdiction of Ecotech- 3 police station, Gautam Budh Nagar.The deceased’s brother, Avneesh Yadav, filed a complaint at the Ecotech-3 police station on Friday morning. In the complaint, Avneesh said his younger brother Rajnish worked at a transport company in the Kulesra area of Greater Noida.“On January 4, Rajnish was hit by a speeding truck while he was on his way home in the evening. The truck fled the spot after the incident,” said Avneesh. He further mentioned that passersby noted down the number plate of the truck and rushed his brother to Sharda Hospital.“My brother was then referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi where he succumbed to injuries on Thursday night. I have submitted a complaint to the police and request them to nab the culprit,” said Avneesh, who is a daily wage labourer.Following the complaint, a case has been registered at Ecotech-3 police station against unknown truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.“We have formed teams and are scanning CCTV footage of the area to identify the suspect,” said a senior officer of Ecotech-3 police station. He further mentioned Rajnish’s body was handed over to his family after conducting the post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-dies-two-days-after-being-hit-by-speeding-truck-in-greater-noida-101641587508288.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Readers’ Take: Drive home the point of road safety||Alcohol test for drivers outside pubs, restaurants Speeding and drunken driving are the main reasons behind most road accidents. Due to Covid, police have stopped setting up nakas to catch those driving under the influence of liquor. In my view, checking should be carried out in parking lots of all places having restaurants, bars, pubs and clubs nearby. Drivers of all vehicles should be made to undergo the alcohol test before they allowed are to leave. Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhBetter safe than sorryFor making the city roads safer, speed radars must be installed on all busy roads. The minimum age bar for driving must be increased to 21, and the driving test must be stricter to ensure that only well trained drivers hit the road. Liquor shops have already been removed from state highways and national highways, these should be removed from the main roads of the city. Audio alerts warning motorists against unsafe driving practices must be played at all light-points so that they stay alert. Navjot Singh, via emailPositive policing, not challansCity Beautiful has the highest per capita ownership of vehicles in India, as per a recent survey report. The number of vehicles on city roads is rising exponentially, even as the infrastructure remains disproportionate. Traffic chaos further makes the situation grim, leading to fatalities on roads. Road mishaps are not always a result of speeding, sometimes, malfunctioning of prevailing ‘traffic policies’ also play an active role. Challans are not the only viable solutions to curb violations. Positive policing is the way to go. Shammi Bhatia, via emailAbide by the rulesDrive in the prescribed speed limits, always put on helmets, seat belts and other safety equipments before driving, do not drink and drive, never use mobile phones or ear phones while driving, know the traffic signs, signals, lights and traffic safety rules before you hit the road. Ishita Nara, via emailNo need for speedPeople should be made aware of the dangers of speeding. Speed radars and hi-tech cameras should have a proper challaning system and police should inform the common public about this. Speed-reducing devices such as speed breakers and roundabouts should be increased. Police personnel should be deployed on all roads, especially at dangerous intersections. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhCheck underage drivingAlcoholism, substance abuse, mobile use while driving, and sheer thrill of speed are some of the reasons for reckless driving among adolescents and teenagers. To a large extent, parents are also responsible for inculcating these reckless behaviours among the children. Primarily, it is the money power which spoils the teenagers. Secondly, they are not taught to respect the law and life of others on the road. Traffic police should act responsibly and bring such culprits to book without delay. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhExemplary punishment to violatorsStrict traffic rules need to be put in place and implemented in letter and spirit to check fatalities due to rash and negligent driving. Exemplary punishment, including jail term, to habitual violators, confiscation of their driving, and hefty fines can help instill a fear of law. There should be zero tolerance towards those ignoring traffic rules.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhSpeed breakers, lane driving needed It is time to put cemented speed breakers on all roads in the city, especially near roundabouts, traffic light-points, inner lanes and accident-prone zones. It should be ensured that these are visible properly during both night and day. Additionally, lane driving concept can be easily followed on the wide roads of Chandigarh. Implement these two measures at the earliest possible and results will be visible.Kampreet Gill, ChandigarhTake charge of your and others’ safetyWe have to take charge of learning road and traffic rules. We must use proper paths and ways, and also wear safety gears and accessories to avoid all possible accidents. Along with this, we must educate our peers, seniors and younger members to follow traffic rules and stay safe and make roads more safe to travel for all of us. Anju Mohan, PanchkulaOnus on motoristsIt’s unfortunate that despite having good roads and smart traffic management, fatalities on city roads are increasing. This only implies that people are not following the rules. Though high-end cameras and speed radars are a definite deterrent against traffic offences, the onus is on the drivers of vehicles to follow traffic. The city administration, on its part, should bring in more signboards and other requisite infrastructure, make it mandatory for cyclists to use cycle tracks, and prune trees regularly so that these don’t block traffic lights.Chhavi Kumar, ChandigarhNeed breakdown lanesSmooth roads and weak vigilance always attract traffic violators. The few traffic cops deployed on roads seem more interested in issuing challans and increasing their revenue than ensuring a safe road journey for pedestrians and motorists. Many of them can be seen hiding in the bushes, literally and figuratively, to catch violators. Besides, the city also lacks infrastructure such as ‘safe side lanes’, where a vehicle can be parked in case of a breakdown. Many fatal accidents take place due to stationary vehicles on the road. Capt Amar Jeet, KhararDedicated lanesOne must follow dedicated lanes to minimise road mishaps. The administration must also start drives to educate people about traffic rules and regulations. They can also be educated through hoardings, banners etc. Speed limits must be defined on roads so that commuters lives are not put at risk. Defaulters must not be spared. Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaName and shame violatorsMost people, who violate traffic rules and indulge in rash and negligent driving, do it for thrill. Authorities must adopt the practice of name-and-shame to rein in on such people. Cameras must be installed on all roads to catch willful defaulters. Their registration numbers must be displayed on social media to publically shame them for their acts. Aarti Verma, PanchkulaSuspend licence, RC of traffic violatorsMere challaning won’t deter traffic violators. We need to bring in stricter measures such as suspending the licence and registration certificate of repeat offenders, or even impounding their vehicles, can send the message out loud that there would be no tolerance for violations. Parents of underage drivers must be named and shamed, and children should be sensitised about the risks of rash driving, at the school level. AK Sharma, ChandigarhPause and reflectThe Chandigarh administration and police have done enough to check traffic violations – closed-circuit television cameras are installed on most roads and PCR vehicles are stationed after every few miles. But it is often seen that many motorists, cyclists and even pedestrians don’t act responsibly. It is common to see cyclists riding in an inebriated condition. Retired civilians and youngsters can be asked to volunteer to assist police in screening such people. Kundan Lal Sharma, MohaliTechnology for implementing traffic rulesIt is shocking that of the 92 accidents that caused 94 fatalities in Chandigarh last year, traffic police found that speeding led to 51 deaths. Speeding challans rose by 50% in 2021 as compared to 2020. Stringent action against violators, especially during night patrolling at accident-prone traffic intersections, better road-infrastructure and using latest devices to check speeding are vital. 3D zebra crossings and breath-analysers will help check violators. Installing cameras which can automatically register challans against violators will also help. Usha Verma, ChandigarhHefty fines for violatorsChandigarh was planned on geometric pattern and all roads run parallel and perpendicular to each other. The tendency to drive fast and not follow traffic rules leads to accidents. The need of the hour is to educate people and follow traffic speed limits and rules. High-definition speed surveillance cameras should be installed at vulnerable points and people violating speed limits must be made to pay hefty fines. At the same time, people must be educated about traffic rules. The help of traffic marshals and NGOs, must be taken to for this campaign. Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliNeed well-maintained roadsBad quality roads lead to road mishaps, which sometimes end fatally. To avoid such mishaps, roads must be repaired from time-to-time to do away with potholes, craters etc. Traffic laws and regulations should not merely be on paper, but be implemented in letter and spirit. The city police need better speed-measuring systems and fines for violators must be increased. Administration should carry out periodic medical checkup, especially of vision and hearing of the drivers. Also, emergency response and care must be sped up, and crash-protective vehicle designs must be promoted.Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurCorruption in traffic policePeople have lost the fear of being challaned for violating traffic rules. The reason is traffic policemen take bribe and let the defaulters go. Firstly, government should keep a vigil on traffic cops to ensure transparency and fair judgment. Secondly, government should specify a prescribed speed-limit for vehicles and spread awareness among the masses. Government in coordination with government and private offices should start a plan to deduct salary of employees through offices for speeding. Recarpeting roads and repair streetlights to avoid accidents. Separate lanes should be marked for different types of vehicles to avoid speeding. Vehicles of those performing stunts or rash driving should be impounded and lead to suspension of driving licence for one year. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliTackle rush-hour trafficIt’s good that UT police are focusing on challaning drivers indulging in speeding during night hours by installing more night vision cameras. But, if we take a look the data released by the Union ministry of road transport and highways, it reveals that in Chandigarh, most accidents take place between 6pm and 9 pm. The maximum, 81 accidents (24%) took place between 6pm and 9pm, followed by 70 accidents (20%) in late night hours of 9 pm to 12 midnight. The city must use this data to take corrective measure. Sanjay Chopra, MohaliAdopt ‘4 Es’ of road safetyRoad safety can be implemented by adopting the 4 Es: Education, Enforcement, Engineering and Environment and Emergency Care of road mishap victims. As drivers on the road, we must remember that driving safely will save our own, as well as others’ life, help us avoid hefty fines and imprisonment. Respect for other drivers on the road is sacrosanct to road safety. Khushboo Singla, via emailRoad to safety begins with repairsContinuous inspection of roads by authorities must be ensured so as to provide better roads and save precious lives. The public must voice their opinions and also play citizen journalists, by clicking pictures of damaged roads and bringing it before authorities concerned.Shubham Dhiman, ChandigarhRespect others’ right to way, and right to safetyAccidents do not happen, they are caused. No one owns the roads, so treat others with respect. New drivers should complete a basic course or advanced tuition at race tracks. It is important to drive in one’s lane and avoid overtaking. Drunken driving and using phone while driving should be strictly avoided. Adhere to speed limits and be aware of blind spots in your routes.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhMore rotaries neededIt is a proven fact that approaching from right-angled directions automatically helps in reducing speed, thereby resulting in lesser collisions as compared to unmanned signal crossings at odd hours. To bring down the number of road accidents, the UT administration will do well to provide rotaries at all busy road crossings. SC Luthra, ChandigarhMulti-pronged approachFirst and foremost, authorities must repair roads to do away with potholes and uneven stretches that cause accidents. Traffic personnel must be trained well to deal with busier roads, and must be taught that their sole aim must be to ensure the safety of everyone on roads. As individuals, we should all take it upon ourselves to do everything in our hand to avoid untoward incidents. This includes following rules, taking safety precautions and not indulging in speeding or rash driving. Lastly, speed monitors can go a long way in deterring violators. Komal Sharma, ChandigarhIncrease traffic police presence, use sensorsSpeeding and flouting of traffic rules are the main reason behind road fatalities. Presence of traffic police must be increased and speed bumpers must be installed at all busy stretches to deter rash driving. Also smart technology such as speed sensors etc must be used. Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliAuthorities’ must do their partTraffic police should stop playing “hide-n-seek” for catching violators and do their job honestly. Conduct random alcohol tests of drivers and use affix speedometers on important roads to get people to slow down. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliStrict enforcement need of the hourMost road accidents are caused by youngsters who deliberately flout traffic rules by speeding, breaking speed limits, jumping red lights, indulging in drunken driving, using mobile phones while driving, not using indicators, seat belts and helmets by two wheelers and cyclists. Cyclists are often found riding without reflectors during night time. Traffic rules are not being enforced strictly which is the main reason for increase in violations. Kidar Nath Sharma, via emailSafety the mottoAll damaged roads must be repaired, CCTVs installed at every traffic light point, and regular awareness drives must be carried out in all localities to make people behave responsibly on the roads. Strict punishment must be awarded to traffic violators so they learn a lesson before its late. Most importantly, the corruption in traffic police must be address. P Mehta, via emailYoung and negligent Safety on roads depends upon traffic cops. Traffic rules should be strictly followed. Mostly, bikers flout the rules. They cross from where they find little space. Even school-going students can be seen driving vehicles, even though they are underage and don’t have a valid licence. Harnam Singh, MohaliREADER OF THE WEEKThink safety – it couldn’t hurtAccidents can be avoided. By adhering to the speed limits, staying focused on driving, stopping at traffic lights, avoiding the temptation to drink and drive, and avoiding the use of mobile phones while driving, you can make roads safer for yourself and others on the road. Safe driving practices may seem simple and commonplace to drivers, but in today’s fast-paced world, these are often overlooked, forgotten, or simply ignored. Road safety rules are best tools to avoid accidents, so we should do our best to spread awareness about these. Also, authorities will do well by solving the menace of potholes and stray animals, as these are the cause behind several mishaps. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhExpert takeRules of the roadAny death is a death to many. Chandigarh, with its wide roads and strict policing, still nears the top in percentage of fatalities? Why? Because persons with no knowledge of traffic rules are allowed to drive. Almost all drivers overtake from the wrong side. Overtaking must be allowed only at designated spots.Justice Rajive Bhalla (retd), Punjab and Haryana high court Safety firstTo check speeding at night, we are procuring 3 night-vision speed radars. Speed limits have also been simplified. We have come up with suggestion for making rotaries at certain light junctions to reduce fatalities. A Chandigarh Road Safety Society is also being set up to improve road design and infrastructure.Manisha Choudhary, SSP, traffic, ChandigarhStrict enforcementFor minimising road accidents, strict enforcement of traffic rules is necessary. Even violations by cyclists, rickshaw-pullers etc should not be ignored. At spots where the fatality rate is high, steps must be taken to ensure that road design is in keeping with the IRC guidelines. Prof Umesh Sharma, head, department of civil engineering, Punjab Engineering CollegeAwarenessAuthorities must involve traffic marshals in enforcement of traffic rules as we have a lot of experience in this area. Focus should also be on creating awareness among motorists to bring down fatal accidents. Gurnam Singh, traffic marshall Right of wayPeople must be sensitised about the right of way when it comes to cyclists. Authorities must put up cameras on cycle tracks to issue challans to motorists who drive on these. Many people who drive on cycle-tracks to take a short-cut go even faster than normal, putting cyclists in danger.Akshit Passi,vice-president, Cyclegiri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/readers-take-drive-home-the-point-of-road-safety-101641586908505.html
08-01-2022||Noida||Ahead of assembly elections, Ghaziabad adds 296,000 new voters to its rolls||Ghaziabad district will have 296,499 new voters eligible to vote in the upcoming assembly elections, authorities said on Friday.District officials said they are updating the voters’ list and more names could be added or deleted until the last date of filing of nominations.Ghaziabad district comprises five assembly segments of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Modinagar as well as part of the Dhaulana assembly constituency, which is under the Hapur district.According to the latest electoral rolls, Ghaziabad district has 2,899,484 voters (including Dhaulana). The number of voters in Ghaziabad during the previous assembly election in 2017 was 2,602,985 (which also included voters from the Dhaulana segment).According to the figures, there has been an increase of about 296,499 voters so far, with the maximum increase in the Sahibabad assembly segment -- with 146,879 voters -- in 2022, totalling 1,012,154 voters in the assembly segment.“The revised voters’ list at present comprises the names of 2,899,484 eligible voters. Some more could be added to the supplementary list, which will be published later. The additions may continue till the last date of filing of nominations. Voters from a part of Dhaulana are included in the list of eligible voters. The voters’ list is regularly revised and during the last revision in December, we added about 89,829 new voters,” said Vivek Srivastava, additional district magistrate (finance and revenue).According to the official figures, the total increase of 296,499 voters since the 2017 assembly elections includes 144,062 men, 152,348 women, and 89 transgender persons.In 2017, there were 1,461,019 men, 1,141,866 women, and 100 transgender persons on the list.“We are waiting for the announcement of the imposition of the election code of conduct. Once it is in place, various poll related arrangements will begin in the district,” said RK Singh, district magistrate.According to official figures, the district is likely to have 3,353 polling booths and 728 polling centres for the upcoming elections.
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Small shopkeepers, gym owners cry foul over Covid curbs||While the UT administration has ordered restrictions in the markets of the city considering the rising Covid cases, shopkeepers of smaller and congested markets claim they are being unfairly targeted as many of them had to suffer heavy losses during the first and the second wave. They claimed that no reimbursements were given to them.The president of the Shastri Market, Sector 22, Jaswinder Nagpal said, “How political rallies are allowed while shopkeepers have to bear the brunt of the administration’s order. Also, what logic is behind the 5 pm deadline? Many people get free from office at that time. This will affect our business.”A similar situation could be seen in Palika Bazaar, Sector 19. Harpreet Singh, who sells blankets here, said booth markets were being singled out even as showrooms and street vendors were allowed to function without such curbs. Lalilt Kumar, a shopkeeper in Palika Bazaar, said it was even more congested at the vending zones in Sector 19, which have no partition in between stalls. However, they are being allowed to function.Devinder Bajaj, who sells clothes in the market here, said, “Customers are already not coming due to Covid. This is the time to clear our winter stock. If the restrictions continue, I will most likely go bankrupt.”The administration has further said that retail customers and the general public will not be allowed to go to the Sector 26 mandi from January 10 onwards. This has also irked the shopkeepers here with Lohri around the corner.Vijay Kumar, who sells dry fruits here, said, “Lohri is a big festival and if the customer can’t come to the market to make purchases, what will we do with our stocks? The government should have told us at least a month in advance so we wouldn’t have bought the stock.” Another dry fruit seller here, Satish Kumar, said they will face big losses because of this.Meanwhile, gym owners are also not happy with the new order. Mohinder Singh, a member of the Tricity Gym Owners Association, said that they were trying to get the administration to listen to their point of view. “We are strictly following the social distancing and sanitising guidelines. Exercise help people remain fit and should be encouraged rather than asking us to close completely.”Residents are also apprehensive whether these restrictions will lead to a rise in the rates of vegetables and fruits like last year. The chairman of the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), Hitesh Puri said, “Vendors should be allowed to move through sectors as people may want to avoid the crowded mandis. However, there should be some check on the rates they charge, as last year they had started charging exorbitant rates for tomatoes and potatoes, while the mandis were closed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-small-shopkeepers-gym-owners-cry-foul-over-covid-curbs-101641586128245.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Challan filed against Chandigarh financier who duped Gurugram resident of ₹5 crore||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Chandigarh police has filed a challan against property dealer-cum-financier Ram Lal Chaudhary, 64, arrested on the charges of duping a Gurugram resident of ₹5 crore after promising him high returns in an investment. The challan runs into 8,400 pages with a list of 24 witnesses. It also includes the list of properties amassed by Chaudhary and his family by duping people in the name of investment. The police are yet to arrest Chaudhary’s daughter and son, who are also named as accused in the case. The investigations have revealed that the family now owns a house in Sector 46, Chandigarh, besides more than 40 flats, agricultural land, commercial sites and booths in Chandigarh and Mohali. The family also owns a fleet of luxury vehicles. The police said, “Chaudhary used to give loans at high rates of interest and took signed blank affidavits as security that were later used to transfer property in his name.” The police had found 520 blank cheques and 115 affidavits signed by different people. The challan also includes the statement of these persons. Voice samples taken to match with recordings The police had even taken Chaudhary’s voice samples after the SIT found some recordings during the investigations. The SIT had found out that the accused had been duping people on the pretext of getting them relief in court cases. Chaudhary claiming closeness with judges had been seeking money to settle court matters. The SIT has already sent his voice samples for examination after permission from the court. The report of voice samples is awaited. G’gram resident filed plaint after losing ₹5 cr The police on November 2021 had arrested Chaudhary following a complaint by Atulya Sharma of Gurugram alleging that the accused had lured him in 2015-2016 promising to make him “the king of real estate”. Sharma had paid the full amount in cash between July 2015 and January 2016. He alleged that the accused’s son also used to come to collect the amount. One such meeting had taken place in Toy Hotel, Chandigarh. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector-34 police station, Chandigarh. Sent to 4-day custody in another cheating caseThe police have procured Chaudhary’s four-day police remand in another cheating case registered against him on November 18, 2021. He was brought on production warrants from the Burail jail and remanded to the police custody on Friday. This case was registered on the complaint of Naresh Kumar, a resident of Sector 6, Panchkula, who is a retired officer from the revenue department in Haryana. Kumar claimed that he was involved in the misappropriation of government funds while posted in different locations in Haryana. In this regard, a complaint was filed by the vigilance for misappropriation of funds to the tune of ₹250 crore. As per the complaint, Naresh had paid ₹6 crore to Chaudhary after an assurance from the accused that the FIR would not be registered against him. He had approached Chaudhary through his friends Satish Yadav and Bhoop Singh. However, his name appeared in the FIR following which he approached the accused for a refund, but the latter refused. A case under Section 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 34 police station. 
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Adjourn proceedings beyond hearing in Punjab and Haryana HC: Court on former judge’s plea||letterchd@hindustantimes.comThe Punjab and Haryana high court has asked a Chandigarh family court to adjourn proceedings in a domestic violence complaint case against a former judge beyond the listing of the same before the high court.The high court acted on the plea of justice Rajiv Narain Raina (retd), who had challenged his summoning on the complaint by his wife filed before the family court last year. Justice Raina retired in July 2020.The high court bench of justice Vivek Puri has a sought response from his wife, Candy Meena Raina, by February 23. She had made a complaint under Section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, against him last year, and acting on the same, the trial court had taken cognisance of the same and summoned him on September 20, 2021. In the high court, he had sought quashing of the complaint as well as the summoning orders.Justice Raina had argued that he is suffering from “serious health issues” and is aged about 63 years. The wife has been provided a flat in Chandigarh and he is also paying the water and electricity charges for the premises and also paying a sum to the extent of ₹15,000 per month on account of maintenance. He has two sons, who are residing with him. The family court passed an order on September 20 “in a mechanical manner” without even considering the report of the designated officer and also did not take into account the fact that he never joined inquiry proceedings, he had told court, adding that he is open for an “amicable settlement”. Taking note of the submissions, the high court has sought a response by February 23, asking the trial court to adjourn the case beyond the date fixed in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/adjourn-proceedings-beyond-hearing-in-punjab-and-haryana-hc-court-on-former-judge-s-plea-101641585828568.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Expedite notification of members or adjourn PU senate meet: Education minister to Venkaiah Naidu||Punjab education minister Pargat Singh has written to the Vice-President of India and chancellor of Panjab University (PU) Venkaiah Naidu to expedite the process of notification of the elected members of the senate or to adjourn the senate meeting which is to be held on Saturday.As per the letter, Singh says the elections from the constituencies of faculties and the affiliated colleges of Panjab University were recently held, however, the notification with respect to the 14 elected members from the constituency is yet to be issued. Singh added that in the absence of the representation of the elected members, the interest of the faculty members and the staff would be jeopardised. “It is requested that the process for notification of the elected members may be expedited and till then the meeting of the senate please be adjourned,” he added in the letter, a copy of which has also been sent to the PU vice-chancellor.Earlier, nine members of the PU senate had also written to Naidu, adding that it’s the first time that the notification of the senate was issued in two parts and calling the meeting before the complete senate has been constituted will amount to a violation of the PU Act. The PU senate is set to meet for the first time since December 2019. With the spike in Covid cases, the meeting will be held online. The senate meeting will be broadcast live for the media in the DPR room of the PU. Eleven agendas are set to be tabled during this meeting, including the recommendations made by the Board of Finance in January 2020. The senate will take a final call on the reservation roster for the recruitment of assistant professors at its constituent colleges and the promotion policy for faculty members of the Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital will also be taken up along with the other agendas.Meanwhile, the high court has deferred hearing for January 10 on the plea of 10 university professors, who are demanding that the notification of election of all 14 members be declared. These include six elected members of constituencies of faculties and eight elected from constituency of affiliated colleges. They had also sought quashing of university order on convening of senate meeting without all elected members. But the court deferred the hearing for January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expedite-notification-of-members-or-adjourn-pu-senate-meet-education-minister-to-venkaiah-naidu-101641585769794.html
08-01-2022||Mumbai||96% of COVID + patients who are on oxygen beds, are unvaccinated: BMC data||Even as Mumbai recorded 20,971 cases on Friday, data from the Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC) showed that a large majority of Covid-positive patients requiring oxygen support are those who have not taken a single dose of the anti-Covid vaccine.Mumbai has 22,222 active beds for Covid patients (including oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds) in 186 private and public hospital facilities. As of January 6, of the 11,912 oxygen beds, only 16.6% or 1,983 beds, are occupied. According to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, till Thursday, 96% of the oxygen bed occupants were unvaccinated and had not taken even a single dose of the vaccine. The remaining were partially or fully vaccinated.“Out of the around 1,900 Covid patients who were on oxygenated beds, around 96% are unvaccinated and only 4% are vaccinated,” Chahal said.The age group and co-morbidity status of these patients occupying oxygen beds is not yet know. However, separately doctors said that the age group of such patients is above 40 to 50 years.As of January 6, the city also had 2,636 ICU beds of which 671 were occupied and 1,407 ventilator beds, of which 421 were occupied. The vaccination status of these patients is not known.According to BMC officials, trends from the past experience of the pandemic indicates that comorbidities and old age increases the chances of death. In the past 16 days, the city has recorded a death a day on average, officials said.In Mumbai, the BMC has vaccinated 108% of the population with at least one dose (the number exceeds 100% because it includes floating population; the target adult population is 9.2 million), while 89% have been given two doses. However, the civic body is in the process of compiling data on exactly how many have taken a single dose to compute the ratio of residents to floating population. Since January 03, the civic body started vaccinating 0.9 million teenagers in 15 to 18 years age category was started.“We may even have 100,000 Covid active patients in Mumbai. Our oxygen consumption is only 10 tonnes. Our (production) capacity is up to 200 tonnes (a day). We have another 400 tonnes of oxygen in storage. In the third wave, we have to understand that positivity rate or cases will not be parameter with which to gauge the situation but hospitalisation rate. The occupation of oxygen and ICU beds along with the overall bed occupancy rate is to be gauged.”Chahal said 80% of the city’s Covid beds were as yet unoccupied and the situation will be reviewed if occupancy reached 50% in the coming days.“Our experts from the Covid Taskforce have told me that in Mumbai may even go up to say 40,000 cases daily. This may or may not happen but we will come out comfortably out of this considering the cooperation from citizens,” he said.According to BMC officials, going by the trend in South Africa, the cases of Omicron variant started going down in a time span of five weeks. A recent round of BMC’s genome sequencing revealed that 55% of the samples were of the Omicron variant, but experts said that Delta and Delta derivatives could also be driving some number of hospitalisations.Officials said that the Omicron variant could likely be the dominant strain in circulation in the coming days.Dr Gautam Bhansali of the Bombay Hospital who is also coordinator of all private Covid hospitals in the city said, “In case of hospital beds, both vaccinated and unvaccinated citizens are occupants, but on oxygen beds, the majority of patients are unvaccinated. The age group of such patients is normally above 40 to 50 years. This shows that vaccination is very important for each and every citizen.”An analysis carried out by the civic-run Seven Hills Hospital in Marol showed that of the 4,054 Covid patients admitted between October 1, 2021 and January 5, about 11% or 443 were unvaccinated and about 12% or 477 had taken only one shot of the vaccine. While the hospital has not analysed the vaccination status of those on oxygen support and in ICU separately, they said that anywhere between 10%-20% of the patients who are on oxygen or in the ICU are unvaccinated or have taken only a single dose. “We are in the process of collating more specific data,” said Dr Smita Chavan, deputy dean of the hospital.Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force said that there is a definite increase in the number of unvaccinated and partially vaccinated people who were being hospitalised with Covid-19. “Many of these patients seem to have rushed to take the vaccine after the surge in cases started, perhaps battling the initial hesitancy towards vaccination,” said Srivastava. “We have not conducted a thorough analysis, but the uptick in such patients, even on oxygen support and ICUs is visible,” he said.According to Srivastava, Omicron is largely affecting the upper respiratory area and patients suspected with Omicron may not require oxygen. While the presence of Omicron is confirmed by genome sequencing, some hospitals have started using the S-gene dropout parameter in the RT-PCR tests to indirectly indicate the variant causing the disease in the patient.“Recent data from Bostwana and other parts of Africa have also shown similar trends wherein Omicron is not causing any lower respiratory distress that might need intensive care or oxygen support. My worry is about the possibility of joint infections with both Delta and Omicron variants due to repeated exposure that could be driving some number of patients towards severe disease. We don’t have genome sequencing data to establish this, but it definitely needs to be looked at,” he said.(With inputs from Jyoti Shelar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/96-of-covid-patients-who-are-on-oxygen-beds-are-unvaccinated-bmc-data-101641584029470.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid cases continue to surge in Punjab, 2,901 test positive||Chandigarh: In yet another big jump in coronavirus cases, Punjab reported 2,901 fresh infections on Friday while one more person succumbed to the disease, according to a medical bulletin. Health officials said 70% of the cases are asymptomatic whereas rests are having mild symptoms. “We have only 60-70 cases in our hospitals as on day which shows patients with serious symptoms are almost negligible,” state’s nodal officer of Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said. The new cases pushed the infection tally to 6,13,976 in the state, the bulletin said.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of infections for the past several days.The state had recorded 2,427 infections on Thursday.The positivity rate climbed to all-time high in seven months to 11.75% from 10.2% on Thursday.With one more coronavirus-related fatality, the toll reached 16,663.The number of active cases jumped to 9,425 from 6,687 a day before.With 831 new cases, Patiala again reported the highest number of fresh infections. The district now accounts for 28% of the total Covid-19 cases in the state.Among other districts, Ludhiana, Mohali, Amritsar and Jalandhar registered 324, 319, 276 and 266 new coronavirus cases, respectively.The recovery count reached 5,87,888 with 135 more people recovering from the infection, the bulletin said. As many as 186676 doses of the vaccine were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-continue-to-surge-in-punjab-2-901-test-positive-101641583908204.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Asst profs recruitment: HC notice to Punjab higher education secy, others on contempt plea||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has put secretary education, Punjab, Krishan Kumar, among others on notice on a contempt plea moved by one Kulwinder Singh, an aspirant for the posts of assistant professor, advertised by the Punjab government. Others put on notice for January 13 are Paramjeet Singh, director, public instructions (colleges) and professor Arvind, chairman of the recruitment committee and vice-chancellor, Punjabi University, Patiala. The plea alleges violation of December 3 order of the high court with which the state was told not to proceed with the selection process. The petitioner, Kulwinder Singh, was a candidate for posts advertised for computer science subject. The plea said even as order was passed in the presence of state counsel and an officer of the department, the government published the final selection list of English subject and selections were finalised in the subjects Punjabi and Hindi on December 9. The selected candidates were given appointments letters on the night the order was passed in high court on December 3.In some cases, same was done with back date, the plea claims adding that the respondents conducted the whole process in a “very clandestine manner” and list was not published on website. The plea demanded that an independent probe be ordered into entire recruitment.Taking note of similar allegations on December 21, the high court had directed Punjab government to seal record pertaining to recruitment and put it in custody of the chief secretary. The controversy here surrounds recruitment of 1158 assistant professors in state colleges, being carried out after 19 years.The posts were advertised on October 19. It was on December 3, high court had restrained the state government from going ahead with the recruitment on pleas challenging recruitment criterion. The allegations were that criterion was “wholly arbitrary and discriminatory” and grants weightage in lieu of work experience only to the guest faculty, part-timers and contract teachers working in colleges. Also there were allegations that the question papers of Punjabi and mathematics were leaked well before the exams were conducted from November 20 to 22. The court while seeking response on the contempt plea has also ordered that stay order passed in this matter would continue till next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asst-profs-recruitment-hc-notice-to-punjab-higher-education-secy-others-on-contempt-plea-101641583788334.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Uncertain future for major wedding season ahead||With the new pandemic wave, the city is back to night curfews and cap on number of guests in a gathering. The wedding season is just a week ahead and planners, decorators, caterers, venue providers are staring at major losses in the business, once again. The new norm for guests — 100 for indoor and 50% for outdoor gathering — has forced everyone to restrategize the plans. Side-functions are being cancelled; some people are postponing the wedding dates while many big fat weddings are turning into a low-key affair. Dr Jaideep Chandra, who has booked a prominent club for his daughter Bhavya’s wedding this month-end, has to majorly alter his plans. “I had a foresight that we may see a new wave so we had a back-up plan in mind. Earlier, we planned 600-800 guests for the wedding but now we have reduced to 100-150 immediate family members and close friends. We are shifting the venue as well, which will result in forfeiting my deposit, but there is no point taking such a big space for such small gathering. Thankfully, I had not given much deposit in advance to rest of the associated people,” he says. Wedding planner Upendra Singh has booked artistes like Jaslin Matharu, Milind Gaba, Silver String Band and Rocky Star Band for weddings ahead but he is now not sure what lies in store. “We have given advance to most of them but now some clients are saying to wait-and-watch and not releasing further advances. Tickets have been booked but weddings turning into smaller affair so nothing much can be done. Though we have also asked celebs to be on hold but have no idea till when all will be streamlined. Once again, we are staring at losses,” he says. After a good November-December season, Manoj Bachaani got a major expansion done at Moti Mahal Lawns for the coming season but the current scenario not seems in his favour. “We had a very good wedding season planned ahead but due to the fear of the new variant we all are extremely apprehensive. People are reducing 1,000 packs to 100-200 and if this continues it will be a major loss. With night curfew starting at 10 pm it’s obvious that weddings will be minimalistic so for now it feels our planning and preparations have gone haywire.” Leading decorator Jameel Shamsi has booked for people from various parts of the country and now with the fast-changing scenario they are clueless about the course of action. “We call artisans from different parts of the country for theme weddings. The tickets have been booked and the planning has been done months before but now clients have started altering plans. It’s very much possible if they won’t have any outstation guests and with night curfew imposed and uncertainty ahead this is bound to happen,” he says. Umesh Ahuja, who runs Golden Blossom Resort, adds that 13 departments are involved in a wedding and with each alteration things are bound to go topsy-turvy. “We have been facing a tough time in the last two years and now when finally, things had started to look up here we are back to square-one. As service providers we have no option as we have to abide to government norms and alter as per customers need. Most of them have already alerted that in case of increase in virus spread they will rework the plan. Sadly, we are again facing a wave which does not seem as lethal but still there is too so much fear and uncertainty for now,” he says. Ahuja further adds, “Everyone is now praying that the phase passes away smoothly as till June they have a good wedding season ahead Ahuja.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uncertain-future-for-major-wedding-season-ahead-101641583727967.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab govt will not interfere in Hindu deras’ decision on successors: CM||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said that the state government will only recognise the decisions made by mahants of Hindu religious deras and Sadhu Samaj regarding their successors. The CM made this announcement at in Patiala during the Virat Sant Sammelan organised by the Sarv Sampradaya Sadhu Mandal Patiala and Bhekh Khat Darshan Sadhu Samaj Mahamandal Punjab. Accepting the demands put forward by the Sadhu Samaj on the occasion, Channi said that it is the tradition of Sant and Sadhu Samaj to choose their successor and the government would not interfere in anyway in the matter. Further, directions about clearing pending mutations of deras in the state would be given as per the wishes of the Sant Samaj, he said. The CM said that the state government would recognize the will made by the “Sant” leaving for his heavenly abode regarding nominating their successor, but in case of no such will, the decision of Bhekh Bhagwan would be given credence by the Government. The CM also offered cabinet rank to Mahant Atma Ram representing the Sadhu Samaj to ensure prompt redressal to their problems. Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra on the occasion said that the state Government is fully committed to redress the grievances of Deras, Sants as well as Sadhu Samaj to allay the concerns of Mahant Atma Ram. He also divulged that despite being part of the governments since 1980, the amount of initiative and enterprise that has been witnessed in the last three months is unmatched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-will-not-interfere-in-hindu-deras-decision-on-successors-cm-101641583667853.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sonepat varsity co-founders step down after fraud charges by CBI||New Delhi: Ashoka University co-founders Vineet Gupta and Pranav Gupta have stepped down from all the boards and committees of the university, days after being booked by the CBI in ₹1,600-crore fraud case, even as the institute has denied any link to the case.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has charged the Gupta brothers with an alleged swindle of ₹1,626 crore involving their Chandigarh-based pharmaceutical company, Parabolic Drugs.The Sonepat-based university clarified that it has nothing to do with the CBI probe involving Parabolic Drugs Limited and its directors, and any attempt to create a link is “frivolous and misleading”.“The university has over 200 founders and donors who have made personal philanthropic contributions to Ashoka. Their individual business dealings and operations have no connection to the university,” it said in a statement.“In keeping with the high standards for governance at Ashoka, Vineet and Pranav Gupta have already voluntarily stepped down from all boards and committees of the university pending the CBI case and are cooperating fully with the investigation,” it added.Following the registration of an FIR, the CBI conducted searches last Friday at the office and residential premises of the accused at 12 locations in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Ludhiana, Faridabad and Delhi.According to the agency, the accused have cheated a consortium of banks “by criminal conspiracy, forgery, using forged documents knowing the same to be forged and availed the loan funds and thereafter, diverted the same”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonepat-varsity-co-founders-step-down-after-fraud-charges-by-cbi-101641583608018.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Attempts being made to disturb peace: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Friday alleged that attempts were made by some people to disturb the atmosphere in Punjab every time before the elections so that they can take political advantage by creating fear and panic among people.In a statement, Chadha said right before the elections in 2017 also, there were incidents of sacrilege and bomb blasts, but the Congress government failed to punish the culprits. He claimed that to create atmosphere of fear and panic again, anti-Punjab forces are carrying out the incidents of sacrilege of religious scriptures and bomb blasts this time.“At such times, Punjab needs a strong government that will provide security to the people of Punjab. The current Congress government is failing at it because they (Congressmen) are busy fighting among themselves and people of Punjab are bearing the burnt,” he added, claiming that only the AAP can give a stable, honest and strong government to Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attempts-being-made-to-disturb-peace-aap-101641583307895.html
08-01-2022||Other||Unidentified persons booked, FIR has no mention of Modi’s security breach||The first information report (FIR) registered by Punjab Police has no mention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach on Wednesday.The case was registered at Ferozepur’s Kulgarhi police station on Thursday evening, about 30 hours after the incident when PM’s cavalcade was stuck near Piareana village due to road blockade by activists of the BKU (Krantikari).Even as the unprecedented security breach has become a national issue, the FIR (HT has a copy) has no mention of the movement or obstruction to the PM’s road movement.The FIR was lodged under mild bailable offence of Section 283 (obstructing public ways) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that has a maximum penalty of ₹200.Even as top leaders of the ultra-Left leaning farmer organisation BKU (Krantikari) used social media platforms and mainstream media to confirm their involvement in blocking the highway when PM’s cavalcade was moving, police lodged a complaint against unidentified persons.In a video posted on social media on Thursday, farmer union chief Surjit Singh Phul claimed that there were about 1,000 activists at the dharna that started at 11am on Wednesday. He admitted that the protesters did not allow BJP supporters’ buses to pass by to reach the rally that Modi was to address in Ferozepur.But the police record has no mention of the number of people and organisations who blocked the highway when the PM’s cavalcade was stuck for 15-20 minutes.Interestingly, the station house officer (SHO) of Kulgarhi, Birbal Singh, is also a complainant in the case.The FIR mentioned that a police party reached the blockade spot after 2.30pm on Wednesday that was after more than an hour when PM’s motorcade had to return due to security concerns. The BJP rally ended early at around 2.30pm after the PM could not reach the venue due to a road blockade.Ferozepur range deputy inspector general Inderbir Singh and Ferozepur senior superintendent of police Harmandeep Singh Hans were unavailable for comment.The SHO evaded reply when asked if videos in the public domain are being taken into consideration to identify those who violated rules that led to Modi’s convoy being stuck on the flyover for 15-20 minutes.BKU (Krantikari) general secretary Baldev Singh Zira owned the responsibility of leading the dharna at Piareana that blocked the PM’s convoy. Some farmer unions lauded the BKU (Krantikari) for stopping the PM, while others termed the blockade of his convoy “avoidable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unidentified-persons-booked-fir-has-no-mention-of-modi-s-security-breach-101641583187963.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Police seize 1998-batch liquor from Ambala godown||The anti-narcotics cell on Friday recovered an old stock of 1,440 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) of different brands from an old closed godown in Kuldeep Nagar area of Ambala Cantonment.“No FIR has been registered yet. The liquor belongs to 1998-batch distilled, blended and bottled by Gwalior Distillers Limited,” police said.There was a liquor ban imposed in state by the then government led by chief minister Bansi Lal between 1996 and 1998.Cell in-charge inspector Hamir Singh said the seizure was made after a tip-off that old stock is stored in a godown and some men are selling it illegally to labourers at cheaper rates.“Following this, a decoy customer was sent and we found it to be authentic. A raid was conducted in the presence of officials of the excise department. We have been informed that the owner of the godown had given this place to a caretaker. We called the owner but he is under isolation for being Covid positive and couldn’t reach,” the inspector added.Superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, in a statement, appealed to the residents to inform them if they find anyone selling liquor illegally so that action can be taken against them.“Names of the informers will be kept confidential and appropriate reward will be given if the information is found to be true,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-seize-1998-batch-liquor-from-ambala-godown-101641583010842.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||19 phones seized from Delhi’s Mandoli jail during inspection||During a surprise inspection by prison officers inside the Mandoli jail complex, the officials found at least 19 phones from inside sub jail 13. Jail officers, who asked not to be named, said that on Thursday night, inspecting teams conducted a surprise inspection and found six android phones and 13 mini phones. “The phones were seized from different prisoners. We are probing how they managed to smuggle the phones inside the jail. We will record the statement of prisoners from whom the phones were seized,” a mid-level prison officer said. The team also seized ₹1,500 cash, chargers and sharp objects from different prisoners. “We have been regularly conducting such raids for the past few weeks. We have been conducting such checks more regularly now,” the officer said.Last year, Delhi police unearthed a major heist pulled off by Rohini jail prisoner Sukesh Chandrashekhar, who duped the wife of an industrialist to a tune of around ₹200 crore by posing as a senior government officer and offering to bail her husband who is currently in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/19-phones-seized-from-delhi-s-mandoli-jail-during-inspection-101641583009230.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid spurt: Political parties cancel ‘big crowd’ events||Lucknow: The Congress, the Samajwadi Party and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have announced the cancellation of big public meetings and rallies in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), under pressure from the initiatives of the rival opposition parties, has not announced any new programmes and expects that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposed January 9 rally in Lucknow might be cancelled. Political parties are watching the Covid situation and also waiting for the Election Commission to issue directions. The Uttar Pradesh Congress was the first to take such a step and on Wednesday, decided to go for door-to-door campaign and roadside meetings only and cancel all the big public rallies and programmes, including marathons, at least for now. The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Thursday announced the cancellation of party president Akhilesh Yadav’s Vijay Yatra in Ayodhya which was scheduled for January 9. But it decided to go ahead with his “thin attendance” programmes in Gonda and Basti on Friday and Saturday. “Only the Vijay Yatra of Ayodhya has been cancelled--in view of Covid--as the Vijay Yatra of the Akhileshji attracts large crowds. The rest of his programmes will continue as per the schedule,” said SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary. Akhilesh attended the event in Gonda where he unveiled a statue of late SP leader and former UP minister Pandit Singh. Pandit Singh died of Covid in May during the second wave of the pandemic. Akhilesh also addressed a press conference in Gonda after the event. On Saturday, Akhilesh would be in Basti for a political event, said Chaudhary. Meanwhile, the rest of the party leaders are continuing with their public meetings, rallies, door-to-door, campaigns and street meetings. The AAP cancelled its rallies in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh in view of a spurt in coronavirus cases, senior party leader Sanjay Singh said on Thursday. The party would hold virtual rallies in the state, he said. “All rallies of AAP in Uttar Pradesh have been cancelled. I will talk to you at the ‘Kejriwal Guarantee’ public meeting to be held in Varanasi on January 8 through Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube,” the AAP MP tweeted in Hindi. Singh, who is the party in charge for Uttar Pradesh, said accordingly yatras scheduled to start from Sahibabad on January 9 and from the western part of the state on January 10 had been deferred. Meanwhile, a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader said: “The BSP currently has no rallies or public meetings scheduled. Two rounds of public meetings of the party’s national general secretary SC Mishra were over and the campaign schedule of the party’s national president Mayawati will be announced after the Election Commission’s expected announcement”. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is under pressure again to hold virtual rallies – a demand that has gained traction after Samajwadi Party and Congress set the trend by rescheduling their poll programmes in election-bound UP. “Our Jan Vishwas Yatras that started on December 19 have concluded. However, the formal conclusion was likely to be with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s January 9 rally in the state capital. In all probability, that rally isn’t taking place now,” a BJP leader said. Yet another BJP leader said since the party hadn’t officially declared that the PM would hold a rally in Lucknow on January 9, there was no point declaring that the rally was being rescheduled or cancelled. “BJP’s Jan Vishwas Yatras in UP that started on December 19 culminated at six different places from December 31 to January 3. However, the PM’s proposed rally was to mark the official culmination of the rallies on January 9,” the party leader said. After the Jan Vishwas Yatras, the next phase of all rallies or poll programmes of top leaders is yet to be announced. However, all the scheduled government programmes continue. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held two programmes in Lucknow and one in Varanasi, while union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari, along with deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, held a programme each in Ayodhya, Kaushambi and Gorakhpur related to road inauguration and foundation-laying. The chief minister also distributed tablets and smart-phones to students in an event in Ayodhya on Friday. Union law minister Kiran Rijjiju also attended a lawyers’ event in Lucknow the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-spurt-political-parties-cancel-big-crowd-events-101641583007862.html
08-01-2022||Other||Punjab dithers on naming regular DGP||Chandigarh Two days after the Punjab government received the panel of three names of officers from the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for appointment of one of them as the state’s regular director general of police (DGP), there is indecision within government ranks. The UPSC’s three names are 1987-batch IPS Dinkar Gupta, 1987-batch IPS VK Bhawra and 1988-batch officer Prabodh Kumar. The government’s inability, even failure, to take a call on one of these names is due to the fact that it is unsure if the incumbent, acting DGP S Chattopadhyaya, should be replaced. The fact that he ‘dared’ to order the registration of a First-Information Report (FIR) against former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia is a big plus in his favour, in the government’s books. A senior government official added Bhawra was likely to be the final pick, due to various reasons, but lack of consensus between the chief minister’s office and the state home minister’s office complicated matters. Another senior functionary in the CMO said the final decision may take a few days more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-dithers-on-naming-regular-dgp-101641582829249.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Journalist gets bail in espionage case||The Delhi high court on Friday granted bail to freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering probe linked to alleged supply of sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers.ED arrested Sharma under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on July 1, 2021.The ED case is based on a Delhi Police FIR filed under the Official Secrets Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Sharma in 2020. The journalist was arrested by the special cell of the Delhi Police on September 14, 2020 and charged with passing on information about the Indian Army’s deployment and the country’s border strategy to Chinese intelligence officers. He was granted bail by the Delhi High Court in the case in December 2020.Justice Mukta Gupta, while granting bail, rejected the arguments of the ED counsel that Sharma has links with “Chinese handlers” and intelligence agencies and is a “serious flight risk”. The court said the accused is an Indian citizen and his wife is also an Indian, and has roots in society.The court also asked Sharma to furnish a personal bond of ₹5 lakh with two sureties of the same amount. It asked the accused to surrender his passport and not leave the country without the permission of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/journalist-gets-bail-in-espionage-case-101641582827890.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Will make efforts to unite all farm leaders for Punjab polls: Charuni||Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said he will make efforts to bring all farmer leaders of Punjab on one platform to contest the Punjab assembly elections jointly.Charuni, who had last month formed the Samyukt Sangharsh Party and has announce to field candidates in all 117 assembly seats of Punjab, said, “We will try to unite all farm leaders on one platform and rest will depend on the situation.”Charuni’s reaction came when asked about any possibility to join hands with his Punjab counterparts, especially Balbir Singh Rajewal, as 22 Punjab farm organisations floated their own political front, the Samyukta Samaj Morcha (SSM).On security breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Punjab visit, he said, “There was no breach in the security. The drama of breach in security was scripted to gain sympathy.”“It (the security breach) is part of an advertisement campaign of the Prime Minister to take political advantage in the upcoming polls, he (the PM) can do anything for publicity,” he added.Charuni was in Karnal to thank the farmers in district for their support and contribution in the farmers’ agitation against the now repealed three contentious farm laws.Reacting on the poll promises being made by the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders to the voters of Punjab, he said, “They have adopted a policy of ‘pehle bhookh failao, phir bheekh do’ (first spread hunger, then give alms).”“But we are not in favour of such freebies during polls. We want the income of the common man to be increased so that he can live a respectful life,” he added.He has requested the farmers of Haryana to support the candidates who actively participated in the farmers’ agitation in the upcoming panchayat elections of Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-make-efforts-to-unite-all-farm-leaders-for-punjab-polls-charuni-101641582649567.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt gears up to administer Covid booster doses from Monday||The Delhi government is gearing up to administer Covid-19 booster doses to frontline workers and senior citizens from Monday. Those who have taken the second dose of the vaccine at least nine months ago are eligible for the booster dose, according to authorities.An official said that eligible persons can get booster doses at existing vaccination sites. “We have trained the vaccinators. Only those who have completed nine months since their second dose are eligible for the booster shots,” said a health department official, adding that the department is carrying out an extensive campaign and information exercise to make people aware of booster doses.District authorities said they are making calls to people who are eligible for booster doses. “The preparations are complete and there is no shortage of the vaccine. Those who have received Covaxin will receive Covaxin as the booster dose and those who got Covishield will get Covishield as the booster dose,” an official said.Dr Suneela Garg, professor and a member of the Lancet Commission Covid India Task Force, said the booster doses will boost immunity against Covid-19 and its newer variants. “The booster dose is necessary for frontline workers and senior citizens because they are more exposed to the risk of infection as compared to others,” said Dr Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-gears-up-to-administer-covid-booster-doses-from-monday-101641582587716.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||31 staff members of PGIMS, Rohtak test positive in four days||Thirty-one staff members of Rohtak’s Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) have tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) over the last four days.PGIMS spokesman Dr Varun Arora said 31 hospital staffers have tested positive in the last four days, of which 23 are doctors.“A day earlier, 12 doctors and a stenographer had tested positive for the virus. The staff members of the health university are appearing for testing and some of them tested positive,” he said.“We are not taking this virus lightly. All precautionary measures are being taken by the authorities to ensure safety of the employees so that they can treat patients,” the spokesman added.He said they are preparing to roll out booster doses for healthcare workers starting from January 10 and give them booster doses at the earliest.A senior doctor, requesting anonymity, said most of the infected employees had received both the doses of Covid vaccine and even then, they have tested positive for the contagion.“All the patients are fine and there is no need to worry. Some people are spreading misinformation that the virus cannot catch us after getting both the doses of the vaccine, which is wrong,” he said.“The vaccines provide us immunity but we will have to use face masks, maintain social distancing and take all precautionary measures. The infected persons also include those who had earlier contracted the virus and received both the doses of the vaccine,” the doctor added.During the first and second wave of the virus, nearly 950 employees of PGIMS had tested positive. These include the then PGIMS director, the state nodal officer for Covid, the convener for Covid at PGIMS, and the PGIDS principal.Moreover, a doctor and a bearer, who were infected, had died during the second wave. Covid sampling and vaccination drives are also on at the institute on a regular basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/31-staff-members-of-pgims-rohtak-test-positive-in-four-days-101641582527847.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Purvanchal region exports 20,000 MT of agri-produce in past six months||With the active intervention of agricultural and processed food products export development authority (APEDA), about 20,000 Metric Tonne (MT) of agri-produce have been exported from the Purvanchal region in the last six months, said divisional commissioner of Varanasi Deepak Agarwal.Working in close collaboration with the ministry of commerce and industry, the APEDA has taken several initiatives in making the landlocked Purvanchal region a new destination of agri-export activities through the development of Varanasi Agri–Export Hub (VAEH).APEDA has identified potential districts of Uttar Pradesh to be covered under the VAEH. The Purvanchal division covers districts of Varanasi, Mirzapur, Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Basti, Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Chandauli and Sant Ravidas Nagar. The Varanasi region is now abuzz with activities that have given a boost to exports.Agarwal said that with the active intervention of APEDA, about 20,000 Metric Tonne (MT) of agri-produce have been exported from the Purvanchal region in the last six months. Out of these shipments, about 5,000 MT of fresh fruits and vegetables and 15,000 MT of cereals have been exported to Vietnam, Gulf nations, Nepal and Bangladesh by all modes of transportation.Varanasi and nearby areas witnessed an export of around 12 MT, 22 MT and 45 MT in October, November and December respectively in 2021. Also, around 125 MT have been exported from Varanasi and nearby areas.Varanasi region has reputed institutions of central and international level such as the Indian Institute of Vegetable Research (IIVR), International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), Banaras Hindu University (BHU).Currently, the Varanasi region has several exporters and the export of agricultural products is being undertaken through air route due to the establishment of robust quarantine as well as customs clearance facilitation centre at Lal Bahadur Shastri International (LBSI) Airport.To monitor the product and production, a project of AI tech is also being considered for approval. APEDA is also planning to take member farmer producer organizations to different successful territories for unveiling the agri-supply chain and market linkage.The government is also considering replicating the Varanasi model in the Gorakhpur region of Purvanchal as the geography, demography and a few other parameters are common in both places. The newly established international airport in Kushinagar may play a vital role in triggering the export. The DDU Gorakhpur University, Indian Institute of Seed Science, Mau are the institutions actively working towards the promotion of agri-activities in the region.APEDA has also approved three projects for comprehensive grain and nutritional quality profiling of non-Basmati Rice, value-added products from Rice and rice-based food systems.An APEDA-funded project for integrated IT solutions to enhance Agri Export in Varanasi Region is under process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/purvanchal-region-exports-20-000-mt-of-agri-produce-in-past-six-months-101641582407680.html
08-01-2022||Delhi||Morphed video of cabinet meeting circulates on social media, Delhi Police register FIR||The Delhi Police have registered an FIR after a morphed video of a cabinet meeting was circulated on Twitter, in which the audio was allegedly altered to make it sound like some political leaders were insisting on removing Sikhs from the Indian Army.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) KPS Malhotra, chief of the IFSO (Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations) – the Delhi police’s cyber cell unit—said police have filed a case and identified two handles that first shared the morphed video.“The morphed video was circulated with the ill intent to promote enmity and instigate communal disharmony. The people behind the video have tried to show that the meeting was against the Sikh community. In reality, the video was of the cabinet committee meeting that took place after the demise of the first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. This video of the meeting is available on news portals and social media platforms. We have filed a case, identified two handles, and are proceeding with the investigation,” said DCP Malhotra.On Friday evening, @PIBFactCheck – one of the Centre’s Twitter handles that counters misinformation on government policies and schemes--tweeted, “A tweet referring to a viral video claim that in a #Cabinet Committee meeting on Security, there was a call for the removal of Sikhs from the Indian Army. #PIBFactCheck The claim is #Fake No such discussion/meeting has taken place”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/morphed-video-of-cabinet-meeting-circulates-on-social-media-delhi-police-register-fir-101641582351083.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress banking on wrong unemployment figures, claims Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar lashed out at the opposition parties, especially the Congress, for making misleading statements about the unemployment rate in state based on the report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).“The actual unemployment rate of Haryana is just 6.1%,” Khattar said in a news conference terming the CMIE report baseless and a bundle of lies.He said the Congress has a habit of spreading rumours and the party is highlighting unrealistic figure of 34% unemployment as released by the CMIE.“The CMIE releases data on the basis of a sample of some people. In that sampling, they had adopted various tricks to defame the state government by releasing unrealistic figures of 34% unemployment. Doing this kind of petty politics over such fictional figures is not right,” the CM said.“It is always beneficial to only share correct and factual figures. If needed, action will be taken against the CMIE for pressing such unrealistic figures,” Khattar said, adding that the NITI Aayog considers the survey conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO) for all policy decisions.The CM said the CMIE is a privately-owned company formed for profit making and it cannot be said to be fair and free from bias.“It has been the habit of this company to degrade the image of the state government by presenting a false picture of the employment scenario on the basis of fictitious figures,” Khattar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-banking-on-wrong-unemployment-figures-claims-khattar-101641582349880.html
08-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 4228 new Covid cases, Lucknow 577||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh reported 4228 new Covid cases, including 577 in Lucknow on Friday, taking the number of active cases in the state to 12327. UP was reporting around 4000 cases in the third week of May 2021. On May 23, 2021 there were 4844 fresh Covid cases in the state. Lucknow had last reported over 500 new Covid cases on May 16, 2021. “In all, 2,19,256 Covid samples were tested in the state in the past 24 hours and 4228 of them were positive. The daily positivity rate was 1.93% and positivity rate in January onth is 1.04%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health. Prasad said of the total 12,327 active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh, 11,959 were in home isolation. In the past 24 hours, 119 patients were declared as recovered and one death was reported from Maharajganj. Till now, 94209031 Covid samples have been tested. In Lucknow, among total 577 cases 354 are male and 223 females and a maximum 118 people tested positive from Aliganj area, 80 in Chinhut, 69 in Sarojininagar and 51 in Indiranagar. About two dozen new cases are below the age of 18 years. “Active cases in Lucknow have gone up from 206 on January 1 to 1718. Covid is catching people of all age groups, hence utmost precaution has to be ensured against the virus,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Among the total cases, 168 were detected Covid positive during contact tracing of previous cases, 114 had mild symptoms and 17 tested positive before surgery in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-4228-new-covid-cases-lucknow-577-101641582229110.html
08-01-2022||Gurugram||Take legislators seriously and resolve issues fast, Gurugram MLA tells officials||Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla, who was nominated as the head of a legislative committee of privileges by the assembly speaker on Wednesday, asked officials across the state to take legislators seriously and resolve their issues on priority. Singla, on Friday, said that a number of legislators have complained that officials don’t respond to phone calls and pleas. Singla said that this kind of behaviour was “not acceptable”. “There have been repeated complaints that officials do not answer the phone calls by legislators or take their issues seriously. The committee of privileges comprising eight MLAs will look into such grievances and seek answers from such erring officials,” said Singla. On Wednesday, Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta nominated Singla as chairperson of the committee of privileges that includes eight members -- Aseem Goyal, Satyaprakash Jarawta, Seem Trikha, Shamsher Singh Gogi, Amarjit Dhanda, Varun Chowdhary, Harvinder Kalyan and Singla. Singla also said that the committee had recently received a complaint from a Congress MLA that a district food and supplies officer was not taking his calls, and action was initiated on the matter. “The administration officials and public representatives have to work in tandem for the welfare of the people and need to co-operate with each other. It is also important that officials and elected representatives respect the protocol so that both sides are on the same page,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/take-legislators-seriously-and-resolve-issues-fast-gurugram-mla-tells-officials-101641582167692.html
08-01-2022||Gurugram||DTCP demolishes eight illegal colonies covering 50 acres of land in Farrukhnagar||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Friday carried out a demolition drive in Farrukhnagar and razed eight illegal colonies spread over 50 acres in the area, said officials.These eight colonies were being developed in this area without taking permission from the state government, they said.The DTCP officials also said that this was the largest demolition drive being carried out by the department in Farrukhnagar in years. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the demolition drive in eight illegal colonies spread over 50 acres of land was carried out in heavy police presence.“We have demolished eight under-construction structures, 50 plinths, two large offices of property dealers, and a road network using four earth moving machines,” Bhath said. Bhath also said that a few shops on the national highway near Wazirpur, which were also established illegally, were also demolished in the drive.“We have repeatedly asked the land owners to obtain licences and permission from the state government to sell plots or launch housing projects. Now, the next step would be to register FIRs against those developing these illegal colonies and the dealers engaged in duping gullible buyers,” he added. Earlier on Thursday, the department recommended registration of FIRs against 58 individuals for developing nine illegal colonies over 32 acres of land in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-demolishes-eight-illegal-colonies-covering-50-acres-of-land-in-farrukhnagar-101641581627840.html
08-01-2022||Dehradun||Uttarakhand bans political rallies, protests till January 16 over Covid spread||Dehradun: As part of Covid-19 restrictions, the Uttarakhand government on Friday prohibited all political rallies and protests in the state till January 16 amid rising cases of the disease.The restrictions were ordered on a day the state reported 814 fresh cases, the highest daily cases in seven months. It was on June 21 last year the state reported 892 cases.Of the 814 cases reported on Friday, 93 were of students from Pal Nursing College in Haldwani. The college has been notified as a micro-containment zone. According to the guidelines, all shopping malls, gyms, cinema halls, spas, saloons, entertainment parks, theatres, sports institutions, stadiums, playgrounds, auditoriums, and eateries will remain open with 50% capacity, while swimming pools and water parks will remain closed till January 16.All entertainment, educational and cultural events have also been prohibited. At weddings and funerals, only 50% guests will be allowed, while all schools and aanganwadi centres will remain closed.Night curfew will remain in force from 10pm to 6am, the guidelines stated, adding that those visiting the state without a Covid vaccination certificate will not be allowed without a negative test. The state Friday logged 814 fresh cases, the highest in seven months.Visitors to the state who have not received both doses will have to produce a negative Covid report to enter the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bans-political-rallies-protests-till-january-16-over-covid-spread-101641581507832.html
08-01-2022||Gurugram||Faridabad: Two arrested for killing 2 construction workers, injuring 1 for money||Police arrested two men late Thursday night for allegedly killing two construction workers and severely injuring another person at an under-construction site in Faridabad’s Nangla Enclave Part-2 on Sunday (January 2 this year), said officials on Friday. The suspects were identified as Rohit, 20, and Pankaj, 20, both residents of Nangla Enclave Part-2, police said, adding that “the duo is allegedly addicted to drugs”. The victims -- Aakash, 23, Ramvir, 42, and Monu, 25 (the injured person) -- are all natives of Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said the suspects entered an under-construction site on January 2 to steal material from there and sell those to earn money for buying drugs. They, however, found three labourers sleeping at the site, and tried to steal their cellphones and wallets.“The duo was caught red-handed by the labourers, and a scuffle broke out between them. The suspects picked up a hammer and bricks lying on the ground, and attacked the victims. The victims fell unconscious, and the suspects escaped with their belongings,” Kadiyan said. The victims had been working and staying at the under-construction site for the past two months as the material kept in the store was not locked, according to the police. Kamal Singh, a resident of Nangla Enclave Part-2, who found the victims unconscious at the site around 12.30am on January 2, informed the police and the trio was taken to a nearby hospital, where Aakash and Ramvir, who had suffered multiple injuries in the head, were declared dead.“Monu recovered in the next two days and recorded a statement in the case, following which we started launched an investigation and scanned CCTV footage of the area,” Singh said, adding that police had put the cellphone numbers of the victims on surveillance, which helped them in tracking the suspects and arresting them from Faridabad’s Dabua on Friday.The suspects allegedly revealed during interrogation that they had “robbed the victims of three cellphones and ₹2,000 after attacking them with a hammer, a knife and bricks”.The suspects were earlier arrested thrice for their involvement in snatching and assault cases in Faridabad, and they were currently on bail, said the police. The arrested trio was produced before a court and sent on a three-day police remand on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-two-arrested-for-killing-2-construction-workers-injuring-1-for-money-101641581268998.html
08-01-2022||Other||We brought back 15k students from Kota despite Cong govt resistance: Yogi||UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath blamed Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot Government for not doing enough during the second wave of the Covid-19 to ensure the safe return of Uttar Pradesh’s 15,000 students from Kota. He added that these students were brought back home safely by the BJP government despite resistance by Rajasthan’s ruling party.“We brought back 15,000 students of UP by sending buses despite opposition of Rajasthan’s Congress government,” he said, while inaugurating 20 projects worth ₹62 crore in Gorakhpur, on Friday. These included a hotel management institute.On the occasion smartphones and tablets were distributed to 1,000 students. Twenty-two students received tablets and smartphones on stage from the CM.The CM said that the state government had decided to distribute smartphones and tablets to one crore students enrolled in UG, PG, ITIs, Polytechnic and other skill development courses. The drive began on December 25,the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, when these gadgets were distributed to 60,000 students in Lucknow.He said that free digital access with best curriculum content will also be provided free of cost to beneficiaries so that they can seek help in studies and prepare for competitive exams. The tablets and smartphones will also be provided with employment related information about state and central government schemes, he said.In addition, the government has also offered Abhoday, free civil service and competitive exam coaching, both through offline and online, and with such initiatives, students will no longer be required to go outside the state for preparation of competitive exams, he told the audience.The CM said that in almost-five-year tenure, his government had given jobs to 4.5 lakh youth, and given self employment to another 60 lakh, and was working relentlessly for the better future of the youth.Describing the Omicron variant as less dangerous but highly contagious, the CM asked the crowd that students above 15 years of age should get vaccinated to avoid any untoward situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-brought-back-15k-students-from-kota-despite-cong-govt-resistance-yogi-101641581147793.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Parvati assembly constituency in Pune has highest third gender voters||PUNE: Parvati assembly constituency has highest third gender voters among the eight constituencies in Pune city as per the final voter list published by the election office on January 5. Pune city comprises Vadgaon Sheri, Shivajinagar, Kothrud, Khadakwasla, Parvati, Hadapsar, Pune Cantonment and Kasba peth constituencies. Parvati assembly constituency has 72 of the 207 third gender voters in Pune city. As per the updated list, Hadapsar constituency has the highest number of women voters in the city with 2.61 lakh residents. Third gender voters Parvati 72 Vadgaon sheri 43 Hadapsar 31 Khadakwasla 29 Pune Cantonment 11 Kothrud 10 Shivajinagar 7 Kasba peth 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parvati-assembly-constituency-in-pune-has-highest-third-gender-voters-101641580788939.html
08-01-2022||Other||Covid-19 resurgence: Sale of sanitizers, face masks picks up pace again||The demand and sale of facemasks, hand sanitizers and face shields has gained pace in Prayagraj in recent days, in wake of the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the district.People are again purchasing hand sanitisers especially those that are available in small bottles and are easy to carry in their pockets or hand bags. The demand for masks of different types has also increased all of a sudden. As masks are available at cheaper rates than before people are preferring use-and-throw masks.Besides buying masks and sanitisers, people are also taking other precautions and are keen to follow Covid-19 protocol issued by the government.Anil Kumar Dubey, president, Chemists’ Association, Prayagraj, said although masks and sanitisers were in demand since Covid-19 cases increased during the first wave, their demand and sale has increased to 200% after the threat of the third wave. People are not taking chances and are aware that negligence may pose a serious threat to their health and lives.There are large varieties of masks available in the market but recently people are showing interest in buying use-and-throw masks. People are buying them in large numbers and dispose of them after using them for a few hours or a day. As other masks require regular washing, people are now giving preference to use-and-throw masks.Besides masks, an increase in the sale of face shields has also been witnessed recently as it offers more protection from Covid-19 infection, Dubey said.Dubey further said that not only masks but sanitisers and other protections are in adequate stock in the market and their supply is equal to their demand. However, people should buy sanitisers from authorised medical stores only as fake sanitisers available in the market may cause allergy and pose other health risks to users.Dubey also said that people should take precautions and follow protocol but need not panic as all medicines prescribed for Covid-19 treatment are in adequate stock. A chemist in the old city area, Mohd Shariq, said more people are buying sanitisers and masks since Covid-19 cases have increased in the district. People are also asking for ‘Joshanda’ packets as it gives relief from cough etc which is seen as one of the initial symptoms of coronavirus.Senior psychiatrist Dr Rakesh Paswan said people need not panic in the wake of Covid-19 threat but should take all precautions and follow the guidelines. People should consult doctors and get themselves checked if they have a fever or other symptoms instead of panicking. Strong will power and positivity is also necessary to remain healthy, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-resurgence-sale-of-sanitizers-face-masks-picks-up-pace-again-101641580730335.html
08-01-2022||Noida||Noida: 719 new infections take active cases tally over 2,000-mark||Noida: The tally of active cases in Gautam Budh Nagar crossed the 2,000 mark on Friday as 719 fresh infections came to the fore, taking the active case count to 2,402. According to official data, Gautam Budh Nagar reported 2,251 cases in the first week of the month, the highest number of Covid-19 cases to be reported in the last seven months. The last time Noida logged in more than 700 cases in a day was on May 14 last year, when 718 cases were recorded. However, there were 10 fatalities from the infection then while no deaths have been reported so far. Though daily cases are now as high as during the peak of the second wave in Noida, hospitalisation as well as oxygen requirement is minimal so far. Official data shows the district has the highest number of daily as well as active cases in Uttar Pradesh, though officials claim that none of the patients are serious. “We have two notified Covid hospitals, but till now, we haven’t had any patient who needs oxygen support. The cases are more since the testing has been scaled up, especially with the availability of private labs in the district, compared to other districts in Uttar Pradesh. It is good that cases are being detected and are being treated at the earliest,” said Suhas L Y, district magistrate. He added about 70-80% of the cases being reported in Gautam Budh Nagar are from private labs. Though the total number of private tests being conducted daily is unclear, about 6,000 tests are being done by government teams. The positivity rate now is around 5%. The positivity rate-- the percentage of all coronavirus tests performed that turn out to be positive -- is an important metric through which the public health system keeps tabs on the level of Covid transmission.The WHO recommends the test positivity should remain below 5% in a region for an infection to be considered under control. By Friday evening, 26 patients were in hospital while 2376 were in home isolation. Among the new cases is a traveller, who has come from United Kingdom. “We have 26 patients in hospital and six in the ICU. However, none of them is serious and those in ICU are being monitored only because they have several comorbidities. None of the patients are on antivirals. We are only giving multivitamins to all patients and paracetamol to those with mild symptoms,” said Dr Tritya Saxena, medical superintendent, Noida Covid Hospital. So far, 65,985 people have tested positive in Gautam Budh Nagar on the back of 1,780,023 tests. Meanwhile, the district has earmarked 44 schools across the district for mega vaccination drive exclusively for children in the 15-18 age group. All centres will have online as well as slots for walk-in registration for vaccinations. “We have seen that parents and children often look slots online and do not go for vaccination if they can’t book online. However, we have enough slots at every centre for walk-in or offline vaccination. People should go to their nearest vaccination centre with a valid age proof even if it shows no slots are available online,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunization officer. So far, around 19,000 children in the 15-18 age group have taken the shot in Gautam Budh Nagar. The estimated population falling under this age group in the district, who are eligible to take the vaccine, is 115,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-719-new-infections-take-active-cases-tally-over-2000mark-101641580727483.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Residents demand channelisation of Ambil odha||Pune: The Ambil Odha residents’ organisation has demanded channelisation of the odha (stream) proposed in the development plan (DP) in 1987. At a meeting held at Pune Patrakar Sangh on Friday, Sachin Nivangune, Sachin Dighe and other representative of Ambil Odha residents’ organisation issued a letter to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “Channelising and straightening of Ambil odha has been proposed in development plan of 1987 and 1989. The incompletion of the plan has caused loss of life and property to those living near the water body. Land near Dandekar bridge and stream is given for slum redevelopment,” said Nivangune. Another resident Prakash Shinde said, “The redevelopment of slum is a legal step for PMC, slum redevelopment authority (SRA) and state government. Those displaced from areas near the stream have been shifted to transit camp as per SRA guidelines. Now, the authorities should provide them permanent houses at the earliest.” Social workers, political leaders, NGOs and environmentalists at the meet discussed the necessity to carry out Ambil Odha channelisation work soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-demand-channelisation-of-ambil-odha-101641580607538.html
08-01-2022||Pune||Four prominent hotels in Pune booked for Covid violations||The Mundhwa police have lodged cases against four prominent hotels under its jurisdiction for Covid violations. According to the police, double-dose vaccination is mandatory for entry into public places. The hotels where action has been taken have been identified as Hotel Drunk and Panda, Agent Jack, Hotel Metro and Hotel Panda. According to the FIR filed on Thursday, action has been taken against the representatives of these hotels under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignantly spreading the infection of any disease dangerous to life). Mundhwa police station incharge inspector Brahmanand Naikwadi said that as per the instructions of DCP (Zone 5) Namrata Patil, checking was carried out in different establishments in the area. “The 50 per cent occupancy rule was found violated by the hotels,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-prominent-hotels-in-pune-booked-for-covid-violations-101641580427893.html
08-01-2022||Noida||Seven cops infected in Ghaziabad, district sees 609 fresh Covid cases||The sudden spike in Covid-19 cases has started affecting front-line workers as seven policemen in Ghaziabad were found positive for the infection on Friday. Confirming the development, senior police officers said more police personnel could likely be infected in Modinagar. The Ghaziabad district on Thursday recorded 360 fresh Covid cases after conducting 8,007 tests, which spiked to 609 new cases on Friday, from a total of 8,802 samples tested. The alarming rise has caused the positivity rate -- the ratio of people who test positive from among the total tested -- to climb to 4.36% on January 7 from 3.64% on January 6. The overall positivity rate since the start of pandemic is 2.64%, district health officials said. “Seven policemen, including the SHO of Loni Border police station, have tested positive for Covid and all of them have been asked to stay in home isolation and follow Covid protocols. We have information about some more policemen from our SWAT team in Modinagar getting infected. We are confirming this,” said Pawan Kumar, senior superintendent of police. “A majority of our personnel have taken both doses of Covid vaccine and we have asked them to turn up for a precautionary dose, which will be administered to front-line workers starting January 10,” the SSP said. According to the district health department, Ghaziabad district at present has 57,543 Covid-19 cases since the start of the pandemic, and 1,771 active cases. Of these, 1,629 contracted the disease in the first seven days of January. “Testing has been increased since the past three days and that is helping us find and treat more infected people. In the coming days, we are planning to increase daily testing to about 10,000 with about 60-70% of tests being RT-PCR,” said RK Singh, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. Of the 1,771 active cases, the district has only 13 patients who are hospitalised and the hospitalisation rate is about 0.73%. “The cases are expected to rise further and they will soon peak. It is expected that cases may come down by February. Although cases are rising, the severity of infection is low or even negligible. It is vital that those who have not taken the vaccine get it fast. Even parents should expedite vaccination of children,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). According to district officials, till January 6, Indirapuram had the highest number of patients at 262, followed by Carte segment (comprising localities of Shastri Nagar, Govindpuram etc) with 260 cases. On the other hand, Raj Nagar has a total of 131 cases and nearby Raj Nagar Extension with 108 cases. Other localities such as Sahibabad, Vaishali and Vasundhara have 147, 163 and 124 cases, respectively. The district health department said 102 rapid response teams are working round the clock to trace contacts and to check on the health of infected patients. “The severity of infection is low and those in the age group of 21-50 years are the ones mostly affected since this segment keeps travelling for work. Our vaccination coverage is nearing 100% and those who have not taken their vaccine doses should get them at the earliest,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer.
08-01-2022||Other||MNNIT experts on new mission: Developing alternatives to prevent antibiotic resistance||Biotechnologists of the state’s lone NIT—Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)—are busy preparing a new-age, low-cost and effective alternative to treating bacterial infections using medicines that do not cause resistance which often results from long and repeated use of antibiotic medicines.The mission is being undertaken as part of a three-year department of science and technology (DST)-science and engineering research board (SERB), New Delhi-funded project, researchers said. “Bacterial infections pose a major threat to human health and are responsible for the most deaths in low-income countries. To combat these infections, antibiotic usage has tremendously increased leading to another problem of antibiotic resistance in bacteria. Hence, substantial efforts are being made to explore effective antibacterial alternatives to antibiotics, said Seema Nara, associate professor in MNNIT’s department of Biotechnology, who is heading the project.The team is conducting research to synthesise catalytic nanomaterials that generate reactive oxygen species (ROS)— highly reactive chemicals formed from oxygen— and can be used as low cost, non-toxic and effective antibiotic alternatives. “ROS can inactivate bacteria by irreversibly damaging its proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides. This project aims at engineering Cerium oxide-based catalytic nanostructure with good bacteria capture ability and ROS mediated bacterial killing,” Nara said. As part of this project, the efficacy of the nanozyme (nanomaterial-based artificial enzymes) in combating bacterial infections, disinfections and biofilm inhibition will be studied on a broad range of bacteria such as E coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus—all known to cause a range of life-threatening illnesses such as pneumonia, meningitis, toxic shock syndrome and sepsis among others, she explained. The expert said that the bacteria binding ability of the nanozyme would extend its applicability as an antibacterial coating on medical devices as it could well capture bacteria and kill it through its ROS generating ability. “It could have future potential and use in a number of applications such as potential antibiotics, in wound healing applications, in suppressing inflammation, etc,” she added. 
08-01-2022||Delhi||#WeekendCurfew: Home chefs come to the rescue for Delhiites||The first weekend of 2022 is here, but looks like it’s going to be far from fun, for the city is going to be under #WeekendCurfew. To address the concern of rising Covid cases in the Capital, the imposition of weekend curfew will bring along restrictions such as closure of dine in services at restaurants, no house helps turning up, and a working Saturday for many Delhiites. As most residents struggle to finish the housework and office work alongside, city-based home chefs have stepped in to take care of Delhiites’ hunger pangs.“I’ve just finished cooking two kgs of rajma, so you can imagine the number of bookings I have! If I get to counting, I have already 22 orders, and more requests are coming in as we speak,” says Alka Singhal, a Greater Kailash-based home chef, adding, “I had to hire extra help on weekdays to assist me in preparing meals for the weekend. Most people are going to be indoors and want to order in food. In fact, I have also got a pass made for my driver, so that he can make the deliveries during the curfew, instead of me coordinating with the delivery apps. People, who will be working from home, have to prepare chai, coffee sab... toh at least lunch and dinner banane se bachh jayein toh bartan bhi gande nahi honge! And during curfew, it gets very boring to be home, and food is something everyone looks forward to... Shayad isiliye zyada orders aa rahe hain.” The feel good factor on seeing food gets escalated when there’s surety that the food is going to be hygienic, healthy, nutritious and budget-friendly (ranging from ₹200-400). And with home chefs, that’s a plus point. Kalkaji-based home chef Ashita Oberoi, whose meals are also on the verge of being booked out, says, “People cannot call their part time help when its weekend curfew, and want that at least food should be catered from outside. So not only are they booking for this weekend, but also for the coming weekend as some of them feel the rising cases mean it might get difficult to get a slot for home cooked food, if not ordered well in advance. Many are especially asking for healthy soups to be part of their meal, since it’s winter and staying warm helps keep Covid at bay.” Some of these home chefs, who otherwise cook all round the year, are presently preferring to take orders from the Covid positive patients or families. “That’s what I started doing during the first Covid wave, and am doing that now as well,” says Sanhita D Sensarma, a corporate lawyer and cook from CR Park. She has been inundated with orders, and says, “I serve what I eat, and have put a nominal price for the meals I prepare, which are high in protein. As of now the meals I make are all going for Covid infected families and other frontline workers. I’m only making 25-30 meals per day, and I’m completely booked this weekend. This makes me feel that the Covid crises is back, and I knew the time has come for me to reach out and help those who our support at this time,” she says. Singhal is also preparing food by “consulting dieticians, to come up with special meals that are high on immunity and also taste good”. And Oberoi adds, “For Covid infected families, we have full breakfast, lunch and dinner plans and they can book these for as many days they want. These bookings have, sadly, also come in this weekend.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekendcurfew-home-chefs-come-to-the-rescue-of-delhiites-101641580188911.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: MHA panel records Punjab top cop, senior officer statements||Just a couple of hours before the Supreme Court directed to stay probe by the Centre and state government into the security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit on January 5, a three-member committee constituted by the Union home ministry to investigate the matter took statements of state police chief S Chattopadhyaya and 13 other senior police and civil officials in Ferozepur on Friday. Besides DGP Chattopadhyaya, the officials who were summoned to the BSF headquarters in Feorzepur were additional director general of police (ADGP) G Nageshwar Rao; ADGP Jitendra Jain; inspector general of police (IGP), Patiala, Mukhwinder Singh Chinna; Ferozepur deputy inspector general (DIG) Inderbir Singh; Faridkot DIG Surjeet Singhl; Ferozepur deputy commissioner (DC) Davinder Singh, Ferozepur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmandeep Hans; Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal; Kotkapura duty magistrate Varinder Singh; Ludhiana joint commissioner Ankur Mahendru; Bathinda DC Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu; Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja; and the Ferozepur VVIP control room in-charge. The communiqué sent by Punjab chief secretary Anirudh Tewari to these officers on Thursday had said, “You are requested to meet the committee on January 7 at 10am onwards at BSF Campus, Ferozepur, along with the relevant orders/documents/records with reference to the above subject.” The committee announced by the Union home ministry is to inquire into “serious lapses” in security arrangements that exposed the VVIP (PM Modi) to “grave risk”. It is led by Sudhir Kumar Saxena, secretary (security) in the cabinet secretariat, and has Intelligence Bureau joint director Balbir Singh and Special Protection Group IG S Suresh as its other two members. Visits flyover, martyrs’ memorial and IAF stationThe probe panel landed in Ferozepur in the morning and first visited the flyover where the PM’s cavalcade was stuck for nearly 20 minutes before going back to the Bathinda airport without attending the planned programme. The Ferozepur SSP, Faridkot SSP and Ferozepur DIG accompanied them to the flyover, which was inspected on foot by the team. After recording statements of the officers, the probe team visited Hussainiwala, where the PM was to visit the National Martyr’s Memorial before addressing a rally at Ferozepur. The team was also seen photographing and going through the videography done by the Punjab Police during the PM’s visit. The team also visited the Air Force station at Bhisiana in Bathinda. In what the Centre described as a “major security lapse”, Modi’s convoy was stranded on Wednesday for 20 minutes on a flyover due to a blockade by farm protesters in Ferozepur. He returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event, including a BJP rally, and the Centre blamed the Congress government in Punjab for the security breach. Show-cause notices issued to officersAccording to information, a few senior officers on duty during the PM’s visit have been given a show-cause notice by the MHA for the security breach and have been asked to file a reply by January 8. Archna Verma, deputy secretary to the Centre, has stated in the letter to Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja that “since there was grave security lapse during PM Modi’s visit, the Bathinda SSP is directed to show cause as to why action should not be initiated against him under law including disciplinary action under All India Services (Discipline and Appeal), Rules, 1969, the acts of ommission and commission.”However, Maluja denied receiving the notice and said he was responsible for the motorcade of the PM till Zida in Faridkot district and everything was smooth till that point. “After that it was Faridkot officer’s duty,” he said. It is not immediately clear if these officers would file a reply as the entire probe by the state and central teams has been stayed by the SC on Friday. 
08-01-2022||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC extends Varavara Rao’s bail||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday extended till February 5 the temporary bail granted to Elgar Parishad case accused P Varavara Rao, 81, citing the Covid-19 situation.The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made at an event in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial. A division bench of justices S S Shinde and N R Borkar issued the extension order after senior advocate Anand Grover, who represented Rao, told the court his client’s health condition was not good and he was seeking permanent bail. Rao’s bail was to end on Friday. Advocate Sandesh Patil, who appeared for the National Investigation Agency (NIA), opposed Grover’s plea and said the bail granted last year was extended from time to time and that Rao should now surrender.The court said it needed to go through medical reports while extending the bail. It added that in light of the current Covid-19 situation and considering Rao’s age, NIA should not object to the extension being sought.The bench added that in view of the rising cases of coronavirus across the state, it would not be wise to send the 83-year-old poet-activist back to prison.Patil told the HC that Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh had not been briefed in the matter and sought a week’s time to complete the process.He urged the HC to grant the next date of hearing in a week’s time.“Mr Patil, there is no point in keeping (the plea for hearing) next week. Experts say third wave (of coronavirus) may last for 50 to 60 days. This time, the police, health workers are testing positive very rapidly. The situation wasn’t as bad the last time. So in such a situation, is it proper to send him (Rao) back to jail?” the judges asked.This is Rao’s sixth bail extension after his six-month bail period expired in August 2021. Rao’s lawyers have said apart from his earlier ailments, he developed some new ones, and hence he should be granted the extension or be allowed to move to Hyderabad where his daughters can take care of him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-varavara-rao-s-temporary-bail-in-elgar-parishad-case-101641544844917.html
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Khattar says Congress hatched conspiracy, demands dismissal of Punjab govt||Demanding dismissal of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in Punjab for security breach during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Ferozepur visit, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said what happened in Punjab on January 5 was a “conspiracy planned by the Congress government”.Upping the ante against the Congress government in Punjab, Haryana BJP leaders, led by Khattar, submitted a memorandum to Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatraya, urging President Ram Nath Kovind to take tough action against the Punjab government.Before calling on the governor, Khattar along with a battery of state BJP leaders, performed religious rituals at Mata Mansa Devi shrine in Panchkula for the long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The conspiracy planned by the Punjab government cannot be accepted at any cost. Anyone who believes in the democratic system will never forgive this unconstitutional behaviour of the Congress,” said Khattar in a news conference after handing over a memorandum to the governor, seeking imposition of President’s rule in Punjab.Khattar said the Congress government in the neighbouring state should be dismissed so that upcoming assembly elections are held in a free and fair manner. He said the Punjab government will be unable to ensure law and order during the upcoming Punjab polls when political leaders, including PM Modi, will campaign.The chief minister said during the PM’s visit, he was participating in the programme to be held in Ferozepur virtually and the Punjab CM too had joined the programme virtually.“Both of us were linked with the PM’s function via digital mode. The Punjab CM was leaving his seat time and again that day. Channi appeared uneasy,” Khattar said.“Maintaining law and order in state is the duty of the state government and such a grave lapse in the PM’s security is complete negligence and condemnable,” Khaattar added.He said the PM is not a common man but the representative of 130 crore people of the country.Calling the PM as the most popular prime minister of the country till date, Khattar said, “Modi has taken bold decisions that his predecessors feared to even touch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-haryana-cm-alleges-conspiracy-demands-channi-govt-s-dismissal-101641541184686.html
