09-01-2022||Delhi||Avoid slander, spread AAP’s positive work: Kejriwal to workers ahead of polls||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday exhorted the party workers to carry out a positive campaign and avoid abuse or slander against the opponents, and instead tell people how the AAP government in Delhi transformed schools, hospitals, roads, and electricity and water supply.“When you go out for election campaigning, keep this thought in your mind always —you are going out to bring change in this country like a true deshbhakt. You are not campaigning with the purpose of an electoral win but to eliminate a corrupt system from its grassroots to implement a system of honesty and integrity. The AAP government in Delhi proved that change is possible,” Kejriwal said in a video address to the party workers as AAP looks to achieve a national footprint in the upcoming elections to the legislative assemblies of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur.The AAP is the principal opposition party in Punjab, but does not have any presence in the other four states.“Delhi government is a living testimony of how honest governments cannot just survive but create examples for the future, Kejriwal said.The Delhi chief minister hit out at the opposition parties in the five states over corruption. “Various political parties have been telling us that running a government is not that easy, it requires some element of corruption and bigotry. The AAP government (in Delhi) proved that governments can be run with honesty as well. These parties told us that winning an election requires truckloads of cash and even more deceit. AAP proved that elections can be fought with honesty, and can also be won with honesty,” Kejriwal said.CM flagged that the AAP government has proved that schools cannot just be improved but revolutionized and the children of the poor can get to stand on the same pedestal as the children of the rich. “These parties could not fix government hospitals in 75 years, but AAP did it in just five years. It has given this country a huge hope that politics can be revolutionized for good. Yes, it is possible, but it is not easy. It requires dedicated effort like what was seen in the freedom struggle. Every AAP volunteer should take a pledge to not rest until they eliminate this corrupt regime plaguing the country,” CM stated.The AAP chief asked party volunteers to undertake door to door campaign in the wake of restrictions in view of the soaring Covid cases. “Door to door campaigning is allowed. All our volunteers should get on to door to door campaigning with full strength. Whenever you go to someone’s house — first ask them how they’re doing, how everyone’s health is. Before asking for votes, if they need any help, first do that. Consider this to be an opportunity to commit yourselves to service of people,” said Kejriwal, adding that later they should explain the AAP government’s achievements in schools, healthcare, electricity-water supply in Delhi to the electorate.“Tell them that AAP would do the same in your state too if it comes to power. Remember, we do not have to abuse or slander any other party or party member. We have to orchestrate a positive campaign. We have to go to every doorstep, no matter their political standings. Consider everyone to be your own, and win them over,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal added that the volunteers should ready to take on the detractors over their allegations of ‘freebies’. “If someone asks you why the AAP offers freebies — ask them, if it is not a government’s duty to ensure the highest standards of education to each and every child of this country? The idea of being in government translates to ministers and MLAs enjoying free services while the public running from pillar to post. The AAP will change this. Now ministers and MLAs will serve the public while the people will enjoy the best of the facilities,” Kejriwal said.The Election Commission of India on Saturday announced a seven-phase poll schedule starting February 10 for five states - Goa, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Punjab - slated to vote for a new legislative assembly, with the final count happening on March 10.Prof Tanvir Aeijaz, an associate professor of Political Science at Ramjas College, said campaign for elections is about political mobilisation. “Political parties, including those who have formed the government, must mobilise on issues which goes along with constitutional morality. A positive campaign therefore would mean articulating and aggregating public interest in terms of achievement or non-achievements of the incumbent government. Political campaign should not be done on conflictual lines by invoking caste, colour or religion,” said Aeijaz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/avoid-slander-spread-aap-s-positive-work-kejriwal-to-workers-ahead-of-polls-101641752603693.html
09-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi records 17 Covid deaths, daily cases over 22,000||Seventeen people in Delhi died of Covid-19 on Saturday, according to state government data, the most single-day fatalities of the infection in over 200 days, while the daily case count jumped past 22,000, even as a majority of patients in the Capital continue to recover at home, without needing a hospital bed.The city added 22,751 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, said the health department’s daily bulletin, the most cases in a day since May 1 last year, when Delhi logged over 25,000 fresh infections days after the peak of the fourth wave.Of the 96,678 tests conducted on Saturday, 23.53% samples returned positive results. This statistic went past the 20% mark for the first time since May 9 last year, and is now at its highest level since May 7, when this number was just short of 25%.Over 60,000 people in Delhi are currently battling Covid-19.The Covid-19 death toll on Saturday was the highest in a single day since June 16 last year, when 25 people in the city succumbed to the infection. However, hospitalisation figures continue to remain low, with the city’s health infrastructure left with plenty of headroom, even as the Covid-19 caseload returns to levels last seen over seven months ago. Nearly 88% of all hospital beds in Delhi were vacant as on Saturday, according to state government data. The city, at present, has over 14,000 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, of which just 1,800 are occupied.This is in line with trends across the world, which show that the Omicron variant of the coronavirus causes milder infections than Delta, and leads to far fewer hospitalisations.Further, the Delhi government has previously said it can reserve 37,000 beds for Covid-19 patients, if the caseload necessitates it, a move that is part of a larger plan to augment the city’s bed capacity to 65,000. Delhi’s fourth wave of infections, between April and May 2020, continues to be its most fatal and widespread. That surge was driven by the Delta variant of the coronavirus, which pushed hospitals and health infrastructure to the brink, and left over 13,000 dead in that two-month period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-17-covid-deaths-daily-cases-over-22000-101641752487557.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||Over 900,000 eligible for booster doses today in Maharashtra||Mumbai: Over 900,000 healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens including 182,000 in Mumbai will be eligible to take the Covid-19 precautionary shot starting Monday. Going by the Centre’s mandate of the 39-week gap from the second dose, the state has considered April 10, 2021, as the cut-off date for Monday’s drive. “Those who have received their second doses on or before April 10, 2021, will be eligible for the third dose on January 10,” said the state’s immunisation officer Dr Sachin Desai. “Every day more people will become eligible as they will fit into the 39-week mandate,” he said. For instance, those who have completed full vaccination on or before April 11 last year, will become eligible on Tuesday and so on. Mumbai’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said that all precautionary measures will be taken at the centres to ensure social distancing. “The vaccinators will take the history of beneficiaries and anyone who has had the infection recently will be asked to wait till they have completed three months of recovery,” she said. A large number of healthcare workers and frontline workers have tested positive for the infection over the past few days, thus making them ineligible for the booster shots immediately. “Some people say that the infection is like a booster dose, but let’s not forget it’s a disease that affected these people,” said Vellore-based virologist Dr T Jacob John, adding that India should have started booster doses way back in November before the third wave had set in. “We could have had all of December to put up a fight with the wave. But instead, we have allowed the virus a free ground and have started a booster drive in a surging pandemic, which is unacceptable,” said John. He also criticised the mandate for the 39-week gap. “All other countries in the West had a gap of six months for the booster shots, and many countries are now contemplating reducing it further to four months. It doesn’t make sense why India has instead issued a nine-month gap policy,” he said. According to John, there is a possibility of many asymptomatic people, unaware of their infections, lining up for the boosters. “When the infections are surging, there will be many people with silent infections who will land up at the vaccination centres. The question is do we know how the third shot will behave in such population with an unknown, active infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-900-000-eligible-for-booster-doses-today-in-maharashtra-101641752486294.html
09-01-2022||Delhi||Metro deliberately delaying arbitral award, Delhi HC told||The Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL) has told the Delhi high court that Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is deliberately trying to delay the execution of over ₹4,600 crore arbitral award against it by not disclosing all its bank account details.In an application, DAMEPL, a subsidiary of the Reliance Infrastructure’s subsidiary (DAMEPL), has told the court said that DMRC is trying to defeat the process by making a limited disclosure of bank account details only with respect to ₹1,642.69 crore despite the court’s previous order directing it to disclose bank account details.“The delay in the payment of the Arbitral Award by DMRC is costing the taxpayer an additional interest burden of almost ₹1.75 crore per day,” the application said.The application by DAMEPL was filed in response to an affidavit filed by DMRC’s on January 5, in which it has made a partial/ limited disclosure of its bank accounts only with respect to Rs. 1642.69 crore out of the total funds of ₹5,800.93 crore that it had disclosed in the court through its last affidavit filed on December 21, 2021.On December 22, Justice Suresh Kait directed DMRC to file an affidavit furnishing the details of its bank accounts along with the balance amount.The judge observed that while the attachment of DMRC’s properties was not permitted under Section 89 of The Metro Railways (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002, there was no such embargo with respect to its bank accounts.Saying that DMRC is in contempt of the court’s order, DAMEPL has said that DMRC has intentionally not provided details of its remaining funds and bank accounts, which is clearly disregard and contempt of theIt said that this conduct of the DMRC clearly exhibits that it is deliberately trying to defeat and delay the execution process of the Arbitral Award, and also ensure that the next hearing scheduled on January 11 becomes ineffective.According to DAMEPL, DMRC in its last affidavit on December 21 in the high court, had informed that it had total worth ₹5800.93 crore, as of December 17, 2021. Out of this, Rs. 1642.69 crores were as DMRC funds, Rs. 2412.12 crores as other than DMRC.DAMEPL, its application, has requested the high court to direct DMRC to comply with the court’s previous order in letter and spirit by furnishing complete details of all its bank accounts the funds lying in those accounts along with the respective bank statements, or before the next date of hearing i.e. January 11The application was filed in DAMEPL’s execution plea for the arbitral award won against the corporation.The consortium of Reliance Energy Limited (renamed as Reliance Infrastructure Limited) and M/s Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles, SA terminated the Concession Agreement in October 2012 citing failure of DMRC to cure defects in the structure supporting the Airport Metro Express Line. DMRC invoked the arbitration clause of its contract with the consortium.The concession agreement between the two was signed on August 25, 2008. Under the agreement, DMRC was to carry out the civil works, excluding at the depot, and the balance, including the project system works, were to be executed by DAMEPL, a joint venture of Rinfra and a Spanish construction company -- Construcciones Y Auxiliar De Ferrocarriles -- with a shareholding of 95 and five per cent respectively.In 2017, the Arbitral Tribunal awarded damages to Reliance Infra, an award upheld by a single-judge bench of the Delhi high court in 2018. A division bench of the same court set aside the award in 2019 after which Reliance Infra approached the top court.In September this year, the apex court set aside the division bench’s judgment of January 15, 2019 order and upheld the arbitral award in favour of DMRC, saying that there was a disturbing tendency of courts setting aside arbitral awards.In November, the Supreme Court had dismissed DMRC’s plea seeking a review of its judgment which upheld the 2017 arbitration award in favour of DAMEPL, enforceable against it. The apex court on September 9 had upheld the arbitration award enforceable against DMRC.The DMRC had stated that since the corporation was facing a “financial crunch”, undertaking a “sudden liability” would impact public interest and authorities were, therefore, working out a solution. It had also claimed that the amount liable to be paid was approximately ₹5,000 crore which was lesser than DAMEPL’s claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-deliberately-delaying-arbitral-award-delhi-hc-told-101641752305791.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||UP chief secy, DGP order revised security plan for KV Corridor||VARANASI: Chief secretary Durga Shankar Mishra and director general of police Mukul Goyal reviewed law and order as well as the Covid situation and vaccination programme here on Sunday. Both officers instructed the district administration and top police officials to prepare a revised plan for the security of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor as per need and ensure that it was followed strictly. According to a press statement, Mishra and Goyal reached Shri Kashi Vishwanath temple in the afternoon and worshipped Lord Shiva. Thereafter, Mishra inquired about what facilities were being provided to the devotees visiting KV temple from different parts of the country and abroad and what were the arrangements for ‘darshan’ and ‘pujan’. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal gave detailed information about the route plan, including the gates for entry and exit of devotees. The chief secretary took stock of the situation by visiting all the routes of movement of devotees, while the DGP inquired about the security checking of the pilgrims on that route. The CS and DGP also inspected the Passenger Facilitation Centre. They also inspected the routes to Ganga Ghat via Mandir Chowk and inquired about the construction and operation of buildings. After the inspection, both the officers reached the meeting hall where they saw the PPT prepared by the temple administration and the police administration. Mishra said that earlier there were a lot of lanes to Kashi Vishwanath temple. Today, this complex had become very big. So the security arrangements should also be made in accordance with it. The police and the temple administration should work together in a systematic way and prepare the outline of security arrangement in such a way that devotees did not face any difficulty in visiting the KV temple. The DGP said that the earlier security plan needed to be changed now. So, there was need to prepare and follow a revised security plan involving all the security agencies. In this meeting, commissioner Deepak Agarwal, police commissioner A Satish Ganesh, chief executive officer Sunil Kumar Verma, additional police commissioner Subhash Chandra Dubey, CRPF Commandant Anil Kumar Vriksha and other police and administration officials were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-chief-secy-dgp-order-revised-security-plan-for-kv-corridor-101641751523760.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 7695 fresh Covid cases, Lucknow 1115||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh reported 7695 new Covid cases on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 25974, similar to new cases being reported in the third week of May 2021. “There are 25974 active cases in the state at present and among them 25445 are in home isolation. This means the need for hospitalisation is minimal but we should follow preventive measures and Covid protocol,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health in a press conference on Sunday. On May 18, 2021 there were 8737 new cases and then onwards gradually kept reducing. However, after a gap of 7 months, all 75 districts reported new Covid cases on Sunday. The state’s total Covid caseload reached 1737550 and death toll 22928. “UP’s positivity rate reached 3.46%. In all, 222428 covid samples were tested in the past 24 hours,” said Prasad. Among new cases, the maximum 1149 were reported from Gautam Buddha Nagar, followed by 1115 in Lucknow, 922 in Ghaziabad, 715 in Meerut, 437 in Varanasi and 236 in Agra. Deaths were reported in Badaun (1), Prayagraj (1), Meerut (1) and Bulandshahr (1). UP’s recovery rate is 97.2%. Among total cases, 321 were contacts of previously tested Covid patients, 182 had travel history from other states or countries and 184 had mild symptoms after which they got tested and the result was positive. “Lucknow is increasingly reporting cases among close contacts of Covid patients under contact tracing. Among new cases on Saturday, 253 were contacts of previous cases and similarly on Friday there were 168 such cases. This is an infection is fast spreading,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Among total cases in Lucknow, 224 were from Aliganj Covid sample collection unit, 184 from Chinhat, 122 from Indira Nagar, 86 from Alambagh, 77 from Sarojininagar, 71 from from NK Road, 85 from Red Cross 62 Silver Jubilee, 32 from Tudiyaganj, and 18 from Aishbagh. Among total cases, 682 were male and 421 were female patients. Lucknow has till now reported a total of 242731 Covid cases and 2651 deaths. Covid-19 helpline numbers launched The Lucknow district administration has launched helpline for Integrated Covid Control Centre (ICCC). People can dial 0522-4523000 to obtain information related to Covid-19. If a person is infected with Covid-19, information related to medical advice or treatment can be received from the doctors present in the control room by dialling 0522-3515700. Both the numbers are found to be functional on calling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-7695-fresh-covid-cases-lucknow-1115-101641750864923.html
09-01-2022||Pune||No vehicle entry fee at Khadki, Dehu Cantts, PCB collects ‘VET’||The Ministry of Defence’s (MoD) order of immediate stoppage of collection of vehicle entry fee (VEF) by cantonment boards across India will be implemented only in Dehu and Khadki cantonments in the city while Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has claimed that it is collecting ‘vehicle entry tax’ (VET) and will continue to do so due to non-receipt of separate order from the central government. PCB has been earning revenues between ₹15- ₹20 crore annually from VET. The Director General of Defence Estates Office under the Defence ministry stated “That it is observed that collection of vehicle entry fee by cantonment boards by installing barricades or nakas (collection kiosks) does not conform to the government’s initiative towards smooth movement of goods and traffic and impedes the efforts towards the ease of living and ease of doing business”. The ministry said that it has been decided that collection of vehicle entry fee (VEF) by cantonment boards be stopped forthwith. The mechanism for seeking proportionate share from the state government agency cum municipality out of any such similar fees being imposed by them on entry of vehicles centrally may be considered suitably. It is requested to issue necessary instructions to cantonment boards to discontinue the collection of VEF forthwith and compliance reports be sent to the ministry on immediate basis, informed the defence department official. “VEF is the fees imposed by the cantonment board at the board level. We collect vehicle entry tax (VET) that has been imposed by the cantonment board after seeking approval from the central government. Technically speaking, VET can be abolished only after getting the letter to do so from the Centre. But for VEF, the board can take necessary action. This letter that has come is applicable to those cantonments where VEF has been imposed. Definitely as per the spirit of the letter, we might be getting a separate letter from the government and whenever it comes, we will take action. As of now, we are not stopping our collection. At some places, VET was imposed pre-2006 after taking permission from the central government and our case is that. Wherever VEF was imposed, this letter applies to those cantonments. From midnight, VEF will be stopped in Dehu and Khadki cantonment areas,” said PCB chief executive officer (CEO) Amit Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-vehicle-entry-fee-at-khadki-dehu-cantts-pcb-collects-vet-101641750863575.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Rain, thunderstorm bring down day temp across Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Winter rain accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning were reported in various districts across Uttar Pradesh, including the state capital, affecting daily life on Sunday. The state recorded an average of 3.1 mm of rainfall that increased the chill as day temperatures dropped and the sky remained cloudy throughout. As per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, more rain is expected till January 12. As per the weatherman, thunderstorm with lightning hit Banda, Chitrakoot, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Mirzapur, Varanasi, Sant Ravi Das Nagar, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Mau, Lakhimpur Kheri, Kanpur Nagar, Unnao, Lucknow, Barabanki, Rae Bareli, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Bijnor, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and adjoining areas on Sunday. The state capital recorded 3 mm rainfall. According to IMD forecast, “The confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels is very likely over central and east India during the next 4-5 days which will lead to Isolated to scattered rainfall over west Uttar Pradesh on Sunday and east Uttar Pradesh during January 9 to 12.” The conditions will also lead to dense fog in isolated pockets during night and early morning hours. Based on the forecast, the state MeT department has issued warning to all district magistrates, asking them to make suitable arrangements to limit damages in adverse weather. The rain increased chill across the state, forcing people to stay indoors. In Lucknow the maximum day temperature was recorded at 18 degrees Celsius which was three degrees below normal. However, the minimum temperature increased slightly in Lucknow. The minimum temperature was recorded at 12.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, which was six degrees above normal. The minimum temperature is expected to drop in the coming days following rain, according to experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rain-thunderstorm-bring-down-day-temp-across-uttar-pradesh-101641750025501.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||After emissary’s visit, speculation about Yogi contesting from Ayodhya rife||Amid the recent visit of the CM’s emissary to Ayodhya, saints are upbeat about the likelihood of Yogi Adityanath contesting assembly poll from the temple town.The state BJP leadership is also seeking opinion of saints, prominent persons of temple town, party office bearers and booth level workers on the issue. Speculations on the probability of the CM contesting from Ayodhya got credence after his emissary Sanjeev Singh spent two days there last week meeting party workers. Sanjeev Singh, office on special duty (OSD) to the chief minister, was in Ayodhya to meet office bearers and party workers and seek their opinion on the CM’s candidature from Ayodhya (Sadar) assembly seat in the upcoming UP poll. He got a positive response from them. “If BJP decides to field the CM from Ayodhya, it will be a good decision not only for Ayodhya but the entire region,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson for Vishva Hindu Parishad. Saints of the temple town are also upbeat about this possibility. “All this exercise points towards the state leadership of the BJP exploring possibilities of the CM contesting from Ayodhya,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das who is chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. “If CM contests from Ayodhya, development work not only in Ayodhya about in the entire Awadh region will be expedited,” added the Mahant. By exploring the possibility of CM’s candidature from Ayodhya, the BJP leadership wants to influence around 82 assembly seats falling in Awadh region comprising 22 districts. “Chief minister’s OSD was in Ayodhya for two days. He met party officials and booth level workers to sought their opinion about the CM’s candidature from Ayodhya in assembly polls,” said a senior BJP office bearer of Ayodhya. “The CM’s emissary also handed over a bag carrying a cell phone, a stole and a booklet having details of the state government’s achievements in the last five years,” he added. The BJP leadership has also sought a list of prominent saints and people of Ayodhya ward-wise to seek their opinion on the issue. In Ayodhya, the most favoured assembly seat for the CM would be Ayodhya (Sadar) constituency. At present, BJP MLA Ved Prakash Gupta represents this assembly segment in the assembly. After becoming CM in March 2017, Yogi has been to Ayodhya more than 32 times. On all his visits, the CM visited Ram Janmabhoomi and Hanuman Garhi temple. After the Election Commission of India issued notification to set the poll process rolling on Saturday, candidates have started making an all-out effort to get ticket from their favoured assembly constituencies.
09-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 6,483 new Covid cases, 1 death||PUNE As of Sunday, Pune district reported 6,483 new Covid-19 cases and 1 death due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.19 million, of which 1.15 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 20,205 with 18,857 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 70,806 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 886 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 373,704 and the death toll stands at 7,048 as one more death was reported. Pune city reported 4,065 new cases which takes the progressive count to 542,615 and the death toll stood at 9,279, as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 1,532 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 277,060. The death toll stood at 3,528 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 70,806 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard. Of the total of 15.67 million doses administered in the district, 9.04 million are first doses and 6.63 million are second doses. A total of 248 sites saw vaccinations, of which 153 are government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-6-483-new-covid-cases-1-death-101641749963544.html
09-01-2022||Pune||Punekars flock to tourist spots before new restrictions kick in||PUNE Crowds of visitors were seen at tourist spots around Pune district over the weekend, with Mahabaleshwar, Lonavala and Bhor taluka emerging as must-visit destinations. From Monday, restrictions across the state will come into force due to the rising number of Covid cases and hence, people seemed out for the weekend to enjoy long drives and treks while they still could. There were queues of vehicles at the Khed Shivapur toll naka on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway and also at the Urse toll naka on the Pune-Mumbai expressway on Sunday. “Our entire family had gone to Mahabaleshwar. It was a preplanned trip and before the new restrictions would start we wanted to have a family get together. We never know how many more restrictions will be imposed and all tourist spots could be closed,” said Priyanka Deshpande, a Pune resident out for the weekend. Rajesh Navale, a hotel owner in Lonavala said, “Suddenly we saw a heavy rush of people coming in from Pune and Mumbai since yesterday. People are crowding the tourists spots all around Lonavala.” As per the new restrictions imposed by the state government, starting from January 10, only four persons are allowed to travel in a car. Both Covid vaccine doses and a Covid negative report is necessary to travel. Speaking anonymously, a tourist manager from Pune said, “We have sent all our five cars on duty, as there was high demand from public to visit to Sinhagad fort, Lonavala and also to pilgrimage places across the state, like Pandharpur. People took this advantage of the last day before restrictions.” Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “While going out for a picnic or to any tourist place, it is necessary for people to strictly follow Covid norms like wearing a face mask and maintaining social distance for their own safety. Now as per the new state guidelines for travelling full vaccination or Covid negative report is necessary. We need to stop the spread of virus and also prevent infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punekars-flock-to-tourist-spots-before-new-restrictions-kick-in-101641749724683.html
09-01-2022||Pune||50% of Covid cases in Pune city still not Omicron: experts||PUNE Although the number of Covid-19 cases are rising in the city, experts have estimated that while the number of Omicron cases are rising at least 50% of samples that have tested positive for Covid-19, are not of the Omicron variant. Most hospitals have reported staff a positive despite vaccinations. Experts at both National Chemical Laboratories (NCL) and BJ Medical have said that the strain reported in the city and state are the same as those in Africa and the UK. Doctors have also said that Omicron is not affecting deep lung tissues and so symptoms are reported to be mild.As more data emerges from hospitals, more breakthrough infections, that is infections among the vaccinated, are being reported. As per NCL data, 50% of the cases are Omicron, but the other 50% are still of the Delta variant, or its sub-lineages based on samples sequenced since mid-December up until the first week of January. However, given the rise in the number of cases, in the coming days the total number of cases due to Omicron could be around 75% of the total infections and in the next two-three weeks Omicron will replace Delta and its sub-lineages as the dominant variant.Dr Ashish Lele, director of CSIR – National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), said, “We are still reporting close to 50% of swab samples to be of Omicron, while the rest are Delta and sub-lineages of Delta. Up until December, we were reporting fluctuating samples of Omicron, about once in three days in the sewage samples of the city, which has now gone up drastically since January. Now however, it is still not dominant. In the coming days Omicron is sure to become the dominant strain. Based on the published work from Europe and Africa, where the strains were first reported there is no significant change in the strain reported in these countries and the one circulating in Pune or in the state as well.” Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, head of the department of Microbiology, BJ Medical College said, “It would be too early to say for sure now, but it appears that the number of hospitalisations as not affected by vaccinations, however, we are yet to see Omicron reach its peak and the unvaccinated population will surely be at more risk than the vaccinated population. Based on the current observations one can say that Omicron does not affect the lung tissues and only impacts the upper respiratory tract. There is no loss of smell or taste in the case of Omicron. We will soon study the deaths reported in the hospitals since January and see if Omicron has led to any deaths.” City hospitals are also seeing their own staff testing positive for Covid-19. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, during an online meeting arranged by the Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response, suggested that the Isolation centres like the ones at Garware College and at Hingane Stree Shikshan Sanstha need to be reopened in the near future. He stated that 32 of the staff members of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital have tested positive over the last few days and also that vaccinations are not protecting against Omicron as per data from patients admitted to the hospital. Of 78 admissions, 67 patients were fully vaccinated.As per the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) data, between January 1 and January 9, 355 admissions were reported in seven hospitals out of which 288 have been discharged and there were no deaths reported for this period. Of these, 99 were positive after the first dose, 259 after both doses, 72 were unvaccinated and there were two cases of re-infection. Also, 261 did not report any comorbidity and 102 were comorbid. Dr Purvez Grant of Ruby Hall Clinic suggested that Novovax, the latest vaccine approved in India, be given to all those who have received two doses of Covishield. He stated that the cases of patients admitted are so mild that no one requires ventilators in Ruby Hall hospitals in Hinjewadi and Pune. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar mentioned that in the present wave there is very little hospitalisation as only 2% of patients are in ICU or on oxygen. He stated that five Isolation centres will come up in Pune city (one in each zone) in the near future and also seven hotels will start Isolation facilities. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) at Pune Zilla Parishad stated that 350 hospitals in rural areas are fully prepared to deal with the emerging situation. Currently the bed occupancy is less than 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/50-of-covid-cases-in-pune-city-still-not-omicron-experts-101641749603934.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: AAP to form teams for door-to-door campaigning||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will constitute 20 teams in every assembly segment across the state and each team will have five members to carry out door-to-door campaign in Uttar Pradesh. After the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) ban on physical rallies till January 15 in the wake of surge in Covid cases, the AAP has decided to reach out to voters through virtual rallies and door-to-door campaign. “In all 403 assembly constituencies across the state, 20 teams each will be constituted. Each team will have five members. They will reach out to voters in door-to-door campaign,” Sanjay Singh, state incharge of AAP, told media persons on Sunday. Welcoming the ECI’s decision to ban rallies, Singh said: “The door-to-door campaigning suits AAP as big rallies require a lot of funds.” On the occasion, Singh also asked the ECI to remove the state government officials who had been posted in their respective departments for the last five years. AAP has already announced list of 210 candidates for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls to be held in seven phases in February-March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-polls-aap-to-form-teams-for-door-to-door-campaigning-101641749543489.html
09-01-2022||Pune||Mephedrone seizure doubled in 2021 as compared to 2020 in Pune||PUNE The Pune city police have doubled the seizure of mephedrone (MD) in 2021 compared to the seizure in 2020. From eight busts in 2020 to seize mephedrone worth ₹990,800, the Anti-narcotic Cell (ANC) made 16 busts and seized mephedrone worth ₹7,158,660 in 2021, according to police data.In December 2021, two men identified as Vijay Vinod Dedwalkar, 33, and Salim Mubarak Shaikh, 37, were found in possession of 114.45 grams of mephedrone estimated to be worth ₹18,17,000. They were found carrying the drug, along with other narcotics, in a two-wheeler near the Pune railway station by unit 2 of ANC.In November 2021, another man identified as Mohammadafzal Abdulsattar Nagori, 40, was found in possession of 55.97 grams of mephedrone estimated to be worth ₹8,40,000 by unit 1 of ANC.Along with mephedrone, the police also managed to register three cases for possession of LSD. However, as per information provided by officials on the condition of anonymity, there is a wider user base of LSD than the one that has come to light. While 2020 witnessed no LSD cases, there were three cases and six people arrested for possessing LSD worth ₹2,41,000 in 2021.“Our work is based on information flow. Earlier we had one unit and now we have two units for anti-narcotics. Now we have one unit for the west region and one for the east. The commissioner of police, Amitabh Gupta, had told us to keep a track of college students in the city as we did. The number of informants has increased and the officials who proactively chase leads has also increased,” said Lakshman Borate, assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, Pune police.However, the number of cases related to ganja decreased in 2021 whereas lockdown year recorded more ganja related cases. With 90 cases in 2020, 114 people were arrested and ganja worth ₹86,60,853 was seized whereas in 2021, 73 cases were registered and 101 people were arrested for a seizure worth ₹1,57,40,000. However, the overall number of cases by the anti-narcotics cell increased in 2021.“In 2020 did not see many arrests due to lockdown. But with even a slight relaxation in restrictions, the number of cases rose,” said ACP Borate.Aside from these drugs, the police also seized brown sugar, poppy straw, charas, and cocaine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mephedrone-seizure-doubled-in-2021-as-compared-to-2020-in-pune-101641749423464.html
09-01-2022||Pune||SPPU staff to work on rotation basis||After the state government issued fresh Covid restrictions on Saturday, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) administrative department has issued a circular regarding staff attendance on a rotation basis.As the university exams are going to be held soon, the examination department and all other departments are instructed to call staff as per the requirements.“We are going to call all our teaching and non-teaching staff on a rotation basis. As per the state guidelines, all the Covid-19 protocols are been followed strictly,” said SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar.“Whereas for the examination department the right to call staff for work as per requirement is completely dependent on the university examination council, as the semester examination preparations are going on there is a workload on these staff,” he added.Apart from that security department, health centre, home management and static departments come under the emergency services, accordingly, their staff will also be called for work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-staff-to-work-on-rotation-basis-101641749183582.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||UP: Ban on school fee hike a big relief for parents||The Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to ban any increase in school fees across all the boards for the upcoming academic session (2022-23) because of the prevailing pandemic situation has come as a big relief for parents. More so because many parents are facing late payments and also salary cuts. “My son studies in class 12. The fee is already high and quite difficult for me to arrange. The government’s decision has come as big relief for me in these tough times,” said one Aarti Rastogi.As per the government’s directives issued on Sunday, the schools will continue to charge fees as per the 2019-20 session. However, many parents have also urged the government to ensure that schools don’t flout the orders by charging extra money in the name of additional charges for online examinations, computer and maintenance fees.Deepak Agarwal, whose daughter studies in a girls’ institution, said, “I am into the business of making hoardings. My business took a hit soon after Diwali as there are no new orders.” “It is a good initiative. However, there should also be other concessions as many parents are facing unemployment, pay cuts and slump in business,” said Faraz Ahmad whose son studies at Kendriya Vidyalaya, RDSO.“I’ve three daughters attending school. Even a little increase in their fees would have caused a huge extra burden. I am relieved to hear that there’ll be no hike in fees this year,” said Ahrarul Haque whose children study in ICSE Board schools. “I am elated. It is a step towards reducing the stress of parents suffering financially because of the pandemic,” said Sadhana Rastogi whose daughter is a class 12 student in a school in Gomti Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ban-on-school-fee-hike-a-big-relief-for-parents-101641749123377.html
09-01-2022||Pune||Sandalwood trees stolen from defence land in Pune||PUNE Six sandalwood trees were reported stolen from the restricted land belonging to a defence establishment.The trees are believed to have been stolen in the early morning hours of January 3 from an area behind an engineering workshop.The stolen trees are estimated to be worth around ₹48,000, according to the police.A case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Yerawada police station. Assistant police inspector Pramod Khatke of Yerawada police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sandalwood-trees-stolen-from-defence-land-in-pune-101641749003482.html
09-01-2022||Pune||Family in Pune duped of Rs7 lakh by two women posing as insurance agents||PUNE Two unidentified women were booked for duping a 55-year-old woman and her family members of Rs7 lakh by posing as insurance agents.The woman claimed to be working at a subsidiary of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) called FLNL and told the complainant woman as well as three others from her family that they can offer better investment options.“The two women got in touch with a phone call and came to their house. They knew about missed payments on the LIC policy of the family. They offered to invest the money and give monthly returns on it if the family breaks their LIC policies and invests that money with them. So, the family members broke four policies and invested the money with the two women,” said police sub-inspector SB Nikalje of Dattawadi police station who is investigating the case.The family members have been receiving ₹2,000-3,000 per month from the company the two women claimed to be employees of. However, they do not get in touch through any other mode and refuse to return the principal amount.The transactions happened between February 2021 and July 2021, according to the complainant. The family wrote to LIC official channels and learned that the company does not have a subsidiary called FLNL and that the two women do not work for them, according to the police.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Dattawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/family-in-pune-duped-of-rs7-lakh-by-two-women-posing-as-insurance-agents-101641748943592.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Mayawati urges ECI to ensure free, fair polls||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has said the Election Commission of India (ECI) should ensure strict implementation of the model code of conduct after the announcement of poll schedule for five states, including Uttar Pradesh, on Saturday.Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, Mayawati said the ECI should ensure that voters belonging to the Dalit community and weaker sections residing in sensitive areas are not deprived from exercising their franchise. “To ensure that police and administrative officers on poll duties act according to law without any discrimination, the poll panel should generate its fear in the government machinery as then only fair election will be possible,” she said. “In last few elections despite surge in Covid, the model code of conduct has been violated openly through rallies and roadshows by various political parties. It has left the people bewildered. In the last few years, the election is being given religious colour. Narrow and selfish politics is being promoted and all types of irregularities have been committed,” she alleged. “The ECI should take measures to create a belief among the people that poll panel will hold free, impartial and peaceful polling,” she said.“BSP is a disciplined party. Directions have been issued to party leaders, office bearers and workers to follow poll code during the election campaign. In our country, election is considered a festival of democracy. The people have right to exercise their franchise to elect a government and one cannot be prevented from casting vote,” she added. Mayawati further said, “I wish to appeal to the people of UP if they want good law and order, all-round development of the state, welfare of the masses, Dalits, backwards, minorities, youths, women traders, farmers, labourers as well as the weaker among the ‘sarva samaj’, they should not be carried away by the poll promises made by rival political parties in their election manifestos that they will release before poll to allure voters. They should not be driven by sentiments but they should support the BSP that has worked for the welfare of the people and there is no difference in the words and deeds of the BSP.”“The BSP is the only political party that works for the welfare of the people without any discrimination. To maintain law and order as well as to check crime, the BSP government had taken action against the wrongdoers even if they were associated with the party. The BSP government had established the rule of law in the state whereas the governments of other parties protect the criminals associated with them,” she claimed.“There is a jungle raj in UP and the people are a harassed lot. A section of the upper caste that had supported the BJP in previous election is miserable. The BJP government will be voted out of power in upcoming polls in case if they do not misuse the government machinery and do not create snag in voting machines. The ECI should take strict measures to check the irregularities,” she said. Hitting out at the Samajwadi Party (SP), the BSP chief said, “There is a political party in UP that has welcomed the expelled leaders of other parties to its fold and sewed up alliances with several small parties. Its leader has claimed to win 400 out of the total 403 seats. His dreams will be shattered on March 10. BJP and other parties will face the same fate. The BSP is the only party that can give a popular government on the ‘sarvajan hitay- sarvajna sukhay mantra’ in UP.” “The people have made up their mind to bring BSP to power despite the report of the survey agencies showing BSP out of the race. In 2007, they had predicted BSP’s defeat. Again, the BSP will prove all surveys wrong to form a government with majority. The BSP will perform well in Uttarakhand, it will form government in Punjab in alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal. The BSP will fulfil of the dreams of Dr BR Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram,” she claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-urges-eci-to-ensure-free-fair-polls-101641748703277.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Stakes high in Braj region with focus on Mathura||The Braj region with 40 assembly seats has emerged as one of the focal points of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls this time as it is home to Mathura’s Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi.There is speculation that Mathura is in the race to become a VVIP assembly seat as a party MLC has demanded that chief minister Yogi Adityanath be fielded as the BJP candidate there.The region has produced a mixed bag of results in the past parliamentary and assembly elections. The Braj region comprises Agra and Aligarh divisions, each having four districts.Agra, Mathura, Firozabad and Mainpuri are the four districts in Agra division with a total of 23 assembly seats. The districts of Aligarh, Etah, Kasganj and Hathras comprise Aligarh division having 17 assembly seats. DOMINANCE OF BJPIn the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP won the Agra, Fatehpur Sikri (Agra Rural), Firozabad and Mathura seats. The party showed its dominance in Aligarh division, too, and won and all three parliamentary seats there —Aligarh, Etah and Hathras. While the BJP bagged all the seven other seats in the Braj region, the Mainpuri parliamentary seat remained loyal to Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav.This time, the BJP is under pressure to repeat the performance of the 2017 assembly elections when it made a clean sweep, winning all nine seats in Agra district, all four seats in Etah district, all seven seats in Aligarh district and all three seats in Kasganj district. The BJP also won four seats each in Firozabad and Mathura districts and two seats in Hathras district but lost one seat each in Mathura and Hathras to the BSP. The SP won the Firozabad seat. In Mainpuri, the SP won three seats and the BJP one.The BJP won 34 of the 40 seats in the Braj region in the 2017 assembly polls. The Samajwadi Party bagged four assembly seats and the BSP two. The Congress and the RLD drew a blank.In the 2012 assembly elections, the SP was the clear winner in the region with 19 assembly seats, the BSP bagged 11 seats and the BJP three seats. The RLD won six seats, including three each in Mathura and Aligarh as Jats remained loyal to the party. The Congress won one seat in Mathura. STALWARTS OF BRAJ REGIONFormer Prime Minister the late Chaudhary Charan Singh had been a student of Agra College and his legacy continued to have its say in the Jat dominated constituencies in Mathura and Aligarh. His grandson Jayant Chaudhary won the Mathura Lok Sabha seat in 2009 and the Mant (Mathura) assembly seat in 2012. Chaudhary Charan Singh’s wife Gayatri Devi and daughter Dr Gyanwati had contested from Mathura and Aligarh with mixed results in parliamentary and assembly polls. Bateshwar, also known as “mini Kashi” in Agra district, is the ancestral village of former Prime Minister the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav taught at a school in Mainpuri before entering active politics.Former chief minister Kalyan Singh, a key figure in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, is fondly remembered as Babuji in Aligarh, Etah and Kasganj, the three districts where the BJP won all 14 assembly seats in 2017.Actor-turned-politician Hema Malini won the Mathura Lok Sabha seat in 2014 and 2019, riding on the Modi wave. She had defeated RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary in 2014. ISSUES AND SCENARIOMathura, along with Ayodhya and Kashi, is among the three most prominent religious cities in UP. But it is for first time that Mathura has emerged as an election issue due to it being the location of the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi. Mathura enjoys the reputation of being the most visited city, probably second only to Gorakhpur, by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He has been in Mathura nearly 30 times in his five-year term. The impact of this was seen with Mathura being given the status of “teerth” (pilgrimage). “For the BJP, Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura is not an election issue, but an issue of respecting our cultural heritage which any nation should be proud of. It was SP president Akhilesh Yadav who equated Sardar Patel and Muhammad Ali Jinnah and made it an issue. The BJP does not resort to such gimmicks and is all set to repeat the performance of the 2017 state assembly elections on the issues of development, law and order situation, pro farmer and pro poor initiatives,” said Surendra Gupta, the BJP’s Braj kshetra (region) vice-president.On the other hand, Dr Rahat Abrar, the former director of Urdu Academy at Aligarh Muslim University in Aligarh, says, “However hard one tries to make Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi or Jinnah an election issue, the voters seem to be prudent enough and have attained “political maturity” to think about the real issues. The BJP does face resentment amongst youth, farmers and poor for inflation, unemployment and the alleged anti-farmer policies. The SP-RLD combine seems to be in a position to reap the harvest of anti-incumbency in this belt of the Braj region supported by strong inclination amongst Jats and Muslims towards the alliance.”The farmers’ agitation, which was much stronger in other areas of western Uttar Pradesh, did not find as vocal a resonance in the Braj region but RLD state spokesperson Kaptan Singh Chahar is confident about revival of the party under Jayant Chaudhary’s leadership in alliance with the SP. Having switched recently from the RLD to the Congress, Anil Chaudhary, chairman of the Kisan Congress in Western UP, argues that the Congress is not a spent force in the Braj region.“The Congress had an MLA from Mathura till the 2012 assembly polls. It won the Mathura and Aligarh Lok Sabha seats in 2004. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is working day and night for the revival of the Congress in the Braj region,” said Anil Chaudhary, a prominent Jat leader. “It was the Congress which brought the new land acquisition bill paving the way for better prices to farmer for their land acquired. It was in 2013 when the Congress brought a proposal for reservation to Jats in the central government jobs as backward (although the move got struck in court),” Anil Chaudhary claimed.
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Allahabad University orders ‘work from home’ for teachers, staff for four days from January 10||Taking cognizance of the fast-rising cases of Covid-19 in Prayagraj, Allahabad University (AU) administration has decided to implement work from home for all teaching and non-teaching staff of the central varsity from January 10 to January 13, informed AU officials on Sunday.“A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of deans held in virtual mode at 12:30 pm on Sunday that was chaired by the vice-chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava in which a discussion took place on the Covid surge. The meeting also resolved that all teaching of UG and PG shall continue in online mode, until further notice, and while the teaching and non-teaching staff would be working from home, leaving the station (Prayagraj) during this period is not permitted,” informed AU PRO Prof Jaya Kapoor.She said that, however, for any urgent nature of work, the offices of finance and registrar shall open on specific days as all e-mails to and from the union ministry of education have to be responded to with utmost sincerity. Work of the engineering department shall continue as has been while the essential services of housekeeping shall also work. For all students the campus and library would be closed,” the PRO explained.The order follows Prayagraj, akin to the state, witnessing a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases with a maximum single-day count of recent resurgence—163— being recorded on Saturday. As of Saturday (January 8, 2022) evening, the district had 580 active Covid-19 cases.The latest decision of the central varsity administration comes close on the heels of AU deciding that only internal official working will be carried out in the offices of the university and no public visitor/outsider will be allowed on the campus till further orders with effect from January 3, 2022. The varsity had then asked all students to refrain from coming to the university with immediate effect and to attend their classes in online mode. According to the notification at the time, issued by AU registrar, Prof NK Shukla and implemented on the campus with immediate effect, all faculty members and guest lecturers of departments, institutes and centres of AU had been asked to take necessary steps to continue their classes in online mode from their respective departments or centres and all deans of faculty, heads of department, directors of institute and coordinators of centres had been instructed to ensure proper attendance of faculty members in their respective departments, institutes and centres. The research scholars in the earlier order had also been allowed to carry out their emergent necessary research work only with due permission of their guide or supervisor concerned following all safety measures required against the spread of Covid-19. AU has also asked all the employees, including faculty members and non-teaching staff and students, to get vaccinated in case they have not already done so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-university-orders-work-from-home-for-teachers-staff-for-four-days-from-january-10-101641747623391.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid-19: Allahabad High Court to function virtually from today||Amidst the rising cases of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh, the Allahabad High Court will function in a virtual mode both at Prayagraj and Lucknow from January 10, 2022. No advocate will be allowed to enter the premises of the high court from Monday, stated a notification issued by registrar general, Ashish Garg on Sunday. The staff of the high court will remain present in minimum number from January 10.From Monday, only the fresh matter will be listed for hearing except criminal appeal in which convict is in custody, applications for suspension of sentence and bail will be listed regularly.Further, as per the notification, in old cases in which dates were fixed will be adjourned to a specific date for hearing.Earlier, on January 3 high court administration decided to function in virtual mode but on the next day shifted to hybrid mode allowing both virtual and physical mode of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-allahabad-high-court-to-function-virtually-from-today-101641747445161.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||For third day in a row, state reports more than 40k cases||Mumbai After the sharp reaction from gymnasium operators in the state, the state government revised its notification issued on Saturday to allow the gymnasiums and beauty salons to operate at 50% of their capacity.However, the state government warned with additional curbs if the crowding at the liquor shops and places of worship continued. The state reported 44,388 new infections, of which 19,474 were from Mumbai. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, comprising nine big cities including Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali, Navi Mumbai accounted for 33,299 of the daily caseload. Pune district clogged 6,483 new cases, including 886 in Pune and 4,065 in Pimpri-Chinchwad, followed by 926 in Nashik district. Maharashtra also reported 207 Omicron infections on Sunday, taking the tally to 1216. Of the new cases, 40 were from Mumbai, 57 from Sangli, 22 from Pune city, 15 from Pimpri-Chinchwad, 21 from Nagpur district, 21 from Thane city. 454 Omicron infected patients have been discharged. In a revised order, the state government clarified that beauty salons and gymnasiums should ensure that all staff members are vaccinated and people visiting them are also fully vaccinated. The use of masks at the gymnasium has also been made compulsory. The activities which need the removal of the masks at the beauty salons have been prohibited. On Saturday, in the wake of the daily caseload hovering around 40,000 for the last few days, the state had imposed certain curbs by issuing a notification. Stepping out between 11 pm and 5 pm has been prohibited, while crowding at public places between 5 am and 11 pm has also been banned. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the government will gradually bring curbs on places of worship and liquor shops to avoid crowding. “There will be curbs imposed at liquor shops or the places of worship if the crowding at these places increases. We have not imposed any curbs on temples and other religious places, but we expect the crowding to be restricted to 40 to 50 people. If these norms are not adhered to, there could be more curbs,” he said. Tope said that though Covid cases are on the rise, the rate of hospitalisation is low and the consumption of oxygen was also under control. “Curbing crowding at public places is the key to containing the spread of the virus. The curbs imposed on Saturday are with the intention to arrest the rise in the number of cases,” he said. The state tally now stands at 69,20,044, while the death toll has touched 1,41,639 after the addition of 12 fresh deaths on Sunday. Dr Avinash Supe, head of the state-appointed death audit committee and former dean of KEM Hospital said that in the later stage, the smaller cities and rural parts of the state may witness a surge. “Currently, Mumbai and other big cities are contributing to most of the daily caseload on the similar trend witnessed during the first and second wave. By January 26, the Mumbai cases will see a downward trend and by February 15, there will be a significant reduction. Other parts of the state including smaller cities and rural parts will see a rise in the next two to four weeks. As such, the peak and the downward trend in Maharashtra will take little longer to come,” he said. Dr Supe further said that though the death rate is low, it may rise in the next two weeks. “It would not be as high as reported during the second wave, but the numbers will double in next few days. Most of the deaths are among the non-vaccinated, comorbid and elderly patients,” he said. 
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Assembly polls: 70 seats up for grabs in western Uttar Pradesh||Twenty districts of western Uttar Pradesh will vote in the first and second phases of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls on February 10 and 14 in this agrarian belt where the year-long farmers’ movement and other issues, including the demand for legal guarantee on MSP (minimum support price) of crops, price rise and law and order, are likely to have an impact.Even as political parties and their leaders have prepared their strategies to woo voters, the Election Commission’s ban on road shows, rallies and other processions till January 15 due to rising Covid-19 cases means the parties will have to largely bank on social media and other alternative ways to campaign.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) media incharge and farmer leader Dharmendra Malik says the entire election will be between “pro-BJP and anti BJP” people. It won’t be easy for the BJP to repeat its resounding victory of the 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections this time, he argues.“Many pro-BJP voters seem to have turned against it in the region especially in the rural areas. The year-long farmers’ movement had played a significant role to bring about this shift of opinion,” claims Malik.At the same time, he says one shouldn’t take the BJP lightly because of its resources and well-established force of trained workers and leaders.Political analyst Jamshed Zaidi, too, believes the situation is not as conductive for the ruling BJP as it was in the 2017 elections when the party won 51 out of 70 assembly seats in the region ( Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions).Zaidi says the farmers’ movement, price rise, unemployment and multiple problems of the common man may have a bearing on the prospects of the ruling party.The farmers’ movement has given a new lease of life to the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in its political home turf of western UP and its alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) would pose a tough challenge to the BJP. The death of Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Ajit Singh due to Covid-19 related complications in May will also bring sympathy votes for his son Jayant Chaudhary who now heads the party.Veteran farmer leader Harpal Singh Bilari says the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 were a turning point in the politics of western UP and the BJP won all 14 seats in the region in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. The party also came to power in the state in 2017 elections by winning 51 out of the region’s 70 seats. Bilari claims the farmers’ movement will prove to be another turning point for the BJP and angry farmers will vote it out of power.Bilari identifies sugarcane dues, inflation, cases against farmers, the demand for legal guarantee on MSP (minimum support price) of crops, problem of stray cattle as some of the major issues in the region. These issues could take voters away from the BJP in the election, he says.Bilari also claims the people no longer believe the BJP’s assurances and claims.In the 2012 assembly elections, the BJP won only 11 of the 70 seats in the region. The Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 25 seats, the Bahujan Samaj Party 23, the Congress, the RLD three and others one that year.In 2017, the BJP won 51 of the region’s 70 assembly seats. The SP won 15, the Congress two, the BSP and the RLD one each.The political analyst says the BJP played its Hindutva card well in the 2014 (Lok Sabha), 2017 (assembly) and 2019 ( Lok Sabha) elections. It made a gain of 40 assembly seats in 2017 in comparison to the 2012 polls. The BSP suffered a loss of 22 seats and the SP of 10 seats.Another farmer leader Surendra Singh says the farmers and their family members voted in favour of the BJP in 2017 elections, believing the party will bring “achche din” (better days) but all this proved a “jumla” (rhetoric).Addressing a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar a day after Rakesh Tikait burst into tears at the Ghazipur border in January 2021, his brother BKU chief Naresh Tikait regretted supporting the BJP in elections and declared that the mistake would be rectified.“BJP ko support karna hamaari bhool thi (It was our mistake to support the BJP),” Naresh Tikait had said.At the next Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on September 5, 2021, his brother and BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait appeared to attack the BJP’s Hindutva card by raising slogans of Har Har Mahadev and Allah Hu Akbar from the stage.His father the late Mahendra Singh Tikait, one of the most prominent farmer leaders of the region, used to raise slogans at his rallies and meetings to strengthen communal harmony in the region.Zaidi says the farmers’ movement revived the broken communal harmony by reducing differences between the dominat Jats and Muslims in the region and this will be winning equation for the RLD.He explains that Jats and Muslims could influence the outcome in more than 25 to 30 seats in the region, where they constitute 30 to 50% of the voters. The outcome will also depend on the mood of other castes, including OBCs, Dalits, Brahmins, Thakurs and Sainis, he says. Dharmendra Malik says the Dalits also hold the key in the region but they seem confused in this election because of the “indifferent attitude of BSP chief Mayawati”.Malik claims the BJP is working hard to win over the Dalits to offset the loss of Jats and other annoyed voters in the region.“It would be interesting to see whether people will still support Hindutva or give priorities to employment, inflation, law and other issues which have been adversely affecting their daily lives,” says Malik.On the other hand, former UP BJP chief Laxmikant Bajpai believes the farmers’ movement is an issue of the past and it has no impact now.“People of the region will support us as they did in previous elections,” says Bajpai.The BJP’s Meerut MP Rajendra Agarwal says the party will contest election on the basis of the work it has done for the people.“Look around Meerut, (you will see) the network of roads developed by the double engine government,” he says.Agarwal also mentions inauguration of the IT park, the state’s first sports university, Meerut-Delhi Expressway, the Ganga Expressway connecting Meerut to Prayagraj and many other highways being built through the region to connect Delhi, Dehradun and other destinations.He also mentions the under-construction rapid rail project between Delhi and Meerut.During their visits to the region, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders also raised the issues of “palayan” (exodus) and restart of Kanwar Yatra to blend the issue of Hindutva with development. They also claimed that daughters and sisters are safe under the BJP rule because government has put the mafias and criminals behind bars. The party opponents, however, question the BJP’s claim about women safety and mention the Hathras and Unnao cases. They further allege that the BJP will misuse government machinery and money power to influence voters in the election, adding that the election commission needs to put an effective check on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/assembly-polls-70-seats-up-for-grabs-in-western-uttar-pradesh-101641746608903.html
09-01-2022||Patna||Narkatiaganj MLA will not resign, says Sanjay Jaiswal||BETTIAH: BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal said on Sunday that party leader and Narkatiaganj MLA Rashmi Verma has no plan to resign from the assembly, calling her decision as an emotional outburst. Addressing a news conference at his residence here, Jaiswal, a three-time MP from West Champaran, said the BJP legislator’s move was guided by emotions after some of her relatives made uncharitable remarks against her. “She is locked in a property dispute with some relatives. After receiving some uncharitable comments from them, she offered to resign. She is returning to her constituency and now has no intention to give up the membership of the state assembly,” Jaiswal said, describing the move as non-political. Earlier in the day, Rashmi Verma created ripples in political circles after her photograph showing her with a resignation letter started doing the rounds in the social media. “I am putting in my papers from the membership of the state assembly on my own accord owing to some personal reasons,” reads the letter addressed to the speaker of the state assembly. The BJP state president said she had not sent the letter to the speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/narkatiaganj-mla-will-not-resign-says-sanjay-jaiswal-101641746605900.html
09-01-2022||Patna||27 new cases of Omicron detected in Bihar||PATNA: Twenty seven new cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 were detected in Bihar after the first genomic sequencing was conducted at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna, its director Dr NR Biswas said. With this, the total tally of Omicron cases in the state has jumped to 28 on the Covid-19 portal of the ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW).“Omicron variant has been detected in 85% of the 32 samples we tested in the first lot of genomic sequencing test at our institute. Four samples (12%) are of the Delta variant, and one is of an insignificant variant, which is unknown,” said Dr Biswas.As many as 21 of the 27 Omicron positive samples are from Patna, two from Madhubani, and one each from Purnia, Vaishali, Gaya, and East Champaran districts, said Dr Biswas.All the samples were either from the IGIMS or those who came to the institute for treatment, he added.The IGIMS had initiated the process to test the 32 samples on genomic sequencer on January 1 and the results were declared on Sunday.“We began by organising the samples and arranging them for genomic sequencing test on January 1. A result above 89% is considered excellent. Most of the samples have given excellent results, which is indicative of good reading and analysis. Only two samples have shown less than 85% result, while one is inconclusive,” said Dr Namrata Kumari, professor and head of microbiology, IGIMS.The state on Saturday had declared its first Omicron positive result after genomic sequencing when a resident of Gujrati Gali in Chapra tested positive for Covid-19. The person, who has since recovered, had an international travel history, having returned from London on December 15, last year. He tested positive at Delhi airport and spent 14 days under institutional quarantine in New Delhi. He was discharged after testing negative on December 29.Prior to that, a 26-year-old resident of Patna’s Kidwaipuri locality was found Omicron positive after an indicative test was done at a private laboratory. The result, however, did not reflect on the health ministry’s portal on Covid-19, as the same was done through ‘S’ gene target failure (SGTF) kit, which is an indicative test of Omicron.Patna accounted for 2,050 new Covid-19 cases, which was around 41% of the total 5,022 cases reported on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 16,897 in the state. The state also reported one Covid-19 death, taking the overall toll to 12,101 on Sunday. Patna’s test positivity rate had jumped from 12.26% on January 5 to over 21.94% on Saturday, Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, had said .Meanwhile, 14 of the 17 scientists out of a total 25 staff and family members at the ICMR’s Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna’s Agamkuan locality, had tested Covid-19 positive over the last few days. The state will also begin administering precautionary dose of the vaccine against Covid to all health care and frontline workers and those 60-years and above with comorbidity from Monday. Those who have completed nine months from their second dose will be eligible for the precautionary shot of the same vaccine they had taken earlier, said state health officials.
09-01-2022||Patna||JD(U) to contest UP with BJP, but seats yet to be decided: Kushwaha||PATNA: JD(U) Parliamentary Board chairman Upendra Kushwaha said his party would fight elections in UP with the BJP, ending speculations about realignment in Bihar politics following RJD state chief Jagtanand Singh’s offer of support to chief minister Nitish Kumar on the special state status and caste census issues should the BJP decide not to come on board. “We will fight (UP polls) as part of the NDA. It was decided during an earlier meeting,” Kushwaha said on Sunday, adding that the number seats the JD(U) would contest has not been decided yet. The JD-U wants to contest enough seats to keep its hopes of achieving the national party status alive. Kushwaha said union minister RCP Singh had been authorised to coordinate with the BJP on seat sharing. “With not much time left, this may be decided soon. Our strategy in UP is to contest enough seats so that we could have a chance of achieving national party status. But how many seats we will get is something that will be decided after talks and that must be on. But the fact is that we will contest with BJP,” he said. Analyst Prof Nawal Kishore Choudhary said Nitish Kumar is a pragmatic politician aware of his strengths and weaknesses as well as that of his allies to play his cards deftly. “He knows a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. He will never go for an offer (RJD’s) that remains in the domain of uncertainty. Choudhary Charan Singh is an example who was made the PM, but could not even seek trust vote due to withdrawal of support before that. He (Nitish) is not the one who would be happy being a titular head, but at the same time wants to keep sending messages to the BJP that it has more options. That may help his party get some seats in UP as well,” Choudhary said. “BJP has been accommodating to Nitish, as it does not want to lose another ally. If JD(U) gets even some seats in UP, where the BJP fully dominates, to keep its flock together, that will be a step forward for the party.” Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies DM Diwakar said the ongoing political ‘noora-kushti’ (fixed fight) was apparently a balancing game due to future stakes, which would become important with some key decisions to be made, namely, JD(U)’s stake in UP elections, Bihar legislative council elections, Rajya Sabha elections and appointment on posts that have remained vacant for a long time. “Accommodation at one place means room at another. That is how politics runs. Everyone knows JD-U does not have big presence in UP, but as an ally it will like to have commitment for Bihar, where it has higher stakes. BJP-JD-U alliance suits both in equal measure due to an unavoidable House arithmetic and hardly leaves room for manoeuvres,” Diwakar said. 
09-01-2022||Kolkata||West Bengal reports all-time high of 24,287 Covid cases||West Bengal on Sunday reported an all-time high of 24,287 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the highest since the first wave of infections in 2020. The infections detected in the last 24 hours, were 5,485 more than yesterday's, taking the tally to 17,55,046, the health department said. Kolkata city accounted for more than a third of Bengal's Covid infections for the day with a tally of 8,712 cases, compared to 7,337 cases on Saturday. While neighbouring North 24 Parganas with several of Kolkata's sattelite towns including Salt Lake and its infotech and commercial hub accounting for 5,053 cases against the previous day's 3,286 cases. Maharashtra reports 44,388 new Covid cases, 12 deaths; Omicron tally at 1,216Other districts reporting large number of infections during the day included the industrial districts of Howrah (1,742) and Hooghly (1,276), near Kolkata. There were 18 Covid-19 related deaths registered here which pushed the toll to 19,901, it added. Since Saturday, 8,213 recoveries were reported in Bengal, though the discharge rate further slipped to 94.42 per cent. The number of active cases, however, increased by another 16,056 to 78,111. In the last 24 hours, 71,664 samples have been tested in Bengal taking the total number of such clinical examinations to 2,18,74,205, the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-reports-all-time-high-of-24-287-covid-cases-101641746008859.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||HC quashes rape complaint against man after he marries complainant||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court (HC) recently quashed an FIR alleging rape filed by a woman, 25, after the accused married the complainant. The court held that no purpose would be served by keeping the husband behind bars when the wife’s grievance had been addressed.A division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice Anil Kilor, while hearing the criminal application of Swapnil Patil, was informed by advocates Ganesh Gupta and Pratik Patil that their client had been booked under sections 376 (sexual assault) and 354 (assault or use of criminal force) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on January 1, 2020 and was currently out on bail. The advocates informed the bench that the complainant and the accused had got married thereafter on March 11, 2020 in Raigad district. Based on the fact that the couple was now married and the complainant had voluntarily sought withdrawal of her complaint against her now husband, the HC should quash the FIR against their client. According to the FIR registered with the Wadala T T police station, Patil had forced sex with the complainant in June 2019 and between June 2019 and January 2020, they indulged in sex on several occasions upon his assurance of marriage. The complainant said she was unwilling to give any oral or documentary evidence to substantiate her complaint. However, the court noted that an offence under section 376 of the IPC is of serious nature and is an offence against society and consequently, cannot be quashed by consent. Referring to a Supreme Court order however, the bench said, “The court has to endeavour to find out whether the FIR indeed discloses ingredients of such offence and that the court can accept the settlement and quash the FIR.”Coupled with the fact that the complainant was unwilling to cooperate and lead any evidence and that both were already married, the bench observed, “No fruitful purpose will be served by continuing with the prosecution. Apart from this, now the respondent number 2 (woman) and applicant (Patil) have got married and are residing together as husband and wife.” The court then quashed the FIR and disposed of the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-quashes-rape-complaint-against-man-after-he-marries-complainant-101641744983463.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai daily positivity rate down on 3rd consecutive day||Mumbai On the third consecutive day, the daily positivity rate of the city went down. from 29.90% on Thursday to 28.60% on Saturday and 28.53% on Sunday. However, the bed occupancy has gone up in the city in the last one week to 21% from around 15% earlier last week. On the other hand, experts have hinted at the flattening of Covid cases in the city. Further, going by the pace of daily caseload, the total Covid case tally is expected to cross the one million mark in the next the one week. The city has been reporting around 20,000 cases on a daily basis.On Sunday, the city reported 19,474 cases taking the tally to 9,12,522 followed by seven deaths taking the toll to 16,406 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 85% with 7,76,090 recoveries and the mortality rate is 1.79%. The active cases are 1,17,437 in the city.Further, Mumbai also reported 40 cases of the Omicron variant.Meanwhile, starting Monday, a vaccination drive for a third or precautionary dose will start in Mumbai for senior citizens above 60 years of age with comorbidities. For now, all the vaccination centres in the city will administer the third dose of vaccine dose on walk-in and online appointment basis.About 82% of the cases reported on Sunday were asymptomatic, and among the 18% that were symptomatic, 1,240 required hospitalisation and 118 patients required oxygen bed.Currently, 34,960 beds in the city, 7,432 are occupied and the bed occupancy rate is 21%. Further, xx new Omicron variant cases were reported in the city on Monday, according to state health department data. According to BMC, 68,249 tests were reported in the city of which 28.53% of samples were tested positive.Dharavi, one of the former hotspots of the city, also reported 123 cases taking the tally to 8,046. Last, the highest was 150 cases on January 7, 2021.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid task force said, “Though the daily positivity rate has gone down and there seems to be a flattening of cases, the hospitalisation will be closely watched considering there is a small spike. The deaths on the other hand have not shown much of a spike, but there is only a marginal increase. We need to follow proper Covid-appropriate behaviour and not take it lightly.”Meanwhile, as of Sunday, there are 0.604 million citizens under home quarantine who are either positive cases or close contacts or travellers who are quarantined, as per protocols. There are 17 containment zones in the city covering slums and chawls followed by 123 sealed buildings, The average growth rate considering the seven days cycle in the city is 1.68%, however, areas like Bandra West, Khar, Santacruz West, Andheri West, Vile Parle West, Juhu, Bandra East, Santacruz East and Vile Parle East are the areas where growth rate is above 2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-daily-positivity-rate-down-on-3rd-consecutive-day-101641744923511.html
09-01-2022||Other||Dairy owner, helper killed in Phagwara roof collapse||Jalandhar A dairy owner and his employee were killed and three others were injured after the roof of a diary collapsed due to incessant rain in the wee hours of Sunday at the Piparangi area in Phagwara. The deceased are Sudarshan Lal, 62, and his helper, Lal Singh, 35, of Gwalior. Rain has been lashing Punjab for the past 3-4 days. Phagwara City station house officer (SHO) Joginder Singh said five people, including the owner of the dairy, were sleeping in a room on the first floor of the dairy, when the roof collapsed upon them. The SHO added that the dairy also kept cattle, of which two died, while three cattle were rescued by commuters. Lal is survived by two sons and wife. Police said inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 (unnatural death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) at the Phagwara City police station. Following the incident, Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh; BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi and the wife of union minister Som Parkash, Anita Som Parkash, also visited the spot and Lal’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dairy-owner-helper-killed-in-phagwara-roof-collapse-101641743603616.html
09-01-2022||Other||2015 sacrilege, police firing cases stuck in legal tangle||Faridkot The failure to take 2015 Bargari sacrilege, and the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing incidents to a logical conclusion even after completing its full term of five years in government may hurt the Congress party in the Punjab assembly polls. Significantly, ensuring justice in these politically sensitive issues was one of the major planks that the Congress had based its winning poll campaign on, in 2017. Till recently, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu have been raising the issue of justice in sacrilege and related cases in their poll rallies. Setbacks on the legal front, however, have left the three special investigation teams (SITs) with no option than to wait and watch. The SIT probing 2015 sacrilege cases wanted to conduct custodial interrogation of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Ram Rahim by bring him to Punjab in connection with theft a bir of Guru Granth Sahib from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village. The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC), however, citing law and order problems, asked the SIT to question him at Sunaria jail in Rohtak and adjourned the matter to April 21. SIT head IG Surinder Pal Singh Parmar said, “Ram Rahim’s custodial interrogation is important, as he is a key link to the conspiracy. The HC order to question him inside the jail will delay probe. We are taking legal opinion.” 8 months on, new SIT fails to file charge-sheet in Kotkapura firing case The newly constituted SIT probing the Kotkapura police firing incident has missed its six-month deadline to file a fresh charge-sheet. The SIT is in a fix in light of the HC staying investigations in cases pending against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini till February 2022. While quashing the charge-sheets filed by SIT led by former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, the HC directed that a new SIT be formed, with investigation to be concluded, preferably, within six months from the date of constitution. Amid these legal tangles, the SIT is waiting for a date from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Gandhinagar, in Gujarat, to conduct a lie-detector test. Over six months ago, it had got suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal’s consent to undergo a lie-detector test in connection with 2015 Kotkapura firing case. Saini and former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma had refused to undergo the test. Charges yet to be framed in Behbal Kalan case A trial court in Faridkot is yet to start hearing arguments for the framing of charges in the Behbal Kalan firing case. The court has exempted Saini from personal appearance following the HC order. Using this as a shield, other accused filed a number of applications for adjournment, delaying the process by over two months to date. The Kunwar Vijay Pratap-led SIT had filed charge-sheets against seven accused, including five cops, in the Behbal Kalan firing case. The SIT had claimed that the cops opened fire at peaceful protesters on directions from Umranangal, who got instructions from Saini; later, both conspired to fabricate evidence, the SIT had claimed. After Kunwar took voluntary retirement, the government formed a three-member SIT headed by IG Naunihal Singh to probe the Behbal Kalan firing case in May. To date, this SIT has not conducted any fresh investigation. 
09-01-2022||Other||Punjab CEO seeks deployment of 1,050 companies of CAPF||Chandigarh Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju has sought deployment of 1,050 companies of Central Armed Paramilitary Forces (CAPF) for assembly polls to be held on February 14. In the 2017 polls, 500 companies had been deployed, against a requisition for 727. By an estimate, between 1 lakh and 1.4 lakh security personnel, including the central forces and the state police, would be deployed during the elections. Fifty companies of CAPF are expected to arrive on Monday. Each company has 92 personnel and officers, with support staff and reserve personnel also included. Practically, there are 64 personnel available for active ground duty in each company. Other than the central forces, 60-70% of state police’s 80,000-odd personnel will also be on poll duty. “There are at least 3,000 polling booths, classified as sensitive and super-sensitive in the state, of 24,689 booths that will be set up,” the CEO said, adding, “Farmers’ protest, drone attacks along border areas, the recent incident of bomb blast in Ludhiana and the alleged entry of unscrupulous persons in religious places are the reasons for seeking additional deployment.”The CAPF may comprise the Border Security Force (BSF); the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF); the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Force (ITBP), over and above the state police. The number of sensitive and super-sensitive polling booths could also go up. as it would depend on the candidates that parties field, added Raju.Fourteen assembly constituencies on the international border along Pakistan have been classified as sensitive. These are in Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Fazilka districts. Thirty constituencies touching state borders along Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan are also in the sensitive category.17 seats expenditure sensitiveThe CEO has categorised 17 seats in nine districts as expenditure sensitive. These are Pathankot in district Pathankot; Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur, Majitha; Amritsar-central and Amritsar-east in Amritsar district; Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar; Sahnewal, Ludhiana-South; Atam Nagar and Gill in Ludhiana district, Lambi, and Gidderbaha in Muktsar district, Rampura Phul, Bathinda and Maur in Bathinda district, Sunam in Sangrur district and Sanour in Patiala district. Online filing of nomination papers The election commission has decided to make arrangements for online filing of nomination papers. “We have launched a software. The staff and political parties are being trained,” said a senior officer. Nomination papers would be filed online, and the candidate only has to physically present himself before the returning officer. 
09-01-2022||Mumbai||HT Exclusive: Proposal to fell 12k trees in Thane creek for petroleum pipeline||Mumbai: The Union environment ministry’s Regional Empowered Committee (REC) in Nagpur is considering a proposal from the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) that seeks to axe down 11,904 trees (including at least 2,500 mangroves) in and around the eco-sensitive zone of Thane creek to make way for a petroleum pipeline. The proposal awaits forest, environment and Coastal Zone Regulation (CRZ) clearances from the Centre.The BPCL is hoping to connect its refinery in Mahul in Mumbai to an upcoming petrochemical complex in Rasayani in Raigad district, about 53 km away by road. According to the minutes of an REC meeting held on December 23 in Nagpur, the proposal sought to clear 56.7 acres of forest land and divert it to building a pipeline that will be 39.58km long.Part of the mostly-underground pipeline is proposed to pass through deemed eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) area of Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary. “Approximately 4.171km pipeline section shall pass through mangrove and mudflat area located on both ends,” while about 17km of the pipeline is proposed to pass through areas of Thane Creek protected by coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) rules, a copy of BPCL’s ‘Mangrove Management & Conservation Plan’, prepared as part of the forest clearance process, stated.The state government received BPCL’s proposal for forest clearance in December 2020, and sent it for further consideration to the Centre’s integrated regional office in Nagpur in March 2021.Prior to that, in November 2019, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) was informed that 2,520 mangrove trees will be impacted by the project, in addition to other reserved forest areas. The MCZMA recommended the project for CRZ clearance from the Centre, which is yet to come. The project is also awaiting forest and environmental clearances.In its December 23 meeting, the REC noted the presence of “11,904 project affected trees, comprised of 499 trees of above 60 cm girth and 11,178 trees below 60 cm girth”, and remarked that the state government needs to “revisit the number of trees proposed for felling.” The REC remarked that “alternative alignments have not been examined properly” and requested the state government to “explore the possibility of shifting proposed alignment” in order to avoid “breaking of fresh forest land and also to save considerable forest land.”The REC has now instructed the state government to submit two detailed reports — one on the number of trees proposed for felling, and another on the pipeline’s alignment — before the proposal is considered further. A member of the REC, seeking anonymity, said, “The project proponent has to provide evidence that it is doing the minimum possible damage to environment. At the moment, it seems there are other viable options that will cause lesser impact, hence the proposal has not yet been cleared.” Hindustan Times was unable to reach Krishna Kumar Damde, project lead at BPCL, despite several attempts.BPCL’s proposed unit will process 45,000 tonnes per annum polypropylene (PP), a thermoplastic polymer used in large quantities by the plastic processing industry, and will act as a storage and processing unit for PP. The pipeline will carry propylene from BPCL’s Mumbai refinery, through Mahul and Thane creek, bypassing the Navi Mumbai International Airport area, UIwe River, Kirki River and further along a national highway up to Rayasani.“The actual influence of the project will be much wider than 56 acres of forest or 11,900 trees. The project proponent will need to build approach roads in CRZ and forest areas in order to build and maintain the pipelines. Oil pipelines have been previously built over mangroves by ONGC in Uran, and the mangroves are now susceptible to violations like dumping of garbage because they are now accessible. It is a good step that the REC has asked for less trees to be cut and for an alternative alignment. The project should be taken back to the drawing board in order to minimise damage to the Creek’s ecology,” Stalin D, member of the High Court-appointed mangrove committee, said.Anand Pendharkar, a city-based ecologist and nature educator, said that the continued loss of mangroves and forest cover due to development projects is worrying. “Mangroves are essential against protecting our buildings, roads and other existing infrastructure from floods, sea level rise, cyclones and storm surges. Despite their importance, and the state government’s recent push to bring them under the ambit of the Indian Forest Act, such linear intrusions continue to be sanctioned. This also leads to the loss of less valued biodiversity, like crabs, mudskippers and other species that aren’t protected under wildlife laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ht-exclusive-proposal-to-fell-12k-trees-in-thane-creek-for-petroleum-pipeline-101641739764253.html
09-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi logs 22,751 fresh Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths in 24 hours; positivity rate at 23.5%||Delhi registered 22,751 fresh cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 17 related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 60,733, according to the city's health department data on Sunday. As many as 20,181 cases were reported in the national capital a day ago.  The number of new cases reported on Sunday was the highest since May 1 last year when the city recorded 25,219 cases with a positivity rate of 31.61 per cent.The current positivity rate stood at 23.53 per cent while the total number of recoveries from the infection in the Union territory climbed to 14,63,837. As many as 10,179 people recuperated from the viral disease in the last 24 hours.Also read | No plan to impose lockdown in Delhi, says Arvind KejriwalOf the 1,600 Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospitals, 44 are on ventilator support, the government data showed.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that his government does not intend to impose a lockdown in the city. "We do not want to impose any lockdown in the city. There will not be lockdown if you follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. We do not intend to impose lockdown at the moment. We want to impose the least restrictions so that the people can earn their livelihood," the chief minister said earlier in the day.Also read | Back at your service: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal writes after recovering from Covid-19Kejriwal further said that in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting scheduled to be held on Monday, the government will review the current situation with the experts."We have a meeting of DDMA tomorrow. We will review the current situation with the experts on what needs to be done further. We are also getting the support of the Centre," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-22-751-fresh-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-in-24-hours-positivity-at-235-101641737340579.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||HC commutes death/life sentence of man to ten years as crime not premeditated||Mumbai: The Bombay High Court (HC) recently commuted the conviction of a man from murder to culpable homicide after it was informed that the convict had poured kerosene and set his wife on fire under the influence of alcohol. The man challenged his death/life imprisonment sentence by the trial court on the grounds that his act was not premeditated and was the outcome of a dispute he had with his wife after he spent all his wages on consuming liquor. The court held that as the man had tried to save his wife after setting her on fire- made out grounds for culpable homicide and hence commuted the sentence to ten years of rigorous imprisonment. The division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice N R Borkar which had head the appeal against the conviction of Janardan Wagh, a 35-year-old resident of Yeola, Nashik was informed by advocate Amit Mane, who was appointed by the court to represent Wagh that the January 1998 conviction by the 2nd additional sessions judge had based the order solely on the dying statement of the victim. Mane argued that Wagh was falsely implicated in the case by the witnesses. The incident occurred on July 16, 1997 when the people residing near the house of the deceased heard the cries of the woman and on investigating found her to be in flames. They doused the flames in which the accused also helped them and thereafter the woman was rushed to the hospital. The judicial magistrate took the statement of the woman the next day after which due to the severity of the burns she succumbed in the night. In the FIR, the police recorded that while arguing with his wife, Wagh poured kerosene and set her on fire. The police booked Wagh under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Mane stated that while the trial court had relied on the dying statement of the woman it had failed to take note of the fact that Wagh was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident. Mane argued that at the most Wagh’s act could be termed as culpable homicide as he had no intention of killing her but not murder. After hearing the arguments, the bench observed, “The prosecution’s own case is that on the day of the incident, the accused was under the influence of liquor. An altercation took place between the accused and the deceased as the wages which he received on the day of incident were spent by him for consuming liquor. It is thus apparent that the incident was not premeditated. It appears that the accused even tried to save the deceased.” The court then held that as the case fulfilled the exception (when fight was unexpected or premeditated. No intention of either of the parties to kill or cause the death of any person) under section 300 of the IPC, the conviction of Wagh was commuted from section 302 of IPC to section 304 (1) of the IPC and sentenced him to ten years of rigorous imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-commutes-death-life-sentence-of-man-to-ten-years-as-crime-not-premeditated-101641738443241.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||Breach in Palghar dam plugged, evacuation averted||Mumbai The massive three-metre breach which was reported in a 40-year-old earthen dam at Zanzorli in Palghar on Saturday morning has been successfully plugged by the Irrigation department on Sunday morning.The swift action averted a major evacuation of around 1,500 residents of five villages including Zanzorli, Bandate, Dondhalpada, Patharipada and Navinpada. An NDRF team, which arrived from Andheri, returned to base as the breach was eventually repaired.“Around 300 dumpers of sand and other materials were dumped near the jack well where the breach was noticed to control the seepage,” said Prabhakar Giri, deputy engineer, Irrigation department Palghar. This is a temporary measure and a permanent measure will be taken during the summer season when the water level will be less, said an official. “We believe that a 40-year-old cement pipe may have developed holes or may have been dislocated near the jack well, resulting in the seepage. We will install a 125m high-density polyethylene pipe without disturbing the present structure to avoid further leakage,” said the official. “As a long term plan, if need be, we may construct a new jack well at the present site,” he added.The pipe is a type of flexible plastic used for fluid and gas transfer and is often used to replace ageing concrete or steel mains. It is used across the globe for applications such as water mains, gas mains, sewer mains, slurry transfer lines, rural irrigation, fire system supply lines, electrical and communications conduit, and stormwater and drainage pipes.As of now, the dam is totally safe and there is no danger or evacuation needed and by Tuesday the entire civil work will be completed, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/breach-in-palghar-dam-plugged-evacuation-averted-101641738262874.html
09-01-2022||Pune||Pune is dist with highest vax numbers for 15-18 age group; now from Monday, 3rd Covid dose to begin||PUNE On Saturday, Pune district overtook Thane to become the district that has vaccinated the highest number of adolescent beneficiaries in the state aged between 15 and 18 years. Starting from Monday, January 10, the district administration will now begin giving third doses to beneficiaries at all its 179 vaccination centres. As of Saturday, Pune has reported 175,780 aged between 15 and 18 years have taken their first shot of the vaccine, which makes it the district with highest number of adolescents in the state vaccinated. Following Pune is Thane, with 164,625 teenagers vaccinated, while state capital Mumbai reported 58,018 adolescents vaccinated, about three times less than what Pune has reported. With 175,780 adolescents vaccinated, Pune’s estimates that 31.78% of the population has got the first shot of the vaccine. Starting from Monday, PMC will begin administering a third or precautionary dose among healthcare workers and those aged above 60 with comorbidities. Before the dose, it is not mandatory to get a written certificate from any doctor the administration clarified. As of Saturday, Pune also has the highest number of beneficiares still to take the second doseA total of 1,222,848 have been vaccinated - of which 682,893 are from the two civic corporations, PMC and PCMC; and 539,955 are from the rural areas. Of these 75,669 are still due to take their second dose. Over 107% of the estimated population has got the first dose, however, 81% have got the second dose which, if based on absolute numbers, makes Pune the district with highest beneficiaries due to take their second dose. ‘Third dose nine months after second shot and 3 months after Covid infection’Dr Suryakant Deokar, civic immunisation officer said, “We have got a great response from students and those aged between 15 to 18 years for the first dose and we are expecting that more senior citizens would also turn up to take the third or precautionary dose at our 179 centres. All these centres will be providing the third dose of the vaccine. Those who have taken Covishield would get a third shot of Covishield while those who took Covaxin would get a third dose of Covaxin. While beneficiaries have to consult their doctor before taking the third shot, no certificate or written consent would be required. The primary condition is that the beneficiary should have taken the second shot of the vaccine at least nine months before taking the third shot and/or three months after a Covid-19 infection.As per the central government guidelines, all healthcare workers, front-line workers and those aged above 60 with comorbidities are eligible to take the third dose of the vaccine. Private hospitals have been asked to ensure that its own staff is vaccinated with the third dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-is-dist-with-highest-vax-numbers-for-15-18-age-group-now-from-monday-3rd-covid-dose-to-begin-101641736945506.html
09-01-2022||Pune||31 micro-containment zones in Pune, 28 are housing societies||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has declared 31 micro-containment zones in the city as of Sunday, after a recent spike in Covid cases across Pune. The Aundh-Baner area has become a Covid hotspot, as it recorded the highest number of Covid cases among all 15 wards under the PMC. As per the data released by PMC on Saturday, 420 of the total 2,471 active Covid patients in the city are from the Aundh-Baner area. Of the total 31 micro-containment zones in PMC, 24 have been declared in two wards – Aundh-Baner and Warje-Karvenagar, each with 12 micro-containment zones. Micro-containment zones currently refer to housing societies, colonies, or slums that have recorded an increase in Covid cases and where access is restricted. The administration demarcates specific areas where entry and exit points are closed and only basic supplies are provided to the people living there. Kothrud-Bavdhan consists of three such zones. Kondhwa-Yewalewadi has two micro-containment zones, and Shivajinagar-Ghole road and Wanowrie-Ramtekdi have one each. Unlike the first wave when the majority of the containment zones were declared in slum areas, 28 of the 31 micro-containment zones are in middle-class and upper-middle-class residential societies. “Majority of the Covid cases are being recorded in middle-class or upper-middle-class societies who have some travel history. Cases are almost nil in slums or societies with lower socio-economic status,” said Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant health officer. The severity of the Covid cases is much lower than during the second wave. “All positive cases are being treated as Omicron. While the number of cases is high, severity among Covid positive patients is less,” said Dr Wavare. Fewer people are requiring oxygen supply or ventilation because now more are vaccinated and also due to the nature of the virulence, according to the PMC assistant health officer. Although there are 31 micro-containment zones in various areas under PMC limits, the restrictions there are comparatively diluted than during the second wave, according to Dr Wavare. “People are being monitored virtually through the process of contact tracing. The majority of the positive people in containment zones are in home isolation,” he said. When the second wave was at its peak during April 2021, the city’s tally of micro-containment zones had crossed 1,000. 31 micro-containment areas 28 of them are housing societies Aundh-Baner ward reporting most cases Aundh-Baner and Warje-Karvenagar wards have 12 micro-containment zones each Kothrud-Bavdhan – 3 micro-containment zones Kondhwa-Yewalewadi - 2 micro-containment zones Shivajinagar, Wanowrie– one micro-containment zone each||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31-micro-containment-zones-in-pune-28-are-housing-societies-101641736702920.html
09-01-2022||Pune||College students in Pune face challenges amidst rising Covid cases, restrictions||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city, college-going students are facing multiple challenges. While offline classes have stopped, hostel, food and commuting all is getting tougher for many.Siddhant Deshmukh, a civil engineering student, said, “Offline lectures should have continued as staff and students are all fully vaccinated. Markets and malls are open. And colleges can follow social distancing norms and Covid-19 protocols to remain safe.”“I am an engineering student and we have offline site visits and practicals. Due to the pandemic, all of this is now online,” said Deshmukh.At present, Deshmukh added, the government has allowed hostels to remain open.Mansi Waghmare, a statistics student preparing for higher studies, said, “If we stay in the city, the question remains how we isolate ourselves and manage medicine and food. And if we go back home, we are putting our entire families at risk. Moreover, if we stay here, our family back home is stressed as they don’t know how we are managing the situation and if we are getting the treatment needed.”According to the state health department, Pune district reported 4,390 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection on Saturday. The progressive count stands at 1.18 million out of which 1.15 million have recovered, 20,204 deaths reported and 15,376 are active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/college-students-in-pune-face-challenges-amidst-rising-covid-cases-restrictions-101641736282922.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||Amid Covid surge, Maharashtra likely to put curbs on liquor shops, places of worship too||After Maharashtra brought back some some lockdown-like curbs, including imposition of a night curfew, in the face of surging Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, state health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the ambit of restrictions will be widened to cover liquor shops and places of worship as well."Curbs in crowded areas like liquor shops and places of worship will be imposed as well. However, even as cases are rising, hospital bed occupancy and oxygen demand are low. When these start rising, we will enforce stricter restrictions," news agency PTI quoted the health minister as saying.Restrictions imposed by the state government a day earlier were in the interest of people, he added.Some of the restrictions that have been announced by the Maharashtra government so far include curb on the movement of people from 11pm and 5am unless it is for essential work.According to the guidelines, the movement of five or more people between 5am and 11pm has been barred in public places to prevent overcrowding.Also read | Maharashtra revises order; beauty salons, gyms will function at 50% capacityHowever, citizens have been allowed to travel by public transport provided they are fully vaccinated, the order said.Essential work includes medical emergencies, essential services, and movement to and from airports, railway stations and bus stations with a valid ticket, as well as travel to and from sites of work that are open for 24 hours, such as call centres.Meanwhile, the state government on Sunday issued a fresh set of guidelines for gyms and beauty salons allowing them to operate at 50 per cent capacity. In a notification on Saturday, the government ordered all beauty salons, spas, gyms to be closed.Maharashtra's infection tally stood at 68,75,656 as of Saturday and the death toll at 1,41, 627, leaving the state with 1,73,238 active cases, as per the state health department.The state's Omicron tally climbed to 1,009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-covid-surge-maharashtra-likely-to-put-curbs-on-liquor-shops-places-of-worship-too-101641735173880.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai traffic jams to be unsnarled faster through app-based alerts||Mumbai People in Mumbai have surely waited in a jam helplessly in anticipation of a traffic cop clearing the snarl. But now, you can expect traffic jams to be addressed and cleared within 12 minutes, claims Mumbai Traffic police. The new app-based system introduced by Joint Commissioner of Police Rajvardhan Sinha has enabled the traffic police officers at chowkies to reach the centre of the jam and address the problem within 12 minutes, which earlier used to take more than 20 minutes. According to the traffic police officers, the new app, which has been installed in sync with 5,300 CCTV cameras and the 34 traffic divisions across the city identifies the exact spot of the problem through CCTV and alerts the operators through a private setting in Mumbai Traffic Police App (MTP). The setting is accessible only to operators who are responsible for managing the three traffic divisions in the city. These operators have a list of mobile numbers of the police officers through which the officers are alerted about the traffic jams. Raj Tilak Roshan, deputy commissioner of police (HQ) said that as soon as the CCTV cameras show a traffic jam, the system sends an alert to the operator. He then sends a message through WhatsApp and text message to the officer of the concerned chowkies alerting them about the point of the problem. “Sometimes, it takes time to identify the centre point of a jam by officers manning the jurisdiction and then takes several minutes to clear the problem which costs commuters several minutes, even hours,” said Roshan.After the CCTV identifies the exact location from where the traffic jam starts, the new app sends a message through the operator to the officer closest to the centre point of the jam and once the officer reaches there which may take 10 to 12 minutes, he can identify the cause of the jam and clear it. The system which was set up two months ago is different from Google maps as it is capable of pointing the CCTV to the exact problem causing the jam. In case there is traffic jam due to a wrongly placed barricade, the system shows it on the CCTV after which the officer reaching the spot to unsnarl the jam can remove it or place it in a manner that the vehicles can pass through easily. Or if a vehicle has broken down causing the jam, the officer can move it at the earliest. “Response time has become less which has helped ease traffic to a great extent. We have even decreased the signal timings by 20 seconds by observing the pattern of jams near the Godrej junction at Vikhroli,” said Hussain Jatkar, senior police inspector of Vikhroli traffic branch. Roshan said that the app also keeps a daily log of the time, location and cause of the traffic jam and the time within which the officer reached the spot and cleared it. “Once we identify a spot where frequent jams are created, we identify the problem and report it so that it can be rectified,” said Roshan. In the two months since the app-based alert system was implemented, Roshan said that they had been observing the pattern of the traffic jams and the problem causing them after which they have asked Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to repaint all the zebra crossing and stop lines. “Due to the absence of stop lines and zebra crossings, many drivers were getting confused and crossing the stop lines creating traffic jams by not keeping distance for vehicles in other directions pass. Following our request, the BMC is now repainting the zebra crossing stop lines,” said Roshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-traffic-jams-to-be-unsnarled-faster-through-app-based-alerts-101641733822785.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||Medical students react to SC decision on NEET||Mumbai: The Supreme Court’s decision on Friday to permit reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) and Economically Weaker Section (EWS) categories in the all-India quota (AIQ) seats for undergraduate and postgraduate medical admissions invited mixed reactions from medical aspirants. Students and parents took to social media to share their displeasure at open category seats converted into “new quota” seats.“We waited four months, which ate into more than half the academic time, only to be told that more seats will go under reservation quotas. What’s the use of merit when nearly 65% seats are reserved for minorities,” asked 18-year-old Sheena Mewani, an Under Graduate medical aspirant. “The worst-hit will be UG medical aspirants from states that have very few government medical colleges because these are students who depend on AIQ seats to be eligible for admissions to government institutes in other states. With 37% fewer seats at their disposal, the authorities are giving little chance to students who deserve a seat based on merit,” said Sudha Shenoy, the parent of a undergraduate medical student.AIQ rounds are conducted by the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) in order to fill up 15% seats in government and private medical institutes and 50% seats in government and private post graduate (PG) medical institutes. The remaining seats are filled by the states. Other reserved categories include Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes, and Persons with Disabilities.The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) 2021 exam was held in September and its results were announced on November 1. The NEET-PG exam, which is usually held in January was delayed indefinitely last year due to increasing cases of Covid-19 registered across the country. It was finally conducted in September 2021, but admissions were stayed by the Supreme Court as it was hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of the implementation of EWS and OBC quota in all India quota (AIQ) seats. With the SC decision finally coming through, admission registration will finally kick off after a four-month of delay.The Central government released a notification on July 29, 2021, to include both EWS and OBC quotas in the AIQ seats. On December 18, MCC notified its decision to conduct four rounds of admissions to fill up AIQ seats, and do way with the process of surrendering vacant seats to respective states for inclusion under the state quota. “Most of us were hopeful of the extra reservation being dropped from admission this year, but the court ruling is otherwise. The only good news is that admissions will finally begin. Our fight for merit-based admissions to professional courses will continue,” said Aditya More (18), another UG medical aspirant.While MCC is yet to release admissions schedule for AIQ rounds, the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell has already started pre-admission registrations for undergraduate health science courses whereas a schedule for PG medical admissions is expected.Many students have also lauded the apex court for this ruling. “Many from the OBC category lose out on admissions into good government medical institutes in states with only a handful of options. The AIQ seats is their only chance at admission in a government-run institute and therefore, this decision by the SC will boost the confidence and chances of such candidates,” said Dr Anusiya Rathi, a PG medical aspirant. Academicians however said that the idea that reservation is the antithesis of merit is an incorrect one, as it allows traditionally disadvantaged communities a shot at equal opportunities. “To say that giving students from culturally, socially and economically backward classes a just chance at education will end up killing merit is very wrong. The reason reservation was introduced was to give equal and just opportunities to everybody, no matter their status. Instead of introducing the politics of caste and economical status in education, students should think that they are sharing seats with fellow students,” said Govardhan Wankhede, retired professor from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), specialising in higher education of the marginalised communities.The SC’s Friday decision was lauded by resident doctors across the country. Several RE associations across the country have been protesting since December 2021, demanding for admissions to PG medical courses to commence to ensure adequate personnel available in the midst of a pandemic and a stretched workforce.
09-01-2022||Delhi||Covid price wars are here, but check is it really cheap||The sharp rise in Covid-19 cases once again forces consumers to stay home and shop for even daily essentials like fruits and vegetables from the safety of their homes. This time however, brick and mortar stores are well prepared to face the competition from online stores and are offering to home deliver these goods at competitive prices. And they are using Whatsapp and text messaging to promote their business. This certainly gives consumers more choice , but on the flip side, the ensuing competition is also promoting unfair and deceptive practices inimical to consumer interest.The competition is most apparent on the price front , with each of them wanting to give consumers an impression that his price is the lowest, without really reducing the price, but making hyperbolic statements such as ‘Steep Price Drop’, ‘Lowest Price’ and ‘Deep Discounts’. And almost all of them use exaggerated ‘reference pricing’ to achieve their objective. Some, for example, show an imaginary ‘Maximum Retail Price’ (MRP) of vegetables to show how their prices are far lower. For example, the price of carrot at ₹25 a kilogram was compared with an MRP of ₹58 to show that there was a saving of 57 per cent or ₹33 a kg ! Now where did this MRP of ₹58 come from? The maximum retail price is the manufacturer’s suggested price for pre-packed goods , as required under the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules. So who fixed the MRP for fresh, unpacked vegetables? Obviously, the MRP is the highly embellished price concocted by the retailer to give consumers an impression that they are getting a discount! Even more shocking was the retailer who claimed a ‘Price Drop’ on tomatoes. His reference price, to indicate the massive price reduction, was ₹104. Tomato prices did go up sharply by the end of September 2021 due to unseasonal rains and the resultant shortage of the commodity. But they came down subsequently with fresh arrivals into the market and as per the union ministry of consumer affairs, by December 14, their prices had come down to around ₹55 and to ₹47.52 by December 21. So on a day when tomatoes cost around ₹38 to ₹45 a kilogram, the retailer was claiming that he had slashed the price from ₹104 to ₹45!‘Strikethrough Pricing’ is another method used by many of them to show price cuts. An imaginary, inflated price is crossed out or struck off to indicate that to be the actual price and show how much the retailer had reduced the price! For example, the price of mushroom at ₹72 for 180 gms was struck off and the selling price was indicated as ₹36, giving an impression that the seller was offering mushrooms at a price well below the market price! These are all unfair trade practices and the consumer protection regulator, the Central Consumer Protection Authority constituted under the Consumer Protection Act of 2019 will have to crack down on such deceptive pricing and protect consumers. Another devious method adopted by some of the retailers is to quote prices for non-standard weights or for odd weights generally not used for buying vegetables and fruits. For example, the price of tomato is advertised for 900 gms, that of brinjal for 450 gms, gooseberry for 225 gms and mushrooms for 180 gms! Specifying prices for such varying weights not only confuse consumers, but also make price comparison with other outlets almost impossible. So the solution lies in making unit pricing mandatory for vegetables and fruits sold online and also for any advertisement or communication pertaining to their sale, made through the electronic media. This can be done through an amendment to E-Commerce Rules and it would go a long way in protecting consumers from unethical sale practices, particularly in these Covid times.
09-01-2022||Delhi||Unit price on packages to help consumers make better choice||In a major policy shift pertaining to pre-packed goods, the government has done away with mandatory standard pack sizes that governed the sale of these goods for over 44 years and introduced instead, unit pricing. The change, which will come into force from April 1 this year, will enhance price transparency and help consumers make an informed choice while buying packed goods. Let me explain the significance of this to consumers with a simple example. Brand A is selling 400 gms of pre-packed ghee at ₹240 and brand B is selling 250 gms at ₹175. Both brands are good and you want to buy the one that is cheaper, but how do you compare the price? The unit sale price or the price of ghee per unit of measure, printed on the package, will help you here. While the unit sale price of brand A would be 60 paise per gram (which is ₹600 per kg) , that of B would be 70 paise per gram( or ₹700 per kg) . So obviously, the difference in price is significant and brand A is cheaper by ₹100 a kg.Similarly, suppose you see on the shop shelf two brands of liquid detergents – Brand A has a maximum retail price (MRP) of ₹700 and the pack contains 2.5 litres of detergent. Brand B is priced at ₹500 and contains 1.5 litres . Which brand is less expensive? Here again, the answer lies in the unit sale price - while the Unit Price of brand A is ₹280 per litre, that of brand B is ₹333 per litre! It is for this reason that unit pricing is known as ‘comparative pricing’ that helps consumers save money.So how did we compare prices all these years without the unit sale price? That’s where the restrictions on pack sizes came into the picture. In order to help consumers compare prices between different brands of pre-packed goods, the Standards of Weights and Measures (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 1977 mandated that certain essential commodities like edible oil, tea, coffee, wheat flour, biscuits, water, soaps, cement and paints, be sold only in specific recommended pack sizes or weights. For example, pulses had to be sold only in packages of 100 gms, 200 gms, 500 gms, 1 kg, 2 kg, 5 kg and multiples of 5 kg. Since the weights of the packages were uniform across brands, price comparison was easy. The Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules , 2011 that replaced the 1977 Rules also made similar stipulations under Rule 5. However, such restrictions on pack sizes were limited to only those commodities mentioned in Schedule II of the Rules and not all packed goods. Besides, standard pack sizes did not facilitate price comparison between varying weights of different brands or different pack sizes within the same brand.Meanwhile the increasing realization of the importance of unit pricing as an important measure of consumer protection encouraged many countries around the world to introduce in the last decade or so, unit pricing either through regulatory requirements or voluntary codes and the international Organization for Standardization even published a best practices guide for unit pricing (ISO 21041:2018) . By amending the Packaged Commodities Rules on November 2, India too has introduced from April 1, mandatory unit pricing for pre-packed goods. With this change, Indian manufacturers, who were always unhappy with pack size restrictions , have the liberty to pack their products in any size they wish. However, in addition to the declaration of the weight or volume of the product in the package and the MRP, they also have to specify the unit sale price, expressed per gram of the product where the goods weigh less than a kilogram and per kilogram where the net quantity is one kg or more. It would be similar in case of volume, expressed in ml or litre.For unit pricing to really serve its purpose, the union ministry of consumer affairs, which has brought about the change, should also ensure that manufacturers display the unit price in a prominent, legible manner on the principal display panel as mandated. In fact it is absolutely essential that the unit price be displayed just below or adjacent to the MRP . It is equally important to educate consumers on the significance of unit price and the difference between MRP and the unit sale price, so that come April 1, consumers are ready for it. 
09-01-2022||Pune||Waive off property tax for residential properties up to 500 sq feet in Pune: NCP, Congress||PUNE The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress have demanded to waive off property tax for residential properties in the city up to 500 square feet.Recently, the state government waived off property tax on residential properties of up to 500 square feet located within the Mumbai municipal area limits.NCP corporators Ashwini Kadam and Laxmi Dudhane have submitted a proposal to PMC and demanded to waive off property tax for properties up to 500 square feet.Congress leader Mohon Joshi too wrote a letter to the municipal commissioner and made a similar demand.As the NCP had submitted the proposal in front of the standing committee, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will have to take a stand on it. Either BJP will need to accept or reject it or they can send it to the administration for opinion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/waive-off-property-tax-for-residential-properties-up-to-500-sq-feet-in-pune-ncp-congress-101641727822372.html
09-01-2022||Pune||Your Space: Mass awareness about benefits of Covid vaccine crucial||With the rise in Covid cases and fear of Omicron spread, the authorities plan to reimpose more restrictions. Readers share why vaccination is crucial to fight the coronavirus... Mass awareness of vaccine benefits must I think we should learn from the past pandemic events that paralysed daily activities for years. Let’s not forget the Spanish flu, cholera, tuberculosis and other viruses that can be prevented by vaccination. Ensuring full vaccination of the total population is a must. Being a doctor, I see that the government has played an amazing role in getting vaccines easily available at almost every hospital. Millions have succumbed to the virus so people must understand the criticality of vaccination. Raising awareness should be taken into consideration on all platforms - digital media, print media and others. Workplaces must ensure their employees are fully vaccinated. If there are few who are hesitant, educate them on the subject. Regular surveys could help understand the number of people who are yet to be vaccinated and the officials in charge must reach out to them. Speaking the language people understand by involving celebrities in vaccination awareness could also play a vital role. Dr Snigdha Kommana Follow Covid norms Omicron variant is the latest threat from coronavirus that we have been fighting since last two years. Though the central, state and local authorities are managing the Covid situation well even as we are on higher side in population, booster dose is the only solution to check virus spread. It is the responsibility of residents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Rahul S Upadhye Counter Covid misinformation Local health departments know their communities best and how to keep them informed. Residents should clear their doubts regarding Covid like what would make one more comfortable to get the vaccine? What would make one feel more confident? What information would one need to know of different vaccines? Misinformation is an important driver of vaccine hesitancy and serious obstacle to saving lives. Local bodies should monitor social media and try to counter misinformation with specific facts that will encourage those who are yet to take vaccine jabs to come forward and inoculate. Shaming or arguing does not work. Use testimonials and personal stories of frontline workers, celebrities, government bodies and others to compel others to get vaccinated. Ramsha Farha Awareness key to more vaccinations The main reason for people being hesitant to take the jab is the wrong information floating on social media and through people themselves. This has to stop. People should be made aware of the facts and importance of the vaccine. The local authorities should take initiatives at the grassroots and could rope in various community leaders to spread public awareness about the benefits of vaccine. People tend to believe known faces. Proper education and awareness are the keys to maximum vaccine shots. Tripti Tiwari Wake-up call for non-vaccinated With the government opening up vaccination for 15-18 age bracket, India is going to boast of having 50 per cent of its entire population vaccinated soon. It’s disturbing that many are willingly missing out their jabs and putting themselves and everyone around them at risk. In the wake of the new variant, awareness about vaccine benefits has become increasingly important. Sagar Jain Make vaccination certificate mandatory The government and the corporator of the area should survey and set up a committee for door-to-door vaccination. Awareness should be spread through all mediums. Just as vaccination certificate is compulsory for entry into malls and similar public places, make it mandatory for even stepping out from home. . Sayali Shinde Enlighten vaccine sceptics In the last two years, we have survived the wrath of Covid and now we stand a chance to fight by getting jabbed. However, not many imply the conventional saying “Prevention is better than cure” in life. People who are vaccinated have a better rate of survival than those who are not. The masses should be made aware of the fact that they will live with a lesser risk of contraction post-vaccination. The virus may not affect you, but anyone can be a carrier and may affect your loved ones. Being in a democratic nation, the government may not imply fines for not being vaccinated, however, communities can ensure that people in their vicinity are vaccinated. Understanding and enlightening the sceptics should be the most important step. Ronit Augustin Encourage people to get jabbed It took a little while for the entire vaccination operation to work like a well-oiled machine. Now the process is simple and every hospital and nursing home can administer the vaccine at any time. The process is simple and yet a lot of people are concerned because of fake news and absurd conspiracy theories revolving around the vaccine. The best way to reach the masses nowadays is through social media. Medical experts should collaborate with influencers and debunk all false claims and encourage people to get jabbed at the nearest medical facility that can be found on the Co-WIN website. Falak Kazi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-mass-awareness-about-benefits-of-covid-vaccine-crucial-101641725002616.html
09-01-2022||Indore||My son being framed, says father of 'Sulli Deals' app creator nabbed by Delhi Police||The father of a 26-year-old man, believed to be the creator of the 'Sulli Deals' app and arrested by Delhi Police from Indore in Madhya Pradesh, claimed on Sunday that his son was being framed in the case. Akhilesh Thakur, the father of accused Aumkareshwar Thakur, told reporters here that he does not know anything about the app concerned and after his son got the BCA degree in 2018, he started web-designing work from home. He said two Delhi Police personnel in plain clothes came to his house on Saturday afternoon and after identifying his son, they took the latter to the national capital by a flight in the evening. The police also seized his son's mobile phone and laptop from their house, he said. Earlier in the day, officials said the Delhi Police had arrested the accused from Indore in Madhya Pradesh. This is the first arrest made in the "Sulli Deals" app case, they said. Hundreds of Muslim women were listed for “auction” on the mobile application with photographs sourced without permission and doctored. Thakur did his BCA (Bachelor of Computer Applications) course from the IPS Academy in Indore and is a resident of Newyork City Township, officials said. Delhi's Deputy Commissioner of Police (IFSO) KPS Malhotra said during preliminary interrogation, the accused admitted that he was a member of a group on Twitter and the idea to defame and troll Muslim women was shared there. However, Akhilesh Thakur said, "I have come to know that on the basis of just one person's statement, my son, who is an IT specialist, has been arrested and taken to Delhi. My son is being framed and defamed." He said after securing the BCA degree in 2018, his son started web-designing work from home on a personal level. "I am an old-fashioned person. I don't even know how to operate a mobile phone properly. I don't know anything about the 'Sulli Deals' app," said Akhilesh Thakur, who works in a private company. The father of the accused said he was away in Nagda town of neighbouring Ujjain district when the Delhi Police took his son into custody. He also said the Delhi Police informed about the arrest on Sunday morning and made him to talk to his son. “During the conversation, my son told me that we should not get worried,” he said, adding that he would be going to Delhi later in the day to arrange legal help for his son. Meanwhile, the Indore police on Sunday said their Delhi counterparts have not shared any information with them about the arrest from here. “We have come to know only from the media about the arrest of Thakur from Indore by Delhi Police. The Delhi Police have not shared any official information with us in this regard so far," Indore Police Commissioner Harinarayanchari Mishra told PTI. Mishra also said that the Indore police will consider starting an investigation into the matter after the Delhi Police share with them the official details of the case. Earlier in the day, Delhi's DCP Malhotra said, "He (Sulli Deals app case accused) had developed the code on GitHub. The access of GitHub was with all the members of the group. He had shared the app on his Twitter account. The photos of the Muslim women were uploaded by the group members." Investigation has revealed that the accused had joined the group on Twitter by the name of 'Tradmahasabha' in January 2020 using the handle @gangescion. During various group discussions, the members had talked about trolling Muslim women, the police said. "He admitted that he had developed the code/app on GitHub. After the uproar regarding the Sulli Deals app, he had deleted all his social media footprints," the DCP said. The Delhi Police said that further analysis of technical gadgets is underway to find out the codes/images related to the app. Earlier in July, a case was registered by the Delhi Police's cyber cell after it received a complaint about an unidentified group uploading photos of Muslim women on an app. According to police, Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged mastermind and creator of the 'Bulli Bai' application, had disclosed during interrogation that he was in touch with the person behind the Twitter handle @sullideals, the alleged creator of the 'Sulli Deals' app that was hosted on GitHub in July last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/my-son-being-framed-says-father-of-sulli-deals-app-creator-nabbed-by-delhi-police-101641723503958.html
09-01-2022||Jaipur||Rain continues to lash parts of Rajasthan; colder nights expected||Light to moderate rainfall occurred at a few places in Rajasthan with Alwar recording the maximum 37 mm rain since Saturday, officials said. Vanasthali in Tonk district and Jaipur received a minimum of 2.5 mm and 1.8 mm rainfall respectively, according to the meteorological department. Meanwhile, night temperature dipped by few degrees on Saturday. Bikaner was the coldest recorded place with a minimum of 5 degrees Celsius, followed by Fatehpur in Sikar district where the night temperature was 5.1 degrees Celsius. The weather will mainly be dry during the next 24 hours and the night temperatures are likely to dip by 3 to 5 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rain-continues-to-lash-parts-of-rajasthan-colder-nights-expected-101641717380842.html
09-01-2022||Delhi||No plan to impose lockdown in Delhi, says Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Delhi government does not have any plan to impose lockdown in the national Capital even as the fifth wave of infections continues to spread across the city.The chief minister said Delhi has reported around 22,000 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The daily health bulletin for Sunday will be released later in the evening. Saturday’s bulletin indicated the city added 20,181 fresh cases of Covid-19, and 19.6% tests returned positive results. Delhi’s test positivity rate is the highest it has been since May 9 last year, when the statistic hit 21.67%. Dehi’s Covid positivity rate on December 28 was less than 1%.Arvind Kejriwal announced his recovery from Covid-19 infection on Twitter and addressed a video briefing soon after where he appealed to everyone to not panic and keep strictly following all Covid protocols. The chief minister underlined that though the city is witnessing rapid Covid-19 transmission, hospital beds occupancy is very low, and the recovery is very high.“During the last Covid wave, 20,000 single day cases were reported on May 7, 2021 but there were 341 deaths and 20,000 hospital beds were occupied. Delhi reported 20,000 cases on January 8, but there were only seven deaths and 1500 beds are occupied,” the chief minister stated, adding that he was keeping a close eye on the Covid situation even as he stays under home isolation.Delhi Disaster Management Authority has called a meeting on Monday morning to discuss the prevailing Covid situation with experts and top officials and decide if the Capital needs more economic and travel restrictions to check the coronavirus spread.As of now, the DDMA has ordered a weekend curfew, a 10pm- 5am night curfew on weekdays and advised private offices to make at least 50% of their staff work from home.All Delhi government employees have been asked to work from home or online, except those engaged in essential and emergency services such as fire services, prison, water supply, health, etc.Shops in shopping malls and markets have been told to operate on an odd-even basis (10am-8pm) , dine-in services at restaurants and bars is capped at 50% seating capacity on weekdays and only takeaways are allowed during the weekend curfew.On week days, one weekly market in a zone is allowed to open per day and authorities have been asked to take steps to ensure crowd management. Only 20 people are allowed to attend weddings and funerals.Officials said all these restrictions are likely to continue for the time being.Graded Response Action Plan spells out four different levels of economic restrictions which will come into force at different levels of positivity rate. The lowest level of alert is classified as ‘Yellow Alert’ and came into force when the positivity rate breached 0.5% mark and stayed above it for two consecutive days, and the highest level of alert is classified as ‘Red Alert’ which is planned to come into force if 5% positivity rate breached and the positivity stayed above 5% for two consecutive days. ‘Red Alert’ (level 4) under GRAP spells almost lockdown like restrictions. Under ‘Red Alert’ a complete curfew is to be imposed, Delhi Metro will be closed, only essential private offices are permitted to open, malls are closed. Essential shops are allowed and only standalone non-essential shops are allowed between 10am to 6pm.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in ICMR, said the weekend curfew is designed to restrict movement of individuals and will help slow down the spread of the coronavirus.“The experience of different Omicron hit countries of the world shows that the number of cases will further increase in the country, especially in the weeks to come. Omicron spreads four times faster than the Delta variant, but infection is mild.... The peak is likely to reach in the first week of February. The people should avoid meeting people and avoid gatherings and comply with the guidelines,” said Dr Lalit. He also added that the use of mask is very important, and because of better fitting and better filtration ability, N95 masks provide better protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-plan-to-impose-lockdown-in-delhi-says-arvind-kejriwal-101641712282295.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||Day after light rains, Mumbai sees coolest winter morning of the season||MUMBAI: A day after several parts of the city reported isolated, unseasonal drizzles, the minimum temperature - it is typically recorded just before sunrise - dropped to 18.2 degrees Celsius (°C) on Sunday (down from 21.5°C the day prior), marking Mumbai’s coolest winter morning of the season. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) considers January and February to be winter months, while October to December are considered the post-monsoon months.The city also recorded the highest rainfall for the month in a decade with the Santacruz weather station - representative of Mumbai - recording 4.1mm rain in 24 hours (Saturday 8.30am to Sunday 8.30am).Also Read: Overnight rain spell gives Delhi its wettest Jan in 22 yearsIMD officials attributed the unseasonal rains to the passage of a western disturbance in the north, due to which moisture was drawn from the Arabian Sea and deposited over parts of Maharashtra, including interior districts such as Nashik and Dhule. Also Read: Mercury to drop by 4-6°Celsius in northwest India after heavy rains: IMDWestern disturbances are low-pressure systems that originate in the Mediterranean and flow to the east along with westerly winds, often bringing rain to north India during the winter months.As a result, the day temperature on Saturday also dipped to its lowest in a week, and, according to the IMD’s monitoring station in Santacruz, settling at 27.6°C due to strong winds and the sudden incursion of moisture.“There may be a second western disturbance within a few days, which will bring a shorter spell of more intense showers to Mumbai and surrounding areas. The temperature, both maximum and minimum, may drop even further as a result,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.According to IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the minimum temperature will hover around 18-19°C over the next week, while the maximum reading will hover around 28°C. IMD officials also said that temperatures, both during the day and night, will likely remain below normal till at least January 12. The IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded 4mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8:30am on Saturday, with ‘nil’ rainfall recorded during the night hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-after-light-rains-mumbai-sees-coolest-winter-morning-of-the-season-101641710723001.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu: CBI arrests two military engineers in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday arrested an assistant garrison engineer and a junior engineer, working in the office of garrison engineer, Military Engineer Services (MES), Satwari, for demanding and accepting bribe of ₹20,000. The accused are assistant garrison engineer Mohammad Imran Ullah and junior engineer Mahesh Chandra Gangwar. “A case was registered on a complaint against the accused. It was alleged that complainant’s firm was awarded tender for special repair of building at Jammu cantonment, under GE Satwari, Jammu. It was further alleged that the accused officials demanded bribe of ₹25,000 from the complainant for processing his pending bills,” said a CBI spokesperson. It was also alleged that bribe of ₹20,000 ( ₹10,000 to each) was to be paid immediately and remaining amount later. “Accordingly, CBI laid a trap and caught the accused red-handed while accepting the bribe from the complainant,” he added. Searches were also conducted at the office and residential premises of the accused at Jammu, Bareilly and Prayagraj. “Both the arrested accused were later produced in the court of special judge, CBI cases, Jammu,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-cbi-arrests-two-military-engineers-in-bribery-case-101641707901145.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kashmir journalist arrested for ‘anti-national’ activities||A journalist has been arrested in Kashmir for allegedly uploading a protest video of the family of a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant, who was killed in an encounter with security forces earlier this week, his organisation said on Saturday. The arrest has triggered outrage from media and politicians against the J&K administration amid demands of his release.Sajad Gul, a resident of north Kashmir’s Bandipora who had been working with online news portal The Kashmir Walla, was first picked up by the army and then handed over to police on January 5, the organisation said. The news outlet said that Gul was charged under sections 120B, 153B, and 505B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “Gul had posted a video of the protest against the killing of Salim Parray, a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander. Parray was killed on January 3 in a gunfight in Harwan, Srinagar. After the killing, minor protests and sloganeering happened in (his native area ) Hajin, in north Kashmir,” the organisation said in a report on its website. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, in a statement said that Sajad Gul uploaded “objectionable videos with anti-national slogans” raised by some women folk on the day when the “most-wanted” terrorist was eliminated in Srinagar. He said that Gul under the “garb of journalism” was habitual of spreading “disinformation and false narratives” through different social media platforms in order to create “ill will” against the government by provoking general masses to resort to violence and disturb public peace and tranquillity. “Moreover, his overall activities are prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and unity of India. Accordingly, a case has been registered against him in which he has been arrested and presently is on police remand,” the statement added. The statement also detailed two other FIRs filed against Gul. Editor of The Kashmir Walla, Fahad Shah has, meanwhile, sought Gul’s immediate release. “I strongly condemn this and stress that journalism shouldn’t be criminalised. Our legal team is working to seek his earliest release,” Shah said in a tweet.Kashmir Press Club (KPC) president Shuja ul Haq said, “Scores of journalists like Sajad work on the ground and face difficulties like these. We hope that in this case the authorities will take a note.”The Committee to Protect Journalists also expressed their worry over Gul’s arrest. People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that laws have been “communalised” by booking Kashmiri journalists for reporting on human rights while leaving those calling for Muslim genocide in the country. “There is a different set of laws applicable to J&K vis a vis rest of India. Radicalised groups openly calling for genocide of Muslims are roaming free while Kashmiri journalists shining a light on state sponsored human rights violations are jailed. Laws too have been communalized,” she said in a tweet.This is not the first time that Gul has been booked following his journalistic work.In February 2021, an FIR was registered against him after he wrote a story about a demolition drive in a village in Hajin. The revenue officer concerned, Ghulam Mohmmad Bhat, Hajin tehsildar, had said that the FIR was registered after stones were pelted during a demolition drive and some structures and shops to be demolished were built by uncles of the reporter concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-journalist-arrested-for-anti-national-activities-101641707781380.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Nearly 300% surge in Covid cases in J&K in one week||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday reported a 20% increase in daily Covid cases than the previous day and a 295% surge than the infections reported a week ago.The union territory recorded 655 Covid infections and three deaths on Saturday, a day after witnessing 542 infections and a death, an official health bulletin said. This is after 6.5 months that J&K has seen such high number of cases as the last time the UT had witnessed infections above 600 was in mid-June. The UT is witnessing a steep rise in cases for the past four days with 418 cases on January 5, as many as 349 cases on January 6 and 542 on January 7. The first four days of January had recorded daily cases ranging between 165 and 199 while in December the union territory had seen 143 average cases daily.Of the total cases on Saturday, 392 and a death were reported in Jammu division while Kashmir valley saw 263 infections and two fatalities.Jammu division’s Jammu district reported the highest 263 cases followed by 31 in Poonch and 26 in Kathua.Kashmir valley witnessed 133 cases in Srinagar followed by 46 in Budgam and 41 in Baramulla. As many as eight districts saw single digit or zero cases.Jammu district has the highest number of active cases at 968 followed by Srinagar and Reasi districts with 698 and 268 such cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 162 while active cases reached 2,982, first time since July 11. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 63,311 vaccine doses were administered on Saturday. The total number of people who have recovered reached 3,36,446, pushing the recovery rate to 97.81%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have been 3,43,965 and the death toll stands at 4,537.Officials said that 58,671 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nearly-300-surge-in-covid-cases-in-j-k-in-one-week-101641707423646.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||86 passengers rescued as landslides block Jammu-Srinagar highway||Heavy rains in plains and snow in the upper reaches of Jammu and Kashmir continued to disrupt normal life on Saturday. Fresh landslides were witnessed at around a dozen places on Jammu-Srinagar national highway. Poor visibility also affected flights in Srinagar. “All the 40 flights scheduled to operate at the Srinagar airport had to be cancelled due to snowfall,” an official of the Airport Authority of India (AAI) said.He said that snowfall had reduced visibility to less than 600 metres at the airport.Jammu-Srinagar national highway was blocked due to overnight rains and snow that triggered fresh slides in Ramban district. “From Nashri to Banihal, NH-44 is completely blocked due to landslides, mainly at Cafeteria Morh, Sita Ram Passi in Maroge and Chanderkote. There are shooting stones at multiple locations,” said SSP traffic, national highway, Shabir Malik. “About 50 light motor vehicles (LMVs) were left stranded due to the closure of the highway. A number of trucks also remained stranded while some 300 trucks carrying essential supplies to Kashmir including fuel and fresh vegetables were cleared,” Malik said. He said that 86 passengers, who were left stranded at Sita Ram Passi, were rescued in the wee hours of Saturday and shifted to a community hall in Ramban. The train service between Banihal and Baramulla section was also suspended. “Snow has accumulated in subdivision Banihal, Ramsu, Gool and therefore people are advised to stay indoors,” said MeT advisory. Jammu-Poonch highway was also closed after fresh snowfall on Saturday. Mughal Road, another highway connecting Kashmir with Jammu via Rajouri, has been also closed due to accumulation of more than three feet of snow.Vaishno Devi cave shrine in Trikuta hills witnessed fresh snowfall on Saturday morning. “The yatra is on from the old traditional route. However, battery car service on Himkoti Marg and helicopter services remain suspended due to inclement weather,” said an official. Jammu city and other plains were lashed by heavy rains in the past 24 hours. The hilly areas of Jammu, including Kishtwar, Bhaderwah, Doda, Reasi, Poonch and Rajouri, experienced major snowfall, disrupting normal life. A head constable, Abdul Rashid, was injured when an official vehicle of a police officer rolled down a gorge at Patnitop on Friday evening. The MeT office has issued ‘orange’ alert for J&K on Saturday. “Currently, it is snowing and raining at most places of J&K. Present weather is most likely to continue for next 12 hours. Expect gradual decrease in rain and snow from Saturday evening. There will be a significant improvement from Sunday morning,” said Sonam Lotus, director of the MeT office. 6-month-old washed away in KathuaA six month old baby boy was washed away in a flashflood in Kathua’s Malhar on Saturday. Kathua SSP Ramesh Kotwal said, “Despite heavy rains and swollen rivers, a family was crossing a nullah in Billawar area on Saturday, when the boy slipped out of the lap of his mother.” In Kashmir, the impact of snow was more in southern parts of the valley and upper reaches. Some places in south Kashmir witnessed more than 2 feet of snow.Dozens of snow clearance machines were pressed into service in Srinagar city and other townships. At several places in Valley, the snowfall disrupted electricity. However, in most of the areas, power was restored by the evening. “In an unprecedented Snow Clearance Exercise, @SMC_Srinagar cleared around 6013 roads, lanes, and bye-lanes in all 74 wards of Srinagar city by 12:00 noon today. The clearance was done throughout the night, early morning and still continues,” Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/86-passengers-rescued-as-landslides-block-jammu-srinagar-highway-101641706641160.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Schools shut in Himachal till Jan 26||Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday decided to shut all educational institutions, except medical, dental and nursing colleges, in the state till January 26. The schools in the state are already closed for 1.5 months in snowbound areas and week-long winter vacations in plains. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who presided over a videoconference with DCs, SPs and CMOs from Shimla to review the situation of Covid, said the decision has been made to ensure safety of the students. He directed the officers to ensure enhance Covid testing, effective monitoring of clusters and follow strict perimeters to check the spread of virus. The chief minister said that preparedness regarding availability of beds, oxygen, PPE kits and drugs must be reviewed and all restrictions imposed by the state government be enforced strictly. He said that medical experts were expecting a sharp surge in number of cases in next few days and weeks, thus special precautions must be adopted. The home isolation mechanism must be made more effective and revised guidelines be implemented,” he added. Jai Ram said that oximeters and thermometers must be provided to Ashas and other health workers so that the patients under home isolations could be monitored regularly. He said that in case of any complications, the patients must be immediately moved to health institutions. The CM asked the district administrations to keep an eye on tourists violating Covid-appropriate behaviour and take action against the defaulters. Chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh said that constant engagement with the stakeholders was vital for implementation of various SoPs in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-schools-shut-in-himachal-till-jan-26-101641706461354.html
09-01-2022||Delhi||Back at your service: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal writes after recovering from Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he had recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was back at serving the country. Kejriwal had tested positive for the viral disease on January 4.“I am back at your service after recovering from Covid-19,” Kejriwal, who is also the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) national convener, said in a tweet on Sunday morning.Also Read| Delhi CM Kejriwal tests Covid-positive: In isolation, symptoms mildThe Delhi chief minister had earlier said he had mild symptoms of Covid-19 and was isolating at his residence.Before getting infected, Kejriwal had been actively campaigning in states such as Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa, which are due to go for elections from next month.करोना से ठीक होकर मैं वापिस आपकी सेवा में हाज़िर हूँ।On January 4, he was supposed to attend a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) over the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.In 2021, Arvind Kejriwal's wife Sunita tested positive for Covid-19 after which he had gone into self-isolation.Few members of his cabinet, including deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and health minister Satyendar Jain, had also been infected with the viral disease in its previous wave.Meanwhile, daily infections in Delhi are increasing at an alarming rate due to the fast-spreading Omicron variant of Covid-19, which has infected 513 people so far.Also Read| Weekend curfew in Delhi: DDMA to meet again to discuss further restrictionsOn Saturday, the Capital saw yet another spike of 20,181 cases which pushed the caseload to 1,526,979. Seven more patients died and 11,869 recovered from Covid-19 on Saturday. With this, the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries climbed to 25,143 and 14,53,658 respectively. The active cases in Delhi are at 48,178.With a view to curb the spread of Covid-19, the Delhi government has imposed a weekend curfew that will be in place from Friday 10pm to Monday 5am. All essential services are allowed to continue during the curfew, while metro and bus services can operate at full seating capacity.All government officials except for those engaged in essential services will work from home. Fifty per cent of the workforce of private offices will also work from home.On Monday, the DDMA will hold a meeting to discuss further restrictions, including 'total curfew', under the Graded Response Action (GRAP) plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/back-at-your-service-delhi-cm-kejriwal-writes-after-recovering-from-covid-101641703260427.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jai Ram asks NHAI to expedite land acquisition for road projects in Himachal||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday directed PWD and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to expedite process of land acquisition so that work on major road projects could be started at earliest. He was presiding over a meeting with PWD and NHAI officials at Shimla.He asked the NHAI authorities to set deadlines for completion of projects major road projects.Jai Ram said the state government was also planning to urge the Prime Minister to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of a few NHAI projects for the state any time during the mid of this year. He directed the NHAI authorities to ensure proper maintenance of national highways and four-lane projects being executed in the state so that commuters do not face any inconvenience. The CM said that presently, HP had about 40,000km road length, but being a hilly state, a lot more needed to be done. He said that the present state government connected 321 villages with roads as compared to 261 roads connected during the tenure of the Congress government. He said that 240 bridges and 3,108km of roads were built during the last four years. He also asked the NHAI authorities to ensure completion of 85km Hanogi-Kullu-Manali road by end of July this year. He said that being constructed at a cost of ₹ 4,540 crore, this would give big boost to tourism development in the area.The CM said that presently, NHAI was executing 104-km Parwanoo-Solan-Kaithlighat-Shimla bypass road, 226-km Kiratpur-Nerchowk-Mandi-Kullu-Manali road, 223-km Shimla-Bilaspur-Hamirpur-Mataur road and 17-km Pinjore-Baddi-Nalagarh road. He told the highway authorities to ensure that these projects meet the deadline. Jai Ram said that Union minister of surface transport and highways has dedicated four lane Parwanoo-Solan section of NH-22 (new NH-05) having length of 39.14km constructed at a cost of ₹ 1,303 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-asks-nhai-to-expedite-land-acquisition-for-road-projects-in-himachal-101641705020877.html
09-01-2022||Bangalore||Congress set to begin padayatra despite restrictions by BJP govt in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Hundreds and thousands of people poured into Sangama, in Kanakpura taluk, to take part in the 10-day 100-km padayatra led by the Congress party in Karnataka.Leaders of the Congress party at the national, state, district and other local levels landed at the venue which resembles a large fair with performers, loudspeakers and huge stages to host the sea of people who are in Ramanagara on the first day of the march that is scheduled to cross 15 assembly seats before reaching the Basavanagudi grounds in state capital Bengaluru.The padyatra, aimed at pressuring the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to initiate work on the contentious Mekedatu project, is an attempt by the Sonia Gandhi-led party to mobilise support ahead of crucial local elections in the state over the next few months, and the 2023 assembly polls.The Mekedatu issue has evoked emotions on both sides of the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border as it is an extension of the century-old Cauvery river water dispute that has defined generations in the two states. The Congress says the additional reservoir in Mekedatu will help Karnataka source an additional 50 Thousand Million Cubic feet (TMC) of water and 400megawatt electricity.DK Shivakumar, Karnataka Congress president, is also hoping to find his footing and get some traction in his favour within a visibly divided outfit torn between him and former chief minister Siddaramaiah.The BJP government has warned of action against the proposed march as it violates covid-19 restrictions over a rise in infections across the state.“I pray with folded hands to the chief minister that he should withdraw the curfew. Take back the ban imposed by the DC (deputy commissioner). This struggle is for you as well since you also want to start the project and it is the duty of any political party to undertake such struggles,” Shivakumar told a local Kannada channel on Sunday morning.Police have warned of penal action if the march does move forward as it violates Covid-19 restrictions. Over the last few days, the Congress has promised to maintain Covid appropriate behaviour “The party has ordered one lakh masks,” DK Shivakumar told reporters on Tuesday when asked about the decision to hold the march at a time the state is battling a surge in Covid cases. But most leaders and participants at the padayatra on Sunday morning were without masks, and were not seen to maintain social distancing either, or take any other precautions.The Congress is hoping for a repeat of the impact that its 300km march from Bengaluru to Ballari had in 2012 when it led a campaign against then BJP minister, Gali Janardhana Reddy, over the illegal mining scandal that eventually led to the collapse of the saffron outfit’s first government in southern India and reduced the party to just 40 seats in 2013 as against 110 in 2008.The Congress is also trying to get various communities to back the march as part of its efforts to mobilise support especially in the Old Mysuru region where is has a tough battle with the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) and even the BJP which has steadily increased its footprint in the Vokkaliga heartland, both organically and inorganically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-set-to-begin-padayatra-despite-restrictions-by-bjp-govt-in-karnataka-101641704961119.html
09-01-2022||Ranchi||Wife, kids of Hemant Soren among 15 to contract Covid at Jharkhand CM’s house||A total of 15 people in Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren's residence, including his wife, two children and sister-in-law, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news. The chief minister has, however, tested negative for the viral disease.So far, 62 people have been tested for Covid-19 at the chief minister's residence, Ranchi's chief medical officer Vinod Kumar said.Reports of 24 of them were available this (Saturday) evening and it was found that the CM's wife Kalpana Soren, their two sons Nitin and Vishwajit, sister-in-law Sarla Murmu and a bodyguard were among the 15 affected, Kumar said.The Ranchi CMO told PTI that all the infected patients at the residence have mild Covid-19 symptoms and can be treated in home isolation.Meanwhile, Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta has also tested positive for Covid-19 and is isolating himself at his residence in Jamshedpur."I have once again tested positive for Covid-19 while discharging my duty. I was not feeling well for the past few days and got tested, the report of which returned positive. All those who have come in contact with me in the last few days must get tested. I have isolated myself at home," Gupta's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.The health minister was previously infected with Covid-19 in August 2020.Till now, Jharkhand has reported over 3,74,000 infections including 5,164 deaths, 347,866 recoveries and 21,098 active cases. On Saturday, 5,081 new cases, 1,186 recoveries and three more deaths were reported.The state has not reported a single case of the fast-spreading Omicron variant till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/wife-kids-of-hemant-soren-among-15-to-contract-covid-at-jharkhand-cm-s-house-101641692801234.html
09-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's air quality improves to 'satisfactory' as Capital witnesses heavy rain||Delhi's air quality improved from 'moderate' category to 'satisfactory' on Sunday with the Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 90, as the capital city and its adjoining areas witnessed heavy rainfall and thunderstorm for two continuous days, as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain with few spells of heavy intensity rain would continue to occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi and NCR ( Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station, Bahadurgarh, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Chhapraula, Noida," tweeted the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD)."Light intensity rain/drizzle to moderate rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of North Delhi, South-East Delhi, NewDelhi, Lodi road, East-Delhi, Yamunanagar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat," tweeted Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC), New Delhi.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida remains in the 'moderate' category with the AQI at 119.However, the air quality of Gurugram improved to the 'satisfactory' category with the AQI at 81.As per the government agencies, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-improves-to-satisfactory-as-capital-witnesses-heavy-rain-101641695222370.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chitkara University organises north zone table tennis tournament||Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh organised table tennis tournaments for men and women under the aegis of AIU (Association of Indian Universities) between December 30 and January 6. The men’s tournament, which started on December 30 concluded on January 1, while the women’s tournament started on January 5 and wrapped up the next day. Both the events were organised under the mentorship of assistant director Anil Rana and the University Sports Board. In the men’s tournament, around 44 teams participated. A thrilling final match saw Chitkara University, Punjab lifting the winning trophy while Punjabi University was the first runner-up and Panjab University the second runner-up. Team Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi, were placed fourth.In the women’s North Zone Table Tennis Championship, 24 teams participated. Panjab University bagged the first position while Chandigarh University and University of Allahabad stood as first and second runner-ups, respectively.“It was my pleasure to attend the tournament as chief referee. We witnessed wonderful matches here. All players played with great zeal and sportsmanship. The tournament was organized in a very systematic manner”, said VK Gulati, ex-chief coach NIS Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-organises-north-zone-table-tennis-tournament-101641693143142.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Singing glories of the sun god||The sun-deprived daylight hours of last week were poor compensation for the relatively warmer winter nights. So, when on Thursday, the sun made a glorious return to the cosmic pulpit, clammy residents flocked to Chandigarh’s sprawling parks, fringed with flora and basking wild creatures. I chose Rajendra Park opposite the Punjab chief minister’s residence to take a ramble, hoping to catch a glimpse of grey partridges (francolins) that dwelled in its patronage of scrubland borders. The ladies were out in strength, walking briskly, some in the typical, flashy pink parkas, while their kids pulled the stumps out for sunny cricket.Around 4pm, the trees on the park fringes resounded with vociferous partridge cackles. The calls were unusually vehement, occasioned by the warmth showered by the sun god. “Partridges call just before sundown to locate each other, so that the covey is within earshot in case danger arises and warning calls can be emitted. It is also a rallying call to reunite the scattered birds of the covey for the night roost on the trees. Compared to the grey partridge, the black partridge displays lesser number and variety of vocalisations, principally because the latter does not form coveys,” zoologist Rajiv Kalsi, who has authored a radio telemetry-based study on ecology and feeding of partridges, told this writer.Burly Punjab Police (PP) cops detailed for the CM’s security also made good the weather break at the park. With assiduously cultivated whiskers and beards, they looked intimidating. It was reminiscent of a notorious era of the PP. “It was not uncommon to hear of 1,500-2,000 partridges being served at feasts hosted for senior cops’ children. The SHOs would be directed to rally illegal trappers, who would use the ‘boolarra’ method of trapping partridges. A male captive partridge would be placed in the wilderness with nets all around. When the captive partridge would call, the resident males and females would make for the spot and get trapped. On one occasion, the then Patiala SSP served hundreds of partridges at the wedding of his child. The press reported it and it came to the notice of then PM Indira Gandhi. Being a committed wildlife conservationist, she took up the matter directly with then Punjab CM Darbara Singh and sought action,” former Punjab chief wildlife warden Gurmit Singh told this writer. Though no longer on that scale, sections of the PP are still known to procure partridges from trappers to curry favour with their bosses. Partridges were once the quintessential game birds of the north-west Indian countryside. These humble birds sporting succulent flesh also enjoyed cultural resonance and the pugnacious cock with spurs on the legs would be put to staged bet fighting. The black one, by far the handsomer of the two species, has had its call phonetically rendered in many variants: Emperor Babar heard it as ‘Shir-darem-shakrak’ (I have a milk and a little sugar), as ‘Suban-teri-qudrat’ (O Omnipotent, thy power) by UP Muslims and as ‘Lehsan-piaz-adrak’ (garlic, onion, ginger) by shikaris salivating at the partridges-in-the-pot fire. No photographer or sportsman can surrender the memory of the black male with his head held high rendering a spirited call to the accompaniment of tail waggles. To the less dapper Grey, goes the credit for possessing the most graceful run. AO Hume documented this when he wrote in the 19th century: “They run very swiftly and gracefully; they seem to glide rather than run, and the native lover can pay no higher compliment to his mistress than to liken her gait to that of the Grey partridge”. While John Lockwood Kipling, Rudyard Kipling’s father, had this to say: “The (tamed partridge) creature follows its master with a rapid and pretty gait that suggests a graceful girl tripping along with a full skirt well held up. The Indian lover can pay his sweetheart no higher compliment than to say she runs like a partridge...In poetry, too, the partridge is associated with the moon, and, like the lotus, is supposed to be perpetually longing for it, while the chukor is said to eat fire.”vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzzsinging-glories-of-the-sun-god-101641692240517.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Witerati | Of third waves and New Year second thoughts||Pray, what be the most curious of casualties of New Year season?Nah, we aren’t alluding to the balderdash being belted out by the Blokes of Breaking News. The toll of two cities.Talking tolls and tales, as is customary, Season 2022 rings in its share of curtain-raisers. And again, curtains of social distancing.Ah, but did you notice, on New Year, there’s one thing that’s a conspicuous casualty of the coronascape? Like life itself.New Year resolutions.Nobody diligently does them in the New Normal, like before, do they?Blame it on pandemics not taking too kindly to resolutions. Pandemics are possessed with a nasty habit of meddling with expiry dates. Of New Year resolutions (NYRs), as also of those deigning to dabble in them.The Pandemic, perhaps, has spawned a new vocabulary that could best be or better be described as New Year Non-Resolution.A state of vacillation that entails eyebrows shooting heavenwards at the stroke of midnight hour, like a million fireworks saluting the skyscape, petitioning for enlightenment from the galaxy of Gods, about whether or not we would survive 2022 Toll Lists to be bothered with trifles like NYR Long Lists or Short Lists.Of New Year Hit Lists and With-It ListsThis Post New Normal vocabulary denotes all demeanour defined by the dilemma: To do or not to do what we were wont to do - New Year Resolution Hit Lists, With-It Lists, Miss Lists, Dismiss Lists, Consolation Lists or Disconsolation Lists.The Pandemic has indeed robbed us of the days when New Year resolutions stood scripted more religiously than Amarnath Yatras or Ayodhya andolans. Never mind, if NYRs proved as fickle as our political coalitions or Donald Trump’s Twitter renditions. Whether it was passionate pledges to quit smoking or saving crash diet plans from ending in smoke, pre-pandemic, there was spelt out a resolution for every reason, every season. Alas, the treason of this season has robbed us of many a reason.This new narrative of New Year Non-Resolution thus tosses up tormenting thoughts:To join or not to join power yoga to empower fitness quotient. For, one knows not whether one would end up learning the likes of shirshasana or end up in a position bearing uncanny resemblance to shavasana.To give up or not to give up vices catastrophic for curves, such as splurging on sinful Double Trouble Donuts. For, one scarce can figure out what’s ordained by the Covid curve, whether it will be Death by Chocolate or Death by Delta.Of bad hair days and being in bad booksTo sport or not to sport makeovers to better bad-hair days in 2022, like a hair transplant or hair sauna from that neighbourhood Chinese hairdresser. First, not to forget that all things Chinese are to be blamed for the Covid spate. Second, not to forget the Third Wave could render inconsequential follicular fate, scarce would it matter whether one exits the stage sporting curly waves or a bald pate.The curious case of hair today, gone tomorrow.This New Year Non-Resolution narrative can be a boon or bane, depending on who’s at the receiving end.“How about a New Year resolution to devote more time to textbooks than texting?” mummy-hood egged on one’s Millennial at the dawn of 2022. Running the risk of further being in bad books.“C’mon, haven’t you heard Third Wave prophesies?” the Millennial glared up from Zoom, to gurgle gyaan as a prophet of doom. “Come Omicron, what matters more is one book - how to book a berth in a Covid centre!”New Year resolutions shall never be the same, it did dawn.The curious case of the untimely demise of a New Year tradition, by ‘book’ or by crook.chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-of-third-waves-and-new-year-second-thoughts-101641692059019.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest Column | A sunny disposition dispels life’s blues||I am a fairly good student of life, and over the years, I have realised that whenever I am in an upbeat mood, I become the best version of myself. I perform considerably better on days that I feel good about myself. It is not that a sudden spurt of talent or adroitness descends over me on these feel-good days, rather it is the happiness quotient, which determines my actions.It is only the question of doing enough to stay enthused. Over the last year, most of us have seen crests and troughs of tumultuous emotions dipping from one high to another low. The pathos and sadness of the pandemic had our hearts swinging like a yo-yo and each day passed with a kind of uncertainty. It was hard to rise above the storm, but the proverbial eagle was always inspiring us to soar high.Trigger some cheer at the start of the day So, I consciously started looking for ways to trigger some cheer before embarking on my daily routine. I would get my dose of endorphins doing the simplest of things, and it would leave me bright-eyed and bushy-tailed for the rest of the day.It was sometimes a song that I’d hear in the morning, and hum it as I went about the day’s chores. Whenever I could snatch a few blissful moments with my pets, their positive energy would engulf me. No chore would seem loathsome, and I would end up doing even the hardest of jobs with a smile.I had not been able to go on vacation, but I decided not to sulk about it. A morning sojourn in the beautiful manicured public park with the sunlight kissing my countenance , was immensely exhilarating. And I would earn a nice glow, whenever I would stretch my sinews . It goes without saying that I would walk on air with a pep in my gait.This happiness mode is in all of us, only the ‘press’ button varies. For instance, my mother would remain cheery all through the day, if any of us prepared a nice cup of tea for her in the morning. The magic would linger the entire day and she would sometimes treat us with one of her special delicacies.My friend was a great singer but it was rare that she would let her talent bloom. We would often tease her about having starry tantrums , but she was actually prioritising her duties and sparing no time for what made her happy.Our friendly neighbour, a retired Colonel, was a melancholy soul after he lost his wife to Covid. I knew of his passion for gardening, so I would often talk to him about his plants. That would not only bring a light to his eyes, but also brighten his gardener’s day, as he would tip generously after that.This New Year, kindle a new fervour for life People who seem to have discovered what makes them happy are like a breeze of fresh air who fill a room with their vibrant presence. It is not that they do not have any problems in life, but they chose to have a sunny disposition, which helps them, and those around them.With the advent of the new year, what better time for me to resolve to kindle a new fervour and zest for life, by making my inner self happy.alkagaurkashyap@gmail.com(The writer is a Chandigarh-based lawyer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-a-sunny-disposition-dispels-life-s-blues-101641691819071.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Let’s catch grammar, you and I||“I could not reach in time to join my family for dinner.” The sentence seemed innocuous enough as I added it to a student’s story, and yet I received a text message from her mother saying, “Shouldn’t it be ‘on time’ and not ‘in time’?” I was sure that I was right, and there was more than one way to frame a sentence. However, before I responded, I decided to verify the usage from a reliable grammar website, just in case, and sure enough, I wasn’t wrong. As per the website, ‘in time’ means “early enough before a deadline or a cut off.” It indicates that one arrived or accomplished a task with sufficient time remaining to do something else, in our case to have dinner with the family. On the other hand, ‘on time’ means arriving at the designated time. As is usually the case, I was not consciously aware of this rule of grammar, and yet I had used it correctly. I probably, learnt the byzantine rules of English grammar, subconsciously – from the books and newspapers I read, the movies, and television shows I watched, and the people I interacted with on a daily basis. Subconscious is key I have always believed that grammar is caught, not taught. The best way to learn a language is gradually and naturally, through real experiences. Language is learnt through figures of speech, phrases, and idioms used by our parents, teachers, siblings, and actors on television. Learning grammar is like driving a car. In the beginning, we fret over the rules of accelerating, slowing down, braking et al, and then comes a time when we drive without a conscious thought, seemingly on auto-pilot, with the myriad rules an indelible part of our subconscious. There needs to be a change in the was grammar is taught in schools. It should not be taught as a standalone activity. The students’ mind and imagination should be teased through immersive activities such as role playing, writing an article for the school magazine, writing to an author, or inviting the school principal to a class assembly, creating short stories in small groups, or reading a newspaper or storybook. However, should one flip through the English notebook of a CBSE school student, it becomes apparent that such concepts are alien to policymakers and curriculum designers. Who is afraid of tenses? Forms of verbs are drilled into students in Class 3, which only induces mighty yawns among students, and anxiety among parents. When the students move to tenses, parents’ anxiety usually increases manifold, and they enrol their wards for special language classes after school, where superfluous rules of grammar are fastidiously hammered into their heads. Little do parents, teachers, and curriculum designers realise that sentence formation comes intuitively. If we were to apply the abundant and contrary rules of grammar consciously, they would only get in our way. We do a gross disservice to our children when we keep them engrossed in worksheets and exercises, leaving them with little time to speak, read or write, and thereby interfering with their subconscious learning. Making children as young as ten years of age, identify the different types of adjectives and adverbs will not help matters either, or help them get proficient in the language. This is not to say that one should completely do away with the conventional way of teaching grammar. While the teachers can be ‘upholders’ of grammar, the ‘keepers’ of pronunciation and the ‘correctors’ of wrongly placed apostrophes, they need to plan lessons that are enjoyable, engaging and fun. But, remember not to dive too deep into it. rupymand@gmail.com (The writer is a Jalandhar-based educator)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-let-s-catch-grammar-you-and-i-101641691698849.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||₹1.6 lakh robbery in Ludhiana: Telecom firm employee arrested||Five days after the ₹1.6 lakh robbery from an employee of a telecom firm, the police have solved the case to find that the employee had himself orchestrated the robbery. The accused Maninderjit Singh, 27, of Guru Nanak Nagar of Machhiwara and his aide Bhajan Singh, 31, of Ropar Road of Machhiwara have been arrested with ₹ 60,500 cash recovered from their possession.Inspector Ranbir Singh, station house officer (SHO) at police station Koomkalan said on January 3, Maninderjit lodged a complaint stating that he works in a telecom company and used to collect cash from the market for his employer. While returning to the office after collecting ₹1.60 lakh cash from the market on his motorcycle, a motorcycle-borne man turned up near Sheria road and kicked his motorcycle following which he fell on the road, Thereafter, the accused snatched his cash, mobile phone and some documents and fled. SHO said a case under Section 379-B of IPC was registered against the unidentified accused. During investigation, the police arrested Bhajan, who said that Maninderjit had hatched the conspiracy to make some easy money, following which the police also arrested him .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-lakh-robbery-in-ludhiana-telecom-firm-employee-arrested-101641691098933.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Government Railway Police records five-year high of untraced NDPS cases in Ludhiana in 2021||Ludhiana The Government Railway Police (GRP) in 2021 recorded a five-year high of untraced cases accepted by local Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court.A total of 21 NDPS cases were marked as “untraced” by the court, in comparison to nine recorded in the four-year period between 2017 to 2020 combined. Four cases were approved as “untraced” by the court in 2017, three in 2018 and one case each in 2019 and 2020.Elaborating on the use of “untraced” terminology, an official said, “In cases where only the contraband is recovered with the accused being untraced, the court accepts these cases as untraced after the filing of a detailed report by the GRP.”Conviction numbers also fall significantlyOnly nine people accused in NDPS cases held by GRP were convicted between 2020-2021, a significantly smaller number in comparison to a total of 54 people convicted between 2019-2018.Notably, no accused was convicted in the three cases decided by the court in 2020. In comparison, nine of 14 accused in cases in 2021faced conviction. The numbers are significantly lower than those recorded in 2018 and 2019, when 30 out of 41 and 24 out of 29 accused were convicted for the crimes.Explaining the trend, a senior official said, “Criminals were convicted in most of the cases. A high number of accused were held before the lockdown and thus more cases were decided then resulting in high conviction rates.” “After all the trains stopped operations post lockdown, no accused was held. In 2021, after the resumption of railway traffic, GRP held people with the contraband on trains or railway platforms during checking,” the official added.The GRP has filed an appeal against a 2021 acquittal. The same year, regular bail was granted to the accused in as many as six cases, in comparison to nine in 2020, 11 in 2019, 49 in 2018 and 56 in 2017.
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM’s security breach: Congress, orchestrated the episode: Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma||Ludhiana: Amid political turmoil over security lapses during Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi Ferozepur visit, Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma accused the Congress of conspiring against the PM.Addressing a press conference at a hotel on Ferozepur road on Saturday, Sharma lambasted chief minister (CM) Charanjit Channi and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu for using foul language against the PM.He alleged that CM Channi is making false claims about not being aware of the PM’s route plan, as the Special Protection Group (SPG) for the PM’s security had apprised the state government over the same three days ahead of the visit. He further claims that the state was apprised of the threat perception, but still failed to take proper action.“CM Channi said that nothing happened to the PM. Does this mean that he was waiting for something to happen to the PM of the country. A number of blasts have been reported in border areas of Ferozepur/Jalalabad in the past, but still the PM’s security was compromised. Channi did not accompany the PM as the Congress had orchestrated the entire episode. This is why Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is keeping mum on the entire episode,” said Sharma.Responding to the allegations levelled by Sidhu regarding disrespect of Punjabis by the BJP, Sharma said the PPCC president should first answer whether calling Pakistan’s PM Imran Khan and hugging the Pakistani army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa was not disrespectful to the tricolor.Sharma added that Sidhu and the Congress just wanted to gain power and were not concerned with Punjab or Punjabis. Other BJP leaders also raised questions over the FIR lodged by the state in the case. Speaking on imposition of the Model Code of Conduct in the state, Sharma said it will be a challenge for the Election Commission to conduct peaceful polls in the state as concerns regarding the law and order has taken a back seat under the Congress-led government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pms-security-breach-congress-orchestrated-the-episode-punjab-bjp-president-ashwani-sharma-101641690979309.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Improvement Trust puts off draw of lots for Atal Apartment Scheme||The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has deferred the draw of lots for allotment of flats under the Atal Apartments Scheme owing to imposition of model code of conduct by election commission of India (ECI) ahead of the assembly elections.Trust had earlier announced to conduct draw of lots for 576 flats on January 10 at Nehru Sidhant Kendra on Pakhowal road. 1,018 applications receivedAs many as 576 flats including 336 HIG and 240 MIG flats have to be constructed in 8.8 acres of land in Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar. Around 1,018 applications have been received under the scheme, which has been relaunched for the third time in the last one decade.While 854 applications have been received for HIG flats, 164 residents have applied for MIG flats. The applicants have submitted ₹2.4 lakh and ₹1.87 lakhs as earnest money for HIG and MIG flats, respectively, which will be returned to unsuccessful applicants.The officials said as the applicants for MIG flats are less than the number of flats to be constructed under the project, the names of unsuccessful applicants of HIG flats will be added to the lot of MIG flats, to give them a chance and complete the process.Tenders for construction soonLIT chairperson Raman Balasubramaniam said, “The decision to adjourn the draw of lots has been taken due to imposition of model code of conduct. The trust has now written to principal secretary of the local bodies department to seek permission from the election commission for conducting the draw and the next date will be announced as per the response from the commission. The department is also in process to float the tenders for initiating construction works at the site.”Scheme broached third timeThe scheme was initially launched in 2011 when the then local bodies minister Tikshan Sood laid the foundation stone for the project wherein construction of 450 flats was proposed. The LIT organised a draw of lots for allotment of flats with a delay of around five years in 2016 and even allotted 110 flats to residents but the scheme was dropped in 2017 and the allottees were a harried lot. The scheme was again mooted in 2018 but dropped again. In the third attempt, chief minister Charanjit Channi again laid the foundation for the project on December 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-improvement-trust-puts-off-draw-of-lots-for-atal-apartment-scheme-101641690920678.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees 561 new Covid cases, highest in 7 months||With the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic sweeping through the district, 561 more people tested positive on Saturday – the highest in seven months. The district saw a 73.14% spike in cases in a single day, against the 324 new infections reported on Friday. The last time the district had seen cases in the same ballpark was May 23 when 597 cases had been reported. The fresh cases include 34 persons who had come in contact with Covid patients, 279 patients with influenza-like symptoms, 56 health care workers, and one police officer.Twenty-five doctors and paramedical staff have tested positive at Christian Medical College and Hospital. Now, the Covid cases in the district stand at 89,424, of which 85,653 patients have recovered and 2,120 have succumbed to the virus. There are 1,651 active cases in the district, of which 1,612 are under home isolation and 39 are admitted to different hospitals. Three cases of Omicron have also been detected.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh advised the residents to continue to take precautions and get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-561-new-covid-cases-highest-in-7-months-101641690919228.html
09-01-2022||Other||Ludhiana | Confectioner strangulates wife to death||A man thrashed, and strangulated his wife to death after a verbal spat in Anand Nagar of Haibowal on Thursday night. The woman’s family rushed the victim, Simran, 27, to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Her husband, Vikrant Kumar, who works as a confectioner, and driver, is on the run.The complainant, Karan Singh of Haibowal, who is the victim’s brother said the couple were at odds over Simran’s decision to work, which led to frequent spats between the two. The couple had married nine years ago, and have a seven-year-old daughter. The neighbours had called the victim’s parents after hearing her cries. Her family reached the spot to find Simran unconscious. Vikrant had already fled the spot. A case has been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-confectioner-strangulates-wife-to-death-101641690858852.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Daughter’s ‘lover’ arrested for daily wager’s murder, had eyes on property||A 38-year-old man was arrested for the murder of a 65-year-old daily wager working with the forest department in Ludhiana. Police said the accused, Ashraf Ali of Malerkotla who runs a photo studio, is the lover of the victim’s daughter and had eyes on the family’s property.Shinder Singh, 65, of Dehlon village, had been found murdered near Butahari Canal bridge of Dehlon on December 23, 2021. He had been hacked to death with his own axe.A murder case was lodged on the complaint of the victim’s daughter, Bakhshish Kaur.Dehlon station house officer inspector Sukhjit Singh said the accused was a family friend of Shinder Singh and got into a relationship with his daughter, who had separated from her husband. Shinder was aware of the relationship and never objected to it.The SHO added that the daughter wanted to marry Ashraf and live in a separate accommodation but the latter wanted to grab Shinder’s house. “Since Shinder was the lone male member in the family of four, the accused thought that it would be easy to take over the property once he got him out of the way,” said the SHO. “On December 23, Shinder had left the house to paint eucalyptus trees along with the canal, to save it from termites. Ashraf turned up at the spot and two consumed liquor. The accused then hacked the victim to death with his axe and fled.”The body had been discovered near the canal bridge the next day. To avoid suspicion, the accused remained with the family and also helped his daughters perform the last rites. Later, he panicked and fled, which turned the needle of suspicion on him, said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-daughter-s-lover-arrested-for-daily-wager-s-murder-had-eyes-on-property-101641690799694.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Heavy rain, water logging throw life out of gear||Life in the industrial hub, which has received the highest rainfall for January in at least 50 years, was thrown out of gear after low-lying areas were inundated with rainwater on Saturday. Waterlogging was seen in almost all parts of the upcoming smart city, leaving motorists and locals a harried lot. Potholed roads and traffic jams added to the commuters’ misery. Some vehicles also developed a snag due to water accumulation. Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, BRS Nagar Market, Gill Road, Model Town Extension, Shastri Nagar, Hambran Road, Chaura Bazar, Shivaji Nagar, and Dugri fared the worse, while the area outside the municipal corporation’s Zone C office was also in a bad shape. Slamming the government for making tall claims about development ahead of the polls, the residents demanded a solution to the waterlogging issue which flares up each year after heavy rainfall. Confederation of Indian Industries (CII- Ludhiana Zone) vice-chairman Ashpreet Sahni said, “The rainfall witnessed on Saturday has exposed the municipal corporation and political parties who claim to have spent crores on developing the city. We were stuck in a five-hour traffic jam due to water accumulation. Many vehicles were stuck in deep potholes, and finished goods could be seen floating in the accumulated sewer water.” A local, Premjeet Singh of Chandigarh Road, said, “Repeated complaints have been submitted to the authorities, and also to the chief minister’s office, but to no avail. “It is difficult to step out of the house due to water logging. The sewer lines get choked and a foul odour pervades the area,” said Singh. In BRS Nagar main market, Ferozepur Road, and Shastri Nagar residents were unable to step out of their cars or houses due to water accumulation. The level of buddha nullah also increased, after which authorities moved to the field to keep a check on the situation.Drainage affected due to power outage at Bhattian STPDrainage of rainwater at Chaura Bazar, New Shivaji Nagar, Transport Nagar, Hargobind Nagar, and Jalandhar bypass was affected due to a power outage at the Bhattian sewer treatment plant (STP) of the MC on Saturday evening, after power supply lines developed a snag. As motors and pumps were unable to pump water out of the sewer lines, the drainage process was delayed. Punjab water supply and sewerage board executive engineer GP Singh said the power line had developed a snag in the evening. However, the generator was used to resume operations. Covering manholes delayed drainage process: Ex-Councillor Former councillor and mayor Balkar Sandhu’s officer on special duty, Parminder Mehta, slammed the authorities for failing to clear the hot mix poured on the manhole covers in old city areas, which hampered water drainage. “Earlier, shopkeepers would open the manholes to drain the water, but they could not even find the manholes on Saturday as they had been covered by the contractor,” said Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-heavy-rain-water-logging-throw-life-out-of-gear-101641690798459.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Rainfall in first 8 days of year breaks 5-decade record for January||Breaking a five-decade record, the city has received 99mm rainfall in the first eight days of January alone, against the average 28.3mm, which is typical for the first month of the year. During the downpour on Saturday, the city received 47.4mm rainfall, which outshoots the monthly average for January by 51.6mm. The last time the city had received record-breaking precipitation in January was 1992, when the city had received 83.6mm rainfall. After a dry November and December, a western disturbance is causing heavy rainfall in the region. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) experts say the city received a whopping 73mm rainfall between 5.30pm on Friday to 5.30pm on Saturday. More showers are expected on Sunday, after which the weather will clear. The maximum temperature was 19°C, while the minimum was 13.6°C. PAU climate change and agricultural meteorology head Prabhjot Kaur Sidhu said, “We have not received this much rainfall since the department was established in 1970. The showers are good for wheat as the intensity of rain is nor too high. However, crop damage may take place in low-lying areas due to water logging. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-rainfall-in-first-8-days-of-year-breaks-5-decade-record-for-january-101641690738538.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Spouse visa: Ludhiana woman dupes husband of ₹40 lakh||A woman was booked for duping her husband of ₹40 lakh on the pretext of arranging a spouse visa for him on Saturday. The complainant, Charanpreet Singh, 25, of Jadtoli village of Dehlon, said he wanted to settle in Canada, but could not secure the required International English Language Testing System (IELTS) bands. “I received a marriage proposal from the accused, Lovepreet Kaur, from a middle man. Her family said she had six IELTS bands, but could afford to send her abroad,” the complainant said. The couple got married on July 1, 2018, and Lovepreet Kaur left for Canada on August 14, 2018. The complainant bore the expenses of the wedding, and the cost of sending her abroad on a study visa, but Lovepreet Kaur allegedly did not arrange a spouse visa for him, and also stopped taking his calls. On April 21, 2021, the complainant registered a case against Lovepreet Kaur, her father Jagtar Singh and mother Sukhwinder Kaur, and a case was registered on Saturday after an investigation. A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Similar cases December 21: A Giaspura resident was duped of ₹35 lakh by his wife who had promised to take him to Australia on a spouse visa. November 28: A Moga resident and her family was booked for duping her husband on the pretext of taking him to Canada with her.September 18: A Raikot resident was duped by his spouse on the pretext of arranging a spouse visa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/spouse-visa-ludhiana-woman-dupes-husband-of-40-lakh-101641690678478.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Man strangulated to death in Ludhiana||Cops on patrol to enforce night curfew stumbled upon a corpse in Jainpur village on Friday. The unidentified victim, who appears to be in his 30s, was found lying in the bushes on Hambran Road. Police suspect that he had been strangulated to death with a plastic rope, and had been dumped on the roadside. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Didar Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused had been beaten up before being murdered. “The body had not started decomposing, which means he was murdered recently, perhaps a day or two before the body was found.” “The man was wearing a white printed shirt, black jacket, and blue denim jeans. We have made announcements in surrounding areas to determine the identity of the victim, but to no avail,” he said. A murder case has been registered against the unidentified accused under sections of the Indian penal Code. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem.2nd incident in four days This is the second time in four days that an unidentified murder victim’s body has been found in the city. On January 4, a 30-year-old man was found murdered under the debris at a vacant plot in Shadi Lal Colony, Tibba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-strangulated-to-death-in-ludhiana-101641690618642.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Model Code of Conduct to be strictly enforced, says Ludhiana election officer||Deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday said the district administration would ensure strict enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) to ensure free, fair, transparent and peaceful execution of the assembly elections. Highlighting the Covid situation, the district election officer said the administration would categorically ensure the prohibitions and limitations imposed by the Elections Commission of India (ECI), adding that any violation of the Model Code of Conduct would invite stern action.He further said separate committees had been constituted at the district level as well as assembly constituency level, including media certification and expenditure monitoring committees, video viewing, vehicle management, accounting and static surveillance teams among others to ensure strict implementation of the Model Code of Conduct.The district election officer also directed officials to immediately remove all political hoardings, posters and banners from roads, electricity and telephone poles, trees, government buildings and other places, while setting a deadline of 48 hours for the removal of political slogans or pictures on local-level official websites.In addition to that, he ordered officials to personally check all the nakas being held in corresponding areas to ensure checks on illicit means to lure voters including liquor, drugs and money.He also asked the Returning Officers (ROs) to visit every polling booth over the next few days to ensure all the facilities, including mandatory sanitisation, thermal scanner, masking, earmarking of social distancing circles in queues, use of gloves, shaded waiting areas, drinking water, toilets, ramps, wheelchairs and others are available.The Election Commission introduced the cVigil app for effective implementation of the Model Code of Conduct as per which every election-related complaint will be addressed within 100 minutes, ensuring prompt action against every complaint.The public can also lodge their complaints regarding Model Code of Conduct violations at the toll-free number 1950. The Election Commission of India has set an expenditure limit of ₹40 lakh for every candidate for the ensuing elections.The district election officer said the notification of election would be issued on January 21, and nominations can be filed for the 14 assembly constituencies of district Ludhiana until January 28. The scrutiny of nomination papers would be held on January 29 and withdrawal of nomination can be done until January 31. He added that voting would be held on February 14, while the counting of the votes would be done on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/model-code-of-conduct-to-be-strictly-enforced-says-ludhiana-election-officer-101641690559158.html
09-01-2022||Kolkata||Union minister Anurag Thakur attacks Mamata Banerjee over Institute claim||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday attacked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee over her remarks concerning the second campus of the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Kolkata which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a day ago.In a swipe at Banerjee, Thakur said as a chief minister she should know the difference between a temporary Covid-19 centre and a world-class cancer institute. His remarks came a day after the West Bengal CM claimed that the project was already inaugurated by her government long time ago.“But no, neither your corona management is effective nor your statement about Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in Kolkata,” Thakur wrote in a series of tweets in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/union-minister-anurag-thakur-attacks-mamata-banerjee-over-institute-claim-101641687215252.html
09-01-2022||Delhi||Capital adds over 20k cases; nearly 89% beds still vacant||Delhi on Saturday added over 20,000 cases of Covid-19 for the first time in nearly 250 days, as the fifth wave of infections continued to spread across the city, even as hospitalisations remained a fraction of the Capital’s total caseload, with around 89% of the city’s reserved beds vacant.Seven more people in the city succumbed to the infection, showed data released by the government on Saturday.The city recorded 20,181 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, infections that came as daily tests jumped past the 100,000 mark for the first time since mid-April last year. Of the 102,965 samples collected on Saturday, 19.6% returned positive results, showed the state government’s health bulletin.The test positivity rate is now the highest it has been since May 9 last year, when the statistic hit 21.67%.Currently, 48,178 patients in the city are fighting Covid-19.However, a vast majority of hospital beds kept aside for Covid-19 patients in the city continue to remain vacant. The bulletin showed that 1,586 people were admitted to hospitals in the city with the infection, leaving nearly 89% (over 12,500) Covid-19 beds in the city free as of Saturday evening.Hospitalisation rates in Delhi have risen much slower than cases have as the city battles a fifth wave of Covid-19 infections, which experts and authorities have said is likely being driven by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. Experts have said that while the variant is highly transmissible, it is also much less likely to cause severe illness, and resultant hospitalisations, especially when compared with the Delta variant that fuelled Delhi’s fourth (and India’s second) wave of infections.Testing has also picked up over the past week, as the state looks to increase daily sampling to around 300,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-adds-over-20k-cases-nearly-89-beds-still-vacant-101641684018847.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh govt teachers detest message to join schools after order to shut schools||After the UT administration declared that schools will remain closed till further orders from Monday (January 10) onwards and the district education officer (DEO) further issued an order on the same lines, government teachers are crying hoarse as they have been asked to take online classes from school. After the UT war room meeting on Thursday, it was declared that all educational institutions, including schools, colleges and coaching centres, will remain closed and they will maintain the academic schedule through online teaching. The DEO also issued an order on Friday endorsing the same. However on Saturday, a Whatsapp message was sent by the DEO to the heads of all government schools, asking teaching and non-teaching staff to be present in schools from Monday. The fresh order has left the teachers confused. The UT Cadre Educational Employees’ Union has also written to the UT education department regarding this. “Teachers don’t mind coming to schools but the 50% staff criteria that is being followed in other government offices must also apply to schools. We all have families and are also concerned about the rising Covid cases in the tricity,” said president of the union Swarn Singh Kamboj. Another teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The DEO had already issued an order regarding closure of schools on Friday. The condition for teachers should have been there. Communicating such instructions through informal channels leads to confusion.” Meanwhile, director school education (DSE) Palika Arora confirmed that teachers will have to start coming to school from Monday. Another senior official of the department said, “Some teachers may face issues with conducting online classes so they have been asked to come. The number of teachers is not less and they can maintain social distancing in schools. During the second wave also, teachers took online classes from schools.” Private schools are also likely to follow this model. President of the Independent School Association and chairman of Vivek High School, HS Mamik, said, “Currently, we are closed for winter vacations but once we open, we will also call teachers to school for online classes.” He added that teachers will be asked to come to school two-to-three times a week as it’s easy to monitor the classes this way and adjustments can be made in case the Covid situation of the city gets worse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-govt-teachers-detest-message-to-join-schools-after-order-to-shut-schools-101641681971495.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases shoot up to 1,519||In no respite from the surging Covid-19 cases, as many as 1,519 people tested positive in the tricity on Saturday, a 49% spike from 1,022 cases the day before.It was only on May 19, last year, when the tricity had logged over 1,500 cases in a single day, amid the peak of the pandemic.Mohali led Saturday’s tally with 563 cases, up from 319 on Friday; Chandigarh’s infections rose from 390 to 541, while Panchkula’s count increased from 313 to 415 in the same period.In another worrisome trend, the positivity rate of the three jurisdictions also spiked in the past 24 hours.Panchkula was the worst-hit with a positivity rate of 16%, compared to 11.7% a day ago. Mohali’s positivity rate jumped from 7% to 11.7% and Chandigarh’s from 10% to 13.9%.Active cases soar to 4,778In a first since June last year, tricity’s active cases shot up to 4,778, a 945% jump since January 1 when 457 patients were infected.As many as 1,830 patients are recuperating in Mohali, followed by 1,794 in Chandigarh and 1,154 in Panchkula.Most of Mohali’s cases (262) on Saturday were reported from Mohali city, followed by 159 from Dhakoli, 82 from Kharar, 24 from Dera Bassi, 15 from Gharuan, 11 from Boothgarh, five from Kurali, three from Lalru and two from Banur. Panchkula’s maximum cases came from Sectors 4, 20 and 21, Kalka, Pinjore, Amrawati Enclave and Mansa Devi Complex. Two to three cases were also reported from areas like Shyamtoo, Tibbi Majra, Abheypur, Balouti, Barwala, Bainsa Tibba, Budanpur, Chandimandir, Indira Colony, Industrial Area, ITBP, Kot Majra Mehtab, Moginand, Morni, Nada, Old Panchkula, Raipur Rani, Ramgarh, Rajiv Colony and one from Sector 18.Chandigarh’s cases were scattered across sectors, colonies and adjoining villages.With this, Panchkula’s total cases have reached 32,248, including 30,712 recoveries and 382 deaths.Mohali’s caseload stands at 70,951, out of which 68,045 have got cured and 1,076 have died. In Chandigarh, the case count till date is 67,755. While 64,881 people have beaten the virus, 1,080 have succumbed to it.99 health workers test positive at PGIPGIMER authorities confirmed that 99 more healthcare workers at the institute tested positive on Saturday, taking the total number of infected staffers since December 20 to 451. This comprises 208 doctors, including junior residents, senior residents and faculty members.22 more areas sealed in UT, nine in MohaliThe total number of containment zones in Chandigarh increased to 94 on Saturday after the administration sealed 22 more areas.These areas are located in parts of Sectors 18-D, 20-D, 27, 33-A, 34, 35C, 38-B, 38 West, 42-C, 45, 46, 49 and 63, besides Uppal Marble Arch in Manimajra and Dadumajra Colony.Similarly, the Mohali district administration declared nine new containment zones in Phases 3B2 and 6, Sectors 68 and 71, Maya Garden and Nirmal Chaya in Zirakpur, Sunny Enclave in Kharar and Omaxe in Mullanpur.All children in UT to be vaccinated by January 26Chandigarh health secretary Yashpal Garg on Saturday ordered that all children in the age group of 15 to 18 be vaccinated before January 26. Also, the adult population should be fully vaccinated with double dose before January 14.The decision was taken in a review meeting, where it was also decided that though the current pace of Covid vaccination was satisfactory, the number of vaccination teams will be increased to achieve the targets.Two new mini-Covid centres set upThe administration has set up two new mini-Covid care centres at Bal Bhawan in Sector 23-B and Indira Holiday Home in Sector 24, having a total capacity of 97 beds.Besides, two more centres, having 100 beds, will be made functional at the sports complex in Sector 34 and the police hospital in Sector 26 within the coming week.Garg said though cases were increasing at an alarming speed, the hospitalisation rate was not as high. “The situation is being closely monitored and there is no need to panic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-shoot-up-to-1519-101641681970325.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Four booked for duping two men of ₹11.7 lakh on fake govt job promise||Police have booked four men, including two brothers, for duping two friends of ₹11.72 lakh after luring them with clerical jobs in the Haryana government.The accused have been identified as Madan, alias Lucky; his brother, Gurpreet, alias Sunny, both natives of Dhanas, but now living in Kurali, Mohali; Sunil Galgat of Sector 25, Panchkula; and Varun of Chandigarh. Gurpreet is working with PGIMER on contract. The accused were booked on the complaint of Harsh Jasrotia, a resident of Panjab University, Sector 25, and Arvind Galav, a resident of Sector 15.Offered jobs with Haryana govtIn their complaint, filed in May last year, Harsh told the police that Madan, who was his schoolmate, had contacted him in November 2019, through Facebook. Madan claimed that he was working with the Haryana government and could help him get a clerical job, as advertised by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), against a payment. But the amount could be reduced, if more candidates apply.Therefore, Harsh introduced him to his friend, Arvind, who also expressed his interest for seeking jobs for his wife and sister. Madan then told them to pay ₹7 lakh per candidate, claiming he had links with the higher-ups in the HSSC and Haryana government. To convince Harsh, Madan even made him talk to accused Sunil Galgat on a conference call, where the latter was introduced as under secretary in HSSC.Provided fake paperworkSeeking 50% advance payment, Madan provided the victims computer-generated roll numbers, with other necessary particulars. But when the HSSC result was declared on December 18, 2019, the victims’ roll numbers were not mentioned. Upon inquiry, Madan and Sunil told the victims that the result of 58 vacancies was yet to be declared, and their names will be on that list. Later, Madan told Harsh that he had been appointed to the excise and taxation department and told him to join work on June 2, 2020. He was also asked to pay more money, failing which his appointment will be cancelled. But when he was not called to join duty despite paying up, the complainants insisted on a refund, following which Madan handed them cheques that were dishonoured. Following investigation into the victims’ complaint, police have now lodged an FIR under Sections 467, 468, 471, 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 11 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhfour-booked-for-duping-two-men-of-11-7-lakh-on-fake-govt-job-promise-101641681968702.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Purse stolen from car parked near gurdwara in Chandigarh||In the second such theft in the area in the past three days, a purse, containing an Apple iPhone, was stolen from a car parked near the Sector 8 gurdwara.In her complaint, Sukhdeep Kaur, a resident of Sector 70, Mohali, told the police that she had parked her Hyundai Creta near the Sector 8/9 dividing road to pay obeisance at the Sector-8 gurdwara with her family. But on returning, she was shocked to find her car’s window pane smashed and her purse, containing her mobile phone, missing. A case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 3 police station. On January 5, a banker had lost her valuables in a similar manner when her vehicle was broken into outside the gurdwara. Police have not made any arrest yet. Thieves strike at two factoriesThieves decamped with cash and valuables from two factories in Industrial Area. Rajesh Kumar Gupta, resident of Phase 1, Industrial Area, reported that ₹20,000, a silver coin and a computer were stolen from his factory office after breaking a window on Thursday night. The same night, a theft also took place at Mittal Ispat and Dashmesh Electronics, in Phase 1, Industrial Area, where ₹20,000 in cash, along with copper worth ₹40,000, were stolen.A case under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC was registered at the Industrial Area police station. The police said there were CCTV cameras installed in the office as well as the factory, but these were switched off while closing the premises in the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/purse-stolen-from-car-parked-near-gurdwara-in-chandigarh-101641681967142.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: OPDs at GMSH-16, GMSH-32 also shut from tomorrow||Two days after PGIMER suspended walk-in OPDs, the UT administration on Saturday also decided to close the physical OPDs at GMSH, Sector 16, and GMCH, Sector 32, from January 10.Emergency services, and OPDs of obstetrics and paediatrics will continue to work as usual at GMSH-16. Similarly, at GMCH-32, apart from emergency services, OPDs for obstetrics, and radiation and oncology will be available as normal.Tele-consultation services for various specialties (see box) will be available from 9.30am to 2pm at GMSH-16 and from 9am to 1pm at GMCH-32.Besides, consultation services will also be provided through e-sanjeevani portal (esanjeevaniopd.in). For special physical consultation at GMSH-16, patients can book appointment through https://ors.gov.in and at GMCH-32, through www.gmch.gov.in.City pvt hospitals to leave 50% beds for Covid patients In the wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh administration has issued orders directing the private hospitals and nursing homes with over 20 beds to keep 50% beds for Covid-19 patients. Also, the private hospitals, laboratories and diagnostic centres have been ordered not to charge above prices fixed by the UT administration. “The Covid infection is spreading in the city with an alarming speed and it is expected that the number of infected persons may be many times than the infections during the second wave peak in April/May 2021,” a press statement said. It specifies that the charges will be borne by the patients willing to avail the facility at the rates approved by the Chandigarh administration in an order dated June 6, 2021, issued in exercise of the powers conferred under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. Even the charges of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Testing by the private laboratories shall not exceed the charges fixed by the administration. “The charges, inclusive of GST/Taxes documentation and reporting for CT scan/HRCT Chest by the private diagnostic cente shall not exceed ₹1,800 as stated in the order,” it mentioned. There are eight such hospitals. Eden Critical Care Hospital in Industrial Area, Phase 1, Chandigarh; City Hospital in Sector 8-C; Mukat Hospital in Sector 34-A, Healing Hospital in Sector 34-A; Santokh Nursing Home in Sector 38-A, Kare Partners Heart Centre, Sector 19-D and Shri Dhanwantry Hospital in Sector 46-B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-opds-at-gmsh-16-gmsh-32-also-shut-from-tomorrow-101641681965968.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate authorises V-C to fix syndicate poll dates amid objections||With the elected candidates from two constituencies yet to be notified, the Panjab University (PU) senate on Saturday authorised vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to fix the dates of the syndicate election. The proposal was moved by senator Satya Pal Jain and was endorsed by most of the senate members, but opposed by some. The senate also authorised the V-C to fix the dates for allotment of faculties. The senate meeting was held after a two-year gap and it ratified all the actions taken and orders passed by the V-C in the absence of the governing body. Eleven agenda items were tabled in the meeting for taking the decision. “It may be recalled that the PU syndicate could not be constituted for the last two years, which has led to pendency of some important decisions, including the PU budget and the board of finance,” the university said in an official communiqué. The elected candidates from two constituencies of the senate – faculties and teachers of affiliated arts colleges – are yet to be notified. Most of them belong to the Goyal group which had a majority in the previous senate and syndicate. Former senator, Navdeep Goyal, who is among the candidates yet to be notified, said, “Never in the past was the syndicate election held with an incomplete senate. Even in 2000 when the result of the registered graduate constituency was withheld on the directions of high court (HC), the syndicate election was not held till the complete senate was formed.” Senator Satya Pal Jain, said, “The dates for the election are fixed by the syndicate and there is no syndicate presently. So how can its election be held? I gave a proposal and around 65 members out of 70 supported it.” ‘Proposal passed in haste’ Som Parkash, Union minister of state for commerce and industry, the nominated senator during the meeting objected to the way the proposal was passed. He said, “The proposal was passed in a hurry and I request that all the members are honoured and done in a democratic way.” Few members object to online meetingThree senators - President of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), Mritunjay Kumar, Rajat Sandhir and Jatinder Grover, in a joint statement, said they protest the holding of an online senate meeting. They said that it is completely illegal in the absence of any such provision in the PU calendar. “The online senate meeting has proved to be absolutely anti-democratic as the microphones were in the entire control of authorities who were allowing only certain members to speak and our audios were muted multiple times because what we spoke was not to their liking,” they said. V-C asked to give hearing to dental faculty on promotionsThe senate turned down the report of a committee regarding the promotion policy for the faculty members at DrHarvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, and authorised the vice-chancellor to give a hearing to the faculty members. The syndicate, in its meeting in July 2020, had resolved to approve the report of the committee, which was formed in 2019 to give suggestions regarding the policy. The report had recommended that the existing policy should continue, as it already had promotional avenues. The varsity had also submitted the report before the Punjab and Haryana high court following a plea by some dental faculty members.However, deliberating on the matter on Saturday, the governing body did not approve the report, and authorised the V-C to give a hearing to the dental faculty members on the matter.Senator Jagat Bhushan, a former principal of the dental institute, said, “Implementation of health and family welfare ministry’s Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP) scheme for dental faculty is a viable solution.” The dental faculty members had also maintained in the past that the DACP scheme had already been implemented for medical/dental teachers in all universities across the country. In May 2019, 37 faculty members had approached the high court, arguing that PU had framed a promotion policy/career advancement scheme as per regulations of the University Grants Commission for faculty of all colleges. But the same benefit was not being given to faculty of the dental institute. Thereafter, HC, in its June 2019 order, had directed PU and the Dental Council of India (DCI) to decide on a promotion policy for the dental faculty.Other decisions The PU senate approved the new fee structure and charges for NRI students of MSc forensic science and criminology. The NRI students will be charged 2,860 US Dollars per annum as tuition fee and development funds, which will be at par with the departments of microbiology and biochemistry. The senate also approved the recommendations of the board of finance (BoF) meeting held on January 7, 2020. 
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 57.2mm rain makes Saturday wettest January day since 2017||The city received 57.2mm rain throughout Saturday, making it the wettest January day since 2017, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).While 27mm rain was logged till 8.30am, another spell of 30.2mm showers was recorded till 11.30pm.This was the highest rain in a 24-hour period in January since 2017 when 59.2mm rain was recorded on January 7, according to IMD records.Just two days ago, the city had seen 30.9mm rain on Thursday, the second-highest rain spell since 2017. In comparison, just 5.5mm rain was recorded in the entire January last year.More rain likely today, tomorrowMeanwhile, the weather department has forecast more rain on Sunday and Monday.“A western disturbance (WD) was active in the city on Friday and was further being fed moisture through the Arabian Sea. It will remain active on Sunday and partly on Monday, but the intensity of rain is likely to come down. Thereafter, drop in the night temperature and fog can be expected.”As the sun showed up briefly in the day, the maximum temperature went up from 18.5°C on Friday to 21°C on Saturday. Due to overnight showers, the minimum temperature also rose from 11.3°C to 13°C.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 17°C and 19°C, and the minimum temperature between 9°C and 12°C.Three flights cancelledDue to poor weather at the destination cities, three flights were cancelled at the Chandigarh International Airport on Saturday. These included a Go First flight to Srinagar, and two Air India flights to Kullu and Dharamshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh572mm-rain-makes-saturday-wettest-january-day-since-2017-101641681961334.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Hate crime: Sikh cabbie assaulted, turban knocked off outside US airport||In a yet another case of suspected hate crime, an Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver in the US has been assaulted by an unidentified man, who knocked off his turban and also used expletives against him outside the JFK International Airport here, according to a video on social media.The undated 26-second video was uploaded by Navjot Pal Kaur on micro-blogging site Twitter on January 4, showing a man assaulting the Sikh taxi driver outside the airport. She said the video was shot by a bystander at the airport. The person can be heard allegedly using expletives against the victim. He repeatedly hits and punches him and knocks off his turban.“This video was taken by a bystander at John F Kennedy International Airport. I do not own the rights to this video. But I just wanted to highlight the fact that hatred continues to remain in our society and unfortunately I’ve seen Sikh cab drivers get assaulted again and again,” Kaur tweeted.Further details about the driver or the cause of the incident were not available.The video led to angry reactions by the community members.“Another Sikh cab driver assaulted. This one at JFK Airport in NYC. So upsetting to see. But it’s crucial that we don’t look away… What I am sure of is how painful it is to watch our fathers and elders get assaulted while they’re just trying to live an honest life.“For those who aren’t Sikh, I can’t put into words what it means to have your turban knocked off — or to see someone else’s turban knocked off. It’s visceral and gut-wrenching and just so disheartening to witness,” Simran Jeet Singh, author and Director for the Aspen Institute’s Inclusive America Project, tweeted.The National Sikh Campaign said: “We are only a few days into the New Year and there has already been a hate crime committed against a Sikh. A bystander recorded an unidentified man attacking a Sikh taxi driver, ultimately knocking off the driver’s turban.” “No additional details have been released outside of the video, but we know this story too well. A Sikh person goes about their daily lives only to be senselessly attacked by someone. Common road rage between people can escalate when someone who is ignorant of who we are takes their disdain for our turbans and becomes violent,” it said.This is not the first time a Sikh taxi driver has been assaulted in the US.An Indian-origin Sikh Uber driver was in 2019 assaulted and racially abused in the US state of Washington in a suspected hate crime. The driver told the police that he believes his race promoted the attack.In 2017, a 25-year-old Sikh cab driver in New York was assaulted and his turban knocked off by drunk passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hate-crime-sikh-cabbie-assaulted-turban-knocked-off-outside-us-airport-101641678480644.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayoral election: Chairs won, but running the House won’t be easy for BJP||Chandigarh Only ten-days after being reduced to second position in the municipal corporation elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) secured all three mayoral posts in the election held here on Saturday. But the road ahead won’t be easy for the BJP as the party is in a minority with 13 seats in the 35-member House. Having mayor’s post, BJP might be able to set agenda for the MC House meet, but getting it passed will be a challenge. It could face stubborn resistance from both the AAP and the Congress members in passing of agenda items. “An invalid vote and cross-voting helped the BJP prevail in the mayoral elections. When the actual business of the House starts, it will be an altogether different game. It will find that managing votes in absence of secret ballot isn’t easy and many of its proposed policy decisions might get stuck,” said a senior Congress leader who didn’t want to be named. With AAP already showing its will to fight it out on the floor of the House, the BJP will have to either seek support from the Congress or attempt at reaching consensus among all the parties. Newly-elected mayor Sarabjit Kaur said, “We will work with all the parties and try to bring them together for the good of the city. With the elections, the politics should end and work for the people’s welfare must start.” SAD, Congress kept themselves at bayBoth the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) abstained from the mayoral elections keeping in mind the forthcoming Punjab elections. All four – AAP, BJP, Congress and SAD — are locked in a tight contest against each other in Punjab. Congress has seven councillors and SAD has one in the Chandigarh MC House. “Supporting each other in Chandigarh can be counter-productive for the parties in Punjab. So, Congress and SAD opted out of voting,” said a Congress leader. Many political experts feel that the city’s politics will change after the Punjab elections are over. “The opposition parties are likely to come closer, at least issue-based help can be expected to corner the BJP,” said another leader. After din and drama, allegations fly thick and fastAam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab and Chandigarh affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh accused the BJP of murdering democracy in the mayoral election. “City residents gave AAP the maximum 14 seats. Our victory in the mayor’s election was certain, but one of the AAP candidate votes was declared invalid,” he said. At a press conference later, he also accused the officials of “helping” the BJP. AAP’s Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha said it has become clear that the BJP had contested the mayor’s election after having a ‘secret alliance’ with the Congress. “The two parties entered into a secret pact to keep AAP out of the mayor’s race. We will contest the mayor’s election in court,” he said. Responding to AAP allegations, city BJP president Arun Sood rubbished the allegations. “All the rules and regulations were followed in the mayoral elections. Today, the people of Chandigarh go to know the anarchic behaviour of the AAP. Physically attacking the newly elected mayor was a shameful act,” he said. Meanwhile, city Congress spokesperson Rajiv Sharma said, “AAP has once again proved that it is the ‘B-team’ of the BJP. One AAP councillor ensured that his vote gets invalid so that the post goes to the BJP. Another cross-voted in favour of the BJP for senior deputy mayor’s post.” On AAP’s hue and cry over the invalid vote, deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “As per Municipal Regulations 1996, the onus of counting of votes is on the presiding authority. The vote was declared invalid by the presiding authority on ground of an identification mark. There is provision of election petition in law to challenge any elections.” 
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP’s Sarabjit Kaur is Chandigarh mayor, Aam Aadmi Party cries foul||Blurb:Chandigarh Amid unruly scenes and protests by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), BJP’s first-time councillor Sarabjit Kaur Dhillon took over as the new Chandigarh mayor on Saturday. This was the seventh successive win for the BJP in the mayoral election. An invalid vote, one cross-vote and draw of lots decided the fate of the mayoral elections as the BJP clean-swept all the three posts – mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. Sarabjit defeated her rival Anju Katyal of the AAP by one vote. She received 14 votes, while Katyal managed 13 and one vote was declared invalid. At the start of the election proceedings, both the BJP and the AAP had 14 votes each in the House, and seven councillors of the Congress and the lone member of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the 36-member Chandigarh Municipal Corporation abstained from the voting. In the senior deputy mayor elections, the BJP candidate Dalip Sharma pipped the AAP candidate Prem Lata by two votes, after one of the AAP councillors voted for him instead of AAP. Sharma was polled 15 votes, while Lata got 13. For the deputy mayor’s post, after BJP’s Anup Gupta and AAP’s Ram Chander Yadav were tied at 14 votes each, a draw of lot was conducted, which went in favour of Gupta. The results of the Chandigarh civic body polls, which were declared on December 27 last year, threw up a hung House, with the AAP winning 14 of the 35 wards in its first civic body elections. The BJP won 12 seats, Congress eight while the SAD got one. The BJP’s vote count in the House increased to 13 after Congress’s Harpreet Kaur Babla, the wife of party’s former Chandigarh vice-president Devinder Babla, along with him, joined the BJP on January 2. One more vote for the BJP came from city Lok Sabha MP Kirron Kher. AAP CREATES RUCKUS OVER INVALID VOTE During the mayor election, one AAP vote was declared invalid, which tipped the election in favour of BJP’s Sarabjit. The presiding officer Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, a BJP councillor himself, ruled that an “identification mark” in the form of a “tick” found on the backside of one of the ballot papers, which makes it invalid. Meanwhile, AAP’s polling agent objected to a BJP vote, alleging that it was torn at the bottom, which he claimed was also mark of identification. But Sidhu declared that rules don’t term a torn ballot as a mark of identification. Soon after the mayor’s result was declared, AAP councillors created ruckus in the House and resorted to sloganeering. They rushed to the mayor’s chair on the dais and tried to stop Sarabjit from occupying the mayor’s chair. They also tried to stop MC commissioner, deputy commissioner and other officials from leaving their seats. With BJP councillors, too, rushing to the dais, there was a lot of jostling and pushing between the councillors of the two parties. BJP councillors led by Kanwarjit Singh Rana surrounded mayor’s chair to stop rival councillors to reach her as she addressed the House. Soon afterwards, marshals (police) were called in who removed the AAP councillors off the dais. But as the situation was calming down, things again precipitated as Chandigarh AAP president Prem Garg, who is not a councillor, entered the well of the House from the visitor’s gallery. One of the BJP councillors got hold of him before the marshals escorted him out of the House. Later deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh read out the law, rules and regulations, and eventually AAP councillors sat back on their seats. This was followed by the elections of the senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. 
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Will take everyone along, but won’t get cowed down: New Chandigarh mayor Sarabjit Kaur||Panchkula-born Sarabjit Kaur, 42, is wife of the former BJP councillor Jagtar Singh Dhillon and her family resides in Manimajra. She is one of the two BJP women councillors and has studied up to BA 2nd year. A mother of two, Sarabjit entered the electoral politics reluctantly after her husband’s ward was reserved for a woman. Her concern was her 18-year-old daughter, Gurleen Kaur, who is bed-ridden at home since childhood and requires 24/7 care. Sarabjit shared with HT her priorities and challenges she may face. Edited excerpts:What will be your priorities?Making Chandigarh country’s No. 1 city in sanitation and cleanliness is the top priority. Completing 24/7 water supply project, cleaning of the Dadumajra dumping ground and all-round village development will be other priorities.How will you manage the House with BJP having only 13 of 35 members?I am the mayor of the city and not of a party. We will try to take everybody along. We will work for everybody irrespective of the party. We have to work for the city as a team by rising above differences. But we will not be cowed down by any unruly behaviour in the House. How will you deal with the MC’s financial crunch?It is BJP’s government at the Centre, and funds should not be an issue.Will you increase taxes? What is your stand on water tariff hike?There is no plan to hike taxes. On water tariff, we will review it and do what is best for the residents.You being a first-timer may struggle working with city’s officialdom?I will try to have a better understanding with the officials as we all have same goal of city’s development and residents’ welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-take-everyone-along-but-won-t-get-cowed-down-new-chandigarh-mayor-sarabjit-kaur-101641676441161.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||STF head, former ED director want role of Bikram Majithia probed in drug case||The two key senior officials, who probed Punjab’s drugs menace have both called for probing the role of Shiromani Akali Dal minister Bikram Singh Majithia in their statements given to the Punjab Police. One was the special task force (STF), head, Harpreet Singh Sidhu and second, former deputy director of the Enforcement Directorate, Niranjan Singh. Their statements were recorded by Punjab police SIT, probing December 20 NDPS case against Majithia on December 22, 2021. Sidhu, head of STF in drugs cases was asked to probe findings of Niranjan Singh on the role of Majithia in 2017. STF was constituted to fight drugs menace in Punjab. It submitted reports from time to time to high court. As of Singh, he had given a report in high court on the “role” of Majithia, which too was examined by STF and a report was submitted in high court. The third statement is of Jagdish Singh Bhola, the sacked deputy superintendent of police, who has more or less spoken on the same lines accusing Majithia. He is the kingpin of racked busted in 2013. Sidhu said his report in high court be considered as his statement. In his statement Sidhu said, ED documents were called and examined and four 2013 drug FIRs were also examined to check whether Majithia had an association with the accused persons, whether he played a role in supply of drugs and whether there are monetary transactions between Majithia and them. “It was found that Bikram Singh Majithia has a close and extended association with Satpreet Singh @Satta and he was well known to Maninder Singh alias Bittu Aulakh and Jagjit Singh Chahal,” Sidhu says referring to the ED probe, adding that Majithia was also connected to Parminder Singh alias Pindi and Amrinder Singh Laddi. ED had concluded that allegations of providing vehicles, security etc as well as involvement of Satta during election of Majithia are “believable”. They knew each other since 2003-04. Laddi and Pindi had admitted to their association with Majithia, ED probe cited by him says. While some of the accused persons were convicted in drugs cases, others are sitting abroad and the process of bringing them back is underway. Often referred to as drug lords, Laddi, Satta, Pindi are absconding and sitting abroad. Chahal is a local businessman and Aulakh is a SAD leader. It was found from the analysis of all statements of persons together by the ED that Bikram Singh Majithia had a role in “facilitating” supply of pseudoephedrine to Satta and Pindi. Majithia, however, denied this. Majithia directly asked Chahal to supply pseudoephedrine to Satta and Pindi and also made a similar arrangement with Chahal through Aulakh, Sidhu says referring to ED findings. He also refers to ED’s findings of Chahal giving ₹35 lakh to Majithia and Majithia’s “involvement” in sand-mining business. In his statement Niranjan Singh has submitted that he had quizzed Majithia, and submitted a note before the high court, which was later examined by the STF. Sidhu has referred to the same note in his depositions. He further said he had mentioned the “role” of Majithia, obtained details of the latter’s properties, bank accounts and CDRs and the same can be collected from ED office. Singh has now retired. 
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Government machinery used to benefit drug cartels, SIT tells HC in drug case against Bikram Majithia||Underlining the need for custodial interrogation of former minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Bikram Singh Majithia, Punjab police special investigation team (SIT) told the high court that government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels during the Akali regime in the state.The SIT response has come following the anticipatory bail plea filed by the SAD leader. The high court is to take up the matter on Monday.The SIT says incriminating material has come on record against Majithia, which it has given in a sealed cover. On filing the evidence in a sealed cover, it reasoned that if made public, his supporters would browbeat and threaten witnesses from deposing against him.‘Case filed on prima facie evidence’The SIT also denied allegations of political vendetta and stated that the FIR has been registered on the basis of prima facie evidence. It said, Majithia was a key minister in the Akali government and it was during their term that the offences of drugs trade had taken place and “government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels operating in and outside Punjab”. Without his custodial interrogation, the case can’t be cracked and “backward and forward linkages” can’t be established, stated the SIT.Minister’s whereabouts still not knownOn December 20, 2021, Majithia was booked by Punjab police in a drugs case. Majithia’s whereabouts are still not known. On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed his plea observing that though his claims are of political vendetta, he himself was a powerful person in state politics till 2017, when SAD was in power. Against this order, he had approached high court, alleging “political vendetta”. “The petitioner is a sitting MLA and a very influential politician and as such can use his influence and muscle power to threaten, influence and intimidate witnesses from deposing against him and can also destroy evidence which investigating agencies are in the process of collecting,” said the SIT, adding that till date, he has not cooperated and has gone into hiding despite repeated attempts made by SIT to make him join the investigation. The SIT, without naming anyone, also claimed that a close relative of the petitioner has time and again threatened officials of the police department, at public rallies, and told them to be ready to face dire consequences for registering this criminal case. It also filed newspaper cuttings and audio clippings of statements made by former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal, who is the brother-in-law of Majithia.The SIT response stated that the initial FIR was registered on May 15, 2013 at Banur police station against Satinder Dhama, Baljinder Singh and others. Later, sacked DSP Jagdish Bhola, Jagjit Singh Chahal and Manjinder Singh Aulakh were nominated as accused. Initially, Bhola made a statement about Majithia’s involvement before the Enforcement Directorate. Subsequently, Jagjit Singh Chahal, another accused, stated that he met Satpreet Singh Satta, who used to live at Majithia’s house with Parminder Singh Pindi and Maninder Singh Ladi with Bittu Aulakh and that these persons were involved in the drugs case in “connivance” with Majithia. Their statements revealed that they were running the drugs racket and were continuously “in touch with Majithia”. Police have stated that the statements of Harpreet Singh Sidhu, the STF head, who had submitted the 2018 report in high court, which became the basis of the FIR has been recorded, along with that of former deputy director, ED, Niranjan Singh, who had summoned Majithia in 2014, and Bhola.
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Punjab govt transfers Ferozepur SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans||Three days after PM Narendra Modi’s security breach, the Punjab government on Saturday transferred Ferozepur SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans.Hans, an IPS officer, has been posted as commandant of the 3rd battalion in Ludhiana. A 2008-batch IPS officer, Narinder Bhargav, has replaced Hans.On January 5, PM’s cavalcade was stuck near Piareana village on the Ferozepur-Moga highway for about 20 minutes after activists of ultra-Left BKU (Krantikari) blocked the highway.Following an unprecedented lapse of the PM’s security, a high-powered panel of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) rushed to Ferozepur on Friday to record statements of 14 top officials of the police and civil administration.On Wednesday, Modi was on the way to Ferozepur for foundation stone laying functions of development projects worth ₹43,000 crore and then a public address. He had a plan to first visit the National Martyrs Memorial to pay homage to the freedom fighters Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and Batukeshwar Dutt at Hussainiwala, located a few meters from the Pakistan border.But traffic blockade forced the PM to cancel the visit.On January 6, Ferozepur police lodged an FIR at Kulgarhi police station that has no mention of PM’s security breach. The FIR also has no mention of the movement or obstruction to the PM’s road movement.The FIR was lodged under the mild bailable offense of Section 283 (obstructing public ways) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that has a maximum penalty of ₹200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-punjab-govt-transfers-ferozepur-ssp-harmandeep-singh-hans-101641674460054.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM’s security breach: BJP claims police overlooked assembly of unknown persons near Ferozepur helipad||Amid uproar over Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s security breach, the Bharatiya Janata Party claimed that the Punjab police overlooked the gathering of nearly 100 unidentified persons near the temporary helipad that was to be used for the PM’s travel to Ferozepur on January 5. BJP national executive member Harjit Singh Grewal said on Saturday that in the presence of director general of police (DGP) S Chhattopadhya, nearly 100 non-BJP activists were spotted near the helipad. Those people were not removed by the police, he added. Grewal said he, along with senior Punjab BJP leaders Avinash Rai Khanna, Rajinder Bhandari and some government officials, were present at the helipad to receive the PM. Next to the chopper landing site, the PM was to lay the foundation stone of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research’s satellite centre for Ferozepur and other development projects worth ₹43,000 crore. “We reached the venue before 10 am as the PM was expected to reach Ferozepur around noon. While some BJP leaders were barred from reaching the venue, Punjab police personnel overlooked the assembly of nearly 90-100 unknown people around the helipad. They appeared to be activists of farmer unions or members of other political parties who remained there till 2 pm,” said Grewal, a former vice-president of the party’s Punjab unit. He said since it was raining, PM’s travel from Bathinda airport to Ferozepur was expected to get delayed. “We were advised to stay back at the foundation stone site till 2 pm as the PM was expected to arrive late. But the PM’s cavalcade was stuck just a few kilometres from the rally venue due to a road blockade by farmers. The gathering of protesters en route PM’s motorcade and assembly of unidentified persons around the helipad smacks a conspiracy of the ruling Congress and police administration who used farmer unions to jeopardise BJP’s event,” he added. ‘Model code will boost BJP’s morale’ Grewal said the “ultra-Left associations” like Ughrahan and Dakaunda factions of the Bhartiya Kisan Unions have selectively launched a political campaign against the BJP. “Several of our leaders faced harassment by these unions for over a year. They staged a round-the-clock sit-in outside the residences of BJP leaders for several months. It all happened due to the support of the police. As the model code of conduct has been invoked, undue political pressure on police would ease and our leaders and supporters will campaign vigorously,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pms-security-breach-bjp-claims-police-overlooked-assembly-of-unknown-persons-near-ferozepur-helipad-101641674280325.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Don’t drag Sikhs into PM’s security breach issue: SGPC president Harjinder Dhami||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami on Saturday said it is against the interest of the nation to target Sikhs over the security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on January 5.In a statement, the SGPC chief said the incident seems to have taken place due to lack of coordination between the state and the central government agencies, so dragging Sikhs into this issue is not right.“Sikhs are sincere citizens of the country, who are making great contribution for its progress and development. The integrity of the entire country is maintained through the sacrifices of Sikhs. Now, Sikhs are being targeted on social media with regards to the PM’s Punjab visit, under a well-planned conspiracy,” he said.Dhami said some leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are playing with the Sikh sentiments by giving statements like “repeat 1984 Sikh genocide”.The SGPC president said government agencies and forces are responsible for the security top leaders and it is their responsibility to make timely arrangements.“It is sad the PM returned due to laxity of governments but this entire issue is being given a communal colour,” said Dhami.He also demanded that action against those tarnishing the image of Sikhs and spreading hate propaganda against the community.“Freedom of expression on social media does not mean creating an atmosphere of hatred by targeting anyone or any community. Strict laws should be enacted against those offending religious sentiments on social media and for disturbing the peace and harmony of the country,” Dhami added.He said the SGPC will write to the PM regarding the hate propaganda against Sikhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-drag-sikhs-into-pm-s-security-breach-issue-sgpc-president-harjinder-dhami-101641673440072.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 3,643 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Friday registered 3,643 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,17,536, according to a medical bulletin.In Mohali, 44.33% of samples were found positive against the state’s positivity rate of 14.64%.Patiala registered maximum 840 cases with a positivity rate of 32.31 %. Ludhiana reported 561 cases, Amritsar 346, Jalandhar 342 and Pathankot 204 cases, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state also shot up to 12,614. With 369 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 588257, the bulletin said.Channi’s wife, son, daughter-in-law test Covid positiveMohali: Three members of the family of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi are among 563 persons who tested positive for Covid-19, in Mohali district on Saturday. Mohali civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said on Saturday that the chief minister’s wife Dr Kamaljit Kaur, his son Navjit Singh and daughter-in-law Simrandheer Kaur have tested positive for Covid-19, while the CM’s younger son and he himself tested negative.“They have been infected with coronavirus infection and are now in home isolation in Kharar,” Dr Adarshpal Kaur said.On Wednesday evening, CM Channi had addressed a press conference in Chandigarh to say that he decided not to attend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s official programme in Ferozepur because his principal secretary Hussan Lal and a personal assistant had tested positive a few days ago.Patiala reports 840 cases, highest in state
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Rain, thunderstorms bring chill back in UP, more in next 24 hrs||Rain accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning were reported in districts across Uttar Pradesh, including the state capital, affecting daily life on Saturday.The state recorded an average of 2.2 mm rainfall that increased the chill factor as day temperatures dropped and the sky remained cloudy throughout the day. Lucknow recorded 3.4mm rainfall on Saturday.The Indian Meterological Department (IMD) forecast has predicted more rain in the next 24 hours.As per the MeT department, thunderstorms with lightening were reported from districts including Banda, Chitrakoot, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Sant Ravi Das Nagar, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Sant Kabir Nagar, Basti, Siddharth Nagar, Gonda, Balrampur, Farrukhabad, Kannauj, Kanpur Dehat, Kanpur Nagar, Unnao, Lucknow, Barabanki, Rae Bareli, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Kasganj, Mainpuri, Bijnor, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Sambhal, Budaun, Jalaun, Hamirpur and adjoining areas.The IMD has also issued a warning of more rain in several UP districts on Sunday. “Thunderstorm with lightning is very likely over Banda, Chitrakoot, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Mirzapur, Varanasi, Sant Ravi Das Nagar, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Mau, Lakhimpur Kheri, Kanpur Nagar, Unnao, Lucknow, Barabanki, Rae Bareli, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Bijnor, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur and adjoining areas on Sunday,” the forecast by IMD reads.Based on the forecast, the state MeT department has issued a warning to all district magistrates asking them to make suitable arrangements to limit damages due to adverse weather.Meanwhile, the day temperature recorded dropped across the state. In Lucknow, the maximum day temperature was recorded at 19.1 degrees Celsius which is one degree below normal.However, the minimum temperature increased slightly in Lucknow. The minimum temperature was recorded at 14.9 degrees Celsius on Saturday, which is seven degrees above normal. The minimum temperature is expected to drop in the coming days following rain, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rain-thunderstorms-bring-chill-back-in-up-more-in-next-24-hrs-101641672848105.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Punjab CM Charanjit Channi hits out at BJP with quote from Sardar Patel||Amid a war of words between the Centre and the Punjab government over the security breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to the state on Wednesday, state chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party with a quote from the former home minister and freedom fighter Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.“The one who is concerned more about his life than his duty, should not take a big responsibility in a country like India,” tweeted Channi on Friday with a picture of Sardar Patel who is also the BJP icon.The war of words between the two parties began after the Prime Minister’s convoy was stuck on a flyover for 15-20 minutes due to road blockage by some protestors about 30 km away from the National Martyrs’ Memorial in Hussainiwala.Notably, the Prime Minister was scheduled to visit Ferozepur in the poll-bound state and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth more than ₹42,750 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-hits-out-at-bjp-with-quote-from-sardar-patel-101641672539870.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||UP reports 6 deaths, 6,411 new Covid-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh reported six Covid-19 deaths and 6,411 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total case load in state to 17,29,870 and the death toll to 22,924.Meerut reported two deaths, while there was one casualty each in Agra, Gorakhpur, Lakhimpur Khiri and Auraiya.“In the past 24 hours, 2,20,496 Covid-19 samples were tested and 6,411 tested positive. The positivity rate is 2.91%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health.Gautam Buddh Nagar reported 1,141 new cases, Lucknow 876, Ghaziabad 683, Meerut 636, Varanasi 337, Agra 271, Moradabad 236, Prayagraj 126, Mathura 173, Bareilly 101, Bulandshahr 104 and Saharanpur 100 cases.“Of the total 18,551 active cases 18,184 are in home isolation,” said Prasad.Lucknow reports 876 new casesA sharp rise in new cases was recorded in Lucknow on Saturday as 876 more people tested positive; 220 more than Friday, when there were 577 new cases.Among the new cases, Chinhat reported a maximum 166 new cases, 120 in Aliganj, 77 in Indira Nagar and 74 in Alambagh.“Lucknow now has 2573 active covid cases where majority are in home isolation,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.Among the cases, 253 are contacts of previous Covid-19 positive cases, 167 had a travel history from other states or countries, 133 had mild symptoms and got themselves tested for Covid-19.“The virus is presenting its mild version. As statistics reveal, of the 2,556 active cases in Lucknow on March 29, 2021, during the second wave, 312 were admitted to hospital. Today there are 2,573 active cases and only 15 are in hospital,” said Prasad. He exhorted all the eligible people to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-reports-6-deaths-6-411-new-covid-19-cases-101641672184230.html
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Elections: Aam Aadmi Party MP Bhagwant Mann urges people to write destiny of Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state unit president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Saturday appealed to people of Punjab to write the destiny of Punjab with their hands on February 14 and put the state on the track of prosperity, peace and harmony again. Welcoming the Election Commission’s announcement of poll schedule for Punjab and other states, Mann said the Aam Aadmi Party was fully prepared for the elections. “Voters of the state should cast their votes to get rid of those who have been looting Punjab for their vested interests,” he said in a statement. Mann claimed that the people of Punjab have made up their mind to form the government of the AAP in the state which is evident from their turnout and support for Kejriwal’s guarantees in the public meetings being held by the party candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elections-aam-aadmi-party-mp-bhagwant-mann-urges-people-to-write-destiny-of-punjab-101641671939828.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||More Lucknow schools throw open doors to vax students||More schools in Lucknow have opened their doors to set up vaccination centres on their premises to enable individuals between 15 to 18 years of age to get the jab on campus, so that students don’t have to go to hospitals, CHCs and PHCs.La Martiniere Girls’ College has decided to allow students of other schools to get vaccinated on their campus. Principal Aashrita Dass said, “The vaccination camp at LMGC to be held on January 9 is open to all between 15 and 18 years of age. It starts at 10 am and the vaccine to be administered is Covaxin. Students of any school are welcome to get vaccinated so that they stay safe and protected against the Covid-19 infection.”The Lucknow Public Collegiate in Ruchi Khand I, Sharda Nagar, also organised a Covid–19 vaccination camp on Saturday. The camp was an initiative of the district administration which sent a team of trained nurses/doctors to vaccinate individuals, said principal Jawaid Alam Khan, who appealed that children must get vaccinated on the school campus only because they will not get exposed to Covid-19 infection at vaccination centres, which otherwise remain crowded.The GD Goenka Public School also organised a vaccination camp (Covaxin) on Thursday for people in the age group of 15 to18 years. For those above 18 years, the second dose was available too at the camp held in association with Anantsheel Welfare Association. A special vaccination camp was held at St Anjani’s Public School, F Block, Rajajipuram, on Friday. Corporator Shivpal Sawariya inaugurated the camp for students aged 15-18 years. The camp recorded 100% vaccination for students of the school. All paramedics were specially felicitated by management on the occasion. Manager Taru Saxena hailed the role of the media in creating awareness and enthusiastic response of parents for the successful vaccination drive.UP varsities, colleges closed till Jan 16All Uttar Pradesh universities and degree colleges – both government and private – shall remain closed from January 10 (Monday) till January 16 (Sunday) following the rise in Covid-19 cases, an order issued by the secretary, UP government, read, on Saturday.According to the order, all state and private universities and degree colleges shall physically remain closed from January 10 to 16. In this period, all higher education institutions shall discontinue physical classes and switch to online classes only.The proposed exam will be held as per schedule, reads the order issued by state government secretary, Shamim Ahmad Khan, to director, higher education and all regional higher education officials in the state. Earlier this week, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced closure of all schools up to Class 10 from January 6 (Thursday) till January 16 (Sunday). Students of Class 11 and 12 can only be called for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/more-lucknow-schools-throw-open-doors-to-vax-students-101641671640124.html
09-01-2022||Delhi||BSF seizes Pakistani boat near Ferozepur in Punjab||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday seized an abandoned Pakistani boat near the border outpost in Ferozepur district of Punjab.Ferozepur is a sensitive district because of its proximity to the international border with Pakistan. Earlier, many drones from Pakistan breached Indian territory in the district.A senior BSF officer said that the wooden boat was spotted by personnel belonging to the 136 Battalion during patrol duty near the DT Mall border outpost along the international border.“In winters, the area remains covered under thick fog. After the boat was recovered, we conducted a search operation in the area and alerted local villages to inform BSF in case they see any suspicious activity. Such boats are often used for smuggling of narcotics substance and arms from across the border,” he said. On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s convoy was stuck for 15-20 minutes due to a road blockade in Punjab’s Ferozepur in a security breach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bsf-seizes-pakistani-boat-near-ferozepur-in-punjab-101641671039662.html
09-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra imposes restrictions daily cases cross 40k||Mumbai: The state government issued new restrictions on Saturday in light of the rising number of cases of Covid-19, as Maharashtra added 41,434 fresh cases, with 20,318 from Mumbai alone.People are disallowed from stepping out between 11 pm and 5 am unless it is for essential work. The order also disallowed movement of five or more people between 5 am and 11 pm — a likely reference to prevent crowding in public places. However, citizens will be allowed to travel by public transport provided they are fully vaccinated, the order said. Essential work includes medical emergencies, essential services, and movement to and from airports, railway stations and bus stations with a valid ticket, as well as travel to and from sites of work that are open for 24 hours, such as call centres. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the government looked at people’s livelihood, especially daily wage labourers while introducing the restrictions. “We aim to control the movement of people as much as possible. We want the businesses of people to continue, especially the daily wage earners. We have taken a middle path [in restrictions]. The government’s focus is on reducing crowding,” he said.The order signed by chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty shuts down gymnasiums, spas, wellness centres and beauty salons — which had been permitted to open up on August 12, 2021, at reduced capacity. Swimming pools, which are yet to open up in the state, were to continue to remain shut. Entertainment parks, zoos, museums and forts as well as other local tourist spots will be shut down till further notice, the order stated. Any order on beaches and bandstands would be issued by the Mumbai civic body. Restaurants and eateries will be allowed to operate but with 50% capacity. They will be required to shut at 10 pm and open at 8 am. Home deliveries will be permitted on all days and even beyond 10 pm. Cinema halls, theatres, and auditoriums will continue to operate at 50% capacity but must shut between 10 pm and 8 am, the order stated. The order directed management of these places to set up rapid antigen test booths and allow entry to only fully vaccinated people. Hair cutting saloons will continue to operate at 50% capacity and strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour was expected. Iqbal Singh Chahal, Mumbai municipal commissioner on Saturday said that the restrictions laid down by the state government will be enforced by the civic administration. No fresh guidelines will be issued by the municipal corporation, he said.“These are primary measures to contain the spread of the virus. Though the daily numbers are high, it is not an alarming situation. We can dial up the restrictions in a gradual manner as we progress in this current wave,” said a government senior official requesting anonymity.The order restricted entry into government offices unless the person possessed written permission from the head of the department. The order also directed private offices to stagger work hours and prioritise work from home for their employees. Not more than 50% attendance in office would be permitted. The state capped gatherings at weddings, social, religious, cultural and political events at 50 people and only 20 people would be allowed for funerals and last rites. Meanwhile, as the drive to give the ‘precautionary’ dose for senior citizens kicks off from tomorrow (Monday, January 10), the state health department is short of vaccines, the minister said. Tope said that the state had demanded Covaxin and Covishield doses from the Centre as the booster dose for people over age 60 will commence from next week.“As the vaccination of 15 to 18 years is underway, along with the regular immunisation drive. We will start the drive for the precautionary dose for people over age 60. We need 60 lakh Covishield and 40 lakh Covaxin doses. The demand for the same has been made to the ministry of health and family welfare and we are confident the doses will be provided, as there is no shortage,” Tope said.Maharashtra reported 133 new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the tally to 1,009 in the state. Of these, 439 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.
09-01-2022||Noida||Man arrested for smuggling liquor from Haryana to Greater Noida||Jewar police on Saturday arrested a man for his alleged involvement in smuggling liquor into the district. Police have recovered an SUV, 70 cartons of liquor and a country-made firearm from the suspect’s possession.The suspect was identified as Mandeep Kumar (25), a native of Sonipat in Haryana, who, police said, was allegedly involved in the illegal smuggling of liquor for the past one year. Umesh Bahadur, station house officer (SHO) of Jewar police station, said the police received information about the movement of a liquor smuggler in a modified Force Trax SUV near Jhajhar road. “A police team reached the spot and stopped the vehicle for checking. The police found 70 cartoons of liquor made for sale in Haryana and a countrymade gun,” he said. The SHO said, “Kumar used to buy liquor at cheap rates in Haryana and sell them to people at inflated rates in Gautam Budh Nagar. We have registered a case against him under sections 60,63 and 72 of the Excise Act and also under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC. We have found that a case under Excise Act was registered against him in Kushinagar district too. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-from-haryana-to-greater-noida-101641670080915.html
09-01-2022||Noida||Noida restaurants write to landowners, mall owners seeking relief from rent||The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) on Friday shot a letter to top mall owners and landlords, seeking a complete waiver on rentals and common area maintenance fee, in case food and beverage businesses are completely shut for dine-in due to a rise in Covid-19 cases. Anticipating more restrictions in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, the association said in the letter that it wants pure revenue share for the period when operations will be restricted and no minimum guaranteed rents for three months post that. The open letter, undersigned by president of NRAI Kabir Suri, said, “We are seeking these reliefs just for ensuring long term survivability of the F&B business. It is going to be a challenge and we assure you that we are willing to walk together with you through these challenging times with all resources at our command and we seek a similar assurance from you.”The letter also states that most of the landlords have been generous and made significant contribution to the survival of the players in the industry.According to Varun Khera, head of NRAI’s Noida chapter, apart from the open letter to landowners, the letter has been written individually to all prominent mall owners in Gautam Buddh Nagar as well. He said there are at least 200 restaurants and eateries in Gautam Budh Nagar, which are still struggling to survive. “During the second wave last year, restaurants were shut in Gautam Budh Nagar for about three months and night curfew restrictions continued till October. As a result, the hospitality industry has been badly affected and we have not been able to recover the losses. Hence, as a pre-emptive measure, we have asked for financial support from land and mall owners,” said Khera, who is the owner of Desi Vibes restaurant in Sector 18 market, Noida. He added, “While we are thankful to the government that restaurants are being allowed to operate at 50% capacity, we are afraid that more restrictions may be imposed. Hence, we have called out land and mall store owners for relief.”. On January 6, the NRAI had also written to the ministry of home affairs asking for immediate relief to restaurants and permit longer operating hours to reduce overcrowding. It had also asked for directions to states to permit delivery of food from restaurants as part of essential services. When asked, Syed Shameem Anwar, associate director (marketing) at Entertainment City in Sector 38-A, said, “We will review the appeal of the sector and take a decision accordingly”. Officials at DLF Mall, Noida did not comment on the issue. Requesting anonymity, a landlord at Noida’s Sector 18 said, “It is too soon to take a decision as restaurants are still running. We will still wait and watch to see how long restrictions are in place and whether there will be more curbs”.According to SK Jain, president of Sector 18 Market Association, landlords should consider the request of the hospitality industry. “Covid has had an adverse impact on restaurants and landlords should consider their appeal for relief. Such an appeal also depends on the relations between restaurant owners and landlords as earlier during first and second wave, landowners have been accommodating in terms of rent pay,” he said.He further suggested both stakeholders to make a permanent provision for impact of lockdown in rent agreements. “We don’t know how long the pandemic will last . Hence, restaurant owners should add a clause or provision for relief in their agreement with landowners,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-restaurants-write-to-landowners-mall-owners-seeking-relief-from-rent-101641669839586.html
09-01-2022||Noida||1,141 new infections in Gautam Budh Nagar take active case tally to over 3,500||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 1,141 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, taking the active case tally to 3,527, which is the highest active caseload in Uttar Pradesh.According to officials, of the new cases reported on Saturday, one of them has recently returned from France. “The other cases reported in the district were detected during contact tracing and testing. Currently, 2,400 Covid patients are in home isolation. We are calling other patients to take their health updates and find out if they are in home isolation or admitted to any hospital for treatment,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer adding that there are no clusters or hotspots of the infection in the district as of now. “One patient is admitted to ICU for close monitoring as he has comorbidities of diabetes and hypertension,” said a senior health official. He added that 29 patients are admitted at Noida Covid Hospital and 13 are taking treatment for Covidat Jaypee Hospital.“The data of patients admitted at other private hospitals will be collected only after they are notified as Covid hospital by the CMO,” he added.Meanwhile, the district has been testing around 4,000 samples on a daily basis. “We have been achieving our testing targets for the district,” said the CMO. No new case of the Omicron variant was reported on Saturday. Gautam Budh Nagar’s first Omicron variant case was confirmed by the health department on January 4 in a 35-year-old resident of Sector 137, who had no travel history.Meanwhile, the district administration has earmarked 44 schools for the vaccination of children in the 15-18 years age group. So far, around 25,000 children have taken the shot in Gautam Budh Nagar. The estimated population falling under this age group in the district, who are eligible to take the vaccine, is 115,000.
09-01-2022||Other||Gurugram localities witness long power cuts after overnight rain||Several areas witnessed power outages up to eight hours as heavy rains lashed the city on Friday night. Residents from areas such as Palam Vihar, Ashok Vihar, and sectors 5, 22, 56, 57, 45, 40, and 46 on Saturday alleged that the power supply remained erratic since Friday midnight.In some areas, residents complained that the supply was restored only by Saturday evening. Atul Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 57, said that the power supply went off around midnight on Friday and came back only around 8am on Saturday. “There was a power cut again at around 12 noon on Saturday and the supply was restored only at 5.30pm. The authorities should inform residents about such long power cuts in advance,” he said. The residents also said that the power outage hampered their work from home schedule. “I and my wife are working from home. But due to power cuts, we were unable to attend office meetings and use room heaters for parents who are down with Covid-19. The invertor battery also died as there had been no power since Friday night,” said Dinesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 5. The residents of Saraswati Vihar, Maruti Kunj and Chakkarpur complained that there were power cuts throughout the day on Saturday. “The residents of Saraswati Vihar suffered immensely due to the power cut that started around 1.30am. We also faced water issues as we could not switch on the motor to fill our water tank in the morning,” said Rekha Sharma, a resident. In many areas, the power supply was hampered due to feeder breakdown, said officials from the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHVBN), adding that their teams managed to restore power in several localities in the first half of the day. “Teams of DHBVN have been deployed in all the affected areas and they are attending to the complaints to ensure resumption of supply. During rains, power supply gets affected due to falling of trees on power cables. The issues have been resolved in most of the areas, and efforts are being made in the remaining areas to restore power at the earliest,” said PK Chauhan, superintending engineer (operations), Gurugram circle 2, DHBVN. 
09-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad’s daily spike in cases hits second wave peak levels||With 683 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported in Ghaziabad city on Saturday, the daily spike in cases in the district is now nearing the peak levels seen during the second wave of the pandemic last April-May, when the daily case count had averaged about 1,000 a day. According to health records of January 8, Ghaziabad has an overall case tally of 58,226 with 2,428 active cases. Of the active cases, 2,312 have come in the month of January and only 14 of the active cases are presently lodged in facilities while rest are in home isolation. According to the records, the overall tally of Covid cases touched 57,000 on Friday and took just a single day to touch 58,000. The last time the district saw a similar spike was during the months of April and May 2021, at the height of the second wave of infections. For instance, the district reached a tally of 38000 cases on April 29 and 40,000 a day later on April 30. A total of 15,000 cases were added in the month of May 2021 before they started declining. From 55,000 total cases as on May 31, 2021, it took the district 217 days to add the next 1,000 -- it touched 56,000 on January 2 this year. But the spike since then has been alarming, officials said. The next 1,000 cases came in five days to clock 57,000 on January 7 and a 1,000 more within a single day to take the tally to 58,000 as on January 8. “The spike is sudden and it is heading towards the peak. In the coming days, more cases are expected and thereafter a decline will be observed. The only advantage as of now is that the severity of infection is very low. Currently, only those who are unvaccinated or having co-morbid conditions are at high risk,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). As a result of the current spike, the positivity rate -- the number of samples that return positive among the total tested -- during the past fortnight (from December 25 to January 8) has increased from 0.17% to 7.48%. The sample positivity rate in January has reached 6.19% against an overall positivity rate of 2.65%. During the past four days, from January 5 to 8, the district has been conducting tests above the daily target of 7,400 set by the state government. “We are keeping track of all cases coming in at a rapid pace and more rapid response teams will be created as the cases increase. Apart from that, since a majority of our patients are in home isolation, we are ensuring that we provide medicine kits to all patients. The kits will also be given to ‘Nigrani Samitis’ in localities and these are being provided to patients at home and also to patients who test positive at testing centres,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO). “During the spike, in order to protect children, we will be holding mega vaccination camps at 200-250 schools across the district on Sunday. We have a stock of one lakh of Covaxin shots and we will try to vaccinate as many children as possible on Sunday,” the CMO said. “With increasing number of cases coming in, we have resorted to containment with the help of micro containment zones. This includes the house of the patient and his/her movement outside is strictly restricted during the home isolation period. The teams also sensitise neighbours,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city) who is also the nodal officer for containment zones.
09-01-2022||Noida||GB Nagar admin removes posters as model code of conduct comes into effect||The district administration started removing posters and banners as the model code of conduct (MCC) came into effect on Saturday, soon after the Election Commission of India announced the schedule for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and four other states. Uttar Pradesh will vote in seven phases, between February 10 and March 7, with the counting of votes and declaration of results scheduled for March 10. For the first phase, the notification will be issued on January 14 and the last date of nomination is January 21. The candidates can withdraw their nomination papers by January 27. District magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas L Y, who is also the district election officer, said with the MCC coming into effect, the election department has scheduled a series of meetings for poll preparations. “On Sunday (January 9), we will hold a meeting with the returning officers and also with the police officials. We also have a meeting with the representatives of political parties where we will sensitise them about adhering to the MCC guidelines during campaigns and voting. We will also hold a press conference with media persons on Sunday afternoon,” said Suhas.Vandita Srivastava, additional district magistrate (finance and revenue), and deputy district election officer, said the elections for the three assembly seats in Gautam Budh Nagar – Noida, Jewar and Dadri – will be held in the first phase on February 10. “We have enforced the MCC as the Election Commission of India announced the dates on Saturday. The election department has started removing the posters and banners placed from different locations,” she said. Love Kumar, join commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, also held a meeting with officials at Surajpur police station and sensitized them about the poll preparations. “We have intensified checking in the district and at the borders with neighbouring districts and states.We are monitoring any suspicious movement with CCTV cameras. The illegal smuggling of liquor and weapons will be checked in the enforcement drives,” he said.In view of prevailing Covid situation, the ECI has issued detailed instructions to assure minimum facilities at each polling station. It asked the officials to ensure mandatory sanitization of polling stations, thermal checking of voters at entry point, markers to demonstrate social distancing for queue, etc. The ECI has also directed the district election department to ensure all critical events, such as filing of nomination papers, scrutinizing the papers, voting, counting, etc, are recorded. The Commission has also said that no roadshow, padyatra, cycle/bike/vehicle rally and procession shall be allowed till January 15. The Commission shall subsequently review the situation and issue further instructions accordingly.Residents in Noida said the duration for which the restrictions will be in place should be extended as the peak of Covid-19--cases of which are already on the rise--is yet to come. K K Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association, said there should be restrictions on the rallies and meetings in the coming days. “People should observe utmost precautions in the election and the voting. The campaigning happens mostly after the nominations; large gatherings must be prohibited to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” said Jain. Noida MLA Pankaj Singh said his party workers are disciplined and will follow the ECI’s guidelines for the elections. “We are satisfied with the development works we have done in Noida,” he said. As on October 31, 2021, Gautam Budh Nagar had 1,567,617 registered voters in three assembly constituencies – Noida (664,837 voters), Dadri (565,682) and Jewar (337,098). District officials said the election department conducted a special summary revision in November 2021 and added 82,000 new voters. People who complete 18 years on January 1, 2022, and enrol themselves as voters can cast their votes in the upcoming assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-removes-posters-as-model-code-of-conduct-comes-into-effect-101641668519380.html
09-01-2022||Other||Ex-DGP Chattopadhyaya promoted son of AIG heading SIT against Majithia||Chandigarh In a new twist in the drugs case registered against former Akali minister Bikramjit Singh Majithia, the son of the head of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the matter has been promoted. The previous Punjab DGP S Chattopadhyaya had made assistant inspector general (AIG) crime Balraj Singh, the SIT head, on December 22, a day after the First Information Report (FIR) against Majithia was registered on December 21. AIG Balraj’s son, Princepreet Singh, was promoted as an inspector (local rank) with Chattopadhyaya signing these orders on December 27. Princepreet is a sub-inspector in Fatehgarh Sahib. A local rank is a temporary promotion which is given for six months by the DGP by exercising special powers vested to him under the Police Act. The appointment of Balraj, a low-profile PPS officer, as the SIT head had also come as a surprise for many. When questioned on his son’s promotion, he said, “This temporary promotion is not a big issue; my son had been recommended for this in 2018.” He added, “My son is a scholar and has done research on tracing stolen vehicles. He has six years of service, but he got the chance to become SHO just six months back. This controversy is unnecessary.”The FIR against Majithia was registered after a few senior officers, including the then Bureau of Investigation head, SK Asthana, refused to lodge any case against Majithia, citing lack of evidence. With the Punjab Police registering the case, the Punjab and Haryana high court will hear Majithia’s anticipatory bail plea on January 10 (Monday).Perfect example of quid pro quo: SADThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has alleged that the promotion was the perfect example of a quid pro quo. “Our charge has proved absolutely right. We are claiming from Day 1 that Chattopadhyaya has played foul on the orders of the Channi government. That is why he was brought in the as officiating DGP, because previous officers refused to commit any wrong,” said Youth Akali Dal chief Parambans Singh Bunty Romana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exdgp-chattopadhyaya-promoted-son-of-aig-heading-sit-against-majithia-101641668461053.html
09-01-2022||Other||Taxi driver helps Gurugram cops bust infant trafficking gang||An alert taxi driver drove three persons, including two women, travelling in his vehicle with two stolen female infants to DLF Phase 3 police station in Gurugram on Friday night, thus helping police to bust an interstate child trafficking gang. Police said on Saturday that the gang would steal infants from Delhi hospitals and sell them in neighbouring states. According to police, the three suspects -- Surender Kaur (44), Neha (37) and Harjinder Singh -- booked the taxi near Dhaula Kuan in Delhi for ₹4,000 for travelling to Alwar in Rajasthan. However, their telephonic conversations with a person raised suspicion to driver Umesh Lohia (35), a resident of Gurugram’s Nathupur, that the two infants were stolen and they were trying to make a deal for selling one of them for ₹2.4 lakh and another for ₹2.7 lakh to someone in Alwar, police said. Surender and Harjinder hail from Alwar, while Neha is a resident of Sector 16 in Delhi’s Rohini, police said, adding that they have been arrested. The stolen infants were handed over to the child welfare committee and efforts are on to trace their parents, police said. The infants, hardly 20 days old, were probably stolen from hospitals in Delhi for selling to issueless couples in other states, they said. According to police, the Delhi Police had arrested Surender in 2014 in a child theft case. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), on Saturday said that police teams have been sent to Alwar and Delhi to arrest other gang members. “There are at least 12 more members in the gang which had been operating since 2014,” the ACP said. Sangwan said the Umesh was returning from Delhi when the trio hired his vehicle for travelling to Alwar. “The deal to sell the infants didn’t materialise, following which the trio cancelled their journey to Alwar and asked the driver to drop them to Raghubir Nagar in Delhi,” Sangwan said. “But the driver drove them to DLF Phase 3 police station without letting them know. We will move court for police remand of the suspects for detailed interrogation,” he said. The Gurugram police commissioner has announced ₹25,000 reward for Umesh for helping police, Sangwan said, adding that he is one of the several taxi drivers trained by the Gurugram police for crime control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taxi-driver-helps-gurugram-cops-bust-infant-trafficking-gang-101641668459417.html
09-01-2022||Noida||Six assembly segments in Ghaziabad ready for elections under phase 1 on Feb 10||The Model Code of Conduct (MCC) came into effect on Saturday as the Election Commission of India announced the seven-phase poll schedule for upcoming assembly elections in five states-- Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Punjab. Ghaziabad district will go to polls on February 10 under phase one of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Officials from the district administration said they have started removing publicity material and will remove all banners/hoardings from public places in the next 24 hours. According to the updated electoral rolls, the district has 2,899,484 eligible voters, of whom 1,605,081 are male voters, 1,294,214 female voters and 189 voters in the ‘others’ category. The district has five assembly segments of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Modinagar and part of Dhaulana, which is in Hapur district. “As the MCC has been imposed, all the publicity material will be removed within 24 hours. As directed by the ECI, there will be no roadshows, rallies, etc till January 15. We will soon issue a notification in this regard,” said district magistrate of Ghaziabad R K Singh. “This election, we have 30,273 first time voters. We will provide the option of postal ballots to people with disabilities and senior citizens over 80 years. They also have an option to cast their votes at their respective booths,” said Singh. “In the wake of the Covid pandemic, we will also give the option of casting vote through postal ballots to Covid positive patients. They may also be allowed at the booths if they are in PPE kits. Separate arrangements regarding this will be made at the booths. In all, 30 teams will be deployed 24x7 to check violation of MCC guidelines. About 1,750 polling booths will also have the facility of webcasting,” said the district magistrate. Singh added about 18,897 personnel will be deployed for poll-related work and cross-verification of their Covid positive reports, if any, will be taken up. “We will ensure that their Covid positive status is checked in government labs. We will simply not accept the reports if the tests have been done by private labs. We will get these cross-checked with government laboratory,” he added. According to official data, the six assembly segments will have 728 polling centres, which will have 3,353 polling booths. In wake of the upcoming elections, the police department issued a 24x7 helpline number 9643208971, where anyone can send pictures, videos or information about violation of MCC norms. “We will immediately conduct an inquiry and lodge an FIR against errant individuals. Our social media cell, local intelligence unit and surveillance teams will also keep an eye on violators. We have already taken preventive action against 3,000 people under provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code. Moreover, some 115 people who have been booked under provisions of the Goonda Act. Apart from this, we have identified 57 different sensitive hamlets having about 300 voters. Proper police deployment will be there for these voters,” said Pawan Kumar, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad. He said in the last elections, 36-40 companies of paramilitary forces and 6,000 civil police personnel were deployed for the smooth conduct of the elections. “The same number of personnel will be deployed for these elections and two companies of the Border Security Force will be deployed on January 11 for area domination exercise. It is also directed that all arms licence holders (about 15,470 licencees) deposit their arms within a week. In case they wish to get themselves exempted, they should present their application before a screening-committee,” SSP added.
09-01-2022||Other||Separate counters for booster jab to senior citizens in Gurugram||The district health department has decided to set up separate counters for giving booster dose of Covid-19 vaccine to senior citizens which will commence from Monday, officials said on Saturday, adding that online slots on the CoWIN portal will be available for booking from Sunday morning. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that the department has geared up for providing booster dose to senior citizens and these will be available at the 38 sites run by the department. “The vaccination slots will be most likely available online from Sunday morning. The eligible beneficiaries would be those senior citizens, who are sixty plus and whose nine months have completed after receiving the second dose,” said Yadav. According to the officials, about 40,000 such senior citizens are eligible for taking the booster dose in the district. The messages to eligible beneficiaries are being sent by the authorities, but those who have not received a message can also walk-in at the centres, said the officials. “To ensure smooth vaccination, we have decided to set up separate counters for the senior citizens. One important condition for senior citizens is that they must carry a certificate of a comorbidity from a doctor,” said Yadav, adding that both online booking and walk-ins will be allowed for senior citizens. The health department also said that apart from vaccination of seniors, they are working closely with the district administration to check the preparedness of hospitals, isolation centres and availability of oxygen and medicines required to treat the Covid-19 patients. On Thursday, the state government had directed the deputy commissioners in all the district to set up isolation and Covid care centres in both urban and rural areas in view of the rising cases of Covid 19 cases. It had also asked them to review the stock of Oxygen and other medicines required for treatment and ensure smooth supply and availability of such medicines in future. Meanwhile, Gurugram on Saturday recorded 1,450 fresh Covid-19 cases, which took the total number of active cases to 6,642, of which 47 patients are currently in hospital, according to the bulletin from the health department. The department conducted tests of 11,596 samples on Saturday. On the vaccination front, the health department said that 34,668 persons received Covid-19 vaccine. Of them, 10,296 beneficiaries were in the 15-18 years category. The officials said that on Sunday, 47 session sites will be held where Covid 19 vaccine will be given to eligible beneficiaries. 
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Campaign blitz in Uttar Pradesh precedes curbs||The announcement of the Uttar Pradesh assembly poll schedule and model code of conduct on Saturday was preceded by a campaign blitz by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the state over the last few months. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, too, has been on campaign trail since October. Even before Election Commission announced a ban on road shows and physical rallies until January 15 in keeping with strict Covid-19 protocols, Akhilesh had put on hold his proposed rath yatras from Ayodhya that was scheduled for January 9. During the campaign blitz by the BJP leaders, series of big-ticket projects were launched in UP, including Kushinagar and Noida international airports, Purvanchal and Ganga Expressways, Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, Saryu Nahar project, Gorakhpur fertilizer factory and Meerut’s sports university. From connecting with farmers to unveiling fleet of electric buses for several cities or inaugurating the metro rail project in Kanpur, Modi was virtually everywhere, travelling to UP frequently to seek “aashirwad (blessings)” of the masses for a second consecutive BJP government in the state. He also connected virtually (through video conference) with beneficiaries of various government schemes in UP. Besides development, he set the political discourse in UP, describing Yogi as “UPYOGI (useful)” and terming the red cap wearing Samajwadi Party (SP) as “red alert”. The Samajwadi Party (SP) is widely seen as the main challenger to the BJP. As experts pointed out, there is good reason for the BJP’s reliance on Modi. “The BJP in UP can be divided into two phases. Pre-Modi and post-Modi. So, in 2004 and 2009 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP got 17.5 per cent and 22.17 per cent votes. In the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party’s vote share went up drastically, 42.63 per cent in 2014 and 49.98 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In the 2012 UP polls, the BJP had a vote share of about 15 per cent and in 2017, this vote share went up to 39.67 per cent. That’s the kind of impact he has had on the party’s electoral fortunes and it is only natural that his party is relying a lot on him in these elections too. That explains the frequent PM visits in the run-up to the polls,” said professor Manuka Khanna of the political science department of Lucknow University (LU). The BJP, which had launched six Jan Vishwas Yatras in UP from December 19, had planned a formal conclusion of these yatras with a mega rally by PM Modi in Lucknow on January 9. An estimated 10 lakh people were expected in Lucknow. “That rally, as it is clear already, isn’t happening now. So we will fall back on virtual rallies and door-to-door connect campaigns, but we will have Modi and Yogi Adityanath’s messages delivered to the people both virtually and through door-to-door format. We are working out newer campaign formats as directed by the election commission,” a party leader said. Modi, who is also the Lok Sabha MP from Varanasi in eastern UP and on whose charisma the BJP is betting on yet again, had started arriving in UP since October 20 when he inaugurated the Kushinagar international airport. He inaugurated the 341-kilometre Purvanchal Expressway on November 16. On December 7, Modi inaugurated a fertilizer factory, AIIMS and a lab in Gorakhpur. On December 13, he dedicated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi. On December 18, he was back laying the foundation stone of 594 km-long Ganga Expressway at Shahjahanpur which would be the biggest in of India. On December 21, Modi addressed a rally with an all-women audience in Prayagraj, whose blessings he sought to win the elections. On January 2, he laid the foundation stone of a sports university in Meerut. Thus, he covered all the regions across the state. Nearly all the projects that Modi and Yogi inaugurated or laid the foundation stone of have wider connect across several districts. Take the inauguration of the ₹9800 crore Saryu Nahar project on December 11. The Nahar project is expected to help farmers and people in at least 6200 villages across nine districts —Bahraich, Balrampur, Gonda, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur and Maharajganj, all east UP districts. Here, Modi had reminded the people how anyone who quenches someone’s thirst is remembered before cleverly urging the masses to “bless” the BJP. “We never forget anyone who offers water to quench people’s thirst and I am sure that now that your parched fields would get water, your blessings would help us work with greater enthusiasm,” he had said then. As for the Ganga Expressway, it would pass through Meerut, Hapur, Amroha, Bulandshahr, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Pratapgarh, Rae Bareli, Prayagraj, connecting 519 villages and will cut down travel time. It was during this launch that he coined the phrase ‘UPYOGI (useful)’ for chief minister Yogi Adityanath while slamming the opposition for neglect of both ‘vikas and sanskritik virasat (development and cultural heritage), a line that all BJP leaders have been taking since. “Virtually all the projects that Modi inaugurated or laid the foundation stone have the capacity to influence people’s lives in a big way,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political observer. Adityanath was active too, packing several poll meetings besides attending to his work as chief minister till late in the night. “We wouldn’t know when he would sleep because irrespective of how late he went to bed, he was up and about early morning. His energy is boundless,” a UP minister said about Adityanath’s packed schedule. From attending party meetings, accompanying top leaders, addressing party campaigns, Yogi Adityanath has been fuelling the party campaign. “Modi ji is the party’s lifeline. And in UP, there is hardly any assembly constituency or district for which projects worth several thousand crores have not been announced. Whether it is the so far neglected Sonbhadra where a medical college has been sanctioned, where Har Ghar Nal Yojana (tap water scheme in each household) is going to be a reality, increasing of old age, differently abled and widow pensions, to lowering power tariffs, launching wellness centers he has been catering to all the sections of the society. Yogi ji’s energy and his stamina, his honesty and his hard work are amazing,” said UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh. With Modi in the lead, other top party leaders and Union ministers followed. “Virtually every day through November-December, we had top leaders connecting with the masses,” a BJP leader said. Union home minister Amit Shah travelled across the state from Lucknow to Kasganj and from Hardoi to Bareilly, from Ayodhya to Hardoi and from Bhadohi to Bareilly – holding roadshows and rallies. Defence minister Rajnath Singh also addressed well attended rallies and so did BJP chief JP Nadda. For his part, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had hit the campaign trail on October 13 when he launched Vijay Rath Yatra on a Benz bus coverted into a rath from Kanpur. Ahead of the yatra, the SP released a video in which Akhilesh was seen touching the feet of his father and party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav. Subsequently, Akhilesh’s rath yatra drew impressive crowds at various places across the state, including Hardoi, Gorakhpur, Ghazipur, Banda and Jaunpur. The SP chief also held public meetings at various places, both separately and atop his motorized chariot. One of the most talked about yatras by the SP chief was his virtual non-stop all-day, all-night rath yatra on the entire 341-kilometer long Purvanchal Expressway just after it was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November. The yatra on the expressway was taken out to reiterate the claim that the Purvanchal Expressway was conceived and launched by the SP government. Several sitting MLAs from BSP and few from the BJP have joined the Samajwadi Party, which had opened its doors to all small parties. The BJP which is also wooing smaller, key players, too, got few SP lawmakers to join the ruling party. “I don’t think anyone drew more crowds than Akhilesh ji and they came spontaneously to hear the SP chief. The BJP is afraid as it has read the writing on the wall and that is why it has formed alliance with investigating agencies,” said Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh. IP Singh was referring to the recent income tax raid on some SP leaders. The most talked about income tax exercise was one on the Kannauj-based businessman Piyush Jain from where the tax agency claimed to have detected massive currency notes and gold. The BJP quickly claimed that the businessman was behind the launch of Samajwadi ‘ittra’ (fragrance) though Akhilesh later held a press conference in Kannauj claiming that the businessman was raided as he shared a similar name to that of SP MLC Pushpraj Jain who lived in the same Chipatta locality as Piyush. On the day, Akhilesh held a press conference in Kannauj, the income tax raided Pushpraj Jain too. Akhilesh claimed the exercise was carried out to hide embarrassment. The BJP and the SP also sparred on twitter over the income tax raids. 
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Model code of conduct enforced in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The district administration on Saturday enforced the model code of conduct, soon after the Election Commission of India announced the election dates. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said it would be ensured that the code of conduct was implemented properly. The city that would go to poll on February 23, witnessed political banner\poster removal drive in several places. “With the ECI’s announcement of assembly polls, model code of conduct has been enforced in the city with immediate effect. It would be ensured that the code of conduct is strictly enforced, ”the DM’s order read. In the order, district magistrate Abhishek Prakash further said that legal action would be initiated against those found violating the code of conduct. The DM, while highlighting the statistics, said polling would take place at 1526 polling centres that would have around 4018 polling booths. Not more than 1250 voters would cast their vote at the polling booths. This would give a hassle-free experience to the voters. The DM said that special arrangements would be made for the aged voters and the Covid-infected voters would be given postal ballot facility to cast their vote. The maximum expenditure limit for the candidates was ₹40 lakhs, he said, adding there would be no road shows, bike rallies or other rallies till January 15. There was a poster removal drive in several areas, including Qaiserbagh, under which banners of several political parties were removed. On the enforcement of model code of conduct, Lucknow Commissioner of Police, DK Thakur said the city police, with the help of the district administration, had started ensuring compliance with model code of conduct as soon as it was enforced. He said the police were getting all political hoardings and posters put up across the city removed and guidelines related to the model code of conduct would be strictly enforced. He said the police station in charges had been told to remain vigilant in their areas to ensure no law-and-order problem erupted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/model-code-of-conduct-enforced-in-lucknow-101641667861977.html
09-01-2022||Other||Heavy rain inundates major intersections in Gurugram||Heavy rainfall on Friday night and Saturday morning led to waterlogging in several parts of the city, including major intersections such as Huda City Centre, Hero Honda Chowk, Bilaspur Crossing and Iffco Chowk. Traffic was disrupted on several stretches such as the service lanes of the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway, between Khandsa and Kherki Daula toll, Narsinghpur stretch, Sheetla Mata Road, Golf Course Extension Road and Sector 10 stretch, said traffic police officials, adding that personnel were deployed at several spots to drain out water using water pumps. However, the officials said that major congestion was not reported in the city on account of Saturday and weekend curfew in the national capital. Commuters faced issues crossing Golf Course Extension Road, Sheetla Mata Road, and Sector 10 stretch. They alleged that these stretches are riddled with potholes and are unsafe for two-wheelers.Rupesh Saluja, a Delhi resident who commutes to Sohna Road for work, said that he has escaped accidents several times on Golf Course Extension Road due to potholes. “Today, it was very difficult to cross the stretch due to potholes filled with rainwater. The road requires a complete makeover,” he said. The traffic volume on Golf Course Extension Road is usually high as many residential societies, corporate offices and automobile showrooms are located on the stretch. Sonika Khurana, a resident of Sector 5, said that despite repairs the stretch from Atul Karatia Chowk to Sector 5 is in a mess. “Shopkeepers have encroached the road from both the sides, and overnight rain caused waterlogging and congestion on the stretch. It takes more than 40 minutes to cross the 3km stretch,” she said. The traffic officials said that they also filled up more than 100 potholes to prevent accidents on flooded roads. At least 400 police personnel were deployed at 32 vulnerable points in the city to manage the waterlogging situation, they said. Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said, “Police personnel filled up potholes on roads for the ease of commuters during the rains. Around 110 potholes were filled up with soil and interlocking tiles to avert mishaps across the city. Our teams have prepared data of stretches where repair work needs to be done and the same will be shared with the agencies concerned,” he said. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gurugram recorded 54mm of rainfall between 12.30am and 8am on Saturday. The IMD predicted that the city may witness one or two spells of rain or thundershowers on Sunday as well. On Saturday, the minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 13.5°C, while the maximum temperature was 18°C. 
09-01-2022||Pune||Man from Mumbai arrested for stalking, sexual abuse of minor from Pune||PUNE: A Mumbai resident was remanded to custody of Pune police in the case of online stalking and sexual harassment of a minor girl from Pune. The arrested man was identified as Yash Babasaheb Bhandare, 19, a resident of Buddh Vihar in Takshand Bhavan society in Thakkar Bappa Colony of Chembur, Mumbai. The man was produced in a local court on Saturday and remanded to police custody till January 13. “With the use of a social networking application, the minor girl came in touch with the man. He established contact with her through online chatting and started threatening her and gained access to her private photos. The man created a fake profile and shared the photos on the social media app, as per the girl’s mother’s complaint at cyber police station,” read a statement from Pune cyber police station officials. The police tracked the person who made the fake profile and found him to be in Mumbai. A team of cyber police station officials arrested the man from Mumbai. The man was booked under Sections 354(d), 506, 34 of Indian Penal Code and Section 11(5) and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Sections 66(e) and 67 of Information Technology Act registered at cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-from-mumbai-arrested-for-stalking-sexual-abuse-of-minor-from-pune-101641667799255.html
09-01-2022||Pune||Class 10 student found dead in house in Pune||PUNE: A 15-year-old boy was found dead in his house in Karvenagar on Friday. A suicide note addressed to his family was found from the house of the Class 10 student, according to Shankar Khatke, senior inspector, Warje Malwadi police station. “His sister found a note that started with “I quit” and has well wishes for people from his family, but it does not hint at any reason. The family is not in a state to record a statement,” said Khatke. The boy is survived by his parents and elder sister who is a college student. The child was alone at home when he is believed to have taken the drastic step, according to the police. The child’s sister came home in the evening and found that her brother was not answering the door. She opened the door using her key and found the door to his room locked as well. She opened the door to find him unconscious. She alerted her parents who rushed him to the hospital. The hospital informed the police. The incident was recorded at the police station in an accidental death report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-10-student-found-dead-in-house-in-pune-101641667561741.html
09-01-2022||Pune||68-year-old foils robbery attempt by men posing as cops in Pune||PUNE: A 68-year-old woman from Pimpri-Chinchwad foiled a robbery attempt by four men who approached her posing as police officials in Kaspate Vasti area of Wakad on Tuesday. A case in the matter was registered on Friday. A complaint was lodged by Kusum Mahendra Budhiya, a housewife living in a society of Kaspate Vasti. Around 11:30 am on January 4, the woman was walking near the Lord Vitthal temple in Kaspate Vasti when two men approached her and told her that they were policemen. The men then allegedly told her that she should keep her valuable jewellery inside her bag and not wear it outside. As the woman complied and tried to put the jewellery in her bag, a third man tried to distract her as the men tried to snatch the jewellery. As they failed to rob the woman, a fourth person helped them flee the spot on a two-wheeler, according to the complainant. “One of them told her that his senior officer is calling her. Took her to a second person who posed as a senior officer. The second person told her that she is making a mistake by roaming around wearing jewellery. A third person walked by and the man pretending to be a senior officer yelled at him for wearing jewellery as well. The poser officer made him take off jewellery and put it in his bag. The complainant then followed suit and started putting her jewellery in her bag when the first man tried to put his hand in her bag. The woman raised an alarm and told them to not touch her bag. The people walking around the area started gathering and the two ran away. We checked the CCTV camera footage and found that the two posers, the third person, and one bike rider (who did not get involved) were working together,” said assistant inspector Santosh Patil of Wakad police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 393 (attempt to commit robbery), 170 (personating public servant), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/68yearold-foils-robbery-attempt-by-men-posing-as-cops-in-pune-101641667259250.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||UP govt gives four-month service extension to UPMRC MD Kumar Keshav||Managing director of Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC), Kumar Keshav got a four-month extension of service from the UP government. His tenure was to end on February 16, 2022, and has been extended till June 30, 2022.This is MD (UPMRC), Kumar Keshav’s third extension in a row. He was appointed for five years in August 2014.After five years of service, he was given his first extension on August 17 2019 for two years. Then he was given six months extension and his tenure was due to end on February 16, 2022. Now, Kumar Keshav’s tenure has been extended till June 30, 2022.On December 28, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated a section of the Kanpur Metro Rail Project.UPMRC in a press release said Prime Minister Modi had acknowledged the exceptional services rendered by the MD of UPMRC. “For doing commendable work in giving world-class metros to various cities of Uttar Pradesh, the managing director of Uttar Pradesh Metro got an extension of service from the government,” the press release said.Kudos to Kumar Keshav who is being regarded as the “MetroMan” of Uttar Pradesh and his team for commencing these large-scale metro projects in the two most populous cities of Uttar Pradesh in such a short time, the press release said.In December 2021 UPMRC has set a new record across the country by gifting Kanpurites their very own metro in just 2 years and 2 months, according to the press release.UPMRC press release said Keshav was appointed as the managing director of Lucknow Metro (now UP Metro Rail Corporation Limited) seven and a half years ago in 2014 and within this period he along with his team gifted India’s fastest metro project to Lucknow and then broke his record by commencing the Kanpur Metro Train services in just 2 years and 2 months.These projects not only gave international fame to the cities of Uttar Pradesh but also changed the lifestyle of the people of Lucknow and Kanpur. Under the leadership of Kumar Keshav, the name of the fastest constructed underground metro station ‘Chowdhary Charan Singh Airport Metro Station’ in Lucknow is also recorded in the Limca Book of Records, the release said.The construction work of Kanpur Metro (Balance Section) and Agra Metro projects is currently being carried out by Uttar Pradesh Metro at a fast pace day and night without any interruption, while Gorakhpur Metro is currently in the approval stage from the Central government, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-gives-four-month-service-extension-to-upmrc-md-kumar-keshav-101641667019279.html
09-01-2022||Pune||Man dies by electrocution, Khed MSEDCL staff booked||PUNE: A case was registered against unidentified Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officials of Khed area for causing the death of a motorbike rider by leaving a live wire unattended near traffic movement in August 2021. The deceased was identified as Vishal Hukum Barma, 20, a resident of Ambethan village of Khed in Pune and a native of Konch area in Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh. The man was riding with his friend to deliver tea and snacks and heading to a private company in Khed when they ran into traffic. While taking another route the man came in contact with an unattended live wire, according to the police. Barma’s friend, Kedar Patil, was severely injured in the incident, according to the police. A complaint was lodged by the deceased’s father Hukum Sattu Barma, 40. A case under Sections 304(a) and 338 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Mhalunge police outpost of Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-dies-by-electrocution-khed-msedcl-staff-booked-101641666959258.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Indian Post, Railways integrate services to deliver women artisans’ products nationwide||In a major push to the women self-help groups (SHGs) in Uttar Pradesh, the India Post and Railways are set to join hands to deliver the products made by SHGs to every part of the country. The move initiated by minister of railways and communications Ashwini Vaishnaw during his recent visit to Lucknow will also benefit the ongoing One District One Product (ODOP) scheme of the state government.“Indian railway and India post are two major institutions that have evolved a lot with the demands of time and technology. As per the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, both these departments should work closely in a more integrated manner. I want this integration to begin from Uttar Pradesh,” said Vaishnaw while addressing a gathering of officials from Indian Railways and India Post at a programme held at the general post office (GPO) on January 6.“The senior officials of railway and India post in Uttar Pradesh are present here. I want you to get in touch with each other to begin the process of better integration. Over 12 lakh employees of Indian Railways along with two lakh employees of India Post can provide us world’s best system to deliver goods from and to the remotest corners of the country,” the minister added.According to senior officials, the minister reiterated the plan in a gathering with the officials of the two departments after the programme. “The minister asked senior officials of India Post and Indian Railways to work out a method for better integration of services,” said Kaushalendra Kumar Sinha, chief postmaster general, UP.Besides boosting the exiting delivery system via train, the integration will provide the much-needed push to women SHGs in the state by expanding the markets for their products. As per government records, there are over 53,000 registered women SHGs in Uttar Pradesh, one of the largest in the country. More than half of these women SHGs produce products ranging from stricter social, bangles and decorative pieces to food products. According to experts these SHGs are forced to sell their products in the local market at throwaway prices in absence of proper marketing and reach to big markets.The integration will also provide a major push to the ODOP scheme of Uttar Pradesh. “The integration work will benefit the ODOP (scheme). The products made under the ODOP scheme and will be delivered in a much effective manner across the country. This will not only benefit the artisans and workers involved in manufacturing of the products but also help to build brand Uttar Pradesh,” said Vivek Kumar Daksh, postmaster general, HQ region, Lucknow.As part of the integration work, 9147 post offices across Uttar Pradesh have already started providing IRCTC (Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation) services for the booking of rail tickets. At 14,553 post offices, common service centres have been set up that can provide services ranging from Aadhar, banking, pension, insurance etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indian-post-railways-integrate-services-to-deliver-women-artisans-products-nationwide-101641666839538.html
09-01-2022||Pune||SPPU to conduct research on immunity-boosting properties of Ashwagandha||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has provided an opportunity to the people to participate in the ongoing research of the ministry of Ayush to prove the immunity-boosting effect of the medicinal plant ‘Ashwagandha’ post-Covid-19 vaccination.As a part of the national programme of the ministry of Ayush, the research project has been started to examine the efficacy of Ashwagandha after vaccination for Covid-19 that can help in boosting immunity. Dr Bhushan Patwardhan, national researcher, ministry of Ayush, said, “The ministry has undertaken such national-level research projects to prove the usefulness of Ayurvedic medicines and to promote them far and wide. Scientific research on Ashwagandha is a part of it. More and more citizens should participate in this research and help to take Ayurveda forward.”The concept of the project was developed by Dr Patwardhan and Dr Arvind Chopra is the head of the study. The medical officer Dr Shashikant Dudhgaonkar at the health centre and Dr Girish Tillu from the department of health sciences, of the university along with the research students are working on the project.Dr NS Umrani, vice-chancellor, SPPU, said, “The university is providing students and teachers with the opportunity to work on the basic issues of the society, instead of just theory-oriented courses at the university.” “It is a matter of pride for the university that many professors and students are working on this subject,” said Umrani.The centre of the research project in Pune is located at SPPU. The project is ongoing at other six centres spread across the country – Mumbai, Nagpur, Jaipur, Delhi, Hassan and Belgaum. Dr Tillu said that citizens participating in this project will be given Ashwagandha capsules after vaccination. “The study aims to evaluate how much immunity is enhanced by taking these capsules additionally. Previous research has shown that Ashwagandha is useful in many ailments; including boosting immunity. The participants in the research will be provided with complete health care and they will not incur any form of financial expenditure,” said Dr Tillu.Who can participate?Individuals between the ages of 18 and 45 years are required to visit the university health centre within seven days after receiving the first or the second dose of the vaccine. There they will be briefed on the details of this research. Citizens who are willing to participate will be given a health check-up and provided with Ashwagandha capsules. These capsules are expected to be taken as instructed. Assessments will be carried out at regular intervals. The cost of travel will be borne by the centre, added Dr Tillu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-to-conduct-research-on-immunity-boosting-properties-of-ashwagandha-101641666719138.html
09-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj shivers amid sporadic showers, heavy cloud cover||With Sangam city recording 100% maximum and minimum humidity, chill or ‘Galan’ and extreme cold condition threw life out of gear on Saturday. The blue sky of the city was dominated by thick cloud cover which kept the denizens devoid of sunshine and with the maximum and minimum temperatures both remaining almost the same, residents continued to shiver all day through. Weather experts predict conditions to remain the same for the next 24 hours. The temperature remained almost the same as compared to Friday as there was a difference of just two degrees in terms of maximum temperature while the minimum remained almost the same. The maximum temperature, as recorded on Friday was 17.5 degrees Celsius and it increased to 19.5 degree Celsius on Saturday. Likewise, the minimum temperature on Friday was 14.4 degree Celsius and on Saturday, the minimum temperature was 14.9 degree Celsius. The city also received 0.4 millimetres of scanty rainfall. Although, the cloud cover did give way to a glimpse of sunshine around noon the same was for a brief spell with high dew content in the atmosphere that resulted in ‘Galan’, a condition wherein there is high humidity in the air adding cold waves with a breeze. With the chilly conditions continuing, the city roads witnessed the thin attendance of commuters and vehicles. Even the local parks saw very less attendance of youngsters and kids who too remained cautious against the conditions. Different crossings of the city witnessed locals sitting around bonfires while many others opted for hot tea from roadside vendors. Meanwhile, the weather experts have predicted no respite from the prevailing chilly conditions. “The winds, coming from Himalayan foothills are too strong and a couple of days without fog would soon be replaced with bright sunshine only to invite chilly conditions by next week,” said Prof AR Siddiqui, a weather expert and head of the Department of Geography, Allahabad University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-shivers-amid-sporadic-showers-heavy-cloud-cover-101641666601163.html
