10-01-2022||Delhi||Paralysed man beaten to death by drunk father in Delhi||A 30-year-old paralysed man was beaten to death with a stick allegedly by his drunk father at their home in a slum in north-west Delhi’s Wazirpur on Saturday night, the police said.Investigators said the inebriated condition of the accused and his frustration with their poverty may have pushed him to kill his bedridden son. “It seems that he was also angry with his son for being bedridden,” said Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (north-west).Police said the grievously injured man, identified as Paramjeet Singh, allegedly told his sister that it was their father who assaulted him. He was rushed to a hospital, where he succumbed to injuries, police said.“We later arrested the father, Ajmer Singh, and booked him for murder,” the DCP said.Police said Paramjeet lived with his parents in the Wazirpur slum colony. His father is a daily wager and his mother a homemaker. Singh was left paralysed after a road accident about 14 years ago, the police said.His sister Rekha lives with her husband elsewhere in north-west Delhi. For the past few days, his mother was staying at his sister’s home.“On Saturday, Rekha visited Paramjeet only to find him injured. She asked him about the injuries and learned that their father had returned home in an inebriated condition on Saturday night and beat him with a stick,” said Rangnani.Rekha rushed him to Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital where doctors declared him dead. The hospital authorities subsequently informed the police upon which the father was arrested from the neighbourhood itself.It remained unclear if the father regularly thrashed the bedridden man or it was a one-off incident, police said.This is the second case of filicide in the national capital in the span of three days. On Thursday, a five-year-old boy was beaten to death by his father for playing mobile games instead of studying in south Delhi’s Khanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/paralysed-man-beaten-to-death-by-drunk-father-in-delhi-101641839372704.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Eight killed in weather-related accidents||Eight people were killed in weather-related incidents in Himachal on Monday. Director, state disaster management authority, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said in Chamba, a woman died after being buried under the debris. Banti Devi, 77, was a resident of Bannu village. Two persons were killed in Mandi and Kullu districts. Five people were killed when the car they were travelling in plunged into gorge in Kupvi area of Chopal in Shimla on Monday. The deceased are yet to be identified. Chopal DSP Raj Kumar said four people died on the spot while the fifth succumbed to the injuries at a local hospital.Prima facie, the car skidded on the ice. A five-year-old child was among the dead, the DSP said.Meanwhile, normal life remained disrupted in the state due to overnight snowfall and rains. Bharmour in Chamba and Shimla’s Khadrala got 60.9cm snowfall, Gondhla in Lahaul and Spiti experienced 40cm snow and tourist resort of Manali got 37cm snow. Shimla town received 30cm snow, Keylong 24cm and Kufri 20cm while Kalpa got 9cm snow. Dharampur in Solan was the wettest place with 73mm rainfall, while Solan town got 71mm rain. A total of 774 roads, including three national highways, were blocked due to snow. Maximum 260 roads are closed in Shimla followed by 170 in Lahaul-Spiti and 139 in Kullu. As many as 249 water supply schemes have been affected, mostly in Chamba, while remote areas have plunged into dark due to damage to transformers. Four kutcha houses have also been damaged. Shimla town is struggling to return to normalcy. Essential supplies have been hit in the town as the roads were blocked. Shimla DC Aditya Negi, however, said all main roads were opened for traffic by the evening. The meteorological department has forecast scattered rains on Monday and Tuesday. Skies are likely to get clear from January 12. More than 4,000 electricity transformers damagedHimachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) is making full efforts to provide uninterrupted power supply to the consumers, its spokesperson Anurag Prashar said on Monday. He said the electrical infrastructure has been hit badly as transmission lines have been broken, snapping the power supply. He said that the electricity board is working on a war-footing to repair the transmission lines and restore the power supply. He said the transformers which were damaged due to snowfall on Saturday have been restored. The HPSEBL said that additional chief secretary (power) RD Dhiman was monitoring the restoration works while managing director Pankaj Dadwal was also in the field. Prashar said that during the snowfall over past one week, 4,669 power transformers were damaged of which, 2,854 have been restored and the work of restoration of remaining is going on continuously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-eight-killed-in-weather-related-accidents-101641838832767.html
10-01-2022||Other||DTCP asks Gurugram admin to recover demolition costs from violators||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Monday wrote to the district administration to ensure recovery of demolition cost of around ₹46 lakh from 46 violators through land revenue as they have failed to deposit the demolition payment to the department. The DTCP officials said that these land owners were given notices for developing plots in violation of rules. The department said that more than ₹50 lakh has been spent by the department in past one year for demolishing these illegal structures and cost of this exercise would be borne by the violators. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that 16 notices to property owners in Sohna, 13 in Pataudi, four in Farrukhnagar, five in Harsaru, and seven in Manesar were issued for recovery of ₹46 lakh. “The details of these notices have been shared with the district administration and we have asked them to ensure that punitive damages are recovered through land revenue,” he said. The officials said that the district administration can also block the sale and purchase of land against which recovery is pending, in case the payment is not made by violators. The department also said that they have carried out over 200 demolition drives in the district against illegal colonies and it has been decided that recovery of cost would be made from the violators. “We are preparing the list of all other violators against whom payments are pending and the district administration would be apprised of their details. The demolition drives cost a lot of money and the violators will have to bear the cost,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dtcp-asks-gurugram-admin-to-recover-demolition-costs-from-violators-101641838531400.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh polls: Imran Masood consults supporters, confirms he’s joining Samajwadi Party||Congress national secretary Imran Masood on Monday announced that he was formally joining the Samajwadi Party (SP) along with his supporters in Lucknow on Tuesday less than a month before the Uttar Pradesh polls, marking his return to the party after having served the Congress for eight years.Imran Masood, a prominent leader of the Congress in Saharanpur and the neighbouring districts of the western UP region, made the announcement after seeking the opinion of his supporters in a meeting at his home in Saharanpur on Monday afternoon. He discussed the issue with the supporters who backed his decision to quit the Congress and join the SP.Interacting with the supporters, Imran Masood said only the Samajwadi Party is capable of defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Uttar Pradesh polls.Acknowledging that the Congress has given him honour and respect, Imran Masood said in the prevailing political situation, the BJP would have a direct contest with the Samajwadi Party in the assembly elections.Imran Masood also said the party leadership will take a decision on fielding candidates for the seven assembly seats of Saharanpur district and he would work to ensure their victory.Imran Masood had contested the UP assembly elections from Muzaffarabad constituency in Saharanpur in 2007 as an independent and defeated Jagdish Rana. In 2012, he contested as the Samajwadi Party candidate from Nakur constituency but lost to Dharamveer Saini of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).He then joined the Congress and contested the Lok Sabha election from the Saharanpur constituency in 2014 but lost to the BJP’s Raghav Lakhanpal in the Modi wave.There is speculation that Congress MLA from Saharanpur Dehat Masood Akhtar may also join the SP with Imran Masood. Akhtar is a close aide of Imran Masood.The speculation of Imran Masood joining the SP surfaced months ago.Earlier in October 2021, he said the party (the Congress) is not capable of fighting alone against the ruling BJP and it should form an alliance with Samajwadi Party for the upcoming elections.“First, we have to think are we capable of fighting alone against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and the answer is ‘no’. Then, definitely, we should ally with the Samajwadi Party to defeat the BJP. Honestly, if we have to fight in Uttar Pradesh then we have to fight together,” he had added.Elections for the 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases starting February 10, the election commission has said. The polling in Uttar Pradesh will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27 and March 3 and 7.The counting of votes will take place on March 10.Masood, supporters booked for violating Covid normsFormer MLA Imran Masood and 300 of his unnamed supporters were booked by the local police for amassing a large crowd of his supporters without taking permission from the authorities amid the enforcement of the model code of conduct, the police said, according to a PTI report.Saharanpur’s city superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar said Masood and his supporters were also booked for violating various anti-Covid guidelines.No one in the crowd at Masood’s residence was wearing any mask or following the social distancing norms, he said, according to the same PTI report.An FIR has been registered against Imran Masood and over 300 of his unnamed supporters under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Pandemic Act, Kumar said, the news agency added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-polls-imran-masood-consults-supporters-confirms-he-s-joining-samajwadi-party-101641838171444.html
10-01-2022||Other||Gurugram reports Covid-19 death after a month||With 2,621 fresh Covid-19 cases, the active case tally in Gurugram reached 10,160 on Monday, breaching the 10,000 mark after over seven months, according to bulletin from the district health department. The district also recorded one death due to Covid-19 on Monday after almost a month. Prior to this, one Covid-19 death was reported in Gurugram on December 13.Officials from the district health department said that a 67-year-old fully vaccinated man, who died of Covid-19, had several co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes, and cardiac ailments. “The patient who died on Monday was fully vaccinated and was taken to a private hospital on Friday complaining of dizziness and drowsiness. He tested positive for Covid-19 during the precautionary test done before admission,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. On Monday, the test positivity rate in the district increased to 22% which stood at around 5% on January 1. Of 10,160 active cases, 68 patients are hospitalised and 10,092 are under home isolation. On Monday, 933 people also recovered in the district, the data shows. Gurugram had last witnessed active cases over 10,000 on May 21, when the district had 10,287 such cases. On Monday, the health department collected 11,865 samples for testing, which takes the total test numbers to 2,390,084, according to the health department data. Meanwhile, the Gurugram administration on Monday said that over 5,000 fines have been issued in the past one week for not wearing masks at public places. “As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Gurugram, we urge people to get vaccinated, wear masks and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at all times. Fines are being issued regularly to those who are not wearing a mask. In the past one week, over 5,000 such challans have been issued. Teams in private and government hospitals are continuously monitoring the situation to ensure that Covid-19 safety protocols are followed properly,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-reports-covid-19-death-after-a-month-101641837811441.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Engineer arrested for stabbing neighbour to death in Katraj||PUNE A 46-year-old engineer was arrested by Pune police for stabbing his neighbour to death and grievously injuring the victim’s brother in Sukhsagarnagar area of Katraj on Monday morning.The deceased man was identified as Sharad Sitaram Puri, 39, a resident of Srinath Building in Sukhsagarnagar while the injured man was identified as Bahrat Puri, 40, according to the police.The arrested man has been identified as Sachin Vitthal Kapatkar, 46, a resident of a bungalow near the building in which the victim lives.Kapatkar was enraged after the debris from the construction work going on in the victim’s house fell on his car and inside the compound of his house. Around 9:45am, Kapatkar met the Puri brothers near the gate of his bungalow and stabbed one in the left side of his chest while the other on the right side of his chest.A case was registered under Sections 302, 307, 504, 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 37(1)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Bibwewadi police station. Assistant police inspector PRavin Kalukhe is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/engineer-arrested-for-stabbing-neighbour-to-death-in-katraj-101641837691049.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Pune-based NCL reported mutations in Omicron variant in November last year||PUNE The city-based National Chemical Laboratories (NCL) which has been studying the sewage and drainage outlets for SARS-CoV-2 samples for detection and genome sequencing had reported the first mutation in Omicron variant from a sample collected back in November last year from its own sewage treatment plant (STP).Through drain samples, the lab is helping the civic body identify the areas reporting an early surge of Omicron cases which can further help plan isolation and containment zones.Studying samples through the wastewater as the virus shreds off the body’s system through excretion and then through the drainage and sewage can be earlier detection of the samples as most RT-PCR samples are tested only after symptoms are reported or after close contacts.Dr Ashish Lele, director at the NCL said, “The studying of wastewater in the population helps understand various viruses which could be circulating in the community and fact can also help understand diseases like polio which are assumed to be eradicated. It helps in earlier detection as the virus could begin shedding off even before the person starts showing symptoms and so it helps in early detection. However, it also depends on multiple factors like floating population, migration and others.”The NCL has reported the first mutation in the Omicron strain based on a sample from its own Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at the NCL-Phytorid plant which had a high viral load when the sample was collected on November 22, 2021. The sample shows one mutation in the Omicron variant.The sample shows Omicron one week before the institute has reported the first Omicron variant case in the swab samples, in the first week of December 2021.The institute had also reported one-two mutations in the Omicron variant which was specifically reported in the stream at Vitthalwadi stream on samples collected on November 26, Bopodi stream on November 30 and Erandwane stream on December 3 sample.The institute had also flagged off a spike gene mutation in the Delta variant from the samples collected in between October and December 2021 samples. The institute study has also clearly stated that the viral load in the January samples is much higher than the ones found in October, November or December last year. The STP samples are being studied from 30 canals and drain and also 12 STP’s and each sample is studied about twice a week.However, clarifying the mutation, Dr Lele said, “Mutations are a natural process and it should not be alarming as the mutations are not of concern. We have found that most of the strain is similar to the ones already published and so only a few minor mutations are noted which is not concerning and needs further study.”“We are studying the wastewater samples and sending the report to the civic body every week to help them plan for containment or surveillance accordingly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punebased-ncl-reported-mutations-in-omicron-variant-in-november-last-year-101641837451281.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||HC asks petitioners how it can interfere in state decision which benefits public||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday sought to know from a petitioner who has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against a government circular permitting only ‘fully vaccinated’ persons to travel on local trains and visit malls and workplaces whether the HC could interfere in a public scheme in which more than 75% of the population has participated. The HC held that as vaccination is a sort of weapon to fight Covid which minimises the chances of getting hospitalised, how can it be expected to interfere. The court asked the petitioner to respond within a week’s time. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik, while hearing the PIL filed by activists Feroz Mithiborewala and Yohan Tengra, was informed by advocate Nilesh Ojha for Tengra that the circular issued by the state government in August 2021 violated citizens’ fundamental right to equality by discriminating between vaccinated and non-vaccinated persons and therefore the circular should be set aside and directions should be issued to the authorities to permit non-vaccinated persons to travel on local trains and visit malls and workplaces. Last month, chief secretary of state Debashish Chakrabarty said that the state had acted on reasonable restriction under parens patriae (power to protect persons who are unable to act on their own). However, advocate Ojha argued that while the CS himself had failed to get vaccinated claiming that was his choice, how could the common man be forced to do the same.The bench however said, “The state government says it has the responsibility of looking after the entire population of Maharashtra and it has to devise a policy to protect the majority of the population from Covid-19. Vaccination is a sort of weapon in the fight against Covid-19. None says if anyone is vaccinated, he or she will be immune to Covid-19 infection in future.” While Ojha stressed that most of the hospitalised persons were either fully vaccinated or had received one dose, the bench said, “These are steps for the fight against Covid. There are people who have contracted Covid after wearing masks, vaccination and physical distancing. However, the idea behind vaccination is that it will act as a shield against future infection. If the state has taken a policy decision, which it is entitled to take in the larger public interest, will that be a ground for us to say that the policy should be interfered with?” The court asked the petitioners to respond to its query and posted hearing of the PIL to January 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-petitioners-how-it-can-interfere-in-state-decision-which-benefits-public-101641837391451.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Pune rural police arrest three involved in scores of temple thefts in Maharashtra||PUNE The Pune rural police have arrested two women and a man for their involvement in 20-25 cases of theft of donations and valuables from temples across Maharashtra.The three were identified as husband-wife Shahrukh Raju Pathan, 24, a native of Purandar in Pune, Pooja Kaidev Madnal, 19, a native of Junabidi Kumbhari in Solapur, both residents of Gopal Shirgaon in Kolhapur and the woman’s sister Anita Govind Gajakosh, 19, who lives with the couple and is a native of Vijapur in Karnataka. The three have been remanded to police custody till January 15 by a court in Pune.The three have allegedly confessed to have stolen jewellery and valuables from around 24 temples in Nagpur, Wardha, Latur, Beed, Osmanabad, Satara, and Kolhapur along with Pune, according to the police.The three landed on Pune rural police radar after jewellery from the idol of Goddess Shirsai from a temple in Shirsuphal village in Baramati taluka was reported stolen. The theft was suspected to have been committed between 1am and 3am on January 8.The police have recovered all the stolen jewellery from Shirsai temple along with copper utensils, and jewellery from other temples in the state and a stolen car from the three. The worth of the seizure is estimated to be around ₹12 lakh.Dr Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police formed a team of Baramati taluka police station officials under leadership of police inspector Mahesh Dhawan.“The various teams that were formed after visiting the spot, went through footage of 60-65 CCTV cameras in Shirsuphal, Malad, Kurkumbh, Daund, and Baramati and nearby areas. However, the night-time footage did not help the police identify the number of the car. However, using other techniques, the teams found the number of Eeco car MH14FX4576. The vehicle was reported stolen from Pimpri on December 4, 2019,” read a statement from Pune rural police.The police tracked them down to Gokul Shirgaon in Kolhapur and set a trap near their house from where they were arrested.Shahrukh Pathan has multiple cases of vehicle theft registered against him at Bhosari, Samarth, Faraskhana police station in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.BOXAlert citizens, priest foil theft bid at Swami Samarth templeThe alert citizens the priest of Swami Samarth temple in Manjri Budrukh area of Pune foiled a theft of donations by catching the thieves in the act on Saturday midnight.One of the three thieves was identified as Chetan Kisan Salunkhe, 26, a resident of Sargam chowk area of Pandharpur. He was caught by residents who raised an alarm and alerted the priest and his uncle. The two others fled the spot under night cover, according to the police.Around 11:30pm on Saturday night, Nilesh Bhale, 25, a resident of Manjri Budrukh and the priest of Swami Samarth temple was alerted after he heard raised voices of people living around the temple. His maternal uncle and Bhale both ran out to find three men running. The residents and priests caught one of them.The three had forced the lock of the temple open and had made a failed attempt at breaking the donation box. A case was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-police-arrest-three-involved-in-scores-of-temple-thefts-in-maharashtra-101641837332826.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Allahabad HC seeks reply from govt, BCCI and UPCA||PRAYAGRAJ The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the central and state governments, BCCI and UP Cricket Association (UPCA) to file reply on a petition seeking non-inclusion of 29 individuals and corporate groups as life members of the UPCA. The court issued notices to the 29 individuals and corporate groups seeking their reply in the case by the next date of hearing, which is fixed as February 3, 2022.The bench comprising Justice MK Gupta and Justice YK Srivastava passed the order while hearing a petition filed by Manoj Kumar Pundir and six others. The petitioners are elected members of the apex council (governing body) of the UPCA. According to the petitioners, 24 individuals and 5 corporate members were illegally inducted as “life members” of the UPCA without following the due procedures and processes as per the recommendations of the Lodha Committee and the Supreme Court judgment of 2018 in this regard. The petitioners stated that some of the members of the apex council relinquished office after the 2018 Supreme Court judgement for having attracted “disqualification” by virtue of having served the UPCA for more than nine years. However, such “disqualified men” were made members of ‘board of directors’, through the backdoor, as they could not become members of apex council having served the UPCA for more than nine years.The petitioners alleged that the apex council was formed after the 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court to properly manage the cricket association in the light of recommendations of Lodha Committee. However, board of directors, the parallel body, was added in the constitution of UPCA to regain control over the functioning of the cricket association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-seeks-reply-from-govt-bcci-and-upca-101641837331357.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Politicos want Chakan to host international airport... again||PUNE As the Ministry of Defence has rejected a proposed site for the international airport at Purandar, elected members from Chakan, Khed taluka, are demanding the airport be relocated at Chakan. Earlier, an airport was planned at Chakan, but due to farmer agitations and land acquisition issues, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis moved the location to Purandar. Despite the Purandar locale getting the clearances, the Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) government has been relocation the final site due to land acquisition issues. The Ministry of Defence rejected the latest site at Purandar due to technical issues. Elected members from Khed, Shiv Sena’s Shivajirao Adhalrao and BJP MLA Mahesh Landge have demanded the airport be set up at Chakan again. Congress MLA from Purandar, Sanjay Jagtap said, “At any cost, the airport will happen at Purandar. There are a total of six sites and we are hoping to get clearance for other site s though one has been denied.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/politicos-want-chakan-to-host-international-airport-again-101641837271169.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Woman killed in cracker unit blast in UP’s Shamli||A woman was killed in a blast at a firecracker factory in Butrada village of Shamli district on Monday afternoon, police said. The factory where the blast occurred belonged to a local Mohd Rizwan who has a licence for running it. The name and age of the deceased were yet to be established, the police added. Confirming the incident, superintendent of police, Shamli, Sukirti Madhav said a case was being registered against the factory owner. He said labourers were preparing firecrackers when blast took place due to negligence of some workers. One woman died in the blast while other labourers did not suffer any injury, he added.Initial reports, however, said many labourers were likely to be trapped under the debris of a portion of the factory which collapsed by the impact of the blast. Rescue teams and police cleared the debris with the help of villagers. The body was later sent for a post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-killed-in-cracker-unit-blast-in-up-s-shamli-101641837211235.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||1,000 Delhi cops infected with Covid since new year||Nearly 1,000 Delhi Police personnel have been infected by Covid-19 so far this, officials said on Monday, adding that most of them have been recovering at home, the police said on Monday.Some senior police officers, including additional commissioner and spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal, are among those infected.Anil Mittal, deputy spokesperson, most of the infected are quarantined at homes and are recovering. “About half a dozen personnel with co-morbidities are hospitalised,” said Mittal. No deaths this year have been reported in the force so far this year, he added.The police said they are, however, prepared to deal with a greater surge and more hospitalisation. Eight wellness centres and two Covid care centres, in Rohini and Shahdara respectively, have been kept aside for the police.Nodal health officers -- which comprise of deputy commissioners of police and unit heads -- are required to ensure that an officer of the rank of inspector or above should personally meet the hospitalised personnel or their kin, on a regular basis till they get fit. “In the event of an outstation case, a video conference with the ailing person or their family members must be ensured, with regular feedback taken on the health of the ailing person,” said a statement released by the police in late December last.Nodal health officers are also required to take stock of oxygen cylinders, concentrators, sanitisers, masks and preventive medicine and keep all such equipment prepared for use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1000-delhi-cops-infected-with-covid-since-new-year-101641837151369.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Demand to start coaching classes in Pune city with 50% capacity||PUNE As the Class 10 and Class 12 exams will be conducted soon, private coaching classes in the city have demanded to allow offline classes with 50% capacity.As teenagers are inoculated against Covid-19 we should be allowed to conduct classes offline, say owners of such coaching classes.Amid the increasing threat of Omicron which is driving the ongoing surge of the Covid-19 case, the state government has imposed restrictions and schools and colleges, along with private coaching classes will remain closed till February 15.“We are not happy with the decision taken by the state government as the board examinations are going to start soon. For the Class 10 and Class 12 students from various boards, it is necessary to study in offline mode as a majority of students do not understand properly during online teaching. So today we have sent a demand letter to the state chief minister about the same and asked to allow us to operate with 50 per cent capacity, as we are all ready to follow all the Covid norms strictly,” said Bandopant Bhuyar, state president of Coaching Classes Teachers Federation and Social Forum of Maharashtra.Meanwhile, action has been taken on some private coaching class owners who continued to take offline classes in the last couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-to-start-coaching-classes-in-pune-city-with-50-capacity-101641837091394.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Duo booked for posing as excise officials, duping four for liquor license||PUNE A case of cheating has been registered against a duo for duping people by falsely promising liquor license and coaxing money from them. While the two are under arrest in a case registered at Shivajinagar police station, a case has been registered against them at Hadapsar police station for duping four men of more than ₹58 lakh.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 39-year-old man from Malshiraj in Solapur.“They came in touch with the accused through a common friend. Along with the complainant and one witness, the amount is ₹57,99,000. There are two more witnesses and with their investment, the amount will increase. The two are currently with Shivajinagar police station officials, I will get their custody and then find if there are more people duped by them,” said assistant police inspector R Gaikwad of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the latest case.The man among the accused man-woman duo posed as assistant commissioners in the state excise department and promised to grant a L2 license to open a liquor shop to the complainant and the witness.From March 2020 till date, the complainant made multiple online transfers amounting to ₹57,99,000. The two then led the complainant to believe that their license had been granted.A case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467, 468, 170 (personating public servant), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/duo-booked-for-posing-as-excise-officials-duping-four-for-liquor-license-101641837031069.html
10-01-2022||Pune||SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar shortlisted for UGC chairman post||PUNE Prof Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), has been shortlisted for the post of chairman of University Grants Commission (UGC).As the tenure of Prof Karmalkar will end soon, his name has been amongst the three frontrunners in the race for the post. Along with Prof Karmalkar, two other names considered by the national search and selection committee are - Prof M Jagadesh Kumar, vice-chancellor of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Prof Avinash Chandra Pandey, director of Inter-University Accelerator Centre (IUAC).The post of UGC chairman is vacant since December 7, 2021, after the earlier chairman Prof DP Singh resigned and took retirement at the age of 65. He was holding the post since 2018 and now the new appointment will be done by the search and selection committee which is directly monitored by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Prof Karmalkar who was also an alumnus of SPPU took the charge of vice-chancellor in May 2017. Earlier he was the head of the department of the environmental science department and for the past 36 years, he has been initially studying and then working in the university.Prof Karmalkar in 1982 completed his master’s in science (geology) from the then Pune university and later on continued as a PhD scholar. While he also did his post-doctoral research from Sydney and Germany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-vice-chancellor-prof-nitin-karmalkar-shortlisted-for-ugc-chairman-post-101641836850939.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Knock on every door for SP’s win: Akhilesh to party cadres||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav has asked his party leaders and workers to intensify their door-to-door campaign to ensure the SP’s victory in the 2022 UP assembly polls.“Don’t waste time, no delays, just go knocking each and every door all over the state. Request each and every person that the 2022 UP polls are for the sake of development and democracy and the SP’s victory will lead to prosperity and happiness,” Akhilesh was quoted as asking the party cadre by SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary in a statement.Taking a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Akhilesh, as per the statement, said the ruling party’s only job was electioneering and that it had nothing to do with public interest and development. He also alleged that the BJP’s strategy was to complicate polls and misuse government machinery to win them.He further alleged that the BJP crushed the future of farmers and the youth while claiming that the real development work for the state and its people was done by the previous SP government. Akhilesh also alleged that the BJP misused government machinery and resources to its advantage for the rallies and yet their rallies failed to match the “Samajwadi Vijay Yatra”. “Scared of SP’s rallies, the BJP is engaged in new conspiracies,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/knock-on-every-door-for-sp-s-win-akhilesh-to-party-cadres-101641836731319.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Sharad Pawar, Anil Parab fail to get MSRTC employees to give up on strike||PUNE After a meeting between Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and state transport minister Anil Parab with 22 workers union representatives of the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) on Monday, employees from the Pune division and parts of Maharashtra said they are firm on continuing the strike and not willing to join back duty until their demands are met.During the meeting, Pawar and Parab tried to convince the union representatives, who supported the view to end the two-month-old strike“We have given assurance to all the workers about not taking any action and as the merger issue of MSRTC in government is currently in the high court, a deadline of 12 weeks to decide over it was decided in today’s meeting. So, our appeal to all the protesting workers and who are on strike is to join back duty from tomorrow,” said Parab.For the last over two months the MSRTC workers and their several unions are protesting for their various demands, an action committee of the unions was formed earlier to have a conversation with the state government. But apparently, the main demand of merging the MSRTC into state government was diluted, according to the workers.Sanjay Munde, a driver from Pune MSRTC division, who is also leading the strike for independent workers, said, “All the 22 workers union representatives who attended the meeting are not participating in the current strike and we all will not join back duty. They are just conducting discussions and want to bring back workers to duty, but till our main demand of merger is not fulfilled no one will join back in Pune division and even in rest of the state.”The state transport department, meanwhile, has initiated hiring contract drivers to start the bus operations and accordingly the process has been started at all the divisions in the state.In the MSRTC Pune division, a total of 1,300 employees out of the 4,200 have resumed work. Whereas show cause notices to 69 workers have been sent and after three rounds of inquiry hearing, they would be dismissed from work if they don’t join back duty. The Pune division has suspended 488 workers out of which 66 workers have joined back. Still, the number is less to start back the bus operations in Pune division in full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sharad-pawar-anil-parab-fail-to-get-msrtc-employees-to-give-up-on-strike-101641836671011.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Life imprisonment for man who raped, killed 16-year-old in 2012 in Pune||PUNE A 29-year-old man was sentenced to life in prison for rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl in Pashan in 2012. The conviction was awarded by a district judge on January 8, almost 10 years after the incident. The convicted man, who was 19-years of age at the time of the incident, was identified Akash Natha Koli, a resident of Bhegade chawl in Kokate lane of Pashan. He was convicted under Sections 302 (murder), 376 (sexual assault) read with 511, and 404 (dishonest misappropriation of property possessed by deceased person at the time of his death) of the Indian Penal Code. A fine of total ₹20,000 was levied upon him by the court. The victim was a Class 10 student who had moved to Pune in August 2012 and was walking home from tuition on September 8, 2012 around 6pm when she was killed. Her body was found near central government quarters in Pashan the next day with her school belongings lying around her. The judgement was made by district judge MM Deshpande in the presence of Assistant public prosecutor Pushkar Sapre and Subhash Nikam, deputy superintendent of police at Criminal investigation department (CID). Assistant sub-inspectors Kamlakar Gaikwad and KR Renuse, along with havaldar Nilesh Pukale helped the prosecution in the trial that went on for 10 years. “After having considered the submissions of the accused persons and their learned counsels and having considered the submission on behalf of the prosecution and considering the fact that the accused has committed murder of a 16-year old minor girl who is a student of Class 10. She had a bright future ahead and therefore, leniency cannot be shown against him. Therefore, this court is of the opinion that following order would meet the ends of justice,” read a part of the order passed by the judge. It was shortly after this case that the Protection of children from sexual offence (Pocso) Act came into existance. Therefore, sections of the specially formulated law could not be invoked in this case. While the statement of nodal officer Datta Angre confirmed the call records, the statement of medical officer Dr Urmila Dhondiram Mundhe confirmed sexual assault and murder. In June 2016, Dr Mundhe who conducted the post mortem was examined and cross-examined. She confirmed that there were six stab wounds on the girl’s body caused by a sharp object which is suspected to be a divider, an equipment with sharp points used for geometrical measurements by school students, that was found near her body. While the girl was found to have died by asphyxiation, the medical officer claimed that the injuries were consistent with the divider that was found lying near the girl’s body. “The prosecution in the case examined 19 witnesses and the case is based on circumstantial evidence. Accused used to stare at the victim and other girls passing by the road and used to pass comments for which he was repeatedly warned by surrounding people. On her way back from tuition, he stopped her midway and proposed to her but after she denied him, he dragged her to the spot of the incident and raped her and thereafter murdered her,” said APP Sapre. The medical officer’s report found wounds that were suggestive of sexual assault and around 25 laceration wounds on her body including six on her stomach. The officer, however, confirmed that the girl died of suffocation. “He gagged her mouth and suffocated her to death while assaulting her. Then he used a compass to check if she was dead and stabbed her with it. He took her phone, destroyed her SIM card, and started using her phone when his battery died out,” added APP Sapre. The phone was found in his possession during his arrest. Two witnesses in the case submitted that the boy was reprimanded for making sexual gestures at another girl months before the murder. The girl had moved to Pune only weeks before the murder. Unbeknownst to her, the man, who was 19-years of age back then, kept track of her for weeks before approaching her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/life-imprisonment-for-man-who-raped-killed-16-year-old-in-2012-in-pune-101641836551327.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence case: One accused granted bail||Chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Chinta Ram on Monday granted bail to Virendra Kumar Shukla, the 14th accused in FIR number 219/2021 related to the killing of four farmers and a journalist in the October 3 Tikunia violence case in Lakhimpur Kheri district, said senior prosecuting officer (SPO) SP Yadav.Shukla is a close relative of Union MoS home Ajay Kumar Mishra. The Kheri violence last year had claimed eight lives. Shukla’s name came to fore on January 3 when police filed their chargesheet in FIR number 219 and charged Shukla under section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). While accepting the chargesheet, the CJM had summoned Shukla to court on January 10.As per SPO SP Yadav, Virendra Kumar Shukla on Monday surrendered and moved his bail application through his counsel Anil Kumar Trivedi. Yadav added after hearing the arguments of the prosecution and the defence counsel, CJM Chinta Ram granted bail to the accused on the grounds of the offence under Section 201 of IPC was bailable. The CJM ordered to release the accused on a personal bond of ₹20,000 and two securities of ₹20,000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-case-one-accused-granted-bail-101641836377762.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Integrated Covid command centre inaugurated in Hardoi||Hardoi MLA Nitin Agarwal and commissioner, Lucknow division, Ranjan Kumar, on Monday, inaugurated the Integrated Covid-19 Command Centre (ICCC) in Hardoi district on Monday. HCL, a global conglomerate, upgraded the centre with the support of the district administration. Residents can reach the ICCC through helpline numbers – 05852237627, 05852237629—and toll-free number 1075. Trained staff from the centre will help screen callers and queries before referring them to a designated team of respondents, including doctors, policemen, ambulance and other officials appointed by the government for further course of action. During the inauguration of ICCC, Avinash Kumar, district magistrate of Hardoi, said, “HCL has been providing critical support towards COVID response efforts and uplifting the overall health services in the Hardoi district. We appreciate their support towards upgrading the integrated COVID Command Centre at this crucial time. This facility is a true example of how public-private partnership can assist in enhanced services for the citizens.” An official said they would also follow up with COVID positive patients regarding their health and wellbeing and will ensure vaccination reminders are sent to those who have received the first dose of COVID vaccination. Further, the centre can be used during any disaster response operation. The advanced centre is aimed at ensuring critical support for the citizens of the district in the wake of a possible third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. The upgraded centre was inaugurated in presence of Avinash Kumar, district magistrate Hardoi, Akanksha Rana, chief development officer, Hardoi, and Alok Varma, project director, HCL Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/integrated-covid-command-centre-inaugurated-in-hardoi-101641836376056.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow administration to start distribution of dry ration to needy||The district administration is all set to distribute free dry ration kits to the needy and the Covid affected people here in the state capital.Officials said the decision has been initiated to facilitate the Covid affected people, especially jobless and needy, in anticipation of another Covid wave.“Since the Covid cases are on the rise again, it should be ensured that the needy and jobless should get proper ration supply until things get back to normal,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, while addressing a meeting in the state capital to assess the preparation of anticipated third wave of Covid.Officials with the district administration said that a dry ration kit would be enough to meet a person’s requirement for 15-20 days. The dry packet would include rice, pulses, wheat flour, edible oil, tea, sugar, soap etc... in adequate quantity. Earlier, during the first and second wave, the administration had directed Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) to establish community kitchens across the city and ensure that no one sleeps hungry.The DM said the teams would identify the people in need and ensure the distribution of dry ration packets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-administration-to-start-distribution-of-dry-ration-to-needy-101641836014034.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Sanitation worker shot dead by security guard in UP’s Aligarh||A security guard allegedly shot dead a sanitation worker after a heated argument over some issue at a shopping complex where both men in their 20s were employed in Aligarh city on Monday morning, police said. Enraged kin of the deceased man identified as Puneet Kumar protested at the shopping complex and created ruckus before the police reached the spot and arrested the accused Anshu Chauhan. “A heated argument took place between security guard and sanitation worker when the shopping complex at city centre in Aligarh was to open on Monday morning. The enraged security guard fired from his licensed gun and injured the sanitation worker who was rushed to a hospital but he was declared dead there,” said senior superintendent of police, Aligarh, Kalanidhi Naithani. “The accused was immediately arrested and a case was registered against him. Police was mobilised to restore peace,” the SSP added. The deceased belonged to the Valmiki community, which is quite dominant in Aligarh district. Community leaders led a protest till police pacified them. Force from nearby police station was also called in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sanitation-worker-shot-dead-by-security-guard-in-up-s-aligarh-101641836012578.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Fewer tests lead to lower caseload, positivity rate down by one per cent||Mumbai After recording around 20,000 Covid cases for four days in a row, Mumbai witnessed a fall on Monday at 13,648 due to the fewer tests conducted in the city. In the past 24 hours, 59,242 tests were conducted against an average of 70,000 tests earlier last week. The test positivity rate (TPR) fell by one per cent as Monday recorded 23.03 per cent TPR. Five deaths were reported on Monday taking the toll to 16,411, while the overall case tally reached 9,28,220. Meanwhile, both experts and senior officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that the ongoing week will play a key role to determine the further course of action.Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner and in charge of public health in the BMC, said that with nearly 60,000 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the Covid graph has started to show a downward trend.“An adequate number of tests were done in the last 24 hours, which showed a decreased positivity rate. But we are not getting carried away because we need to be sure first whether this downward trend is just a one-day phenomenon or the numbers have seriously started to decline. Also, the rate of hospitalisation is something that we are concerned about and we need to see if the bed occupancy level rises throughout this week,” said Kakani.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Maharashtra Covid task force, said that the number of actual cases in Mumbai could be higher than the reported figures as many citizens are taking the rapid antigen test at their home and getting themselves treated privately.“While the numbers suggest that we are inching towards a plateau, we also have to consider that the laboratories in Mumbai are overwhelmed with the samples and have already reached a saturation level. Instead of focusing on the numbers, we will have to concentrate on other key factors like bed occupancy, doubling rate and patients that require oxygen and ventilation for treatment,” said Dr Joshi.Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the national and state Covid task force, said that it’s quite normal to record a lower number of infections on Mondays because usually fewer tests are conducted on Sundays.According to the BMC, Mumbai has a capacity of conducting one lakh tests per day and laboratory experts have said that they are in the process of scaling up the resources.“At present, we are conducting 10,000 to 15,000 tests per day and at the same time, we are working towards ramping up our resources so that we can do at least 50,000 tests per day,” said Chandrashekhar Mani, vice-president (Technology) of Thyrocare laboratories.Kakani also mentioned that the BMC is monitoring all the laboratories closely and it will send notices to the ones that fail to produce reports within 24 hours.“Mumbai has a capacity to conduct one lakh RT-PCR tests regularly. If we take antigen tests, the numbers can go higher, but we are only sticking with RT-PCR for accuracy. We have already told the laboratories to expedite their resources so that the daily test figures can also be expedited this week,” Kakani said.Besides this, 27,214 patients were discharged on Monday and the recovery rate of the state stood at 87 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fewer-tests-lead-to-lower-caseload-positivity-rate-down-by-one-per-cent-101641836010920.html
10-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengal sees drop in daily Covid cases, Kolkata has highest active caseload at 33,841||The number of new Covid-19 cases in West Bengal on Monday declined significantly with 19,286 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours with a daily positivity at 37.32 per cent. A day ago, 24,287 coronavirus cases were reported.State capital Kolkata, with 5,556 new cases in the last 24 hours, added the most to the state’s tally. North 24 Parganas followed closely with 4,297 new cases. Among other districts, Howrah added 1,625 new cases and South 24 Parganas accounted for 1,255, a bulletin from the state health department showed. Paschim Bardhaman also saw over 1,000 new cases (1,008 exactly) during the day.Also read | Delhi reports slight dip in Covid cases with 19,166 fresh infectionsMeanwhile, 16 more people succumbed to the illness taking the death toll to 19,917. The active caseload currently stood at 89,194, up by 11,083 since Sunday. Kolkata again was the worst affected in terms of active cases with 33,841 patients.The fall in daily cases could be due to the 20,000 less samples tested in the last 24 hours. As many as 71,664 tests were done on Sunday, while the count was 51,675 on Monday. So far, 2,19,25,880 samples have been tested.The state has so far vaccinated 10,88,20,526 people of whom 68,203 – 30,329 who got their first doses and 37,874 who got their second – were jabbed during the day.As many as 27 Omicron cases have been detected in Bengal so far, the Union health ministry said on Monday. Of these, 10 patients have been discharged.On the first day of administering a precautionary third vaccine dose in the country, 35,236 people were given such doses in the state, data from the Co-WIN dashboard at 10.30pm showed. All healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens above 60 years of age with comorbidities have been prescribed a third dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-sees-drop-in-daily-covid-cases-kolkata-has-highest-active-caseload-at-33841-101641834487311.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Block pramukh arrested on gang-rape charges in Agra||A block pramukh in Bah area of the Agra district has been arrested on charges of gang-rape of a woman in a hotel in Agra city on Monday.The case has been registered with the Tajganj police station, and a search is on to arrest the two other accused named in the complaint. The victim is from another district and was called to Agra in name of a job offer. “On the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, the police received a call from a woman on 112 that she was gang-raped in a hotel in Agra. Police swung into action, and a case was registered at Tajganj police station under section 376D (gang-rape), 323 (voluntarily caused hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code,” informed SK Singh, DIG/SSP, Agra.“The police team led by Bhupendra Baliyan, in charge of Tajganj police station, arrested the main accused Lal Singh in the wee hours of Monday. Search is on for others absconding,” stated Singh. The victim is from Bulandshahar district and complained that she received a call from an unknown number about two months ago, and such calls continued on her mobile. The caller told the victim that his name was Lal Singh, and he was a block pramukh in the Agra district. He assured the victim a job in Agra, and believing the accused, the victim woman came to Agra on Sunday, revealed police sources, on basis of the statement made by the victim. The prime accused, Lal Singh, now under arrest, has been named along with his two friends Dev and Jitendra (mentioned by their first names) as accused in this case, as per the press statement issued by the Agra police.With UP assembly elections around the corner, political parties are trading barbs on the basis of the alleged political affiliation of the accused with a particular political party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/block-pramukh-arrested-on-gang-rape-charges-in-agra-101641835590848.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Man held in Lucknow for duping Gorakhpur bizman in name of providing govt tenders||Police arrested a 52-year-old man on Monday for allegedly duping a Gorakhpur businessman in the name of providing government tenders. According to a press statement issued by police, the accused Kashinath Tiwari is a resident of Indiranagar in Lucknow.“Tiwari took about ₹2.7 crore from the Gorakhpur businessman over a period of three months in the name of providing government tenders for waste management and disposal in government hospital and two municipal corporation across Uttar Pradesh. Tiwari also threatened him and hurled caste-based abuses,” reads the statement.An FIR has been lodged at Ghajipur police station of Lucknow police commissionerate under section 420 of IPC (fraud) against Kashinath Tiwari and his accomplices Kalindi Tiwari, Ashutosh Tiwari, Shubhnarayan Tiwari, Meena Tiwari and Sunil Pandey.The others named in the FIR are accused of providing Tiwari with fake documents related to government tenders.Police teams are now making efforts to arrest the others as well recover the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-held-in-lucknow-for-duping-gorakhpur-bizman-in-name-of-providing-govt-tenders-101641835473711.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||On mission inoculation, HP’s frontline warriors brave vagaries of weather||Himachal Pradesh became the first state to fully vaccinate 100% of its eligible population against Covid last month. Now, the health workers are on a mission to vaccinate those in the age group of 15 to 18 years. Despite adverse weather conditions in the state, the vaccinators have stepped out in snow and cold temperatures to inoculate teenagers. The upper regions of Shimla, Rohru, Jubbal, Theog and Chopal experienced intermittent spells of snow while the minimum temperatures plummeted. “It began snowing in the morning and soon, the roads were laden with five inches of snow. When our vehicle got stuck, I, and along with my team members, walked till Barthatha village in Jubbal to vaccinate the youngsters,” said a health worker Jai Kala. “Children were delighted to see us. They thought the teams wouldn’t reach owing to snowfall,” she added. “For us, vaccinating the entire population is the priority. Teams are facing problems with mobility. I personally talk to the team members to motivate them. They are the backbone of vaccination drive,” said Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra. Vaccinators also earned appreciation from Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who tweeted a video clip of health workers walking in snow to inoculate the young population. He appreciated the health workers by saying, “Nadi, registan ho ya barf ka toofan, humari health army lakshya sadhnay mein tatpar hai. (Whether it’s a river, a desert or a snow blizzard, our health army is ready to achieve its targets).” “We too want to spend time inside our cosy homes along with our family members in this harsh winter, but at the same time we realise that the war against the lethal virus has not got over yet,” said another health worker, Padma from Kaza. Chamba chief medical officer Dr Kapil Sharma said the health authorities have been facing challenges due to bad weather. “We had to cancel drives at some places due to fresh snowfall as it would have been difficult for children to reach the venues. The health teams, however, with the support of district administration and school management, are working hard to carry out the inoculation drive,” he added. Nearly 90,000 health workers, including Ashas, are deputed on the vaccination drive. High-altitude regions in Chamba, Shimla, Sirmaur, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Mandi district have received snow. Conditions are more difficult for the health workers in the tribal districts of Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur. “On Saturday, we had to cancel the sessions due to relentless snowfall. But the teams have high morales and we have requested the civil administration in Kaza to provide more 4X4 vehicles for vaccination drive,” said Padma. “Our team visited Hikkim, the highest motorable village where minimum temperature is minus 18 degrees Celsius,” he said. The health authorities have targeted to vaccinate 700 children in Kaza medical block. The recent spells of snow have slowed down the vaccination pace in Himachal, which had vaccinated 90,000 children on the first day when the drive was launched on January 3. HP government has a target to vaccinate about 3.57 lakh youngsters in the age group of 15-18 years. As many as 4,259 educational institutions would be covered under this campaign, which includes 2,801 government, 1,402 private and 56 other facilities. “The weather has slowed down the pace and added new challenges. Mobility is a big issue while the threat of natural disasters like avalanches is another. Due to snow, people are unable to visit the centres for vaccination,” said Hemraj Bhairwa, director, National Rural Health Mission. Himachal government’s general administration department will be deputing state helicopters for ferrying vaccination team to the snowbound regions, it has been learnt. 
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Ex-Balrampur MP, kin among six held for SP leader’s murder||Former Samajwadi Party (SP) MP from Balrampur Rizwan Zaheer, 57, his daughter, son-in-law and three others were on Monday arrested for the murder of SP leader Feroz Khan alias Pappu, 46, over political rivalry last week, said senior police officials.They said Khan was murdered by two masked assailants near his house in Balrampur district late on January 4 night. The assailants had first attacked Khan with a blunt object on the head before slitting his throat barely 20 metres from his house on Jarava road, the police added. Pappu was the former chairman of Tulsipur Nagar Panchayat, a position currently held by his wife, Kahkasha Feroz. Pappu was preparing to contest the assembly elections from Tulsipur constituency and was seeking ticket from the Samajwadi Party.Superintendent of police (SP), Balrampur, Hemant Kutiyal said police investigation revealed that the two-time former MP (in 1998 and then from 1999 to 2004), his daughter Zeba Zaheer and her husband Rameez hatched the conspiracy to eliminate Feroz with help of one Shakeel and got it executed through their two long-time aides Merazul Haq and Mahfuz.He further said the former MP, his daughter and son-in-law as well as Shakeel were arrested after the assailants revealed their names during interrogation. As per the SP, the former MP was seeking a Samajwadi Party ticket from Tulsipur assembly constituency in the upcoming polls and Khan was also eying the same ticket.Kutiyal said the assailants also revealed that the former MP had even told them to take names of some family members of Khan for hatching the murder conspiracy in case they got arrested. The SP said the assailants told the police that they had been trying to kill Khan for the last many months and had made three abortive attempts earlier.He said the iron rod used in hitting Khan, the knife used in slitting his throat and an illegal pistol had been recovered from Merazul Haq and Mahfuz.
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Sangam city’s two key roads to meet world-class standards||Two prominent roads of the Sangam city would soon be transformed into world-class roads. The roads will be beautified under Prayagraj Smart City Project: Thornhill Road and Sarojani Naidu Road, for which Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) is planning to spend around ₹27 crore, officials said. The highlight of the beautification project will be that the authorities will not cut any trees down for road widening. In addition, the project will feature features such as ethnic lampposts and the synchronization of the colours of the buildings on either side of the road, they added. “Keeping in view the rich heritage of the city and with an aim to give an ethnic look to these two roads, PDA would be developing Sarojini Naidu Marg and Thornhill Road in such a way that every facility on these two roads would be of world-class standards. We plan to widen these roads, provide a skating track, vending zones, unique areas for morning walkers, benches for people to sit in peace, e-charging points, bollards at specific points, and more as part of the beautification effort,” said Arvind Kumar Chauhan, vice-chairman of the PDA. The official said that the most important feature would be that they have decided not to bring down any trees but would rather plant more trees on the sides of these two roads. “As the two sides of these two roads have a thick cover of adult trees, we have given a lot of thought to how to protect these trees and still go ahead with the beautification work,” he explained. All buildings on these two roads would be painted the same colour as those on Sardar Patel Road. Moreover, the walls of the government buildings, located on these roads, would be painted with murals showcasing the rich heritage of the city and the legacy it carries with it. Both sides of the roads would also have smart street lights, a proper drainage system and parking zones for two and four-wheelers etc. Sarojani Naidu road starts in front of Prayagraj Municipal Corporation office and after crossing All Saint’s Cathedral, extends up to Muir Road. Likewise, Thornhill road starts at Indira Gandhi statute (near New Cantonment) and extends up to Dhobhighat crossing. About ₹17 crore is estimated to be allocated for the development of Sarojini Naidu Road, which is around 2 km long, while around ₹9.7 crore will be allocated for the development of Thornhill Road, which is around 2.5 km long, the officials said. A Singapore-based company has prepared a detailed project report (DPR) for the development of these two roads. The company has been selected by PDA as a consultant under the new vision plan of PDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sangam-city-s-two-key-roads-to-meet-world-class-standards-101641835290889.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Salute the spirit of silent sentinels behind the stars||If one looks back at the annals of cricket, one’s attention is inevitably arrested by the stars of the game whose breath-taking talent made them shine forever. Who can forget the flamboyance of Rohan Kanhai and Brian Lara or the silken touch of David Gower or Zaheer Abbas or the wristy stroke play of Mohd Azharuddin up against the wily leg spin and flippers of Shane Warne or the tearing pace of Allan Donald and the clever variations of Michael Holding? The acrobatic fielding of Jonty Rhodes, the razor-sharp reflexes of Eknath Solkar or the almost impregnable wicketkeeping skills of Allan Knott are etched in the memories of all connoisseurs of the game forever. What we conveniently overlook are the so-called silent sentinels of cricket without whose support the stars of the game would not have shone the way they do. My attention was drawn to these unsung heroes of the game by the recent news of the death of Yashpal Sharma, the middle order Indian batsman who was a part of the 1983 World Cup winning side. Skipper Kapil Dev acknowledged that India would never have made it to the finals had Yashpal Sharma not played the match-winning innings of 89 against the English side in the semi-finals. Another great Indian batsman who belonged to this category was Mohinder Amarnath, whose dogged defence against the fury of Imran Khan won the admiration of the Little Master, Sunil Gavaskar. Mohinder Amarnath would come into the pavilion at the end of the day in the Test matches against Pakistan with the body full of bruises sustained while facing the pace of Imran Khan and Wasim Akram. Unfortunately, the world remembers swashbuckling Kapil Dev, the stylish Gundappa Vishwanath and the prolific Sunil Gavaskar from that era while overlooking these silent sentinels. This is true for other countries, too. Pakistan’s Mudassar Nazar, West Indies’ Larry Gomes, and Sri Lanka’s Roshan Mahanama also belonged to this elite class of cricketers. What is interesting to discover is that life, too, has interesting parallels to this cricketing oddity. All of us would agree that there are very few people around who are blessed with a breath-taking talent. Most of us can only aspire to be like those stars. We work our way through the muddles of life somehow, with a lot of grit and determination even though we might lack that one splendid talent. This does not make us incomplete. This does not deter us to give up the challenges that confront us. We must learn to respect these “workhorses” just as we learn to eulogise the “stars”. Happiness and contentment do not depend upon the share of talent that we are born with. Cricket is well and truly a microcosm of life! gulbaharsidhu@rediffmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based consultant psychiatrist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/salute-the-spirit-of-silent-sentinels-behind-the-stars-101641835232473.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh polls: BJP first off the blocks, set to launch door-to-door campaign||Two days after the election commission (EC) banned political rallies and road shows in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is all set to begin a massive door-to-door campaign for the Uttar Pradesh polls. The people connect will begin on Tuesday. Several party teams, each limited to five people as mandated by the election commission, will visit each household falling under 1, 74, 000 booths across the state, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said after a meeting of the party’s 24-member election committee at the state headquarters in Lucknow on Monday. The BJP is the first political party in Uttar Pradesh to announce its revised poll campaign plan after the EC directive. Panna pramukhs (head of a page on the voters’ list), a concept first introduced by Union home minister Amit Shah in Gujarat in 2007, would also be part of the door-to-door campaign, party leaders said. This means that the campaign by the five-member teams would also include ministers, senior leaders and party functionaries. Virtually everyone in the BJP, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath, is now a panna pramukh as part of the party’s plan to ensure the mass connect campaigns get the desired push. The 35 million (3.50 crore) plus beneficiaries of government schemes that BJP says are present in the state would be part of the target audience of the door-to-door contact campaign for the Uttar Pradesh polls.A pamphlet prepared by the party with the catchline “Poori hui har aas, ghar ghar hua vikas (all wishes fulfilled, development reaches each home)” would also be distributed.All-women teams would connect with women. Several other teams of the party’s foot soldiers would undertake “samajik sampark (social contact)” involving a wider audience.“There are an estimated 35 million plus beneficiaries of various government schemes in UP,” the state BJP chief said, adding that the party would also distribute face covers and sanitisers. Until January 15, when the election commission would consider a review of its ban order, door-to-door contact would be the only direct campaign format available before the political parties, a first of its kind experience both for the campaigners as well voters. The party also plans to deploy “LED raths” in all 403 assembly segments after the festival of Makar Sankranti on January 14, BJP leaders said. These raths with a couple of BJP cadres on board would be equipped with large TV screens and apprise voters of the government’s achievements, a party leader added.However, many in the BJP said the campaign format has been an old feature of the life and times of any veteran party hand. “Since the Jan Sangh (BJP’s predecessor) days, we used to take out prabhat pheris (morning rounds), and campaign on foot for social causes. So, this medium of door-to-door contact is like reliving those days when we would go about chanting “tera vaibhav amar rahe maa, hum din chaar rahe na rahein (may your glory remain eternal Mother India whether we remain or not),” said party veteran and Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia.
10-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 5,156 new Covid cases, one death||PUNE On Monday, Pune district reported 5,156 new Covid-19 cases and one death. This takes the progressive count to 1.19 million of which 1.15 million have recovered, 20,206 is the death toll and 22,290 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 97,799 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 812 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 374,516 and the death toll stands at 7,048, as no more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 3,098 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 545,713 and the death toll stood at 9,280 as one more death was reported. PCMC reported 1,246 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 278,306. The toll stood at 3,528 as no more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 97,799 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Monday and in total 15.77 million doses have been administered in the district, of which 9.09 million are first doses and 6.67 million are second doses. A total of 740 sites saw vaccinations of which 565 are government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-5-156-new-covid-cases-one-death-101641835111118.html
10-01-2022||Patna||₹17 lakh looted from Flipkart’s delivery centre in Samastipur, 2nd robbery in state in 24 hrs||PATNA: Six unidentified men robbed ₹17.41 lakh at gunpoint from an office of Instakart, a delivery station of e-commerce giant Flipkart, located in the Malinagar area in Samastipur district on Monday, police said.An FIR has been lodged against six men on the basis of branch manager Rajesh Kumar’s statement, police said.According to the SHO of Chakmehsi police station, Chandra Kishore Tuddu, the incident occurred when employees of Instakart private services limited were counting the cash collected on Saturday and Sunday. Six men on three bikes reached the spot. While three forcibly entered the office, the others stayed at the main gate.As per the FIR, the miscreants had covered their faces and damaged the CCTV camera installed in the office. After committing the crime, they fled towards Kalyanpur. “The CCTV cameras of the nearby area are being scanned. Five suspects have been detained,” said Samastipur SP Hridaykant.This is the second incident of robbery in Flipkart’s delivery center within 24 hours. Late on Sunday evening, nine unidentified men decamped with nearly ₹12 lakh cash and other valuable items from the office of Instakart at Patna’s Digha Ashiana Road. A probe has been launched into the incident, police said.
10-01-2022||Patna||Chirag’s party to go solo for Council polls in Bihar||Amid rumours of a possible alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) for future elections in Bihar, the LJP (Ram Vilas) faction led by Chirag Paswan has put on hold any such plan till a firm view emerges in the parliamentary party.“We have decided to go solo. There are several big parties in the state but only we have the courage to go alone,” Chirag told reporters on Monday. “The LJP (RV) president has made it clear that any talks of an alliance will not take place at least till the Bihar Legislative Council elections are over,” said party’s spokesperson Ashraf Ansari.Elections for 24 seats of the Bihar Legislative Council are set to be held in a couple of months and parties have already started negotiations for seats. The current strength in the 75-member Legislative Council is 51. The 24 MLC seats, which fell vacant in June last year, have not been filled due to the delay in conducting the panchayat polls.In November last year, LJP (RV)’s state parliamentary party had sent a proposal to the party’s national president Chirag Paswan, suggesting forming an alliance for the MLC polls following a dismal performance in the recently held by-polls for two assembly seats and equally poor performance in the 2020 assembly elections.LJP at present has no representation in either house of Bihar. Its lone MLA switched over to the JD(U) and following division in the party, LJP (Ram Vilas) has only one MP in Lok Sabha in the form of Chirag Paswan whereas the other LJP, the LJP (National), led by union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, has five MPs, including himCong, RJD may move past bitternessAfter bitterness during the by-polls for two assembly seats last year, allies Congress and RJD might again join hands for Council polls, sources said.“It is in the interest of both of us, especially after results of the by-polls,” said a Congress leader who did not wish to be named. 
10-01-2022||Patna||Bihar CM tests Covid-19 positive; state reports 5 deaths||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, his office said in a tweet from its official handle, even as the state reported five deaths and 4,737 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases up to 20,938, according to a health department bulletin. “On the advice of doctors, he (Kumar) has isolated himself at his residence” the CMO tweet said. The CM had tested negative on the rapid antigen detection (RAD) kit on Monday morning, but later tested positive on the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a confirmatory test for Covid-19, said sources. Earlier, deputy chief ministers Tarkeshwar Prasad and Renu Devi had tested positive for the virus. Among the members of the state cabinet to have tested positive are Ashok Choudhary (building construction department), Amarendra Pratap Singh (agriculture), Sunil Kumar (excise and prohibition), Santosh Kumar Suman (SC/ST welfare) Shahnawaz Hussain (industries) and Mukesh Sahni (animal husbandry department). Ashwini Kumar Choubey and Nityanand Rai are among the union ministers from Bihar to have tested Covid-19 positive. Kumar had earlier embarked on the Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan, a social reforms campaign, from Motihari in East Champaran district on December 22. He was, however, forced to abort it midway after his tour to Aurangabad on January 4 as Covid-19 cases began to rise in the state. Of the five Covid-19 deaths in the state during the last 24 hours on Monday, three were reported from AIIMS and one each from the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS). Among the three Covid-19 deaths at AIIMS was a six-year-old girl with severe brain disease. The other two casualties at the institute were of a 50-year-old patient who underwent a stomach surgery and was suffering from kidney disorder, besides a 72-year-old cancer patient. A 21-year-old road traffic accident victim who tested positive for Covid-19 died at the IGIMS. Bihar had last added close to 5,000 Covid-19 cases in a day during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in May last year. On Sunday, the state reported 5,022 new Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, the state also reported 27 new cases of Omicron on the genomic sequencing test at the IGIMS. The total number of cases of Omicron, has a high infectivity rate, has now gone up to 28 in Bihar. Earlier, on December 30 last year, a 26-year-old resident of Patna’s Kidwaipuri locality was the first in the state to test positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The result, however, did not reflect on the national health portal on Covid-19, as the same was done through ‘S’ gene target failure (SGTF) kit, which is indicative of Omicron, while the genomic sequencing test is a confirmatory test. 
10-01-2022||Patna||Bihar man who claimed he took 12 Covid jabs on the run||The 84-year-old man from Bihar’s Madhepura district, who has claimed to have taken 12 shots of Covid-19 vaccine since the vaccination began last year, has gone absconding since a police team reached his house on Sunday to arrest him, police said. Days after the man, Brahmadev Mandal, made the claim on January 5, medical officer of Puraini primary health centre (PHC) in the district lodged an FIR (first information report) against him on January 8.Mandal, a retired employee of postal department, is a resident of Orai village. His wife Nirmala Devi alleged he was being harassed by police. “Police are behaving with my husband as if he is a dreaded criminal,” she said.Devi, though, maintained her husband had managed to take multiple jabs of the vaccine. “It benefitted him in curing several ailments,” she said.Mandal had even showed the local media a paper on which he had jotted down the date and time of the vaccines he was administered.On January 8, medical officer of Puraini PHC Dr Arun Kumar lodged an FIR at Puraini police station against Mandal under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty) and 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by government) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Deepak Chandra Das, station house officer (SHO) of Puraini police station, said, “Police visited his house on Sunday evening, but he was not there. He will be arrested soon.” Though local health officials declined to comment on any loophole that Mandal would have exploited to possibly get multiple jabs, residents of his village said that in vaccination camps, health workers would just collect copies of identity proof (Aadhaar card) of beneficiaries and administer the jabs. “They update data only hours later at the nearest primary health centre, after which we get notifications on our phones. It’s possible that after the second jab for Mandal, the system would have rejected data for the subsequent shots he actually managed to take in the vaccination camps in villages,” one of the village residents said, wishing not to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-man-who-claimed-he-took-12-covid-jabs-on-the-run-101641834090833.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Days after schools shut down, worries surface about Class 10 & 12 preliminary exams||MUMBAI: Barely had Dhruvi Patel, 16, started attending offline classes since the first week of October than the Maharashtra state government recently decided to shut down in-person classes, pushing schools and junior colleges once again into online mode and leaving students like Patel in a lurch. Patel has attended school online for nearly 17 out of the past 19 months and had just begun enjoying her time back in the classroom.Patel, a Class 10 student of St Paul’s Convent, Dadar east, said, “Since I was in Class 9 in 2020, most of our assignments and exams were conducted online which hampered our writing habits. In the last two months, we were slowly getting back to it and looking forward to the preliminary exams but now our school is not sure if physical exams can be held.”Schools that were shut down in March 2020 were reopened for offline teaching for Classes 5 to 12 in rural areas and Classes 8 to 12 in urban areas on October 4, 2021. In December, the state school education minister also announced the dates for SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12) board exams to be held over March and April this year in physical mode.However, the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city and state has forced the school education department to shut down offline learning for all Classes except 10 and 12. “Most students have only now started submitting writing assignments and in order to prepare them for the board exam, they need to be able to write two-and-a-half-hour papers. Therefore, the preliminary exam is important,” said the principal of a Vile Parle school.Since Monday, several colleges in the city have started offline preliminary exams for their Class 12 students, especially since Class 12 exams are scheduled to begin with oral exams from February 14. This move however has invited flak from students and parents.Chitra Sharda, mother of a Class 12 student of Mithibai College, questioned, “At least 12 students in my son’s batch have tested positive for Covid in the last one week and several others are complaining of Covid symptoms at present. The college is insistent on in-person exams because the government notification says they are allowed. Why are our children to put up with the risk of physical classes while all other batches have been moved to the online mode?”Many schools and junior colleges are currently feeling helpless as more and more staff is contracting the virus. “Our preliminary exams are scheduled from January 17 and we don’t have enough staff at present to conduct physical exams. Students are on study leave so we plan to wait and watch for another week before taking a call on the exams,” said Rupa Roy, principal, Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar. She added that their last resort will be to hold preliminary exams online where students will have to submit answer sheets online. “We had done this in 2021 and might do it again. The health and safety of staff and students is of the utmost importance to us so we won’t do anything to jeopardise the same,” she added.Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of the Teachers Democratic Front (TDF) said that their organisation has approached the state education department for a clarification on preliminary exams. “We are requesting the authorities to release a notification stating that no physical exams will be held at a time when the state and city are recording a high number of Covid cases. With no official notification in place, schools are forcing teachers to attend physical school, endangering the lives of teachers and their respective families,” said Pandya.
10-01-2022||Other||Sonu Sood’s sister joins Cong, Moga MLA revolts||Moga The Congress inducted Malvika Sood Sachar, sister of Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, into the party fold here on Monday. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu both were present at her joining. Malvika is a computer engineer.Her induction has triggered a revolt in the party, with sitting Moga Congress MLA, Dr Harjot Kamal, claiming that he will either contest the polls as an independent or join another political party, if denied a party ticket. Many of his aides, including Moga mayor Nitika Bhalla, have threatened to resign from the party, in support of Dr Kamal. Channi was to meet the MLA, but changed his schedule after a crowd assembled outside his house.“I have been betrayed. You must take revenge. I will fight independently if the party refuses to give me the ticket from Moga. I am fully confident that I will fight and win from here,” Dr Kamal told the gathering of his supporters. Sources in the district Congress committee said the defeat of his wife, Rajinder Kaur, in mayoral polls in Moga municipal corporation in 2021 had lowered his standing in the party.Sidhu, Channi back MalvikaWhen queried on Malvika’s ticket from Moga, Channi and Sidhu said in one voice, “Now, is there any need to say anything?” “Dr Harjot Kamal is my brother. He will be adjusted somewhere else, if there is any need,” said Channi.Sidhu termed her inclusion as a ‘game-changer’. “Her affiliation with the party will change the wave in the adjoining and nearby constituencies. It is an honour to be affiliated with this family,” he said, “It is rare for the party president and the CM to visit someone’s house together, but the Sood family has been accorded the honour and they deserve it.”Channi added, “Sonu Sood himself is an ideology. He has brought laurels for Punjab on a global level. Society needs givers...the affiliation of this family with the Congress is a good omen.”Covid norms, MCC protocols violatedCovid safety norms and protocols related to the model code of conduct were violated at both places. Around 100-odd persons were present at Malvika’s house during her induction, while MLA Dr Kamal also addressed a large gathering at his house. There was hardly anyone who was wearing a mask, with social distancing not followed. The Election Commission of India has prohibited political rallies, road-shows, street-corner meets and processions till January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sonu-sood-s-sister-joins-cong-moga-mla-revolts-101641833550801.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Third wave may peak by month-end or 1st week of Feb: Tope||Mumbai State public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the third wave may peak by January-end or the first week of February before beginning to taper. The daily Covid positivity numbers dropped to 33,470 on Monday, compared to 44,388 on Sunday. This was mostly due to reduced testing as 1,73,806 tests were conducted on Sunday, compared to 2,02,932 the previous day. Mumbai led the tally with 13,648 cases, and of the eight deaths reported in the state, it accounted for five. Meanwhile, 31 Omicron cases were found in the state, of which the highest number was from Pune at 28, followed by Pune rural at two and Pimpri Chinchwad at one. So far, a total of 1,247 Omicron cases have been reported in the state. After a two-hour meeting with Mansukh Mandaviya, the union minister for health and family welfare, Tope addressed the media and sought to allay fear over the virus. He added that of the people testing positive for the virus, only a minuscule needed oxygen support or intensive care. Of those testing positive, around 85 per cent were asymptomatic. He added that the home quarantine period had been fixed at seven days.Tope also said that the number of active Covid cases in Maharashtra was 1.73 lakh. However, of these, just 1,711 (one per cent) were in the ICU, and 5,400 (two per cent) were on oxygen support. “The rest of them, or 13 per cent, are patients with mild and moderate symptoms. There are no deaths on a large scale or demand for ICU beds or oxygen,” said Tope. Only 38,850 ICU and 1.34 lakh oxygen beds were occupied. Maharashtra had 16,000 ventilator beds, and just 700 of them were occupied, indicating a minimal load on the infrastructure.Of the 523 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants that had been approved, 404 were functional and had been tested, and the others will be commissioned soon.While the state has announced that a lockdown will be imposed in auto mode when the demand for medical oxygen touches 700 metric tons (MT) a day and when 40 per cent of beds are occupied, the oxygen requirement for both, Covid and non-Covid patients were just around 250 MT.“We told the minister that there is no huge stress on the infrastructure,” said Tope, adding that they had been asked to focus on testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. The state will also work on boosting vaccination numbers and adopt an aggressive strategy for it. So far, 89 per cent of the target beneficiaries in the state have been given the first dose of the vaccine, while vaccination has been completed for 60 per cent. The numbers had to be improved in Aurangabad district, where they were lower.Referring to the state’s decision to close down educational institutions till February 15, Tope said he had discussed this with Balram Bhargava, Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Bhargava had advocated more curbs if the positivity rate crossed 10 per cent, while this was at a higher 15.5 per cent in Maharashtra.“The third wave is here,” said Tope. “The spike will not be permanent. Perhaps, this rise will persist till January-end or the first week of February, and then begin to taper. This is based on what experts have been saying based on the experience globally… the curbs can be done away with when the cases start declining,” he explained, asking parents, students and stakeholders to take the decision “in the right spirit.”District collectors have been told to give home isolation kits containing multi-vitamin and paracetamol tablets, masks, and sanitisers. Asymptomatic patients will also be sensitised on precautions to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/third-wave-may-peak-by-month-end-or-1st-week-of-feb-tope-101641833370876.html
10-01-2022||Bangalore||Covid-19 in Karnataka: Bengaluru worst hit with 9,221 cases, CM Bommai infected||Close to 12,000 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Karnataka for the second straight day on Monday after 11,698 people tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. Also, four more people lost their lives due to related complications during the day, as the death toll touched 38,374, a bulletin from the state health department showed.Bengaluru Urban district with 9,221 cases contributed with 78 per cent of the new infections in the state. It also accounted for two of the four new deaths.Here are the latest developments regarding the pandemic situation in the state:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-in-karnataka-bengaluru-worst-hit-with-9-221-cases-cm-bommai-infected-101641832182257.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Pawar urges MSRTC employees to return to work, says no action will be taken against them||MUMBAI In a meeting on Monday between Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra state transport minister Anil Parab with Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees’ unions, Pawar urged the employees to resume work immediately. To incentivise employees to return to work, the state government assured them not to take any action against nearly 50,000 employees that are still on strike. The government has also promised that suspended or terminated employees will be considered for withdrawal of action once the transport services are back on track. The MSRTC employee union has also asked the employees to return to work and stated that they would continue to ask for their demands while on duty. Earlier, the Maharashtra government had also announced a hike in salaries by 41 per cent and a raise on their basic pay. “I am happy that the employees’ unions are positive about the appeal made by the government. We should all safeguard the interest of the corporation and should not forget that our commitment is towards the passengers. I have requested the workers to resume work immediately. The MSRTC has been going through a financial crisis because of the pandemic despite the fact that the employees have been given a pay hike up to 41%. The government was positive about the demands of the employees,” said Pawar.Pawar also said that the merger of the MSRTC as a government entity was a matter of sub-judice. “The court-appointed committee is working on it and the state government will act on it according to the court order. The state government has already clarified its stand. There is no point talking about it since the matter is sub-judice,” he said.Further, the employee union on Monday raised the demand of inclusion of the corporation again to the state government and raised the salary on par with the seventh pay commission.“We had a detailed discussion today with Sharad Pawar and Anil Parab. The strike has been ongoing for more than two months and we are happy with the discussions that happened today. Our demands will be considered by the state government. I request all the employees to return to work and we would continue discussions with the government regarding our demands.” said Sandip Shinde, member of MSRTC employee union. MSRTC had earlier stated that they suffered an accumulated loss of Rs.12,000 crore due to lockdown, which eventually delayed the salaries of employees.State transport minister Anil Parab said that the employees should report to work without any fear and there will be no action taken against them. “I had made an appeal to the employees on strike on three occasions in the past as well. 50,000 striking employees have been issued show cause notices. We would not initiate any action against them if they resume work immediately. The employees’ unions have demanded the pay scale to be raised on par with the seventh pay commission recommendations applicable to the state employees. The demand will be positively looked into once everything in MSRTC gets streamlined. The employees have also pointed at the difference between the proposed pay hike and the two agreements done with the employees. An amicable decision will soon be taken,” said Parab.About 96,000 employees of the corporation across the state went on a strike from October 27, 2021 demanding a hike in payment and inclusion of the corporation in the state government.The MSRTC, one of the largest state transport bus services in India, is the only affordable transport service for people particularly residing in rural Maharashtra and has a fleet of nearly 18,000 buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pawar-urges-msrtc-employees-to-return-to-work-says-no-action-will-be-taken-against-them-101641831750746.html
10-01-2022||Noida||Covid-19: Noida's active cases rise to 5,779, Ghaziabad's to 4,614||Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday logged 1,223 new Covid-19 infections while its tally of active cases rose to 5,779, the highest for any district in Uttar Pradesh, official data showed.Neighbouring Ghaziabad's active case tally reached 4,614 as it recorded 1,385 new infections, the data issued by the Uttar Pradesh health department for a 24-hour period showed.The two districts together account for over 30 per cent of the active cases of the coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh (33,946), according to official statistics.Since Sunday, 71 patients recovered from the disease in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 70 in Ghaziabad, the data showed.So far, Gautam Buddh Nagar has recorded 468 deaths and Ghaziabad 461 deaths due to Covid-19 pandemic, which started in 2020, according to the official figures.Uttar Pradesh on Monday logged 8,334 new cases of Covid-19 which pushed its active tally of infections to 33,946, the data showed.Four more deaths were recorded in the state on Monday, with the total number of fatalities due to the pandemic surging to 22,932, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-noida-s-active-cases-rise-to-5-779-ghaziabad-s-to-4614-101641830867356.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Tunnel works partially completed for Mumbai Coastal Road: BMC||Mumbai The first breakthrough of India’s largest Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) was completed on Monday with the tunnel works for the ambitious 10-km-long Mumbai Coastal Road Project was partially completed- a year after works started in January 2021.According to BMC officials, the TBM named Mavla completed one side of the 2-km-long tunnel between Priyadarshini Park and Marine Drive. It is a 3.45-km-long twin undersea tunnel from Priyadarshini Park to Marine Drive near Girgaon Chowpatty. The remaining part of the tunnel works will be done without the boring machine.The parts of the TBM, the BMC had purchased from China in 2020 and had arrived in India in April 2020. After assembling the boring machine, the BMC had started work in January 2021 and now the other side between Marine Drive to Priyadarshini Park will be taken up.Addressing the breakthrough ceremony via video conferencing, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said that the Mawla tunnel work is going on smoothly despite many challenges. He said that by accepting these challenges, the BMC has continued its vigorous journey towards fulfilling the dreams of Mumbaikars. “I would also like to express complete support and cooperation of the state government for the completion of the project,” he added. Others present at the event also included Guardian Minister of Suburban Mumbai, Aaditya Thackeray, City’s Guardian Minister Aslam Shaikh and Mumbai Mayor Kishori PednekarA BMC official from the Coastal Road Department said, “We are under preparations for completing the 1.4 km tunnel on the Priyadarshini Park to Marine Drive stretch and works on the other side of the tunnel will start by April 2022 and we aim to complete it by December 2022. The time taken in the second side will be lesser considering now we know the soil and strata of the area.”It will operate 25 metres below the surface at Girgaum and 75 metres below the surface at Malabar Hill. The width of each tunnel will be 12 metres, with two lanes – each 3-3.2 metres wide – one emergency lane. The BMC claims to have completed above 20% of the work for the Coastal Road Project and has set a deadline of July 2023 to complete the entire project.Meanwhile, the construction work of the ₹12,700 crore coastal road was started in October 2018, and since then the project has been headlining for environmental issues. In July 2019, the Bombay high court (HC) put a stay on the project citing that it needed to have environmental clearances. The coastal road project was originally planned between Nariman Point and Kandivali, claiming it will ease traffic for those travelling between north and south Mumbai. However, now there is a question whether there should be a coastal road or a sea link beyond Versova to connect to the suburbs. The state is yet to take a call on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tunnel-works-partially-completed-for-mumbai-coastal-road-bmc-101641831450676.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||1,549 receive booster doses in Thane, Navi Mumbai on opening day||On the first day of administering the booster doses, 621 beneficiaries in Navi Mumbai and 928 in Thane were jabbed on Monday.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) had organised the booster doses of vaccination at the NMMC General Hospitals in Vashi, Nerul and Airoli, and the Mother and Child hospital in Turbhe besides 23 primary civic health centres. Out of the 621 beneficiaries, 299 were health care workers (HCW), 206 were front line workers (FLW) and 116 were citizens above 60 years.“FLW, HCW and citizens above 60 years who have received the second dose of Covid vaccine on or before 12 April, 2021 are eligible for the booster dose. We have urged all the eligible people to come forward and get their booster doses. The third wave is a sign that the immunity of the people has now gone down and the booster dose is important,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said. The booster dose will be available at the same centres on Tuesday as well.The precautionary dose of Covid vaccine will be given free of cost to the Corona warriors as well as civilians above 60 years at the immunisation centres of NMMC.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) also initiated the precautionary dose for those who have completed 90 days at 47 of its centres on Monday. Around 928 beneficiaries took the dose.In Raigad district, a total of 1,046 beneficiaries got booster doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1549-receive-booster-doses-in-thane-navi-mumbai-on-opening-day-101641830490472.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees drop in Covid tally with 33,470 new cases, Mumbai's positivity at 23%||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 33,470 fresh Covid-19 infections pushing the active caseload to 2,06,046. This is about 10,000 less than Sunday’s figures when 44,388 cases were registered.As many as 31 new patients were found infected with the Omicron variant in the state. Of these, the highest number is from Pune city (28), followed by Pune Rural (2) and Pimpri Chinchwad (1). So far, a total of 1,247 patients have been detected with the Omicron infection in Maharashtra. The state is leading the national chart of Omicron cases.The state’s cumulative tally of Covid-19 cases touched 69,53,514. With 29,671 patients being cured from the disease and eight related fatalities, the total recoveries and the death toll touched 66,02,103 and 1,41,647, respectively.The capital city of Mumbai also recorded a slight drop in fresh cases with 13,648 new infections being registered in the last 24 hours. This pushed the total number of cases to 9,26,170. The city recorded five related fatalities pushing the death tally to 16,411.A day ago, Mumbai registered 19,474 cases and seven deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-drop-in-covid-tally-with-over-33k-cases-mumbai-s-positivity-at-23-101641829412553.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi reports slight dip in Covid cases with 19,166 fresh infections; positivity rate at 25%||Delhi on Monday reported 19,166 fresh cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, a dip of 3,585 infections as compared to previous day's tally of 22,751.According to the city's health bulletin’s latest updates, 17 Covid-19- related deaths were reported in the same time span, pushing the death toll in the national capital to 25,177.The city had reported the same number of Covid-19 deaths on Sunday too. In just 10 days, Delhi has recorded 70 Covid-19 deaths.The capital currently has 65,803 active cases of which 44,028 are in home isolation. The current positivity rate stood at 25 per cent.Delhi saw fewer cases on Monday with the number of tests conducted the previous day being lower than the day before.Also read | Delhi's restaurants, bars to stay shut amid Covid spread, takeaways allowedA total of 1,912 Covid patients are in hospitals. Of them, 65 are on ventilator support, government data showed.Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) suspended dine-in facilities at restaurants and closed bars in view of the rising Covid cases in the city, but decided against imposing a full lockdown yet.A DDMA meeting, chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, also discussed ways to strictly enforce existing restrictions to check the rising cases of the coronavirus and its Omicron variant."In view of the increase in positive cases it was decided to close the restaurants and bars and to allow 'take away' facilities only. It was also decided to allow operation of only one weekly market per day per zone," Baijal said in a tweet.Officers were also advised to strictly ensure that people wear masks and adhere to social distancing norms in markets and public areas to break the chain of transmission, he said in another tweet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-slight-dip-in-covid-cases-with-19-166-fresh-infections-positivity-rate-at-25-101641828917958.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli assistant municipal commissioner, team attacked in drive against plastic at APMC Market||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) assistant commissioner, Sudhir Mokal, and his team who went to take action against the use of plastic at the APMC Market area, were attacked by vegetable vendors with onions and made to turn away.The KDMC has registered a case against the four who attacked the team. A team of KDMC officials went to the main market in Kalyan at around 5am on Monday to take action against the vendors using banned plastic bags. During the drive, the vegetable vendors cut off the electric supply in the market and started abusing the civic officials.An officer requesting anonymity said, “We have initiated this anti-plastic drive since last month. Various teams are deployed at different parts of the city to check illegal use of plastic. On Monday morning, the vendors in the market got into a scuffle with us. They started abusing us and protested against the drive. The power was switched off too. Some of them started throwing onions on us and others joined them and we had to stop the drive.”The municipal labour union has registered its protest against the attack on municipal officials and employees.“Following the incident, we have registered a case at the Bazarpeth police station against the four who attacked our team while on duty. This is the first time the civic body has to register a complaint while acting against plastic bag use,” said Ramdas Kokre, deputy commissioner, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-assistant-municipal-commissioner-team-attacked-in-drive-against-plastic-at-apmc-market-101641829110549.html
10-01-2022||Other||Act on AAP leaders’ claim on sale of election tickets: SAD to EC||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday said that the Election Commission of India (ECI) must take cognizance of statements of senior leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab, where they allege that their party was selling election tickets. “The Election Commission must take cognizance of these corrupt practices and direct the registration of a case under appropriate provisions. AAP and its convener Arvind Kejriwal, who is also the Delhi chief minister, have been thoroughly exposed, with its senior leaders themselves giving proof of party tickets being sold in 56 constituencies,” claimed SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema. A section of AAP leaders, on Monday, levelled these allegations against their party’s leadership.“Kejriwal was the first politician, who officially criminalised the election system by openly soliciting bribes,” said Cheema, pointing that it was only on Sunday that the party had distributed pamphlets, asking people to take money from other parties but vote for it. He demanded an inquiry into the matter. Punjab leader of opposition and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema rubbished these allegations, saying, “The SAD is left with nothing constructive to do other than meddling with the affairs of other parties, particularly the AAP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/act-on-aap-leaders-claim-on-sale-of-election-tickets-sad-to-ec-101641828090377.html
10-01-2022||Other||Sanitation worker electrocuted to death in Amritsar while removing political hoarding||Amritsar A 25-year-old sanitary worker, Bobby, employed by the Amritsar municipal corporation, on a temporary basis was electrocuted to death on Monday morning, while removing a political hoarding near the Sultanwind Gate. As the hoarding was huge and had been installed at a height, it touched the overhead high-tension wires electrocuting Bobby. He was found hanging on the electric police about 10am. The grieving family, which is dirt-poor, staged a protest on the spot, accusing the sanitary inspector of forcing Bobby to climb on the pole, without giving him any kind of safety gear or ensuring that the electricity was snapped off. Akali leader Talbir Singh Gill also arrived at the spot and supported the family, seeking action against MC officials. Police have recorded the statement of Bobby’s kin and promised swift and strict action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sanitation-worker-electrocuted-to-death-in-amritsar-while-removing-political-hoarding-101641827670435.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Bhima Koregaon case: Commission suspends all hearings citing rise in Covid-19 cases||PUNE The Bhima Koregaon Commission which is conducting the hearings in connection with the Bhima Koregaon riots which took place on Jan 1, 2018 has suspended its hearings in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases and new government guidelines. Commission secretary V V Palnitkar said, “In view of the growing threat of Covid-19 and Omicron cases, the commission has suspended its hearings. Depending upon the circumstances, the commission may resume its hearings from Jan 31, 2022 onwards.”The state government recently granted the ninth extension to Bhima Koregaon Commission till June 30, 2022, and directed it to complete the remaining work and submit the final report by the said date. The two-member commission was constituted on February 19, 2018, by the Devendra Fadnavis government. However, due to Covid-19, lack of manpower, and on an occasion, government apathy has led to delay for the commission to submit the report.The commission will begin its next and final hearing from January 18. During the tenure of the commission, as many as 30 witnesses have deposed before the commission and 25 have been examined so far.Earlier the commission had been given the eighth extension from August 2 until December 31,2021 by the state home department after a high-level meeting on the extension issue was held in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-case-commission-suspends-all-hearings-citing-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101641827430182.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Woman falls off auto after mobile snatched on Mumbai – Nashik Highway, one arrested||A 27-year-old woman suffered injuries after falling off a moving auto rickshaw when two bike-borne thieves tried to snatch her mobile phone on Sunday. The woman, who was trying to note the number of the bike, fell after which the rickshaw driver immediately alerted the police. The police reached the spot and took the woman to the hospital, saving her life while one of the accused was also arrested.The injured, Anupriya Gupta, a resident of Gayatri Nagar in Bhiwandi, was commuting from Majiwada in Thane to Bhiwandi in an auto on Sunday afternoon. Two persons on a bike followed the auto along the Mumbai-Nashik Highway. Near Rajnouli Junction, the two snatched the mobile from the woman’s hand and escaped.Gupta started crying out loud for help and also peeped out of the auto to register the mobile number of the bike when she lost her balance and fell off the auto. The auto driver immediately called the police who reached the spot quickly and took the woman to the hospital.Ganpat Pingle, senior police inspector who reached the spot, said, “We formed a team to search for the accused. We first checked the CCTV cameras installed in the nearby areas. We got the number of the bike from one footage and through our informers, got the location of the accused. We laid a trap and arrested one of the accused, Ajgar Gulam Ali Shaikh, 45, who was actively involved in various chain-snatching and other thefts in Bhiwandi and nearby cities.”The police also recovered the stolen mobile and are now on the lookout for the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-falls-off-auto-after-mobile-snatched-on-mumbai-nashik-highway-one-arrested-101641824730064.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Parties launch digital poster wars as UP braces for polls||LUCKNOW ‘Dus March’ (March 10), the date for UP poll results, is the main theme for the digital poster wars launched by most political parties, especially the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its main rival Samajwadi Party (SP). The parties, in a somewhat poetic manner, are claiming their turn to form the next government in the state on that date.The social media is abuzz with the digital campaigns amid the Election Commission’s ban on political rallies, public meetings, yatras and nukkad sabhas till January 15 coupled with no publicity through hoardings or wall writings throughout the entire model code of conduct (MCC) period.The digital posters are made and shared extensively by the parties, their leaders, cadres, and supporters in the general public on social media.Sample these:UP minister and government spokesperson tweeted a poster: “10 March, phir Yogi-raaj (CM Yogi Adityanath’s rule again from March 10).” The poster shows Yogi Adityanath and Sidharth Nath Singh together sitting among a large crowd.The BJP, on its official twitter handle, posted: “Raaj tilak ki karo taiyaari, Dus March ko phir aa rahey hain bhagwadhaari (Prepare for coronation as the saffron-clad are returning). The digital poster shows Yogi in his saffron robe while the crowd to which Yogi is waving has been changed to greyscale (black and white) to emphasise the saffron colour.A Samajwadi Party MLA, considered close to party chief Akhilesh Yadav, posted a poster on his Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook accounts stating, ““Dus March, UP recharge (with Akhilesh’s face dominating the poster),”Samajwadi Party spokesperson IP Singh, who had booked a “return air ticket” for chief minister Yogi Adityanath from Lucknow to Gorakhpur, shared two posters. One declares Akhilesh as saying: “Dus March ko aa raha hoon, 300 unit free bijli laa raha hoon (I am coming on March 10 with 300 units free power). On January 1 Akhilesh had announced a poll promise of 300 units free power to all domestic power consumers and free power for irrigation to farmers. The other poster by IP Singh says: “Dus March, Yogi saaf (Yogi will be wiped out on March 10).”On the other hand, the UP Congress’ digital poster on its official social media states: “Dus March...hogi mahilaaon ki jeet, UP mein shuru hogi nai reet (women will win on March 10 and harbinger new tradition). The Congress post has a picture of party’s national general secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra superimposed on the map of UP, signifying the women-oriented poll promises that Priyanka made.The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), in its tweet, shared its national president Jayant Chaudhary’s poster, saying: “10 March...taarikh tay ho gai hai...ku-shaasan ka hoga ant, su-shaasan lekar aayenge Jayant (Jayant will bring in good-governance, the bad governance will end on March 10).
10-01-2022||Pune||PMC to seek road digging charges from govt agencies||PUNE Government agencies will now have to bear the road digging charges as the Pune municipal administration has put forth a proposal to the standing committee, seeking charges from the government agencies.Various government agencies like Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL), Maharashtra State Electrical Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and other agencies lay their pipelines and network in the city. For laying their infrastructure, these agencies dig city roads and also make use of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) property. By considering that municipal administration suggested to charge the laying charges for these agencies.One of the official on anonymity said, “All these agencies charge commercial rates to PMC like other private organisations. If these government agencies are applying same rates for PMC for using electricity bills, CNG gas and land line facility, PMC should also apply the same principal for them and no need to give them a concession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-seek-road-digging-charges-from-govt-agencies-101641823651367.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Bulli Bai: Two accused in police custody till Friday||Mumbai Mumbai police on Monday informed a local court that Niraj Bishnoi, the prime accused in the Bulli Bai case, was using the Twitter handles of Shweta Singh (18) and Mayank Rawat (20), both arrested from Uttarakhand, but the two were aware of what Bishnoi was doing.The west region Cyber police station on Monday produced the two Uttarakhand youths before a metropolitan magistrate court at Bandra and remanded them to police custody till Friday. The third accused Vishal Kumar Jha (21) was sent to judicial custody. The lawyers representing the three accused argued that they were innocent and were falsely implicated in the case and claimed that the Twitter accounts of their clients were hacked. It is pertinent to note that during interrogation by the Delhi police, Bishnoi had also claimed that he was handling Shweta Singh’s Twitter account. Countering their claims, the Mumbai cyber police informed the court that the accused got an OTP every time someone asked them to allow access to Twitter handles, thus, they were fully aware of what they were doing. The police also revealed that the accused were using Protonmail in order to hide their identity. Cops are also checking if the accused were using VPN (Virtual Private Network) to ensure that their location was not traced and trying to find a connection to the Sulli Deals matter. Singh and Rawat used more than 10 Twitter accounts each, the police said. Investigating officer Inspector Maushmi Patil sought more time from the court claiming that a lot of data is stored on the four mobile phones and laptops seized from the accused, analysing which was taking a lot of time. However, the defence lawyers opposed the police’s plea for extension of police custody claiming that the main accused has been arrested by Delhi police and their clients are students and first-time offenders. After hearing both sides, the court remanded Singh and Rawat to police custody till Friday and sent Jha to judicial custody.Jha has tested positive for Covid and has been admitted to Kalina quarantine centre, the police said. Bulli Bai was uploaded on an open-source host platform GitHub on December 31, 2021. On January 1, the app’s content was promoted on Twitter, where morphed images of more than 100 Muslim women were published in an attempt to “auction” them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bulli-bai-two-accused-in-police-custody-till-friday-101641823350014.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Inauguration of Pune Metro to be delayed as PM cancels visit||PUNE As Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit to the city to inaugurate Pune Metro has been cancelled due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, metro’s commercial operations on priority stretch will be delayed, said officials.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We had planned to start operations of Pune Metro from January 18, but as PM’s visit has been cancelled the commercial operations on priority stretch will be postponed.”He said, “It is confirmed now that the inauguration programme will be postponed. We will decide about metro operations soon.”The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had decided to start metro operations before the municipal election. It is decided to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the inauguration. With the help of state leaders, an invitation was submitted to the Prime Minister’s office. But as Covid-19 cases increased in Pune, the Prime Minister’s Office postponed the event, confirmed other BJP leaders.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation’s managing director Brijesh Dixit said, “The work of priority sections is almost complete between PCMC and Phugewadi and Vanaz to Garware College. Political leadership will take a call on starting the operations of Pune Metro.”Maha-Metro’s public relations officer Hemant Sonawane said, ‘Recently, Delhi Metro team visited the PCMC to Phugewaid section and did the safety audit. They have even issued the clearance for PCMC to the Phugewadi section. The inspection for Vanaz to Garware section will be done soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/inauguration-of-pune-metro-to-be-delayed-as-pm-cancels-visit-101641822989869.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's restaurants, bars to stay shut amid Covid spread, takeaways allowed||All restaurants and bars will remain closed in Delhi in view of the latest resurgence of Covid-19. However, the take-away facility will continue to remain operational. The decision was taken at a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.It was also decided to allow operation of only one weekly market per day per zone, the LG said.Officers were advised to strictly ensure wearing of masks and adherence to social distancing by citizens in market places and public areas to break the chain of transmission.The DDMA meeting was attended by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain, NITI Aayog’s Dr VK Paul, ICMR head Dr Balram Bhargav and AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria.Earlier in the day, it was reported the DDMA had decided against imposing a sweeping lockdown in the Capital amid rising Covid-19 cases, but some additional restrictions could kick in without causing any “disadvantage” to the public.Delhi reported a slight drop in Covid cases with 19,166 new infections reported in the last 24 hours. The capital registered 17 new deaths and 14,076 recoveries. The active caseload now stood at 65,806 with a positivity rate at||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-restaurants-bars-to-stay-shut-amid-covid-spread-takeaways-allowed-101641822695040.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Maha-Rera’s conciliation forum settles 351 cases of home-buying disputes||PUNE The Conciliation Forum formed under the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rera) Act and Maha-Rera to facilitate the dispute amicably between the home-buyers and developers in order to save cost and time of litigation has been proving beneficial with over 351 cases involving the contention between both parties have been settled in Pune.As a part of a regulatory body, the Conciliation Forum was formed in March 2018 in order to enable the disputed parties to connect with each other and also before the expert conciliators to resolve their problems, clear doubts and mitigate misunderstandings.The forum consists of representatives from CREDAI-Pune Metro, Mumbai Grahak Panchayat, a leading consumer body and other promoters’ associations. Since its inception in 2018, the forum has studied various matters of disputes and has successfully resolved cases of aggrieved allottees or the promoters, who have opted for the conciliation mechanism, set up under Maha-Rera.As per the Forum’s process, any aggrieved party, customer or developer, can make a complaint online from Maha-Rera website after which a conciliation request is sent automatically to the other party involved. Once the other party accepts requests within seven days, the aggrieved party has to pay a requisite fee to Maha-Rera, after which the case is referred to the appropriate conciliation bench, where the disputed parties seek to reach an amicable settlement with the assistance of the conciliator, who acts as a neutral third party.“Conciliation Forum is a platform where the disputed parties get an opportunity to connect with each other and also before the expert conciliators resolve disputes amicably. The parties get a chance to express their sides freely in front of the conciliation bench with a face to face interaction. A conciliator bench proposes the best possible process to deal with the dispute by making recommendations in the form of advices and suggestions and once the dispute is resolved, the conciliator issues a ‘settlement agreement’ which records the outcome of the dispute,” said CREDAI-Pune Metro president, Anil Pharande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahareras-conciliation-forum-settles-351-cases-of-home-buying-disputes-101641821013562.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Vasantotsav to take place from January 20 to 23||PUNE The classical music festival circuit in Pune will start buzzing again as Vasantotsav 2022, will be held from January 20 to 23. Known for offering the music lovers with different forms of music on a single platform , the festival is being organised by Vasantrao Deshpande Prathishthan and will be held at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch. This is the 15th consecutive year of this festival, said Rahul Deshpande, grandson of late Vasantrao Deshpande and an acclaimed vocalist.Organisers said, all the protocols as prescribed by the local administration on the backdrop of the pandemic shall be observed. Bapu Deshpande, Neha Deshpande and Rajas Upadhye will look after the overall organisation of the festival.Starting on Thursday, January 20, at 5 pm, the audience will get a chance to witness a duet by Nayan Ghosh and Ishaan Ghosh on Sitar and Tabla. The second performance of the day will be by L. Subramaniam and group (Violin Carnatic style).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vasantotsav-to-take-place-from-january-20-to-23-101641820830025.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Civic body declutters city roads, lift 104 abandoned vehicles||PUNE Action against abandoned vehicles has been resumed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), with the civic body lifting 104 abandoned vehicles cluttering different nooks, crannies, and roads of the city. The drive will continue for the next few days, said officials.Two weeks ago, the civic body warned owners to clear the vehicles. Anti-encroachment department head Madhav Jagtap said, “All the fifteen ward offices have started taking action against abandoned vehicles. They are putting notices on the vehicles as it is difficult to identify the owner. A total of 677 notices were put on various vehicles in the city. PMC has lifted 104 vehicles till Monday.”Recently, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar in a meeting instructed all the ward offices to start action against such vehicles which are using pubic place as well becoming a den for alcohol consumption and used as garbage bins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-body-declutters-city-roads-lift-104-abandoned-vehicles-101641820530472.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Land acquisition begins for Pune-Nashik railway line||PUNE The process for land acquisition for the proposed Pune-Nashik semi high-speed railway line was started earlier last week and the first purchase deed of the entire project was completed on Saturday. According to officials from administration, the district collectorate has received proposals for land acquisition in 12 villages under Haveli tehsil while the land measurement has been completed in eight villages while in two villages it has been partially done, informed deputy collector Rohini Akhade-Phadtare. The first land acquisition deed was from Haveli tehsil. District Collector Dr Rajesh Deshmukh felicitated Chandrakant Gangaram Kolte and Smita Kolte who provided land in Perne village for the project. “This project is important for agricultural products transport, freight and passenger transport in Pune and Nashik districts and a similar initiative of farmers is required to speed up the project. The message that farmers are getting proper compensation for their land will be conveyed through this first purchase,” said Deshmukh. The government, according to officials, is offering five times the rate of ready reckoner for acquiring land from owners while two and a half times the assessment amount will be paid for the building as well as other constructions. The construction of this railway line will be done by Maharashtra Railway Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd., a joint venture of the Government of Maharashtra and the Ministry of Railways. This railway line will pass through Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts. It covers a total of 54 villages in four talukas of Pune district namely Haveli, Khed, Ambegaon and Junnar. The stations in Pune district is Hadapsar, Manjari, Wagholi, Alandi, Chakan, Rajgurunagar, Manchar, Narayangaon, Alephata. Among the major stations, Chakan, Manchar and Narayangaon will be agricultural production and private freight terminals and Rajgurunagar station will be for passenger traffic only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/land-acquisition-begins-for-pune-nashik-railway-line-101641819630371.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Ensure 100% vaccination 10 days prior to polls in respective dists, says Yogi||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced the new vaccination strategy in sync with the phase-wise UP Assembly election dates, targeting 100% vaccination of all eligible age groups 10 days prior to the respective districts going to polls.“Given the UP polls, there is a need to speed up Covid vaccination drive in the state. Start marking districts according to their poll dates for achieving 100% vaccination here 10 days prior to the voting dates in these districts. Make a detailed plan for executing this new policy by today evening,” Adityanath told officers concerned at the Covid-19 review meeting.He said the state so far had administered 21.39 crore Covid vaccination doses. While 13.47 crore people got their first doses, 7.91 crore were fully vaccinated (two doses). Till Sunday, 24.22 lakh adolescents in age group of 15-18 were given their first dose.The CM said: “Experts say that the new variant of the Covid virus is not as virulent as before and is less harmful. It is not a big threat to those who are vaccinated. There is no need to panic, rather the need of the hour is safety and alertness,” he emphasised.The chief minister directed officials to ensure that physical presence of employees should not exceed 50% in government and private offices (excluding essential services) and encourage introduction of work from home. In case any employee in private sector tests Covid positive, then the employee should be sanctioned seven-day leave, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-announces-new-vax-policy-in-sync-with-election-dates-101641819149971.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||2 held for posters that warned non-Hindus to stay away from Varanasi ghats||VARANASI: Two activists of Bajrang Dal on Saturday were held for allegedly putting up the controversial posters on ghats of Varanasi on Friday. They, however, were released later on giving personal bond worth ₹5 lakh each, said a senior police officer.Varanasi commissioner of police, A Satish Ganesh said the two persons put up the posters at the ghats, Nikhil Tripathi Rudra and Rajan Gupta. Notice was served under 107/16 of CrPC for breaching peace on Friday. Both of them were produced before the court of assistant commissioner of police in reserve police lines (on Saturday). Both of them submitted bonds worth ₹5 lakh each. Thereafter, they were released from the court.”Nikhil Tripathi said, “I have resigned from the post of convener of Bajrang Dal, Kashi city. But I am still an active member of Bajrang Dal. I will keep working for the Hindutva as a Hidu activist.”Anurag Trivedi, executive member of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Kashi region, distanced the orgnisation from the posters. No one could be stopped from visiting the ghats which are public places, he said.On Friday, controversial posters have come up at several ghats of Varanasi including Asi Ghat, stating that entry of non-Hindus to the ghats is prohibited. The posters indicated they were issued by the ‘Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal Kashi’.The posters read, ‘Ganga, ghats of Varanasi and temples here are symbols of Sanatan Dharma, Indian culture and centre of our faith. Those who follow Sanatan Dharma are welcome at the ghats. These are not picnic spots. This is not a request. This is a warning”.Vishwa Hindu Parishad activist Rakesh Ranjan Tripathi said everyone was free to visit the ghats.Lallu Yadav, senior Samajwadi Party worker in the area, said this is against the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb of Varanasi. Ghats are a public place and anyone can go there and sit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2-held-for-posters-that-warned-non-hindus-to-stay-away-from-varanasi-ghats-101641816989664.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Employee arrested for stealing ₹40L from dry fruit shop||Mumbai The LT Marg police arrested a 38-year-old dry fruit and sweets shop employee in south Mumbai for allegedly stealing over ₹40 lakh since 2017.The incident came to light after the shopkeeper noticed in CCTV footage that the accused, Ritalal Mahato, pocketed the cash paid by the customer instead of keeping it in the cash counter.Mahato is a native of Jharkhand and came to Mumbai five years ago. He started working at Sapan Papadwala and General Store in the Bhuleshwar area in 2017. He used to make sweets in the shop, which supplied sweets and dry fruits to smaller shops in the vicinity, said police sub-inspector Vinod Pawar of the LT Marg police station. Mahato was also assigned a job to deposit money in the employer’s bank account. He did not deposit all the money in the employer’s account and kept some aside and deposited the same in his personal accounts, said the police officer.Mahato also stole money at the shop. In November, the employer noticed in the CCTV camera that Mahato kept ₹5,000 in his pocket after collecting from a customer who purchased dry fruits from the shop and paid in cash, said Pawar. The employer then also checked his bank account and found that some money is missing. He then started inquiring with the people at his shop and found that the accused might not have deposited all of the money.When Mahato was confronted, he stopped coming to work and switched off his phone.The shopkeeper then gave a written complaint to the LT Marg police station. “We conducted an inquiry and found that there were four bank accounts in the name of the accused and transactions of ₹31 lakh were done in last four years,” said the police officer who is part of the investigating team.Mahato was nabbed from Kalbadevi area on Sunday morning and was produced in the court and remanded to police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/employee-arrested-for-stealing-rs-40l-from-dry-fruit-shop-101641815429566.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Six of terror module held for Pathankot army camp blast||Punjab Police on Monday busted a terror module backed by the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), a banned terror outfit working at the behest of Pakistan’s ISI, with the arrest of six of its operatives in connection with grenade blast at Pathankot army camp on November 21 last year. Also read: Ex-SC judge to head panel to probe security lapse during PM’s visit to Punjab, rules top courtThe Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police recovered six hand-grenades, a pistol, a rifle along with bullets and magazines from them, Punjab director general of police (DGP) VK Bhawra said in a release. Those arrested have been identified as Amandeep, alias Mantri, Gurwinder Singh, Parminder Kumar, Rajinder Singh, Hapreet Singh and Raman Kumar, all from Gurdaspur district. In two instances unidentified persons had hurled hand-grenades in Pathankot, one near Chakki Pull on November 11, 2021, and the other outside Triveni Dwar of the army’s at Pathankot cantonment on November 21. Separate cases were registered in this regard at the Pathankot division 2 and division 1 police stations, respectively. In the statement, DGP Bhawra said that the accused admitted that they were directly in touch with the self-proclaimed chief of ISYF (Rode) Lakhbir Singh Rode and his aides, Sukhmeetpal Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, and Sukhpreet, alias Sukh, for planning terrorist attacks. “The recovered hand-grenades, arms and ammunition were pushed in from across the border by Lakhbir Rode and the six accused had been tasked with attacking identified targets which were mainly police and defence establishments and religious places,” he said, adding that the accused persons have also confessed to having lobbed hand-grenades twice in Pathankot. SBS Nagar senior superintendent of police Kanwardeep Kaur said that the case has been registered under sections of the UAPA, Explosives and Arms Act at the city police station. The police said that the role of Lakhbir Rode was also found in the killing of Balwinder Singh at Bhikhiwind on October 16, 2020, besides the recovery of the tiffin IED, RDX, arms and ammunition from his relative Gurmukh Singh Rode in Jalandhar in August 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-of-terror-module-held-for-pathankot-army-camp-blast-101641813329408.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Akali leader Majithia gets interim protection from arrest in Punjab drugs case||Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia, 46, on Monday got interim protection from arrest in the drugs case registered against him by Punjab Police in Mohali on December 20. Also read: Ex-SC judge to head panel to probe security lapse during PM’s visit to Punjab, rules top courtThe order was passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court bench of justice Lisa Gill. The detailed order is awaited. However, lawyers associated with the case said that he has been directed to join the probe and police have been told not to arrest him till the next date of hearing. Majithia was booked by Punjab Police under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, including Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence). Majithia’s whereabouts are not known since. On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s plea. The plea had termed the FIR an “election stunt” and alleged that the government has changed three Punjab Police chiefs in three months to get this FIR registered. The Bureau of Investigation has also seen three departmental heads change, it said. The plea also accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards Majithia. The plea said the STF report, which is the basis of the FIR, was either superseded or merged with the subsequent report of a state government committee. In all drug cases registered, trials have been concluded with the acquittal of some accused and the conviction of others. None of the accused made any reference of the petitioner, it said. Punjab Police, in its response, had said that the government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels during the Akali regime in the state. Majithia was a key minister in the Akali government and it was during the SAD term that the offences of drug trade had taken place, the police submitted, adding that without his custodial interrogation, the case could not be cracked and “backward and forward linkages” can’t be established. The SIT also said incriminating material had come on record against Majithia. A sealed cover report was also given to the court. The SIT denied allegations of political vendetta and stated that the FIR had been registered on the basis of prima facie evidence. The statement of Harpreet Singh Sidhu, the STF head, who had submitted the 2018 report in the high court on the “role” of Majithia, which became the basis of the FIR, has been recorded, along with that of former deputy director, Enforcement Directorate, Niranjan Singh, who had summoned Majithia in 2014 in connection with money-laundering allegations in the drugs trade. The STF report was based on a note prepared by Niranjan Singh, the police told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-leader-majithia-gets-interim-protection-from-arrest-in-punjab-drugs-case-101641812188980.html
10-01-2022||Pune||Monday Musings: Two years into Covid pandemic, how much have we learnt?||Whether the Omicron is mild as compared to the Delta variant of coronavirus, or, cases in the third wave will cross the tally of the second wave? There are no clear answers yet even as the pandemic will complete two years by this month-end, the period health machinery has taken to be better prepared.At the local level in the Pune district, the magnitude of surge looks bigger than what we saw between February and May last year even as fatalities at this point, and hopefully in the coming days too, are fewer. It took more than 45 days for the virus to infect over 4,000 persons in a day from around 200 cases daily during the second wave. This time, within 20 days, the daily caseload went up from 200 to 4,200.Considering that it may take just two more weeks – by moderate estimates – for Pune tally to peak, the daily caseload may grow drastically. Going by the early analysis reported in HT on January 9 based on the data provided by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the number of those who require hospitalisation, intensive care unit ( ICU) beds or ventilators is almost proportionate to overall numbers irrespective of the vaccination status.If we anticipate a higher number of cases and expect on a positive note less than five per cent requiring hospitalisation, yet, the hospital beds may fall short when the city’s tally will hit the peak and remained plateau for some time.For this, people need to behave more responsibly.By not adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour or acting irresponsibly by contributing to crowding, people have already forced the government in Maharashtra to impose restrictions. Two years ago, when most of us were unaware of how the virus spreads and the health infrastructure too wasn’t as ramped up as it is today, the government was left with no option but to go ahead with the blanket lockdown.The government in Maharashtra has been considerate in not shutting down businesses as it takes away livelihoods. What the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government needs to learn is to bring in more coordination among various departments. Those who were critical of the government for imposing night restrictions need to understand it was to raise an alarm even though everyone knows such measures do not actually prevent cases from rising. Various governments in the past have started with night curfew before gradually increasing the restrictions.Last year, if some people were hoping that a vaccine will soon restore life as we knew it, it was wishful thinking. The vaccine has been an effective shield against the virus as it reduces the intensity of the attack. What we need now is to effectively handle the situation rather than contribute to the spread of the virus.However, there’s still some hope, determination, and reassurance as the country is better prepared this time will soon complete one year to its national vaccination drive and has now started inoculating the third dose.On the administration’s part, the response to deal with the pandemic has improved after learning from the past experience. It has kept the health machinery on standby. The jumbo hospitals have been reopened and vaccination centres have increased. All we hope now is that with coordinated efforts among people, administration and politicians in power, the journey from here on will be smoother even as the virus stays for now.
10-01-2022||Indore||IIM Indore student offered ₹49 lakh annual package to work in India||A student from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Indore has been offered the annual package of ₹49 lakh by a company to work in India during the placement process, an official said on Sunday. This is the highest annual package offered during this session's final placement at this institute which has seen an 18 per cent rise compared to the last time. The institute has successfully completed the final placements of 572 participating candidates from the two-year flagship Post Graduate Program (PGP) and the five-year Integrated Program in Management (IPM), an official release said. Over 180 recruiters, including more than 30 new ones, offered prestigious roles to students of IIM Indore's 2022 batch. The average package stood at a record-breaking ₹25.01 lakh, witnessing an increase of 6% as compared to the previous year, the release said. The top 100 students bagged packages averaging ₹37.95 lakh and this average for the top 200 students' compensation stands at ₹32.75 lakh, it said. The institute's median package also increased by 6.6% to reach a record ₹24.09 lakh. The highest package (during the final placement of this session at IIM Indore) offered on the campus was ₹49 lakh. “At IIM Indore, our endeavour is to be a contextually-relevant business school with world-class academic standards. HighThe exceptional placement drive we witnessed this year is a result of our constant efforts and hard work,” said Prof Himanshu Rai, Director, IIM Indore. During the placement, the employers who offered the highest 31 per cent job offers to students are from the counselling sector. Besides, 20 per cent of job offers are given in the finance sector, 18 per cent in sales and marketing, 16 per cent in general management and 15 per cent in the information technology and analytics sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/iim-indore-student-offered-rs-49-lakh-annual-package-to-work-in-india-101641811033715.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Minor scare as aircraft pushback tractor catches fire at Mumbai airport||NEW DELHI: An aircraft pushback tractor, also called ‘tug’, briefly caught fire at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Monday morning. The incident took place at around 10.45am when the tractor was about to be attached to an A320 aircraft that was being prepared for departure to Jamnagar as flight AI-647. The blaze was quickly extinguished by airport fire services personnel and no damage to the ground staff or to the aircraft was reported. “In a video, the aircraft appears closer [to the fire than where it was]... It was a good 20 feet or more away from the equipment that caught fire. The aircraft was not connected to the tractor,” said an airport official who was present on the spot when the fire broke out.An Air India spokesperson later said, “The fire was brought under control immediately. The cause of the fire is being ascertained.” When asked about whether the fire caused any damage, the airline’s spokesperson said, “No injuries, no damage to anything else was reported. We are checking with the airport ground handler (Air India Airport Services Ltd) for more information.”Aviation safety expert Mohan Ranganathan said, “Even if a tow tractor is connected to an aircraft, it will be ahead of the nose of the aircraft, not right under it. So, as long as the airport fire services respond immediately and reach the spot on time, they should be able to handle the situation well. Moreover, any airline is supposed to have a hand-operated fire extinguisher near the aircraft in case of an emergency. There can be a concern when such a [fire] situation happens while an aircraft is being pushed backwards.”According to flightradar24, the Swedish service that displays real-time commercial aircraft flight-tracking information, the Air India plane was scheduled to take off at 11.50am but eventually departed after a delay due to the incident, at 12.04pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/minor-scare-as-aircraft-pushback-tractor-catches-fire-at-mumbai-airport-101641809788416.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||BKU (Ugrahan) rejects Rajewal’s appeal to contest Punjab elections||The Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), which has the largest support base of farmers in Punjab and holds sway in the Malwa belt, on Monday announced that it will not support the Balbir Singh Rajewal-led Samyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) in the Punjab assembly elections. Also read: Breach in PM Modi’s security: Ex-SC judge to head panel to monitor probeRejecting the appeal by Rajewal, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said at a press conference in Chandigarh that his organisation will not contest the Punjab elections next month nor will it support or oppose the SSM and any other political party.“We used to oppose leaders of the BJP during the days of agitation against the three farm laws. Now, with the repeal of the laws we are not opposing any party, which also includes BJP,” added Ugrahan.The Punjab assembly election will be held on February 14 and the counting of votes will take place on March 10. Ugrahan said that his organisation will, however, take part in a meeting convened by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on January 15 to discuss the issue of farm bodies taking the poll plunge along with other pending demands of the farmer outfits after the repeal of the three farm laws on November 19. On Sunday, Rajewal had appealed to all farm bodies to stand united for the elections after eight farm organisations unequivocally opposed the entry of farmers into politics. Rajewal also clarified that the SSM will go it alone and not form an alliance with the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for the Punjab elections. His announcement came after a meeting of key constituents of the SSM, formed on December 25 with 19 of the 32 farm organisations that were part of the SKM. The SSM chief said that a committee has been formed to look into aspects of forming an alliance with Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni’s party, the Samyukt Sangharsh Party, and said, “For alliance with (farmer leader) Chaduni’s party, we have formed a committee that will look into different aspects related to it.” “This election would be different. The people of Punjab are with us. This is an agitation to save Punjab from political corruption,” Rajewal added. ‘ELECTIONS DIVIDE PEOPLE, AGITATIONS UNITE’ Justifying the decision not to contest, Ugrahan said it was the learning they had from leaders like Bhupinder Singh Mann and Ajmer Singh Lakhowal, who joined politics but did not do any good for farmers or any other section. Mann remained a Rajya Sabha member and Lakhowal, chairman of the Mandi Board, a Punjab government body. “The agenda for people is not decided by political parties or its leaders, as they take directions from the corporate houses. I reject Rajewal’s plea that he would correct the system by being part of it,” Ugrahan added. “Elections divide people and agitations unite them, as they help in building people’s movements. If we enter politics then who would lead the protests, where would our supporters go,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan). He added that they will not sit at home during the polls, but will work in the field, asking people to vote wisely and independently. 
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Towing vehicle catches fire at Mumbai airport, no damage to nearby AI aircraft||A towing vehicle that was being readied to push back an Air India aircraft caught fire at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai on Monday.According to available reports, the fire was brought under control and there was no damage to the aircraft that was stationed nearby.Officials said the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.The Air India flight (AI-647) was scheduled to leave for Jamnagar with 85 people on board. The flight left 20 minutes behind schedule.“The two bar was being attached to the aircraft when it suddenly caught fire. The pushback tug had just returned after refuelling,” a source was quoted as saying in a Times of India report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/towing-vehicle-catches-fire-at-mumbai-airport-no-damage-to-nearby-ai-aircraft-101641807384327.html
10-01-2022||Gurugram||Haryana posts another big jump in coronavirus cases, Gurugram worst hit||Haryana reported another major increase in new coronavirus cases on Sunday, registering 5,166 fresh infections, with 2,338 of them from Gurugram district alone, according to an official bulletin.With no new fatality, the cumulative death toll in the state remained unchanged at 10,072, according to the health department's daily bulletin.The state also reported 13 fresh cases of Omicron variant of COVID-19 and the tally of such infections in the state rose to 136, out of which 25 are active while the rest have been discharged.The total Covid case count in the state rose to 7,94,151.In addition to the worst-hit Gurugram, Faridabad (878), Sonipat (146), Panchkula (418),  Ambala (420), Karnal (181) and Rohtak (158) districts also registered a spike in Covid cases.The total active cases in the state was 18,298 while the overall recoveries were 7,65,758.Haryana has a COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.42 per cent, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, in view of a spike in cases during the past nearly fortnight, Health Minister Anil Vij on Sunday urged the people to strictly follow all Covid-related guidelines including wearing of masks and following social distancing norms."No mask no service" policy will be strictly followed in the state, he said.He also said the state's second genome sequencing laboratory will be set up in Panchkula, with another one having come up in Rohtak recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-posts-another-big-jump-in-coronavirus-cases-gurugram-worst-hit-101641806685731.html
10-01-2022||Gurugram||Three held for trafficking infants in Gurugram||As many as three members of an interstate gang allegedly involved in trafficking infants were arrested with the help of a taxi driver, the police informed on Saturday.According to the police, three people including two women were involved in the trafficking."We have arrested three members of an interstate gang allegedly involved in trafficking infants with the help of a taxi driver on Saturday," Preet Pal, Gurugram, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) said."The accused were going for a deal of two infants babies around 25 old days when taxi driver heard their conversation and brought them to the police station," Pal said."On driver's input, the case was registered against the accused and the investigation started wherein the accused were trafficking infants from Delhi to Rajasthan for selling them in 3 lakhs each," the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-held-for-trafficking-infants-in-gurugram-101641806308890.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||UP has 33,900 active COVID-19 cases, majority asymptomatic: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said that there are 33,900 active cases of COVID-19 in the state, adding that 90 per cent of these patients are asymptomatic.After inspecting the Integrated COVID Control Centre in Lucknow, the UP CM said, "Currently, there are 33,900 active cases in the state. 90 per cent of these patients are asymptomatic, and under home isolation. Integrated COVID Control Centre in every District keeps in touch with COVID-19 patients and provides them with medical kits."He further said that there are 4,800 COVID-19 cases in Lucknow, of which 45 patients are admitted to the hospital.Speaking to reporters, Adityanath said, "The new variant of COVID-19, Omicron, is quickly transmitting, but it is also less virulent. If a patient is infected with COVID-19, then within 3-4 days the patient will recover from the infection."He added that over 21 crore doses of the COVID-19 vaccine have been administered until now in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-has-33-900-active-covid-19-cases-majority-asymptomatic-cm-yogi-adityanath-101641801430338.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||DDMA rules out lockdown; dine-in services in restaurants likely to be prohibited||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has decided against imposing a sweeping lockdown in the Capital amid rising Covid-19 cases, but said that some additional restrictions could kick in without causing any “disadvantage” to the public. Dine-in facilities at restaurants are likely to be prohibited in the coming days, but takeaways will be allowed, according to sources. The decision not to impose a lockdown was taken at a meeting of the DDMA on Monday.“All present in the DDMA meeting agreed that the trends in terms of rising positivity, hospitalisation and deaths were worrying. To mitigate these trends, further restrictions without creating disadvantage to the people are likely to be imposed. No lockdown will be imposed,” a senior official told HT. Delhi has been seeing a high number of daily Covid-19 cases – 22,751 single-day infections were reported on Sunday with a positivity rate of 23.5% – but with relatively low hospitalisation and faster recovery. More than 10,000 people recovered from the coronavirus disease just on Sunday. Also, only around 1,800 beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals were occupied on Sunday even though the Capital had over 60,000 active cases. Authorities in Delhi, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, have called on the public to avoid panicking over the current Covid-19 situation. The DDMA reviewed the latest situation on Monday and held extensive discussions with experts, eventually deciding to opt for some additional curbs and not a Capital-wide lockdown. Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal chaired the DDMA meeting that was attended by CM Kejriwal, ministers, top officials and experts. On Sunday, Delhi reported 17 Covid-related deaths - the most number of fatalities in a day since June 16 last year. Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate on December 28 was less than 1%. The test positivity rate is now the highest since May 9 last year when it had touched a high of 21.67%. During the last Covid wave, about 20,000 single-day cases were reported in Delhi on May 7. At that time, there were 341 Covid-related deaths, while 20,000 hospital beds were occupied. On January 8, Delhi reported 20,000 infections, but there were only seven deaths while 1,500 beds have been occupied by Covid-19 patients. In a briefing on Sunday, Kejriwal said there would be no need for a sweeping lockdown if everyone wears a mask. “We don’t want to impose a lockdown and neither do we have plans to do so. We want that the wave subsides with minimum curbs. We don’t want to hamper anyone’s livelihood,” the Delhi CM said. Authorities have imposed curfews on weekends and nights, and have advised privately-run offices to ensure that at least 50% of their staff are working from home. All Delhi government employees have been asked to work remotely, except those engaged in essential and emergency services, such as fire brigade services, prison, water supply and health. Shops inside malls and at marketplaces are operating on an odd-even basis between 10am and 8pm. Currently, dining services at restaurants and bars are capped at 50% seating capacity on weekdays, and only takeaways are allowed during weekends. On weekdays, one weekly market in a zone is allowed to open, while local authorities have been asked to take steps to ensure crowd management. Only 20 people are allowed to attend weddings and funerals.The DDMA also discussed the seating capacity for Delhi Metro trains and buses. Currently, 100% seating capacity in Metros and buses is allowed. The DDMA discussed whether the seating capacity should be reduced to 50%. It was also discussed that economic and travel restrictions imposed in Delhi should also cover the National Capital Region (NCR) to prevent widespread rise in Covid-19 cases. The graded response action plan spells out four levels of economic restrictions that come into force at different positivity rates. The lowest level of alert is classified as yellow alert, which came into force when the positivity rate breached 0.5% and stayed above it for two consecutive days. The highest level of alert is classified as red alert, which comes into force if 5% positivity rate breached and stayed there for two consecutive days. Experts backed the DDMA’s decision. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said drastic restrictions may not bring any further benefits because the existing restrictions including weekend curfew are already designed to restrict the movement of individuals and appear to have helped slow down the spread of the disease. “The poor need work and food. Health services also get affected due to curfews, which may have an effect on overall health condition of the people,” Dr Kishore said. Traders had earlier appealed to the DDMA to not impose more curbs. The chamber of trade and industry had written to the DDMA, requesting that no additional restrictions or lockdown be imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tackling-covid-19-ddma-rules-out-lockdown-additional-curbs-set-to-kick-in-101641805948831.html
10-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan begins administering precaution doses, Guv Mishra takes the jab||Rajasthan on Monday began administering the booster dose of the Covid-19, also known as the precautionary dose. The beneficiaries for this dose include health care and frontline workers, and people with comorbidities (suffering from many diseases) and those above 60 years of age.Visuals from news agency ANI showed senior citizens, frontline workers queuing up outside a vaccination centre in the capital city of Jaipur to take the booster dose on Monday morning.Rajasthan's governor Kalraj Mishra, who started Monday’s inoculation drive in the state, was administered the dose in Jaipur.According to Rajasthan's principal secretary (Medical Education) Vaibhav Galriya, people under the above categories amount to more than 2.4 million. The frontline workers are around 648,000 while the health care workers are at 517,000, Galriya said.Rajasthan | Senior citizens, frontline workers queue up outside a vaccination center in Jaipur as the nationwide drive for COVID-19 'precautionary dose' kickstarts today. pic.twitter.com/GRMoqpLH6LHe added that the vaccine of all these beneficiaries will be updated after they are given the precautionary dose.In total, Rajasthan has administered more than 84 million vaccine doses since the beginning of the inoculation drive in January last year. Nearly 48 million beneficiaries have received the first dose and 36,340,494 have received both doses.As the Centre began inoculating children between the ages of 15-18 on January 3, more than 1.84 million such children have been given the jab in Rajasthan.The state has so far recorded over 976,000 cases due to Covid-19 till now.On Sunday, the state government announced a slew of restrictions including closing schools in urban areas, Sunday curfews, time limits on markets and a cap on occupancy at restaurants and cinema halls.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Sunday that even though no lockdown has been imposed in Rajasthan, the state's population should behave like there is one by being vigilant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-begins-administering-precaution-doses-guv-mishra-takes-the-jab-101641802064516.html
10-01-2022||Bangalore||‘Shows his culture’: Karnataka CM Bommai targets state Congress chief Shivakumar over padayatra despite Covid surge||Amid a war of words between Karnataka's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Congress over the latter going ahead with its ‘padyatra’ (foot march) despite a massive surge in the state's daily Covid-19 infections, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that this shows what kind of ‘culture’ DK Shivakumar has.Also Read | BJP shares video of Shivakumar 'coughing' during Mekedatu protest, calls Congress 'superspreader'Shivakumar, who heads the Karnataka Congress, on Sunday launched the party's 10-day ‘padyatra’ demanding construction of the Mekedatu dam across the Cauvery river.“This shows his culture. He is not bothered about the health of others as well,” Bommai said, according to news agency ANI. Bengaluru | This shows his culture; he is not bothered about the health of other people also: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai on Congress leader DK Shivakumar refusing COVID19 test pic.twitter.com/PRyE8QatRXMeanwhile, Araga Jnanendra, the state home minister, assured action against all those violating the law. “FIR has been registered against 30 people for violating Covid-19 protocols. Ramanagara district administration has taken action as per the law. We will not spare anybody who violates the law,” he said. FIR has been registered against 30 people for violating Covid19 protocols. Ramanagara district administration has taken action as per the law. We will not spare anybody who violates the law: Karnataka Home minister Araga Jnanendra on Congress' Mekedatu padayatra pic.twitter.com/XsWERw270yShivakumar, though remained undeterred, as he described his protest as ‘unstoppable till our goal is reached.’ The Karnataka Congress president tweeted, “Day 1 of #Mekedatu Padyatra brought immense support from the people, and recharged with this outpouring of love, we are ready with Day 2. #NammaNeeruNammaHakku (our water, our right).”
10-01-2022||Bhopal||MP starts giving precaution dose to eligible people; Bhopal collector takes jab||The Madhya Pradesh health department started administering the precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers and co-morbid people aged 60 and above on Monday, with Bhopal collector and other senior officials taking their jabs. A special camp for healthcare and frontline workers was organised at the collector's office in the state capital Bhopal. Collector Avinash Lavania and Inspector General (Bhopal rural) Irshad Wali were among those who took the precaution dose at the camp. The drive to administer the precaution doses to eligible people was also going on at the Pandit Khushilal Sharma Government Ayurveda College in Bhopal, as well as other places across the state. Those who had received their second jabs before April 12, 2021 are eligible for the precaution dose on Monday through pre-registration on CoWIN portal, said Dr Santosh Shukla, director, vaccination, National Health Mission. Meanwhile, since the beginning of the vaccination drive in the country in January last year, Madhya Pradesh has so far administered 10.56 crore doses. On Sunday, Madhya Pradesh reported 2,039 new Covid-19 cases, which took the state's infection tally to 8,01,326, while one more fatality raised the death toll to 10,537, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-starts-giving-precaution-dose-to-eligible-people-bhopal-collector-takes-jab-101641799740552.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||‘Qissagoi, books or digital mediums, it’s all about storytelling!’||For dastaango Himanshu Bajpai story-telling is a passion for life. He has been using diverse mediums to tell different tales.Never in his wildest dreams did he think that his love for the city and its lifestyle will one day earn him his first Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar in Hindi. He has been selected for his maiden book Qissa Qissa Lucknowwa — Lucknow Ki Awami Qisse. The author says that the announcement came as a surprise for him as he has never applied for it, nor anyone ever discussed something about it with him. “Mere like qissa, baat-se-baat nikhalne ki vidha hai. Mera maksad hai ki qisso ke zariye Lucknow ka ek chehra bane. The book is a compilation of anecdotes which I have heard, some I have researched while some I have conceived,” Bajpai adds. To take his tales to a larger audience Bajpai has used a number of mediums. “As dastaango I know my limitations, I can reach to a limited audience only so that’s more the reason I came up with this book. It worked well and actually reached far-off places. In four years it already has four reprints,” he says. Bajpai’s dastaans have a lot of Urdu usage but he prefers calling the language Lakhnavi zubaan. “People can think whatever they want but Hindi and Urdu ek hi zabaan hai jo do vidha mein likhi jaati hai. I have never differentiated between the two and have grown up hearing them as one language. For me it’s Lakhnavi zubaan or one may say Hindustani zubaan.” Bajpai has done PhD on Munshi Nawal Kishor Press which he says that someday will feature in the form of a book. “But for before that I have some other ideas in mind that I am working on and again it has to do with Lucknow. I am no historian and so all the tales I tell reflect the society, characters and also touches a fraction of our history,” says Bajpai as he dedicates the feat to his mentor and historian late Yogesh Praveen. When the country was in lockdown, he went digital and started the series Kaa se Kittab Talks on his channel which had Ashutosh Rana, Naseerudin Shah, Swara Bhaskar, Pankaj Tripathi, Devdutt Pattanaik as guests. “I am a scholar kitabo ki ahemiyat pata hai hume so that’s’ more the reason why I work on it in a contemporary way so that today’s youth can relate with the content. With the lockdown and no gatherings, I went digital. For the series Ka…. I have a heart-to-heart talk with people from different fields but are avid readers…kitaboon ka apna sansaar hai.” Bajpai continues to have his main focus on his passion of dastaangoi. “It’s tough to make a livelihood by writing. Dastaangoi is my profession, it helps me to earn my bread and butter. During pandemic I wrote a dastaan on the river Ganga, Rani Laxmibai, Durgawati, Ahaliyabaai, Tulsidas and now I am working on 1857 Mutiny and Lucknow’s role in that.” Differentiating between dastaangoi and qissagoi he tells, “Dastaangoi is a definite art form which has its own grammar, boundary and tradition whereas qissagoi can be a way of storytelling.” His dastaan featured in OTT series Sacred Games while in 2020 he was part of Dastaan-e-Khusro organised by Harvard University besides performing at Rastrapati Bhawan (2020).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/qissagoi-books-or-digital-mediums-it-s-all-about-storytelling-101641798568086.html
10-01-2022||Kolkata||Unrestricted gatherings blamed as Bengal registers highest Covid cases so far||KOLKATA: From an average of around 500 daily cases in the last week of December, the Covid-19 infections in West Bengal crossed 24,000 on Sunday, the highest it has reported since the first case of the disease was detected in the state in March 2020.Experts have said the Christmas gathering at Kolkata’s Park Street may have been a super-spreader while warning the worst is yet to come. At a meeting held by the state health department, doctors recently warned West Bengal could face a daily count of 30,000-35,000 cases during the peak of the third wave.“As the new variant spreads 3-5 times faster, the cases would increase manifold in the coming days. This time, we may expect 30,000-35,000 cases every day when the peak hits. Hopefully, the surge would not persist beyond April 22,” a doctor was quoted as warning at the meeting.The state on Sunday registered 24,287 cases. The daily count shot up to 4,157 when the peak of the first wave hit the state in late October 2020. The second wave was worse, as the daily cases touched 20,846 in mid-May when it peaked.Kolkata registered 8,712 cases, the highest among districts in the state, on Sunday. North 24 Parganas, the second most populous district in the country after Thane in Maharashtra, recorded the second-highest cases (over 5000).“While Kolkata is the epicentre, districts adjoining the mega city like North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, and Howrah are also witnessing a huge surge. In all these districts, the daily count of cases has touched four digits. In the rest of the districts, even though there has been a surge, the figures are still within the three digit range,” said a health department official.Kolkata recorded the second-highest positivity rate of 57.9% among all districts in the country for the week starting January 2. Lahaul and Spiti in Himachal Pradesh registered over 61% positivity rate. Kolkata’s weekly positivity rate was 23.4% between December 24 and 31.The weekly (January 2-8) positivity rate of New Delhi was 18.8%. In Mumbai, it was 26.90%, and in Chennai 15.36%.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would request all with folded hands to wear masks and sanitise their hands to check the spread of the virus while directing the police to strictly enforce Covid-19 safety norms.Manas Gumta, the general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors, said the surge in Kolkata cannot be attributed to international flights as the city had direct flights from only one “at risk” country – the UK – unlike Delhi and Mumbai. “The present surge was triggered primarily by the huge gatherings at Park Street and in other parts of the city in restaurants and malls on Christmas and New Year without any regard for Covid-19 protocols.”While cities such as Mumbai, Delhi, and Bengaluru were imposing curbs to restrict gatherings on Christmas and New Year, no such curbs were in place in Kolkata. On the contrary, the state government relaxed the night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am between December 24 and January 1.The cases started doubling every day from December 28. While the state registered around 400 cases on December 27, a week later, on January 3, the daily count shot up to over 6,000. On January 9, it crossed the 24,000-mark. On January 2, the government imposed restrictions by closing down schools and colleges while allowing only 50% workforce in offices and putting a 50% cap on trains and metro. Direct flights from the UK were stopped and those from Delhi and Mumbai were allowed to land only three days a week.“But the damage was done by then... While relaxing rules during Christmas and New Year certainly played a major role as we can see cases have shot up particularly in Kolkata and its surrounding districts, the political campaigns and arrival of pilgrims ahead of the Ganga Sagar Mela were also a major factor. People too were to be blamed as they dropped their guard and engaged in revelry,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, a member of an expert committee set up in 2020 to advise Banerjee on pandemic-related matters.The Calcutta high court has allowed the mela to be held from this week with restrictions. Elections to four civic bodies were also being held as per schedule on January 22. Political meetings have been allowed with 250 people.Also Read | Markets shut as Covid count in Bengal reaches an all-time high“While the first surge hit around Durga Puja in 2020 when shopping and festive preparations were in full swing, the second surge followed in May 2021 after the eight-phase assembly elections were held. So, it would not be right to say that the state government had no idea as to what would be the outcome of rules relaxed for Christmas and New Year,” said a doctor at a state-run hospital, who did not want to be named.Top officials, including the health secretary, did not take calls or respond to messages for comments on the surge .Santanu Sen, a ruling Trinamool Congress lawmaker and former president of the Indian Medical Association, said West Bengal, unlike Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states did not hide the actual figures. “That is why we know what is happening exactly. It is true that Christmas celebrations were a factor but people become relaxed over the past few months. The state government is taking all steps keeping in mind both lives and livelihoods.”At a recent meeting, Banerjee said: “If we shut down train services, people would criticise us, and if we allow trains people board the compartments in large numbers. What are we supposed to do? How long can we suspend livelihoods? This has been going on for three years, affecting development and financial growth.” She has directed police to handle the situation strongly. “Some people are not paying heed to warnings and still not wearing masks. A section of people put on the mask before entering a restaurant as they would not be allowed without it. They remove the mask the moment they come out on the road.”BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya blamed the government for the surge in the cases. “The government has no regard for the lives of people. It only engages in cheap politics and publicity. The civic elections should be postponed as the cases are rising fast,” said Bhattacharya.Banerjee has warned that if cases continue to shoot up, more restrictions could follow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/unrestricted-gatherings-blamed-as-bengal-registers-highest-covid-cases-so-far-101641797068251.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||From 2,716 to 22,751: How Covid-19 cases spiked in Delhi in first 9 days of 2022||Delhi is among the regions in India which have been badly affected by a resurgent coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wave. The national capital has seen its daily Covid-19 tally making records in the wake of the spread of the highly-mutated Omicron variant.The Covid-19 cases have been riding steadily in Delhi since the first day of the year (when it reported 2,716 cases) and reached 5,481 on January 4. The number, however, nearly doubled the next day when the daily tally reached 10,665.In the next five days, the tally more than doubled and reached 22,751 on January 9, with a test positivity rate of 23.53 per cent. The city also reported 17 deaths, most fatalities in a day since June 16 last year.In a slight relief, the hospitalisation rates have been far slower in comparison, indicating that the Omicron-led infection is milder in comparison to the one unleashed by the Delta variant during second wave in April last year.Nearly 88 per cent of all hospital beds in Delhi were vacant as on Sunday, according to state government data.The city, at present, has over 14,000 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, of which a little less than 2,000 are occupied.This has led chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to say that there is no need to panic.“During the last Covid wave, 20,000 single day cases were reported on May 7, 2021, but there were 341 deaths and 20,000 hospital beds were occupied,” Kejriwal said on Sunday. “Delhi reported 20,000 cases on January 8, but there were only seven deaths and 1,500 beds are occupied.”He also said that the Delhi government doesn’t plan to impose a lockdown if everyone follows Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Delhi is currently under ‘yellow alert’, as per the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP). Under this, a night curfew has been announced from 10pm to 5am, which restricts all non-essential movements. The Delhi government also implemented a weekend curfew from 10pm on January 7 to 5am on January 10 to check the further spread of Covid-19 after a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Another DDMA meeting will take place on Monday to discuss the Covid-19 situation with experts and top officials, and to decide if the national capital needs more restrictions to check the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-2-716-to-22-751-how-covid-19-cases-spiked-in-delhi-in-first-9-days-of-2022-101641783804972.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI remains in ‘satisfactory’ category||Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) remained in the “satisfactory” category on Monday at 100 after heavy rainfall and thunderstorms for two days. A clear sky with moderate fog was expected in the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The minimum temperature was likely to be 9 degrees Celsius and the maximum 17 degrees Celsius.The mercury plunged to 15 degrees Celsius on Sunday; four notches below normal. It was the lowest recorded so far this winter. The minimum temperature was 13.8 degrees Celsius.A rainy weekend pushed the air quality to the “satisfactory” zone for a third straight morning. The city’s 24-hour average AQI was 69 on Sunday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Delhi’s pollution levels were expected to start rising from Monday with a likely drop in wind speed on Tuesday and Wednesday. “From Monday onwards, air pollutants will gradually start to get accumulated in the air in the absence of rainfall and relatively moderate ventilation,” said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-aqi-remains-in-satisfactory-category-101641783026489.html
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai’s daily Covid tally may be higher, say experts||After recording a massive and consistent spike since the last week of December, Mumbai’s daily caseload has hovered between 19,000 and 20,000 cases over the past four days. The number of tests conducted in the city too, has remained consistently between 67,000 and 72,000. While this may present a picture of a stabilising third wave driven by the Omicron variant, experts warn that the numbers may be far higher that what is being officially reported. The reasons? On the one hand, an increased reliance on home test kits that allows no official supervision on positive cases, and on the other hand, asymptomatic persons who are not undergoing any tests at all.Though the daily caseload has risen by nearly 44% since December 31, the city on Sunday recorded 19,474 cases which is a 4% decline over the previous day’s 20,318 cases. Even the number of tests conducted — 68,249 — was down by 2,770 from Saturday, official figures showed. As a result, the daily test positivity rate (TPR) declined, too. In fact, TPR (a function of the number of positive cases per tests conducted) has steadily declined since last week, from 29.90% on Thursday to 28.90% on Friday, 28.60% on Saturday and 28.53% on Sunday. Experts said that TPR is no longer the most reliable indicator to judge the spread of the pandemic as a large number of people with less severe symptoms are choosing not to get tested and many are opting for home self-testing kits.Hospitalisation rates, however, must be tracked as they indicate the extent of the disease burden of the third wave, experts said. In the last one week alone, the Covid-bed occupancy has gone up to 21% from around 15% a week back.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said that Mumbai’s wave seems to have flattened with daily cases between 19,000 to 20,000. “But the true picture is difficult [to judge] due to the wide use of unreported rapid tests,” he said.“We need to focus on the other criteria like doubling rate, hospitalisations, patients needing oxygen, ventilator and intensive care. The variant is circulation is highly transmissible, therefore test positivity is likely to be higher,” said Joshi said.As many as seven self-test kits have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research including Coviself by Mylab, CoviFind by Meril Diagnostics, PanBio by Abbott among others. These kits are affordable for the middle class, and range anywhere between ₹250 to ₹350.“We have witnessed a jump of almost 700% sales of our self-test kit in Mumbai in the last one week. Self-test kit is turning out to be highly beneficial given the massive increase in cases because people can get tested quickly and immediately isolate themselves,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director and co-founder of Mylab Discovery Solutions, a Pune-based firm that manufactures Coviself. According to reports, nearly 500,000 such kits have been sold in Mumbai in the past week.Chemists in Mumbai have been selling anywhere between 300 to 400 self-testing rapid antigen kits daily. “Every chemist has been reporting a high demand, but it seems to have slowed down since the past two days, as the panic is settling down,” said Hakim Kapasi, a member of the Andheri Chemist Association, an umbrella body of more than 400 chemists in the Mumbai suburb.Even so, over the past four days, self-test kits have reported around 3,000 positive results on average every day in Mumbai based on what has been uploaded to the ICMR portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-daily-covid-tally-may-be-higher-say-experts-101641776797268.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Change, for the good||Yesterday was Sunday. But the Sunday Book Bazar was closed — no thanks, Omicron!Whenever the pandemic situation eases, you have to visit the book bazar. For decades the weekly market for used books unfolded along the pavement of Daryaganj. Its long run abruptly ended in 2019 after the Delhi high court declared the area a no-hawking zone. Much chest beating followed. The bazar was relocated weeks later to nearby Mahila Haat exhibition ground. The new location intensified the feeling of loss. In the old bazar, you covered a mile by walking from one stall to another, with books laid out on the pavement. In Mahila Haat, you have to move in circles in a much smaller area. Not all the familiar booksellers would be seen. The crowd too dwindled (because of the pandemic, plus unawareness about the relocation).The market’s best days were over.And then things reversed.In the gap between the second and third wave of Covid-19, the bazar valiantly overcame the double setback of banishment and pandemic. The crowd gradually returned, along with the best booksellers. In the previous week’s Sunday, this reporter grabbed six Virginia Woolf hardbounds, circa 1940s, for a mere 200 rupees.This story, however, is not for bibliophiles, but for all citizens, including those who find books a bore. You ought to visit the bazar to witness its evolution in real time. Here you shall experience firsthand how a city’s cherished heritage recoils from the change thrust on it, how that unique heritage eventually embraces the change, and, in turn, transforms that very change. The new bazar is a microcosm of this long journey. Lounging in Mahila Haat on a Sunday no longer makes one homesick for the old Sundays of Daryaganj. One might even grudgingly accept that whatever happened was for good. The exhibition ground is a far superior site to browse books. You no longer have to worry about the traffic. The best thing, which was impossible to imagine in Daryaganj, is the lawn tucked on one side of Mahila Haat. Late in the afternoon, many book hoarders are seen lounging cross-legged on the grass, going through their catches of the day. Some lie down lazily, surrounded by their new acquisitions. This little patch of green briefly becomes Delhi’s best book-friendly park.Then there’s one more joy of the bazar before you head home—the crispy Ram laddoos of vendor Som Veer who sets up his stall outside the market gate. They are super-tasty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-change-for-the-good-101641775292605.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Till Dec 31, civic bodies sealed 24 liquor shops, gave notice to more than 100||The three municipal corporations in Delhi have sealed 24 liquor shops and served notices to more than 100 others over violations of municipal and Master Plan provisions even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that rules the three civic bodies has intensified its attack on the Delhi government over its new excise policy.These shops were being set up after the Delhi government notified its new excise policy in June 2021, under which sweepEach new store, according to the policy, will have at least 500 square feet area with a walk-in facility.ing reforms are being brought in to boost the city’s revenue, crack down on the liquor mafia and improve user experience. Under the new policy, all government liquor vends have been shut down and the city has been divided into 32 zones, and licences are being allotted on a zonal level. 849 vends are being opened through a tendering process. Each new store, according to the policy, will have at least 500 square feet area with a walk-in facility.According to officials aware of the matter, the East MCD has sealed eight shops and sent notices to 70, the SDMC has sealed six shops and sent notices to 22 and the north civic body has sealed 10 shops and sent notices to 21.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Agarwal said the action was initiated after complaints from various sections society that liquor shops were coming up near residential colonies, schools or religious institutions. He added that violations of provisions of the Master Plan 2021 and other bylaws have been found following which the civic body took appropriate action.On Monday, the BJP – which has been ruling the three MCDs for the past 15 years – organized a chakka jam protest against the new excise policy, blocking traffic across the city, and demanded its immediate roll back.The BJP claimed that the government was opening liquor shops illegally near schools and religious places. However, deputy chief minister rubbished the allegations, saying the BJP was protesting against the policy since the party was hand in glove with the liquor mafia. Sisodia said the new policy has plugged the theft of ₹3,500 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/till-dec-31-civic-bodies-sealed-24-liquor-shops-gave-notice-to-more-than-100-101641775003802.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Women-specific beats paying off: Delhi Police||Nearly six months after ‘Tejaswini’ -- an initiative in which policewomen were tasked with taking care of certain beats in north-west Delhi -- the police on Sunday said the initiative was paying off.Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said that over the last week alone, as many as half-a-dozen crimes ranging from bootlegging to snatching were solved by these women police personnel.The latest of these crimes took place on Thursday when a burglar was caught riding a stolen scooter without a number plate in Mukherjee Nagar. “Head constable Pooja chased and caught the suspect, 24-year-old Tarun. From him, two stolen scooters were recovered,” said Rangnani.Earlier, three women constables seized 156 quarters of illicit liquor in Keshav Puram even as similar actions were pursued by their colleagues in Model Town and Bharat Nagar.In Ashok Vihar, a woman constable recovered a minor girl allegedly kidnapped and in Bharat Nagar another policewoman pinned down an alleged snatcher.Tejaswini began in north-west district on July 10 last year. Under the initiative, women constables and head constables were tasked with handling “women earmarked” beats such as JJ clusters, certain residential areas, malls and markets, schools and colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/womenspecific-beats-paying-off-delhi-police-101641772972341.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Over 300 Delhi Police personnel test positive for Covid-19||The surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in national capital Delhi has shattered records in the past few weeks. And it has affected everyone, particularly those who are deployed on the frontline to check the spread of the infection, like the Delhi Police.Over 300 personnel of the Delhi Police, including public relations officer (PRO) and additional commissioner Chinmoy Biswal, have tested positive for the virus.A large number of police personnel in all units and at all police stations, including the police headquarters have also been hit by the Covid infection.Also Read | Delhi records 17 Covid deaths, daily cases over 22,000Delhi reported 22,751 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the highest since May 1 last year, according to state health department. The positivity rate surged to 23.53 per cent.The national capital was under 55-hour-long weekend curfew, which ended at 5am on Monday. This was among the measure implemented by the Delhi government to check the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital.A night curfew is already in place from 10pm to 5am.The Delhi Police has installed barricaded on many roads to catch those who are found violating the order, which exempts certain category of people.People coming from or going to airports, railway stations and inter-state bus terminuses are allowed to move during the weekend curfew. Pregnant women and patients going to get medical and health services, along with attendants, are also exempted on the production of valid identity cards and a doctor's prescription.Also Read | Precautions to continue, but no lockdown in Delhi yet, says KejriwalDuring the weekend curfew, only shops dealing in essential items such as groceries, medical equipment, medicines were allowed to open.The police have intensified patrolling in view of the Covid-19 restrictions in place.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is scheduled to hold another meeting on Monday (January 10) to discuss further curbs in the national capital in view of the rising number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-300-delhi-police-personnel-test-positive-for-covid19-101641772819000.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Tech upgrade to help citizens get regular updates on police plaints||To keep complainants updated about developments in the investigations of their cases, the Delhi Police have now devised a system in which SMS and emails will automatically go out to them -- be it about arrests or the filing of charge sheets, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said on Sunday.Until now, complainants were only receiving an update about the registration of a first information report (FIR) in their cases.“From the beginning of this year, we have upgraded the system. Now, complainants will receive messages about any arrests in their cases, about change in investigation officers (IOs), the filing of charge sheets and closure reports,” said Biswal.In order to avail this facility, the complainants will now be required to mandatorily submit their mobile phone numbers and an email id -- if they have one.Biswal said these updates will be sent to the complainants in nearly real time.“If an accused is arrested in a case, the SMS to the complainant will go out as soon as this development is uploaded on CCTNS (police network). If there are more arrests, there will be separate SMS sent for each arrest,” said the officer.Ever since the upgrade was activated on New Year’s Day, 4,654 messages have been sent to complainants regarding registration of FIRs and 4,807 messages for arrests made in connection to the cases registered by them. Another 1,485 messages have been sent to them for information about submission of the final reports.In all, 11,376 such automatically generated messages have been sent so far, said Biswal.This is not the first attempt to device such a mechanism to bridge the information gap between the police and the complainants. “A few years ago, an app was designed in which the IOs would make the updates about any development in the investigation. But such entries were done manually, and was a cumbersome process that only burdened the officers,” said Biswal.Until the latest upgrade kicked in, the complainants would receive information only about the registration of an FIR in their cases. This led to several problems.“Many times, complainants would go about telling the public that the police were doing nothing in the case when even charge sheets in their cases were already filed. They would meet senior police officers to complain about inaction in their cases when the accused were already arrested. This upgrade will get rid of such problems,” said Biswal.There were also occasions when the police would hold a press conference about an arrest, but the complainant in that case remain oblivious to the development, he said.Biswal said that this upgrade came after the police commissioner Rakesh Asthana asked the crime branch to ensure that complainants are regularly updated of the various stages of the investigation into their cases.Now, complainants will not need to visit the police station just to enquire about the case status. They will not need to regularly call the investigators for information. “If an IO is changed, goes on leave or is transferred, the complainants will also be alerted of such developments and be provided with the contact details of the new investigator,” Biswal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tech-upgrade-to-help-citizens-get-regular-updates-on-police-plaints-101641772555398.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana doctors’ strike likely to hit medical services in state on Jan 11||While Haryana logged over 5,000 coronavirus cases on Sunday, medical services in the state are likely to be hit as government doctors are scheduled to hold on Tuesday a statewide strike against their three pending demands. At least 3,000 doctors under the banner of Haryana Civil Medical Services Association will shut out-patient departments (OPDs) services at all government hospitals on January 11 and all medical services, including Covid and emergency duties, on January 14, state president Dr Jasbir Singh Parmar said. They are demanding hiring of specialist doctors, stopping direct recruitment of senior medical officers and revision of the postgraduate policy. Earlier, the doctors were scheduled to observe a similar strike on December 13, but postponed it after a meeting with health minister Anil Vij, who had assured them that all their issues will be resolved. Dr Parmar said since there was no solution till December 31 as assured by the minister, the doctors are bound to go on a strike against the “insensitive” government. “In a recent meeting with state officers last week, we were assured again that our demands will be met and asked to cancel the strike considering the pandemic. Later, our core-committee meeting was held and we decided that as there is no seriousness shown towards our demands. We are not willing to bother the public and if there is any untoward incident, the government will be responsible for it,” he added. On Friday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had ‘hoped’ that the doctors will not go on a strike. “Health Minister has chaired a meeting with them and I think the solution will be out very soon,” Khattar had told the reporters. Haryana adds 5,166 new infections to its tallyHaryana on Sunday recorded 5,166 fresh Covid infections (including 13 Omicron cases), pushing the total active cases tally to 18,298. According to the health bulletin, 41,109 samples were tested in past 24 hours out of which 5,166 new cases were detected with Gugugram reporting the highest 2,338 new infections. As per the data, Faridabad recorded 878 new cases, Panchkula (418), Ambala (420), Karnal (181), Rohtak (158) and Sonepat (146). At least 13,223 patients across the state are in home isolation. Meanwhile, health minister Anil Vij said that 980 medical officers (Haryana Civil Medical Services Group-A) will be recruited soon. He said an advertisement has also been issued in this regard. Vij said out of these 980 posts, 270 are of general category, 472 of SC category, 80 of BC-A category, 25 of BC-B category, and 133 of EWS category.31 more staffers at PGIMS tests positiveThirty-one staff members of Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) have tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of infections among employees to 107 in just four days.PGIMS spokesperson Dr Varun Arora said 15 staffers were found infected on January 6, 16 on January 7 and 45 on January 8.“Of these 31 new cases, 11 are doctors. We have been collecting samples of the staff as a precautionary measure and many of them are testing positive,” he added. Meeting of jail inmates, their families suspendedThe biweekly meeting between prisoners and their family members have been suspended in Haryana prisons, said jails minister Ranjit Singh Chautala. Interacting with mediapersons in Sirsa, he said the government has decided to suspend ‘physical mulaqat’ of all prisoners lodged in various jails in the state due to rise in Covid cases. “We will resume the physical meetings of inmates after the situation improves. We have also directed the jail officials and other employees to come out of jail, if needed,” the jail minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-doctors-strike-likely-to-hit-medical-services-in-state-on-jan-11-101641772525407.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana: Farmer ends life after shooting 7-year-old son dead in Bhiwani||A 35-year-old farmer committed suicide after allegedly shooting his seven-year-old son dead in Bhiwani’s Hariyawas village on Sunday, police said. Ravinder Kumar, investigating officer from Behal police station, said the man shot his son dead before killing himself with the same revolver. “After the incident, they were rushed to a private hospital in Hisar, where doctors pronounced them dead on arrival. The reason behind the gruesome incident could not be ascertained. Prima facie, it appears from the family’s statement said the man was mentally upset for the past four to five years. He was a farmer by profession. We are finding out more information related to the incident,” Ravinder added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmer-ends-life-after-shooting-7-year-old-son-dead-in-bhiwani-101641772165460.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Private vet colleges’ fee hike: Haryana ACS orders inquiry amid differing stances||Nearly three years after a committee set up by the Haryana government recommended hike in tuition fee of private veterinary colleges, three additional chief secretary (ACS)-rank officers of the animal husbandry department have taken as many divergent positions on the new fee structure, according to official documents. Initially in his October-22 order in 2019, the then ACS (animal husbandry and dairying department) Sunil K Gulati had refused to agree with recommendations of the three-member panel that director general, animal husbandry, had set up on March 22, 2019, to review the fee structure. Later, Raja Sekhar Vundru, who is now an ACS-rank officer, dealt with the issue while posted as principal secretary (animal husbandry). Vundru, in a seven-page order on December 16, 2020, upheld the fee structure that the committee had recommended on July 29, 2019. And now, in a latest spin, Ankur Gupta when posted as ACS (animal husbandry) appointed retired IAS officer OP Langayan on December 23, 2021, to conduct preliminary inquiry against three officials of directorate of animal husbandry who had recommended fee hike. ACS Gupta’s order says that the preliminary has been ordered on two complaints of Dr Sandeep Kumar Gupta, a senior scientist of Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS), Hisar. “I have received the government’s order to hold inquiry into the fee hike issue in question. Very shortly, I am going to issue the notices,” said Langayan, IAS (retd), when contacted. Contentious committeeThe state government had received a request in February 2019 to review the fee structure. A three-member committee was set up on March 22 to review the fee structure of private unaided colleges offering bachelor of veterinary sciences and animal husbandry degrees. According to a March-22 order of director general (animal husbandry and dairying), the state government had directed to review annual fee structure of private colleges offering bachelor of veterinary science and animal husbandry degree programmes. A committee comprising three officers of the directorate — OP Chhikara, joint director (administration), Pardeep Chauhan, credit planning officer, and Kuldeep Singh, account officer — was set up. The panel was asked to review fee structure of degree programme of International Institute of Veterinary Education and Research (IIVR), Bahu Akbarpur, Rohtak/private institutions in the state. As per the official records, the panel submitted report on July 30, recommending “fee structure of private veterinary college/IIVR is required to be reviewed”. The tuition fee structure committee recommended for 2019-20 batch of students was ₹3.49 lakh (state quota), ₹5.75 lakh (management quota) and US $88,000 (NRI quota). Divergent stands“I have gone through the fee structure of IIVER, Bahu Akbarpur, Rohtak, decided by the state government of Haryana from time to time and the proposed review of the same recommended by the committee, and I do not agree with the recommendations of the committee,” then ACS Sunil K Gulati had stated in his order on October 22, 2019. His order further stated that the state government must not lose its sight over the previous decision of the committee headed by ACS (animal husbandry) which on December 15, 2016, modified the fee structure and mentioned that “fee structure, if considered necessary, will be reviewed after every two years on the basis of price index prevailing at that time.” ACS Gulati pointed out that perhaps the present committee did not go into the depth of the matter inadvertently. After ACS Gulati demitted office, the matter was taken up by Raja Sekhar Vundru, principal secretary (animal husbandry). According to an order on December 16, 2020, by Vundru, a petition was filed in the high court, seeking direction to Haryana government to increase the annual fee for BVSc and AH courses as approved by the competent authority. The high court had disposed of the petition and “set aside the order dated 22.10.2019 regarding fixation of fees” and directed Haryana government to “pass a fresh order after hearing the petitioner”. “After having heard the petitioner ...and after careful considerations of all relevant matters, the petition is accepted. The fee structure as fixed by the department committee dated 29.07.2019... stands upheld...,” ACS Vundru ordered in December 2020. However, a year later, ACS (animal husbandry) Ankur Gupta on December 23, 2021, issued an order, appointing retired IAS officer OP Langayan to conduct the preliminary inquiry. “The governor of Haryana is further pleased to appoint dean, college of veterinary sciences, LUVAS, Hisar, as presenting officer in this inquiry,” the order says, directing Langayan-led panel to submit the inquiry report to the government at the earliest. 
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Heavy rains bring back waterlogging woes in Haryana||Heavy rains have lashed most parts of Haryana in the past couple of days and led to waterlogging in several urban and rural pockets of the state.As per the reports from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Haryana received 18mm rain in the past 24 hours. Maximum 49mm rainfall was reported in Gurugram, followed by 30mm in Jhajjar district, 29mm in Yamunanagar, 26mm in Mahendergarh, 22mm in Faridabad, 21mm in Panchkula, 20mm in Ambala, 18mm in Sonepat, 17mm in Kaithal, 16mm each in Kurukshetra and Karnal and 15mm in Jind.Residents of several northern and southern districts faced problems of waterlogging while farmers struggled to protect their crops from the water retention. Rain boon to wheat, bane of mustard, veggies Agricultural experts have termed the winter rains at this stage a boon for the wheat, but advised the farmers to protect their crop from waterlogging. As per experts, rain at this stage will improve photosynthesis, resulting in better growth of both the early and lateral varieties of the wheat. The rain has also resulted in a drop in temperature, which is in favour of the crop. The wheat crop requires temperature below 22°C and favourable cold conditions are helping to gain required growth of the plant of both early and lateral varieties. Also, the farmers need not irrigate the crop for the next couple of weeks, they added.Karam Chand, deputy director, agriculture, Kaithal district, said as of now, there were no reports of damage to the crop or waterlogging. He, however, advised the farmers to avoid irrigation for the next couple of days. Farmers said excess rain is bad for the mustard and vegetables. “The mustard crop is in maturing stage, but the rain has flattened most of the crop and this will affect the yield,” said a farmer, Nirmal Singh, of Indri of Karnal district. Even in an advisory to the farmers, IMD Chandigarh had asked them to withhold irrigation in mustard crop due to possibility of rain till January 10. Also, farmers said that the rain has affected the harvesting of vegetables. “Now, the prices of potato have increased to ₹1,000 per quintal from the last month’s ₹600. But now, we are unable to harvest the crop due to rain,” said Rajiv Kumar, a farmer from Shahbad in Kurukshetra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rains-bring-back-waterlogging-woes-in-haryana-101641770845247.html
10-01-2022||Delhi||Weekend rain gives city wettest Jan in 27 yrs, season’s lowest max temperature||The wettest January in Delhi for 27 years, the lowest daytime temperature so far this season and the cleanest air in over 80 days – a host of weather records tumbled in the national capital on a cold, wet, overcast Sunday.The day saw the city receive 5.4mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm, after 41mm rain the previous day, taking the total precipitation in Delhi for the month to 63.6mm -- the most in January since 1995, when the city received 69.8mm of rainfall in the entire month.Delhi also saw the maximum temperature fall to just 15 degrees Celsius on Sunday – four below normal and the lowest so far this winter.A rainy weekend also meant Delhi’s air stayed in the ‘satisfactory’ zone for a second straight day. The city’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) improved to 69, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily 4pm bulletin, after Saturday’s reading of 91.Till this weekend, Delhi had never seen a satisfactory air day in January, at least since CPCB started the AQI in 2015, making this spell even rarer.This was also Delhi’s cleanest air day since October 19 last year, when the AQI was also 69.The AQI in the Capital improved from 397 on Wednesday, to 258 on Thursday, 182 (Friday), 91 on Saturday, and then 69 on Sunday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed that Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station received 8.4mm of rainfall in the 24 hours till 8.30am on Sunday. In the next nine hours, the city added another 5.4mm of rain.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said a western disturbance brought Delhi over 50mm of rainfall in two days, and kept the city’s maximum and minimum temperature barely a degree apart for two consecutive days, an unusual occurrence.While Delhi’s maximum and minimum on Sunday was 15 and 13.8 degrees Celsius respectively, it was 16.4 and 15.2 degrees respectively on Saturday – a difference of 1.2 degrees.“This has been the most intense western disturbance so far this winter and while a majority of the rain usually occurs on one day, this time around, we have seen it spread out consistently over nearly two days. This has kept Delhi’s maximum and minimum almost together and there has been no difference between the night and day temperatures,” Jenamani said.The last time Delhi had a lower maximum was on Wednesday, when similar conditions and rain led to a daytime temperature of just 15.7 degrees Celsius.The IMD says the impact of the western disturbance over Delhi will abate by Sunday night, with moderate fog expected over the duration of next week.While the maximum is expected to be around 17 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the minimum is forecast to drop to 9 degrees.“This western disturbance has brought moisture, which will lead to moderate fog in the next few days. Isolated parts may even record dense fog. The minimum is also expected to start dropping once again and could touch 6 degrees Celsius by January 14,” Jenamani added.City’s air quality may get worse from today: SafarIn terms of air quality, Delhi’s pollution levels are expected to start rising from Monday onwards, with a further drop in wind speed forecast for Tuesday and Wednesday.“The AQI has improved further due to Saturday’s rain causing wet deposition of particulate matter, while Sunday’s rain spells with relatively high winds are likely to continue causing further improvement of air quality. From Monday onwards, air pollutants will gradually start to get accumulated in the air in the absence of rainfall and relatively moderate ventilation,” said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a government forecasting body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-rain-gives-city-wettest-jan-in-27-yrs-season-s-lowest-max-temperature-101641768736470.html
10-01-2022||Noida||Farmers refuse to give up land for phase 2 works of Noida international airport||A majority of the farmers have rejected the district administration’s proposal of acquiring agricultural land for works proposed in phase two of the Noida International airport at Jewar.The district administration set up camps in Ranhera village to seek the consent of farmers to officially begin the land acquisition process for expansion and development of the airport project. While two runways are already being built in phase one of the project, a third runway and other supporting facilities have been proposed in phase two of the project. “A majority of the farmers are against the administration’s plan because we demand higher compensation, which is four times the existing circle rate, and better rehabilitation schemes. We also demand that our houses in villages should not be demolished. If that will not happen, then we will not part with our land. To register our protest, we have refused consent in the form given to us by the administration,” said K P Singh, a farmer from Ranhera. A total of 475 farmers from Nagla Hukam Singh have refused to give their consent while 20 farmers from the same village and 12 from Mundhera (an extension of Ranhera) village gave their consent to give their land for development. The administration started taking the consent of the farmers at the camps from January 7.Land from six villages -- Karauli Bangar, Dayanatpur, Kureb, Ranhera, Mundhera and Nagla Hukum Singh-- falling under the project area will be used for setting up the third runway, and a commercial maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) of aircraft centre for the project.The state government has handed over 1,334 hectares in Jewar to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) -- a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International AG, which has been incorporated as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to develop the Noida international airport -- last year. According to the concession agreement, the government has to provide 1,363 hectares to the subsidiary adjacent to the existing airport site for the third runway and further expansion.“If the administration will not accept our demands, we will not let the government take our land and demolish our villages,” said Dinesh Kumar from Mundhera village.According to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, the government offers four times of the existing circle rate in rural areas and twice the circle rate in urban areas for land taken for development. “Why should we accept two times of the circle rate as compensation, which is against the rules?,” asked Singh.Additional district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar Balram Singh said, “We will follow laid down rules to handle any situation arising in the land acquisition process.” 
10-01-2022||Noida||1,150 fresh Covid infections emerge in Gautam Budh Nagar||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 1,150 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally of active cases to 4,613. The district has 4,542 cases in the first nine days of January. The district continues to have the highest number of daily as well active cases in the state. Lucknow reported 1,115 cases on Sunday, taking the total active cases to 3,653. Noida still has 30% more active cases than Lucknow. As of now, there are five districts with over 1,000 active cases-- Gautam Budh Nagar, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Varanasi.During the second wave of Covid-19, the peak of which was witnessed in April-May last year, 1,822 cases were reported in the district in a day on May 5--the highest single day tally in Gautam Budh Nagar.With the current daily cases almost reaching the same levels as was witnessed during the peak of the second wave, officials have starting taking more preparations to deal with the surge in Covid cases in the district. While Noida Covid hospital in Sector 39 and Kailash hospital in Sector 27 were the only notified centres for Covid treatment, the health department has now allowed Jaypee hospitall to admit Covid patients. Yathartha hospital too will be given permission to operate as a Covid treatment facility by Monday, said officials. “Since there has been a rise in the number of people requiring hospitalisation, we have allowed a few more hospitals to provide Covid treatment. There are at least ten other hospitals which have applied to operate as Covid healthcare facility. The applications are under consideration as we still don’t have that many cases yet,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer. So far, 68,291 people have tested positive in Gautam Budh Nagar on the back of 1,788,122 tests conducted since the start of the pandemic. Meanwhile, as the precautionary dose for healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) and those over 60 with comorbidities will start from Monday, 105 sessions have been created across the district for the vaccination drive. These include 30 centres for the precautionary booster dose—24 for all three categories and six centres only for the FLWs. The six centres for FLWs are at the three development authorities as well as Vikas Bhawan, collectorate and police lines, all three in Surajpur. So far, around 25,000 children in the 15-18 age group have taken the shot in Gautam Budh Nagar. The estimated population in this category, who are eligible to take the vaccine, is around 115,000. There are 79 centres, including various schools and the Child PGI in Sector 30, which have been exclusively reserved for vaccination children falling in this category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1150-fresh-covid-infections-emerge-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101641764844558.html
10-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad achieves 100% first dose mark||The district on Saturday completed administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to 100% of its targeted population. Officials said their target now is to increase the second dose coverage and the precaution dose for frontline workers, healthcare workers and senior citizens having co-morbidities, and also vaccinate as many children in the 15-18 years age group. The drive in the district started on January 16 last year and the first dose coverage has been achieved in less than a year. Of the total 2,702,167 beneficiaries identified in the district for the vaccination programme, the administration has administered the first dose to 2,708,975 beneficiaries. The increase in the number of first doses administered than the targeted population is because of the floating population in Ghaziabad. Of the different categories of beneficiaries, the district has completed administering the first dose to all its frontline workers (31,280 doses administered out of the targeted 22,579), healthcare workers (29,095 doses given against the target of 25,824 beneficiaries) and those in the 18-45 years age group (1,891,428 doses out of the targeted 1,813,074). “The overall 100% target for the first dose has been achieved. A large number of beneficiaries in the 45+ age group, which includes a majority of senior citizens, have been left out of the first dose vaccination. We have tried with finding such persons with the help of voters’ list and sent our teams for door-to-door campaign. But they have not turned up so far. We again request senior citizens to come out and take their first vaccine dose,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination. The district has covered 68.74% of the total beneficiaries with the second dose, with 1,862,201 beneficiaries completely vaccinated. “We are now focussing on increasing the second dose coverage. We are also focussing on administering the precautionary dose to frontline workers, healthcare workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities and ramping up the vaccination drive for children,” Dr Mathuria added. Uttar Pradesh has a target of vaccinating 1,401,400 children, of whom 234,488 children are in Ghaziabad. According to the data available on the CoWIN till 6pm on Sunday, the district has completed administering the first dose to 73,473 children so far while the precaution doses will be administered to eligible beneficiaries from Monday. The district has a target of administering the precautionary dose to 68,815 beneficiaries with comorbidities in the 60+ age group. Overall, in Uttar Pradesh, 3,754,400 such beneficiaries will start getting their doses from Monday. “We have opened some online slots for booking precaution doses but beneficiaries falling under this category also have the option of walking into the facility and getting registered on the spot. Those who have received Covishield or Covaxin as their first and second doses will get the same vaccine as precaution dose. The vaccine will not change,” said Dr Mathuria. Meanwhile, the UP government is also considering personnel who will be deployed for poll duties as frontline workers. The model code of conduct came into effect on Saturday after the Election Commission of India announced the schedule for assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh. “The precaution dose will be administered from January 10 onwards. In the wake of the elections, we are considering every such personnel who will be assigned poll duty as a frontline worker. We will start administering precaution doses to people, who have been assigned election duty, if they complete nine months from the date of their second dose,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). In Ghaziabad, about 18,897 personnel have been identified who will be deputed for poll duties or poll-related works.
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Woman killed, 13 injured in bus accident in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua||A 32-year-old woman was killed and 13 others were injured when a bus turned turtle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district on Sunday, officials said. The accident took place at Galak village on the Dayalacheck road when the driver lost control over the vehicle at a sharp curve, they said. The bus was going towards Jammu. Rescuers were rushed to the accident site and 14 injured persons were admitted to the Ramkote Community Health Centre. A woman, identified as Sushma Devi, succumbed to injuries during treatment, the officials said. Six injured persons – Meenakshi, Priya and Shivanji of Galak, Pooja of Dramni, Susheela Jasrotia of Hiranagar and Puja Devi of Dadwara – were referred from the community health centre to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Kathua for specialised treatment, they said. The rest of the injured were discharged after first aid, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-killed-13-injured-in-bus-accident-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kathua-101641761725729.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Flight services resume at Srinagar airport as weather improves||Normal life resumed to a large extent in Kashmir and flights operated normally at the Srinagar International Airport on Sunday following improvement in wet weather conditions in Jammu and Kashmir after five days of rain and snowfall. However, the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway was still closed for traffic.Officials said that flights landed early at the Srinagar airport as the weather improved by and large across the Valley.“After a full day of snowfall and no operations, first flight lands at our airport on Sunday,” said the Srinagar airport in a tweet.It said that since January 4, as many as 268 flights were cancelled of which 134 cancellations were from Srinagar only. “The passengers of all those flights are being accommodated now. The new bookings will open after clearing the backlog,” airport officials said.In the evening, Srinagar airport officials said 28 flights operated while five were cancelled. The traffic on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway was yet to resume owing to the closure of the 270-km road due to snowfall and landslides at multiple places.“The road is still closed after landslides had blocked it at Shaitan nullah, Ramsu and Cafeteria Turn. The work to clear it is going on,” said an official of the traffic control room.The J&K’s weather office said that the wet conditions improved across the union territory.“As expected, the weather improved significantly in J&K,” said the director of J&K’s meteorological department.He said there may be light rain or snow at scattered places of J&K, especially over eastern parts during the next 24 to 48 hours after which things will improve further for the next one week.“Thereafter, the weather is likely to remain dry till Jan 16,” he said.Lotus said that they expect a gradual rise in day temperatures and a fall in night temperatures. “Next week is going to have warmer days and colder nights,” he said.The weather office, however, issued a warning of avalanches in snowbound areas. “Although snowfall has stopped, the threat of avalanches still exists in snowbound areas. So, people are once again requested not to venture out in avalanche-prone areas and remain cautious especially for the next 1-2 days,” it said.Kashmir is under the grip of Chilai Kalan, the Valley’s harshest over 40-day winter period which started on Dec 21. Except in the summer capital Srinagar where mercury settled at 0.3 degrees Celsius, the minimum night temperatures in all other weather stations in Kashmir valley dropped below zero during the night.The meteorological department said that the mercury plunged lowest in the ski resort of Gulmarg to settle at -10.0 degrees Celsius.In the mountain resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir the mercury recorded -1.8 degrees Celsius during the night.It was -2.3 in Kokernag, -0.6°C in Kupwara, -0.5 °C in Konibal and -0.4°C in Qazigund,In the union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded lowest of -7.3°C while it was -8.2°C in Leh during the night.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with harsh period of Chillai Kalan from Dec 21 which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures during the season followed by 20 more days from February 1 which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flight-services-resume-at-srinagar-airport-as-weather-improves-101641761724315.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily cases soar to 1,850, highest in 8 months||Showing no signs of receding, tricity’s daily Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,850 on Sunday, 22% higher than the day before and a first in over eight months.Sunday’s case count is highest since May 13, 2021, when 2,042 people had tested positive in the tricity, during the peak of the second wave. Tricity’s highest-ever single-day tally was 2,612 on May 10, last year.The fresh infections included 766 from Mohali, up from 563 on Saturday, and 666 from Chandigarh, which logged 541 cases a day ago. In Panchkula, 418 cases cropped up after 415 the day before.Also, a 70-year-old man from Zirakpur became the latest Covid fatality in Mohali. He was admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. This is the third virus-related death in Mohali this month and fifth in the tricity.Since the beginning of January, the tricity has recorded 6,747 cases, compared to 718 in December last year. December had also seen seven deaths – three in Chandigarh, and two each in Panchkula and Mohali.Mohali’s positivity rate shoots up to 21.4%The latest infections pushed Mohali’s daily positivity rate from 11.7% on Saturday to 21.4% on Sunday, indicating one in every five people getting tested had the virus.The positivity rate in Panchkula also jumped from 16% to 19.78% in the same period, while Chandigarh saw a slight increase from 13.9% to 14.36%.Once again, most of Mohali’s cases (295) were reported from Mohali city, 175 cases came from Kharar and 296 from Dera Bassi. Panchkula’s cases included two healthcare workers.Active cases jump past 6,000 markWith this, tricity’s active cases reached 6,387, highest since May 30 last year, the only time since when over 6,000 patients were still infected.The active caseload in both Chandigarh and Mohali crossed the 2,000 mark, hitting 2,364 and 2,576, respectively, while in Panchkula, it stands at 1,447.Chandigarh’s total cases have reached 68,421, including 64,977 recoveries and 1,080 deaths.Mohali has recorded 71,717 infections till date. Among them, 68,064 patients have recovered and 1,077 have died.Of the 32,666 confirmed positive patients in Panchkula so far, 30,837 have been cured and 382 have succumbed to the virus.45% oxygen beds occupied in ChandigarhThe total number of beds occupied by Covid-19 patients in government and private hospitals of Chandigarh is increasing with fresh infections.On Sunday, 228 out of the 510 oxygen beds were occupied by patients (including residents from Chandigarh and other states), apart from nine out of 126 ventilator beds. All 16 ICU beds remained vacant.The health department has been increasing the beds reserved for Covid patients due to the rising cases.12 more areas sealed in cityThe Chandigarh administration declared 12 more containment zones on Sunday, taking their total to 106. The areas sealed are located in parts of Sectors 19-A, 20-A, 20-B, 21-D, 27-A, 29-A, 34-D, 37-D and 44, besides Daria and Manimajra villages.Precaution third dose available from todayThe respective health departments in the tricity will administer the precaution Covid vaccine dose from Monday.For now, the third dose will be available only for healthcare workers, frontline workers and comorbid people aged over 60. While a doctor’s certificate is not required, consulting the doctor before getting the dose is advisable.Only those who received the second dose latest by the first week of April 2021 will be eligible for the precaution dose, as there must be a gap of nine months between the second and the third dose.Those eligible may get the dose at any vaccination centre for adults in Mohali and Panchkula.In Chandigarh, while comorbid senior citizens can get the jab at any centre, health and frontline workers may get the dose at the special counters and centres at PGIMER, GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and in civil hospitals (Sector 22, Sector 45 and Manimajra). Police personnel can get the dose at the Police Hospital in Sector 26 as well.For MC staff, a camp will also be organised at the MC office in Sector 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-cases-soar-to-1-850-highest-in-8-months-101641760893387.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: This January already wettest since 2017||Just nine days in, January this year has already become wettest since 2017, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).After 95mm rain since January 6, the city recorded another 22.1mm on Sunday, taking the month’s total so far to 117.1mm. This is highest since 2017 when 132mm rain was received in the month.According to IMD, the normal amount of rain in the first nine days of January should be just 5.5mm, making the current figure more than 20 times above normal.The all-time highest record for January is 166.6mm, which was recorded in 1983. Speaking about the recent rain spells, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “Two strong western disturbances (WD) affected the region one after the other, along with a confluence of moisture-laden winds from the Arabian Sea, which led to a lot of rainfall. During winters, mostly WDs are responsible for rainfall and it’s hard to predict their intensity.”With the WDs now gone, relief from rain is likely from Monday onwards. But dense fog and a drop in night temperature is on the cards.“Due to WDs, the minimum temperature had stayed on the higher side and winds had kept haze from forming, but now dense fog can be expected,” Singh said.Visibility can drop below 200 metres, especially in the early morning hours, for the next three to four days.Day temperature drops by 8 notchesMeanwhile, the latest rain spell brought city’s maximum temperature down from 21°C on Saturday to 13.2°C, almost eight notches below normal. The minimum temperature also reduced from 13°C to 11.1°C, but was six degrees above normal. With the rain likely to stop from Monday, the day temperature is expected to go up, but the night temperature may drop further. Singh said cold wave conditions could also be expected in the coming days. A cold wave is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature goes below 4°C, or is 10°C or below and also 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhthis-january-already-wettest-since-2017-101641760892143.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Shorter route to airport: GMADA speeds up land acquisition in Mohali||Having expedited the work on the shorter route to the Chandigarh International Airport, via Phase 11, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is likely to complete the land acquisition by March.The around 3-km stretch will allow commuters from Chandigarh and Mohali to head to the airport via the road in front of Bawa White House, instead of taking the longer route via Airport Road.This will bring down the 18km distance from Tribune Chowk, Chandigarh, to the airport in Mohali by nearly 3.5km.At present, commuters have to head all the way to the T-junction near Indian School of Business, after passing by Bawa White House, to turn left towards Airport Chowk, where they again have to turn left towards the airport.“The 164-foot-wide road is part of the Mohali Master Plan. We will soon be issuing a notice under Section 11 of the Land Acquisition Act, inviting objections from landowners. Thereafter, we expect to complete the acquisition process by March. The acquisition rates will further determine the total cost of the project,” said a senior GMADA official, dealing with the project.The authority will be acquiring 18 acres in villages Kambala, Kambali and Rurka for the project, which is expected to take a month to complete after the tender is allotted.Kharar-New Chandigarh road hits hurdleOwing to payment issues, the deadline for the 8km Kharar-New Chandigarh road has been pushed from January 31 to April 15.Work on the 200-foot-wide road, starting in New Sunny Enclave and ending in Mullanpur, began in October 2020. Once set up, it will reduce the distance between Kharar and Mullanpur to 20km. Currently, commuters have to travel via Chandigarh or Kurali to reach the township.GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said, “There are some minor payment issues, which will be sorted soon and the road should be ready by April 15 this year.”
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman out for a walk crushed under reversing truck||A 62-year-old woman was crushed under a reversing truck near Tribune Colony in Raipur Khurd village on Saturday. Police said the victim, Lakhmina Devi and her son, residents of Raipur Khurd village, were out for a walk around 9.30am after the rain stopped. Suddenly, a reversing truck ran over Devi. She was rushed to PGIMER, where she was declared dead. The truck driver was identified as Surender Kumar of Shyura village, Hanumangarh, Haryana.Police said Kumar had brought the truck for unloading at a warehouse in the area. Usually he was accompanied by a helper to help him park and exit properly, but at the time of the accident, Kumar was reversing the truck by himself. The truck driver was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Mauli Jagran police station. He was arrested and later bailed out. Biker killed in hit-and-run accident
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn seeks suggestions for Excise Policy||With the Excise Policy for 2022-23 set to come into force from April 1, the UT administration has sought suggestions from various stakeholders within 15 days. The suggestions can be sent via email to aetcchd2@gmail.com or submitted physically at the Excise and Taxation office in Sector 17.Assistant excise and taxation commissioner Randhir Singh said suggestions were invited from stakeholders, including hoteliers, liquor vend owners, Wine Merchants’ Association, etc. “Several bodies have already submitted their suggestions and we are looking into them,” he said.After considering the proposals, senior UT officials will take the final decision. The department is also working on providing online permission for liquor for weddings and other functions. Even, the bar licence will be given online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-seeks-suggestions-for-excise-policy-101641760886266.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||In 10 days, 11% of infected patients in Chandigarh were minors||As many as 11% of the total people, who contracted Covid-19 in Chandigarh between December 30 and January 8, were aged below 18, figures from the UT health department show. As many as 1,926 people tested positive for Covid in the UT in the said period. Among them 1,712 (89%) were adults, while 214 were minors.The minors included 119 children in the 15 to 18 age group, while 95 were below the age of 15. Nine of these eligible children had already taken the first dose of vaccine.The paediatric population has remained highly vulnerable to infection as it was not included in the nationwide vaccination drive until January 3, when the Union government rolled out the vaccination drive for children aged 15 to 18.“Currently, there is no infection cluster among this age group in Chandigarh. The virus was not spreading at educational institutes and is limited in close contacts or houses,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.On January 6, the UT administration had ordered the closure of all educational institutions, except medical and nursing colleges, in view of the rising Covid cases.Hospitalisation rate lowDr Singh added, “Hospitalisation among the paediatric population, and even in adults, is very low. Even then, we are fully equipped for a surge in hospitalisation of children. Sufficient beds have been reserved for paediatrics in all government hospitals in UT, including PGIMER, GMSH-16 and GMCH-32.”4% of adults not jabbed even onceEven though the UT health department had claimed to have achieved 100% first dose coverage in August last year, as many as 4% of the adults, who got infected in the 10-day period, were not inoculated even once.While 1,568 of the 1,712 adult patients were fully vaccinated, 68 were found to have not taken any dose, while 76 had received at least one dose.According to the latest electoral list and central government’s target, around 8,43,000 people are to be immunised in Chandigarh. As on Sunday, 10,36,047 (123%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 8,06,020 (96%) are fully vaccinated.“Despite door-to-door vaccination drives and setting up special vaccination camps across the city, people are not coming forward to take the jab. With more virulent variants like Omicron spreading fast, people must shun hesitancy and get vaccinated at the earliest,” said Dr Singh.36% children jabbed in a weekAccording to the eligible population projected by the central government, about 72,000 children, aged 15 to 18, are eligible for vaccination in Chandigarh.Since January 3, the UT health department has vaccinated 25,509 (36%) children with the first dose. So far, no side effects have been reported post immunisation.With the administration laying thrust on vaccination, on Saturday, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg had ordered that all eligible children should get the first dose before January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-10-days-11-of-infected-patients-in-chandigarh-were-minors-101641760884646.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Amid rising Covid cases, Jammu and Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha directs officials to activate war rooms||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday directed district officials to activate war rooms immediately to deal with the emerging Covid-19 situation in the union territory.Sinha reviewed the Covid-19 situation across the UT during a high-level meeting with members of Covid Task Force, deputy commissioners and senior superintendents of police, an official spokesman said.The government said that the LG directed the district administrations to gear up preparedness and provide all assistance to healthcare teams.“The Lt Governor also directed for activating war rooms immediately, besides ensuring effective functionality of Covid helplines and keeping joint enforcement teams on the job,” the spokesman said.Jammu and Kashmir is witnessing a steep rise in novel Coronavirus cases for the past five days with 418 cases on January 5, 349 cases on January 6, 542 cases on January 7, 655 cases on Saturday and 687 on Sunday.The active cases have increased by 164% to 3,531 on Sunday from 1337 cases by the end of December.Sinha instructed the nodal officers to ensure smooth coordination in providing Covid kits and other assistance to people in need.“ We should be fully prepared to tackle the surge in cases. Existing decentralized system at the Panchayat level should be made functional for immediate medical attention,” Sinha said, according to the spokesman.Directions were passed to the divisional and district administrations for optimum utilisation of testing capacity, besides declaring micro-containment zones and hotspots in areas registering increase in cases, and to avoid crowding at public places. “Any laxity in enforcement of CAB will not be tolerated,” the LG said.“From tomorrow, we will start administering the booster dose of the vaccine to the eligible population (healthcare and frontline workers, and those over 60 years of age with co-morbidities). All necessary arrangements should be made for walk-in and registered eligible population”, the LG told the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-rising-covid-cases-jammu-and-kashmir-lg-manoj-sinha-directs-officials-to-activate-war-rooms-101641760524302.html
10-01-2022||Bhopal||Sub-junior badminton tournament: Rakshitha, Sanskar emerge U-17 champions||Rakshitha Sree S from Tamil Nadu and Sanskar Saraswat from Rajasthan emerged as the girls’ and boys’ U-17 singles champions, respectively, on the concluding day of the Yonex Sunrise 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex, Sector 3, Panchkula, on Sunday.Playing in the girls’ U-17 singles final, Rakshitha outplayed Gujarat’s Aishani Tiwari 21-18, 21-17, while top seed Sanskar got the better of Andhra Pradesh’s Numair Shaik 21-9, 21-13, to take the title.ResultsMixed doubles U-17: Mayank Rana and Palak Arora (HAR) bt (AP/ORI) Bhargav Ram Arigela and Pragati Parida 21-8, 21-13.Girls’ singles U-17: Rakshitha Sree S (TN) bt (GUJ) Aishani Tiwari 21-18, 21-17.Girls’ singles U-15: Naishaa Kaur Bhatoye (MAH) bt (DLI) Anwesha Gowda 17-21, 21-14, 21-16,Mixed doubles U-15: Suryaksh Rawat and Aanya Bisht (UTR) bt (ASM) Ritom Howbora and Bhavishya Changmai 18-21, 21-19, 21-19.Boys’ singles U-15: Vansh Dev (DLI) bt (DLI) Devang Tomar[1] 21-13, 21-6.Girls’ doubles U-17: Navya Kanderi and Rakshitha Sree S (AP/TN) (HAR) Palak Arora and Unnati Hooda 23-25 21-11 21-19.Boys’ singles U-17: Sanskar Saraswat (RAJ)[1] bt (AP) Numair Shaik[3] 21-9, 21-13.Boys’ doubles U-15: Bjorn Jaison and Aathish Sreenivas PV (KER) bt (UP) Sanrekh Kumar Chaurasia and Kapil Salouniya 21-13, 22-20.Girls’ doubles U-15: Medhavi Nagar and Baruni Parshwal (HAR) (TS/AP) Tanvi Reddy Andluri and Durga Isha Kandrapu 21-15 21-19.Boys’ doubles U-17: Divyam Arora and Mayank Rana (UP/HAR) bt (KTK) Nicholas Nathan Raj and Tushar Suveer 21-14 21-17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/subjunior-badminton-tournament-rakshitha-sanskar-emerge-u-17-champions-101641760284190.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Minor fire at GMSH-16’s PSA oxygen plant||A minor fire broke out at the PSA oxygen generation plant in GMSH-16 on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The security guards managed to douse the flames with fire extinguishers and no damage to the plant was reported. Prima facie, a short circuit seems to be the reason.Yashpal Garg, UT health secretary, along with Dr Suman Singh, director of health services and Dr VK Nagpal, medical superintendent of GMSH-16, inspected the plant on Sunday. Officials from UT’s engineering department were also present. The engineers of the company have assessed the damage and repair work has started.The plant has been closed and will be restated after the damaged equipment are repaired/replaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-minor-fire-at-gmsh-16-s-psa-oxygen-plant-101641760165085.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||U-19 World Cup: India’s Harnoor Pannu keen to emulate idol Shubman Gill’s performance||Watching the highlights of the 2018 U-19 World Cup at a hotel room in Georgetown, Guyana, Harnoor Singh Pannu hopes to emulate the performance of his idol Shubman Gill, who led India to victory. The opener is currently in the West Indies awaiting the completion of the mandatory quarantine period, ahead of U-19 World Cup starting on January 14. “Gill paaji was outstanding in 2018. I have been his fan since then. I have been watching him play for Punjab and love his technique and approach,” says 18-year-old Pannu, who hails from Chandigarh. The India team, which is chasing its fifth title going into the 14-team event, is led by Yash Dhull. The final is on February 5. While an Indian win would only be affirmation of the junior talent available in the country, the team under coach Hrishikesh Kanitkar are wary of late slip-ups after losing the 2016 final to West Indies and the 2020 title clash to Bangladesh. Pannu enters the tournament following brilliant performances in the recent U-19 Asia Cup victory in the UAE, where he emerged player of the series. Though he scored only five runs in the final against Sri Lanka, Pannu aggregated 251 runs in the tournament, which included a century (120) against the UAE in the opening game. “Playing in my first international tournament helped me gain confidence. The pitches were good and my mental preparation also helped. I like going after the bowlers and playing attacking shots. I have been told to carry on playing my natural game by the team management. The Asia Cup will definitely help me prepare for the World Cup,” said Pannu, who has consistently been an opening batsman. The preparatory camp organised at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in Bengaluru ahead of the Asia Cup was a fan moment for him, where he met Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman. The junior players also got to interact with Rohit Sharma. “Rahul sir and Laxman sir were very encouraging and wished us luck. Meeting them in person was a different experience altogether. Then, Rohit sir had a brief chat with the team. The pep talk was fantastic,” says Pannu, who is also being monitored by Indian Premier League (IPL) franchises ahead of the player auctions. Cricket runs in Pannu’s family. His grandfather Rajinder Singh played Ranji Trophy for Punjab and father Birinder Singh was a Punjab U-19 player. Pannu spent his initial years in Jalandhar, where his father, a presenter with All India Radio, trained him. “My father installed practice nets at an empty plot near our house. My brother Jasnoor and I would bat for hours,” says Pannu, who moved to Chandigarh as a teenager to train under his uncle, former cricketer Harminder Singh Pannu. In 1989, his uncle Bhupinder Singh Junior was Player-of-the-Tournament in the inaugural U-19 Asia Cup in Dhaka. “Cricket is in our blood. We grew up hearing stories of Kapil Dev and Sachin Tendulkar and were told about the importance of playing in the Ranji Trophy. It was disappointing not to have any U-19 tournament last season due to Covid. There was a lot of uncertainty. I was relieved to get to play U-19 cricket this season,” says Pannu. Jasnoor has been a member of the Punjab U-19 team. “I feel fortunate to have so many cricketers in the family. I want to take the legacy forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/u19-world-cup-india-s-harnoor-pannu-keen-to-emulate-idol-shubman-gill-s-performance-101641760044410.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala: Excessive rains damage rabi crops in villages||Incessant showers over the past week have damaged a large quantity of crops in various areas of Ambala district.As per India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials in Chandigarh, 42.1 mm rainfall was recorded in Ambala from January 1 to 8, 567% more than the normal 6.3 mm for this time of the year. Several rabi crops like wheat, potato and mustard have been damaged. The maximum losses have been reported from the Naneola-Naggal belt along Hisar Road in Ambala-1 block, officials said. Gurjant Singh alias Goldy, the outgoing sarpanch of Batrohan village, said that it might take around a week to drain the stagnant rainwater and urgent help is needed from the administration.“My wheat crop spread across 30 acres, and around 200-300 acres in the village, remain submerged in water. Unlike paddy that needs excess water; even a day of waterlogging will damage the wheat crop,” Singh said. Tejveer Singh, a farmer from Panjokhra village, said that there has been damage to wheat crop in villages like Kaira, Chourmastpur, Patron and Batrohan and to potato crops in Mohra, Mohri, Kesri Shahpur, Durana and Mardo Sahib.“Mustard crops were also damaged in almost every village where it is grown, as it needs very less water at this point of time,” Tejveer said. Meanwhile, to ascertain the damage, the agriculture department has issued a toll-free number 1800 180 2117 for farmers with crop insurance.Deputy director of agriculture, Girish Nagpal, said, “After this, a survey will be conducted and the process will be carried out accordingly by the insurance company executives. Farmers can also report physically with their documents at our six block offices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-excessive-rains-damage-rabi-crops-in-villages-101641759744260.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU senate approves reservation roster for recruitment of assistant profs in constituent colleges||The Panjab University (PU) senate on Saturday approved the reservation roster for the recruitment of assistant professors at the varsity’s constituent colleges.  PU has six constituent colleges in Sikhwala (Sri Muktsar Sahib), Balachaur (SBS Nagar), Nihalsingh Wala (Moga), Dharamkot (Moga), Mokham Khan Wala (Ferozepur) and Guru Harsahai (Ferozepur). There are 83 sanctioned posts in these constituent colleges and the reservation roster has been prepared as per the guidelines and related instructions regarding the reservation policy followed by the Punjab government for the recruitment. According to recommendations of the committee, which were approved by PU senate, all these posts of assistant professor should be advertised in one go for the proper implementation of the roster. Also, it had recommended that these posts be advertised as “centrally managed posts” as posts of assistant professors in PU constituent colleges and not for individual constituent college. The posts of assistant professors will be inter-transferrable within the constituent colleges and assistant professorsfrom the constituent colleges will not be transferred to PU main campus or any of the regional centres. During the senate meeting, senator Rajat Sandhir suggested that each constituent college should be treated as a single unit for reservation rather than clubbing of all colleges for preparation of the roster. The syndicate had in 2020 approved the recommendations of a varsity panel that was constituted to prepare the roster in consonance with the directions of the University Grants Commission (UGC). The draft roster prepared by the varsity was approved by the panel in its meeting on January 29 in 2020.Meanwhile, the university senate deferred the resolution proposed by the former senator Dr Dalip Kumar to amend the regulation 3 (pages 46-48) of PU calendar volume I, 2007. The offices at Panjab University (PU) will function with 50% staff strength from Monday due to spike in Covid-19 cases. The varsity issued an order on Sunday stating the remaining 50% staff will work from home under the instructions of their controlling officers. However, officers of the level of office superintendent and above will attend the office daily.
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali’s Pancham Society: After 15 years, 448 flat allottees gets ownership rights||In a major relief to around 448 flat allottees of Pancham Cooperative Society in Sector 68, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has after 15 years issued a notification giving them ownership rights, with the builder finally clearing pending land dues to the tune of ₹15 crore.As per the notification, GMADA will only recover the principal amount of ₹4.46 crore proportionately from each member, which means each allottee has to pay around ₹45,000 to 1.20 lakh depending on the floor of the flat, as penal interest accumulated over the years has been completely waived off .GMADA will now directly deal with the individual members and give them no dues certificates after they pay the outstanding amount. The Resident Welfare Association of the Pancham Society will be the interface between the members and GMADA.Earlier, the owners were unable to sell the flats, as they did not have ownership rights. GMADA had allotted the land to the society in 2000 and possession of flats was given in January 2006.At the time of possession of flats, the members were asked to pay an additional amount of ₹1.15 lakh for HIG flats and ₹72,000 for HIG super. The allottees paid the amount to the builder, who was to further pay it to GMADA, but the latter failed to do so. As a result, the ownership rights were held up. As per records, Pancham Society was to pay ₹4.49 crore as land dues to GMADA in 2005. With addition of interest, the figure rose to ₹7.79 crore in October 2006 and is now estimated to be around ₹15 crore.In 2012, GMADA had issued a public notice regarding resuming land of Pancham Society, and in the same year, 225 members filed a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court against GMADA, registrar of the society and secretary housing. In 2019, the court ordered the registrar that recoveries be made from all those found guilty in various inquiries.Vineet Malik, area councillor, said the credit of ownership right goes to MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu. “It is a welcome step as we have been fighting for ownership for more than a decade. However, as of now, we haven’t got any official intimation,” he said.One of the allottees, Rajesh Moza, said that members have fought long battle against the builders and managing committee members of the society, who siphoned away crores of rupees as per the findings of the special audit report prepared by government auditors. These findings were corroborated by the enquiry committee set up by the Registrar Cooperative Society, he said.
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana court complex blast: Now, iron gate to block passage leading to DC office||After plugging all the key routes leading to district court complex and police commissioner’s office, an iron gate is being installed to seal the passage leading towards the deputy commissioner’s office. On Sunday, several workers were seem digging the earth and welding the iron gate. Officials say the gate is being erected to strengthen security after the bomb blast at the Ludhiana district court complex, and to prevent crowding at the DC office, which witnesses a heavy footfall. The workers said they have been asked to wrap up the project within two days. Security bolstered On December 27, the passage and the main door of the regional transport office (RTO), which led to the district court complex, were sealed. The door was primarily used to present persons facing trial under Sections 107 (which pertains to the powers vested with an executive magistrate who may order detaining a person, he thinks, could commit a breach of peace or disturb the public tranquillity), and 151 (prevention of commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). A notice was pasted on the wall redirecting litigants to appear from the main door of the police commissioner’s office. The door leading from the district excise and taxation department towards the district court complex was also sealed. It was primarily used by excise and taxation lawyers. On December 29, all passages leading to the police commissioner’s office from the deputy commissioner’s office were sealed. People are only allowed to enter the district complex from the main door of the deputy commissioner’s office where a door frame metal detector (DFMD) has been installed. Similar security arrangements have been made at the entrance of the district court complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-complex-blast-now-iron-gate-to-block-passage-leading-to-dc-office-101641759264249.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir records spike in daily Covid cases; 131 infections in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir recorded another jump in Covid-19 cases after 687 infections were detected on Sunday besides witnessing three deaths due to the disease, an official health bulletin said. The daily jump is the highest in the past 128 days.The active cases have increased by 164% to 3,531 from 1337 cases by the end of December.The UT is witnessing a steep rise in cases for the past five days with 418 cases on January 5, 349 cases on January 6, 542 cases on January 7 and 655 cases on Saturday. Apart from the past two days, the last time the UT had witnessed infections above 600 was in mid-June.The first four days of January had recorded daily cases ranging between 165 and 199 while in December the union territory had reported 143 average cases daily.Of the total cases on Sunday, 437 cases and three deaths were reported in the Jammu division while Kashmir valley saw 250 infections.Jammu division’s Jammu district reported the highest 292 cases followed by 39 in Kathua and 26 in Reasi.Kashmir valley witnessed 131 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 50 in Budgam and 42 in Baramulla. As many as 9 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Srinagar municipal corporation mayor Junaid Azim Mattu said that they would be giving Covid-19 vaccination booster shots to its workers.“The SMC to facilitate booster shots for our frontline workers and also conduct an extensive Covid testing exercise both at the central and ward level. This is to ensure that there are no passive undetected positive cases and to ensure we do our bit to break the chain,” Mattu said.Jammu district has taken over with the highest number of active cases at 1,230 followed by Srinagar and Reasi districts with 796 and 294 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 135 with active positive cases reaching 3,531.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 52,543 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.931 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,36,581 prompting the recovery rate to reach 97.65%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,44,652 and the death toll has reached 4,540.The officials said 52,081 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,162 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 885 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-records-spike-in-daily-covid-cases-131-infections-in-srinagar-101641759204313.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Shimla sees more snow, supply of essential services hit; MeT predicts bad weather till January 11||After Shimla received heavy snowfall, life came to a standstill with all roads closed for traffic within the city hitting the supplies of daily commodities. Shimla received 15 cm snow on Saturday and snowfall continued on Sunday as well. Life in the upper Shimla region has also come to a standstill. The Shimla police have issued an advisory to the commuters due to the continuous snowfall. “Snowfall is continuously occurring in Shimla city and upper areas. Roads to the upper Shimla and are completely blocked and the roads in the town are also slippery,” said Shimla SP Monika Bhutungru. She said snow was being removed from the above roads by the National Highways Authority, public works department and municipal corporation. “Shimla police request people to postpone the journey on blocked routes or take a safer alternate route in case of extreme need,” said the SP. Meanwhile, snowfall continued and rains continued in other parts of the state for the sixth consecutive day. Bara-Bhangal, the remotest village in Kangra district got 4-ft of snow, Triund 2-ft, Baragran 4-ft, and Rajgundha 3-ft. Kinnaur’s Kalpa experienced 5 inches of snow, Nako 3 inches and Rakchham and Sangla 6 inches while south portal of the Atal Tunnel in Kullu got 10 inches of snow, Gulaba 5 inches, Jalori Pass 6 inches, Solang 7 inches and the Rohtang Pass over 1 feet. Koksar in Lalahul-Spiti got 7 inches of snow, Sissu 6 inches and Keylong 2 inches. Barot in Mandi got 4 inches of snow, Prashar Lake and Kamru Nag 6 inches each and Shikari 7 inches. Chanshal in Shimla got 8 inches of snow, Dodra-Kwar 3 inches, Fagu 3 inches, Khirki 6 inches, Kufri 3 inches and Narkanda 5 inches. The tribal Bharmour town in Chamba got 1-ft snow, Dalhousie 1.3-ft, Pangi 4 inches, Salooni 6 inches and Tissa 7 inches. Chamba was the wettest place with 49 mm of rain followed by Dharamshala (43.7mm) Kangra (43.6mm), Nahan (43.8mm), Nahan (42.4mm), Una (42mm) and Bilaspur (38.5mm). With night temperature of minus 5.0 degrees Celsius, Keylong was the coldest place in the state. Kufri recorded a low of minus 2.8 degrees C while Kalpa shivered at minus 2.4 degrees C, Dalhousie minus 2 degrees, Shimla minus 0.2 degrees and Manali 0 degrees C. Dharamshala saw a low of 4.2 degrees C and Palampur 4.5 degrees C. The MeT department has forecast bad weather till January 11. Skies are likely to clear from January 12 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-sees-more-snow-supply-of-essential-services-hit-met-predicts-bad-weather-till-january-11-101641759145742.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal imposes new Covid curbs; CM Jai Ram Thakur cancels all programmes till Jan 15||In the wake of a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, the Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday imposed stringent curbs, including a ban on social gatherings, a five-day week, and 50% attendance at work and a cap on indoor and outdoor gatherings.The new curbs will be effective from Monday till January 24. The order to the effect was issued by chief secretary-cum-chairperson of state executive committee Ram Subhag Singh. Considering the recent surge in Covid-19 cases across the state and the current situation of the pandemic, strict measures are required to curb the spread, said Singh.As per the orders, all offices of government departments, PSUs, local bodies, autonomous bodies, including the state secretariat, will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays. The offices will operate with 50% attendance on working days.However, the restrictions will not apply to offices dealing with emergency or essential services such as health, police, fire, banks, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, telecom, excise and budget.Head of the departments or controlling officers shall issue roster orders accordingly. However, the high court of Himachal Pradesh will issue separate orders with respect to the HC and all other judicial offices.All social and religious gatherings shall be completely banned in the state. Other gatherings like academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, political are permitted up to 50% of the capacity, subject to a maximum of 100 persons in indoor built-up or covered areas, whichever, is lower.In open spaces, outdoor areas gatherings are permitted up to 50% of the capacity, subject to maximum 300 persons.A prior intimation of gatherings shall be mandatorily given to the district and sub-divisional administration. Local administration can impose additional conditions upon the organisers, as the situation requires. There shall be strict observance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and safety protocols during these gatherings.At all religious places or places of worship, there will be a total ban on langar, community kitchens or “dhaams”.District magistrates have been authorised to fix the timings of the shops, markets or staggering schedule under their jurisdiction and they can take decisions after taking note of Covid-19 situations and specific requirements of their districts.The district administration shall be competent to deploy any government employee who is otherwise not performing any duties or not attending offices because of the directions by any authority and depute them for any duty relating to vaccination, surveillance, monitoring of persons under home isolation, manning the check posts, making data entry or monitoring and contact home isolated patients.Any violation of the directions will attract legal and penal action under the DM Act and Section 188 of the IPC.CM cancels all programmesMeanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has cancelled all his programmes till January 15.A spokesman of the state government said that due to the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, all scheduled programmes of the chief minister have been cancelled.He said that programme of chief minister slated in Sulah on January 10 and Badsar, Hamirpur and Nadaun constituencies on January 11 and 12 also stand cancelled. The spokesman said that the new dates of all these programmes would be announced later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-imposes-new-covid-curbs-cm-jai-ram-thakur-cancels-all-programmes-till-jan-15-101641759144268.html
10-01-2022||Other||509 more contract Covid , 2 test +ve for Omicron in Ludhiana||With the coronavirus continuing its march across the district, 509 people tested positive for Covid on Sunday, while two more people tested positive for Omicron. There are now five cases of the highly transmissible variant in the district. The persons whose genome sequencing report came positive for Omicron are residents of Kitchlu Nagar and Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar, who had returned from the United Kingdom from January 1. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said, “The patients stayed in Delhi for eight days and only returned to Ludhiana on Saturday. Both persons have been home isolated, and we have started contact tracing.”The new cases include 47 healthcare workers, two UK returnees, a police personnel, 55 persons who came in contact with infected persons, 265 patient s from the flu corner, and 43 from the OPD. Now, there are around 2,143 active cases in the district, of which 2,102 are home isolated, while 37 are undergoing treatment at a private hospitals and four at government hospitals.One more fatalityIt is for the second consecutive day that over 500 fresh cases have been reported in Ludhiana, taking the district’s Covid count to 89,933. A 44-year-old man, of Basti Jodhewal, who was undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College & Hospital was claimed by the virus. The number of fatalities reported in Ludhiana since the outbreak of the virus two years ago has climbed to 2,121. March of the 3rd wave Now, there are around 2,143 active cases in the district, of which 2,102 are home isolated.Date CasesJanuary 9: 509January 8: 561January 7:324January 6: 292January 5:203January 4:103January 3: 56January 2:40January 1: 37December 31: 18December 30: 17||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/509-more-contract-covid-2-test-ve-for-omicron-in-ludhiana-101641758964337.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Candidates’ spending limited to ₹40 lakh||Ahead of the Punjab assembly polls, the district election officer-cum-deputy commissioner limited the campaign expenditure to ₹40 lakh on Sunday. Ludhiana election officer Virinder Kumar Sharma said the candidates will only be able to spend only on rallies, campaign materials, advertisements, vehicles and other miscellaneous activities required for elections. They will have to open a joint bank or postal account in their name or with their election agent a day before filling the nomination papers. Candidates must incur all election expenses from this account. A payment up to ₹10,000 can be made in cash, while a cheque will be drawn for a higher sum. He also advised the political parties to not use illegal means such as distribution of liquor and drugs, distribution of cash, and distribution of gifts. the election commission will send special expenditure observers to monitor the expenditure being incurred by candidates, several teams are also being formed at the local level. The spendings will have to be regularly logged in a daily expense register. The same expenditures will be recorded by the Election Commission, and both registers should match. Bills and vouchers for all expenses from filing of nomination papers till the result will be kept. Approval of each expenditure must be obtained from the returning officer concerned.Anti-sabotage teams to conduct random checksWith the election announced, anti-sabotage teams have been asked to conduct random checks in the city on a daily basis. The teams have been asked to check public places, religious places, markets and malls. The police teams are proactive as Republic Day is also around the corner.The deputy Commissioner and commissioner of police, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, also held a meeting with members of flying squad teams (FST) and static surveillance teams at Police Lines. The team members said they will be checking roadside vends and heaps of debris, besides all important public places – including the railway station, bus stand, crowded markets, parks and religious places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-candidates-spending-limited-to-40-lakh-101641758484018.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana| Cong splurges on hoardings ahead of polls, Oppn dubs it ‘ ₹19-cr scam’||Ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, the ruling Congress had installed hoardings advertising government schemes, and featuring chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi across the city – a move which drew the opposition’s ire. Slamming the Congress for misusing public funds, the opposition has termed the move as a “ ₹19-crore scam, where the outdoor media advertisement contractor was given an undue monetary benefit.” Former councillor and Bhartiya Janata Party local bodies cell in-charge Inder Aggarwal said, “In the budget, the MC had reduced the income from advertising from ₹23 crore to ₹15 crores, citing the losses suffered by the advertisement contractor due to the pandemic. Later, under the revised budget, the advertisement budget was reduced to a mere ₹4 crore.” “While the government is hounding the public for taxes, the contractor is getting favours , strangely at a time when the fund-starved MC is trying to take a ₹100 crore loan to carry out developmental works across the city,” he said. The advertisements had been displayed on over 170 unipoles, and other media at all main roads and major intersections across the city, including Mall Road, Ferozepur Road, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Chandigarh Road, Haibowal, Jagraon Bridge, Gill Road, BRS Nagar, and Rajguru Nagar among other places. These hoardings promote the recent decisions taken by the ruling party, including waiving off pending power arrears for consumers with connections up to 2KW, reducing water tariff for residential buildings, and reducing the power tariff among other welfare schemes. The advertisements also portray the CM as an “Aam Aadmi” as he is seen with beneficiaries on the hoardings, which also have promotional slogans such as Ghar Ghar Vich Challi Gal, CM Channi/Punjab Sarkar Kare Masle Hal (All households are discussing how CM Channi and the Punjab government resolve issues). MC officials blame government Meanwhile, the MC officials said that the state government had directly roped in the contractor for advertisement through the state public relations department and the MC was in no way involved. The MC has to recover the advertisement charges from the contractor as per the outdoor media advertising contract, and the budget had also been reduced by the state. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said ,”The annual income under advertisement contract was ₹23 crore. But the MC had approved ₹15 crores as income under the advertisement head, while approving the annual budget, as ₹8 crore relief had been provided by state government, citing the pandemic, and the contractor had surrendered 50% of the media. But when the budget was sent for approval from the state government, the government further reduced it to ₹4 crore only, perhaps due to some error. The MC has now sent a revised budget to the state government for approval wherein the income has again been increased to ₹15 crore.” Govt hoardings removed after MCC comes into place Soon after imposition of the model code of conduct, the administration and municipal corporation initiated the laborious process of removing political hoardings from the city, including those advertising government schemes and other illegal political hoardings.However, the private hoardings of leaders such as cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLA Sanjay Talwar, SAD Ludhiana west candidate Maheshinder Singh Grewal among others were still seen installed in different areas. MC officials said the private hoardings are categorised as paid advertisement and information regarding the same will be shared with the election commission.MC additional commissioner, Aaditya Dachalwal said, “Government hoardings have been removed as the model code of conduct has been imposed. The department has sought details of paid advertisement from the contractor, and the same will be shared with the election commission. The paid advertisement media in the city have to be shared equally between the parties as per the norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianacong-splurges-on-hoardings-ahead-of-polls-oppn-dubs-it-19-cr-scam-101641758305212.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Vet Varsity issues advisory to protect dogs from dip in mercury||Swaran Singh Randhawa, director, Veterinary Clinics of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University shared some preventive strategies to save dogs from ill effects of extreme cold. He advised not to leave dog outside in winter for long durations and avoid walking along with dogs in the early mornings or late evenings. When the environment temperature is below the lower critical limit, dogs cannot maintain their body temperature and suffer from hypothermia. Ventilation should be good enough to minimise odours, ammonia level and cold drafts, humidity between 30 to 70 per cent. Animal age, breed, hair coat and overall health status all determine the sensitivity of dogs to cold weather. Make sure that dog has been placed in a warm spot in house with well carpeted floors. Do not keep pets too close to heat sources to avoid burns and put all heaters and lamps out of their reach. Avoid alcohol and chocolates because they are toxic for dogs, even in small amounts. Groom dog regularly during the winter, to keep them properly insulated. Groom at least two times a day and avoid bathing before a fortnight. Dogs with thin to absent hair coats have less ability to retain heat and cannot tolerate low temperatures well. Randhawa said dogs can dehydrate just as quickly in the winter as summer, so provide plenty of fresh lukewarm water. Application of petroleum jelly can avoid cuts and cracks in dogs’ paws. Give raisins to dogs during winters can cause renal failure. Antifreeze being sweet in taste, dogs readily licks or drinks it but even a small amount of this antifreeze can be fatal for dogs. Like people, dogs seem to be more susceptible to illness in the winter. Puppies and geriatric dogs need more attention. Maintain an exercise regimen for dogs, especially those suffering from arthritis. Keep them warm and take them to a veterinarian if any suspicious symptoms are seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-vet-varsity-issues-advisory-to-protect-dogs-from-dip-in-mercury-101641757945395.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Consumer forum asks insurance firm to pay ₹2 lakh||Ludhiana District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directed an insurance company to pay ₹2 lakh insurance claim along with ₹5500 compensation to the complainant for failing to release an insurance claim to the complainant after her husband’s death in a road accident.Madhu Tyagi of Ludhiana in her complaint against United India Insurance Company Limited and Anish Goyal, insurance officer of the company accused the respondents for deficiency of services.Varinder Kumar Tyagi, husband of the complainant was the proprietor of Sidhbali Enterprises, Motia Khan, Mandi Gobindgarh in Fatehgarh Sahib.The caseVarinder had taken insurance, valid from May 21, 2014 to May 20, 2015, from the said company through their Khanna office.Varinder died in an accident on January 07, 2015. After his death, the complainant was the legal heir of Varinder who had taken the insurance policy for a four wheeler.A sum of ₹1129 was paid as basic third party liability and a sum of ₹100 was paid towards the insurance cover to the owner and another sum of ₹50 was paid towards insurance cover of driver. In all, a sum of ₹ 2937 was paid as premium and a sum of ₹ 326 was paid as service tax.After the death of Varinder, a case was registered by the Bassi Pathana police station regarding the accident. Thereafter, the complainant lodged the insurance claim regarding the death of Varinder Kumar Tyagi, the driver of the accidental car, but to no avail.Resisting the complaint, the legal counsel for the insurance pleaded that the claim lodged by the complainant is not payable under the policy in question.“The policy covered only own damage claim i.e. loss of the insured car No.PB-48-A-7876 and its accessories. It also covered the third party loss and the employee of the insured. The policy in question does not cover the driver and owner of the insured vehicle. It was not a personal accident policy. It was only a car package policy,” said insurance company.Consumer forum’s orderThe commission in its order observed that Varinder Kumar Tyagi was the sole proprietor of the firm and since he was covered under the policy in the case of death by accident to the tune of ₹ 2lakh, the respondents are liable to pay the same to the complainant,who is the legal heir of the deceased policyholder.“Respondents shall pay the claim of ₹2lakh along with compensation of ₹ 5,500 to the complainant,” ordered the commission||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-consumer-forum-asks-insurance-firm-to-pay-2-lakh-101641757943984.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal sees 700% rise in Covid infections in January; Kangra worst-hit||Even as an upward trend is being witnessed in Covid-19 infection across the country, Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a nearly 700% rise in the fresh infections in just the first week of the New Year.Till January 8, the hill state had recorded 2,730 fresh cases compared to only 354 cases in the last week of December 2021.New infections are on the rise since December 28, however, the daily infection crossed 100-mark on January 2 which has now crossed over 700 per day.A record of 728 cases was recorded on Saturday, January 8. Even, the one-week tally has surpassed the cumulative tally of December 2021 when 1,662 cases were reported in an entire month.The sudden spike also prompted the state government to bring back the curbs. The gatherings, indoor and outdoor have been capped while the schools have been shut till January 26. Cinemas, stadiums and gyms have been closed indefinitely.Positivity rate goes past 5%“Variants of the Covid-19 are spreading fast world over and India and Himachal is not bereft of it. We are continuously reviewing the situation,” said Hemraj Bairwa, mission director, National Health Mission. He said curbs have been brought back while some more restrictions will be imposed as per need. Bairwa said that due to the latest spurt the positivity rate has jumped to 5.5% in January from just 1% in December.The gravity of the situation can be gauged from the fact that active cases have shot up by around 700% since January 28, when the state had only 346 active cases. By January 8 the number had reached 2,811. Meanwhile, given the forecast of further rise in the infections and in active cases by the medical experts, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has directed the state health officials to be on guards to tackle the situation. He has sought to ensure adequate number of beds, oxygen, PPE kits and medicines in the hospitals and also strengthen the home-isolation mechanism.Kangra, the most populous district in the state, is again the worst-hit district having reported 878 fresh cases, over a six-fold increase. In December last week 129 cases were reported from the district the month’s tally was 453. Daily infections in the district have crossed 200-mark.Kanga chief medical officer Dr GD Gupta said recently Covid cases have surged at an alarming speed in Kangra. He said the active cases which were 80 in December have reached 925. There has been a six-fold increase in the active cases while the positivity rate has jumped from 1% to over 15%.This is time for self-discipline and acting sensibly. People should strictly follow Covid norms and eligible people should get vaccinated, he said. Don’t ignore ILI symptoms, quarantine yourself immediately and get tested at the earliest, added Dr Gupta. The district also has the highest 925 active cases. Other districts with high active cases are Solan (362) and Hamirpur (305). Four districts have active cases less than 200 while rest below 100. Lahaul-Spiti has only 10 active cases.The third wave of the Covid-19 has also taken many VIPs in its grip. The latest to be infected by the deadly virus is BJP organising secretary Pavan Rana. Additional chief secretary Prabodh Saxena has also caught the infection.He had attended the cabinet meeting on January 5 and all the ministers may undergo testing. Earlier, SDM, Manali, had tested positive. Kangra deputy commissioner who got infected in December has recovered.
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 623 govt teachers due for 2nd vaccine shot||Despite huge hullabaloo over Covid vaccination, over 600 school teachers of upper primary government schools in city are yet to administer the second dose and around 50 teachers still have their first dose pending. To ensure full vaccination of the teachers, the local education department has prepared a list of teachers who are not fully vaccinated. Special camps are being organised by the local administration at different places to ensure the vaccination of the government servants and especially those who have been deputed for election duties in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections scheduled on February 14. As per the block-wise list submitted with the local administration, a total of 623 government teachers in middle, high and secondary schools in the district have not got their second dose administered, including a few teachers at GHS Jagera, GHS Jhammat, GHS Paddi, GSSS Sirthla, GHS Buani, GSSS Kaddon, GSSS Payal, GHS Salodi, GMS Kalal Majra, GHS Giaspura and others. 50 teachers without first jab Meanwhile, 50 teachers in a total of 43 middle, high and senior secondary schools in the district have not got even a single jab. In Dehlon-1 block, two teachers are yet to get the first dose of the vaccination. In Dehlon-2, three teachers, four teachers in Doraha block, one in Jagraon, five in Khanna-1, six teachers in Khanna-2, three in Ludhiana-1, six in Ludhiana-2, one teacher each in Machhiwara block-1 and block-2, two teachers in Pakhowal, one teacher in Mangat-1 block, four in Raikot block, two in Samrala, three in Sidhwan Bet-1 and six teachers in Sudhar block in the district are yet to get jabbed. Get jabbed else no salary Strict instructions have been issued to these teachers to get vaccinated or else they won’t get their salaries. Moreover, government school teachers who had not uploaded their vaccination certificate on the Punjab integrated human resource management system did not receive their December salary. In its December 21 order, the finance department had said employees will not be able to draw their salary if their vaccination certification number – for single or dual jabs – was not registered. Government employees’ salaries will only be released once they upload their certification number. District education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra said, “Almost all the teachers in Ludhiana are vaccinated and those left have been firmly directed to get jabbed as it is essential for them and their colleagues’ safety. 
10-01-2022||Other||Dissent in Jalandhar AAP unit over ticket allocation||Jalandhar The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is facing simmering discontent in is ranks in its local unit with those denied tickets venting out their frustration in meeting their supporters. The meetings were addressed by Dr Shiv Dayal Mali and Dr Sanjeev Sharma, who did not get the AAP Jalandhar west and central constituency, respectively. Mali, a long-time associate of the party, was ignored for Jalandhar West in favour of former BJP leader Sheetal Aungral, who had joined the AAP a few days ago. For Jalandhar Central, the AAP has named Raman Arora as candidate, over Dr Sharma, who had unsuccessfully contested from here in 2017. For Jalandhar north too, the party has given the ticket to Dinesh Dhal, who came into the party fold only on January 7. The leaders who addressed meetings with volunteers have received a call from Punjab chief and Sangrur MP, Bhagwant Mann, for a discussion. Mali has told his supporters, “We have received a call from Bhagwant Mann for talks and will go there. your suggestions are welcome.”The leaders claimed that the AAP had ignored grassroots leaders who had worked for it for years. Even Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chadha was shown black flags on January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dissent-in-jalandhar-aap-unit-over-ticket-allocation-101641757464110.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 3,922 fresh Covid cases||Chandigarh :Punjab on Sunday reported 3,922 fresh Covid cases, while one virus-related death was reported on the day, according to a medical bulletin. The state’s positivity rate was 13.77%, the bulletin said. With fresh cases, the state’s patient tally has reached 6,21,419, it said. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 16,343. Among the fresh cases, Patiala reported the highest infections, followed by Mohali 750, Ludhiana 509, Amritsar 305, Jalandhar 292 and Pathankot 256, the bulletin said. With the recovery of 145 patients from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached Cured 588,401, it said. Till now, 16,675 people have lost their lives due to the virus. Atleast 28,482 Covid tests were done on Sunday and a 48,917 persons were vaccinated. Punjab CEO tests positive for CovidPunjab’s chief electoral officer S Karuna Raju tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday.“CEO Punjab S Karuna Raju, asymptomatic tested Covid positive. Under isolation at home taking all precautions as per Covid protocol. Those who came in contact with him in last few days, kindly get tested and take care,” according to a tweet by the office of the Punjab CEO.Raju on Saturday had held a press conference here after the Election Commission announced dates for polling in five states, including Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-3-922-fresh-covid-cases-101641757104185.html
10-01-2022||Other||SSM not to ally with AAP: Rajewal||Chandigarh Ending weeks of conjecture that the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) would enter into a tie-up with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), president of the SSM, Balbir Singh Rajewal, clarified on Sunday that there would no such alliance. He also added that the SSM will release its first list of candidates this week.Rajewal’s announcement came after meeting key constituents of the SSM, a political arm of farmers, which was formed on December 25 after 19 of 32 farm organisations that were part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) came together. The SKM, after a protested that stretched for a year, forced the Centre to repeal the three farm laws on November 19. Rajewal, considered to be inclined towards an alliance with the AAP, was reported to have been offered a key role if he joined hands with the party, said, “The AAP has fielded corrupt candidates, and they are selling party tickets.” The constituents of SSM have issued an appeal to all farm organisations to join the platform. “We appeal to all farm bodies to stand united for the polls, as they were during the agitation against the three farm laws,” said Prem Singh Bhangu, an SSM leader. Apart from Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Ugrahan, the farm body that has the largest support base in the state, there are five farm bodies which are indecisive; eight farm bodies have unequivocally opposed the entry of farmers into politics.  Answering a query in the press conference, Rajewal said he had also issued an appeal to long-time associate Joginder Singh Ugrahan, who leads BKU (Ugrahan), to support the SSM. “I am sure he will accept my appeal,” he added.The SSM decided to clarify its stance after BKU (Charuni) that Gurnam Singh Charuni heads announced that it would name its candidates on Sunday, but has now agreed to wait. The SSM has also formed a committee on poll agenda that includes Charuni. The SSM has also decided that prominent people from all section of society can join it and contest polls. “Applications from all sections of society will be scrutinised. The SSM has decided to formulate an agenda on which the election will be contested. For this purpose, committees has been constituted,” Bhangu added. A Parliamentary Committee, a Screening committee and a Manifesto Committee have been formed. 
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||To check smuggling, 3 Punjab central jails to have full body scanners by July||JALANDHAR: To curb smuggling of drugs and mobile phones into state jails, the Punjab prisons department will install full body scanners in central jails by July this year. After getting the government nod, the department has sent a requisition to the Punjab Police Housing Corporation (PPHC) for the procurement of body scanners. There are 25 jails, including nine central prisons, in the state, having 18,470 prisoners against the total capacity of 23,776, according to the statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau in 2020. Additional director general of police (jails) Praveen Kumar Sinha confirmed the development and said: “We have plans to install body scanners in three central jails in the first phase with a budget of around ₹ 6 crore sanctioned by the state government. “These will be low-intensity X-ray machines to be installed at the entrance points to enhance the detection of banned materials into the jails.”He said Punjab would be the fourth stage to implement this project after Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. “Physical frisking has limitations as we have to respect the religious sentiments and privacy of people. We need to use technology to counter such challenges. The names of three jails where body scanners are to be installed in the first phase will be announced soon. The process to get a clearance from the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre in Mumbai also underway,” he added. According to the National Crime Records Bureau data of prisons for the year 2020, there are 5,289 undertrials and 1,046 convicts related to the NDPS Act, the highest in the country, in Punjab jails. The Punjab jail department had recovered 1,086 mobile phones from various jails of the state in 2019 and 1,500 in 2017, the data reveals.A senior official familiar with the matter said despite strict checking in the jails, inmates still managed to smuggle mobiles, SIM cards and drugs into prisons even as the connivance of jail officials can’t be ruled out. Hardcore criminals, especially gangsters, use phones for making extortion calls or run drug smuggling rackets from the jail, the official said.
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Recovery of 70 cellphones in 10 days exposes security chinks in Amritsar jail||AMRITSAR : The recovery of 70 mobile phones from the Amritsar Central Jail past 10 days has exposed security chinks in the high-security prison. Besides mobile phones, the jail authorities have been recovering other banned items, including cigarettes and tobacco, from inmates. Officials cite foggy weather as one of the reasons behind the illegal activity. “Taking advantage of low visibility, miscreants throw mobile phones and other banned items inside the jail,” said a senior jail official, who didn’t wish to be named. The high-security prison remained in the news due several jailbreak incidents and running of drug and weapons smuggling rackets by some inmates in the past a few years. In July last year, the state government had appointed Border Security Force (BSF) officials as superintendents of five high-security jails of Punjab, including Amritsar jail. The Amritsar jail is among a few other jails of the state being guarded by the battalions of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).“The rear outer wall of the jail is attached with a farm land. There is no way along the wall for patrolling or deployment of security guards. Miscreants have been using this wall for throwing of mobile phones inside the jail,” said another official. Overcrowding of inmates and lack of staff are other reasons behind the poor implementation of the security in the jail. “We have around 3,300 inmates against the capacity of 2,200. The prison is working with around 70% of the sanctioned staff strength. Overcrowding and inadequate staff is another hurdle in protecting the jail,” one of the officials said. Around two weeks ago, the prison had shifted around 100 inmates to the newly constructed Goindwal Central Jail in Tarn Taran. The officials of Amritsar jail said more inmates should be shifted in the new jail to decongest the high-security prison. They said the surging cases of Covid-19 can also impact the inmates’ health in the coming days. Jail superintendent Surinder Singh said he took the charge on January 1. “We have launched a special drive to clean the prison. The inmates who are being caught with mobile phones are being handed over to the local police for their further interrogation,” he said.He said there is no possibility of bringing any banned item inside the jail from the main entrance. On Saturday, as many as 16 inmates were booked after 17 mobile phones, five chargers and a headphone were recovered on the jail premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recovery-of-70-cellphones-in-10-days-exposes-security-chinks-in-amritsar-jail-101641756863972.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||SGPC opposes naming Sahibzadas’ Shaheedi Diwas as ‘Veer Bal Diwas’||AMRITSAR: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the apex gurdwara body, on Sunday raised an objection over the term ‘Baal Veer Diwas’ given to 10th Sikh Master Guru Gobind Singh’s Chhote Sahibzade (younger sons) by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Reacting to the move, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said: “Their martyrdom day cannot be called ‘Baal Veer Diwas’ as it is not according to the Gurmat (Sikh principles). Sahibzades have a tall stature in the Sikh religion. This term is not appropriate for martyrs. The PM may have taken this decision in haste, without consulting the Sikhs.” “We give respect to the sentiments of the Prime Minister but limiting the martyrdom of Chhote Sahibzade to ‘Baal Veer Diwas’ by adding the term ‘Baal’ does not match with the feeling of the martyrdom and Sikh traditions,” he said while speaking over phone.“Sacrifice of the Sahibzade of the 10th Guru is as big as that of the big warriors keeping in view of the Sikh history, principles and traditions. In the Sikh history, Sahibzade are called ‘Babas’ to give them due respect,” he said. “As Sikh traditions, beliefs and concerns are unique in nature, any decision in relation to them should be taken under the guidance of the Akal Takht. The decision may have come from the intention of giving respect to Guru sahib, but it cannot be considered as one recognised by the Panth”, he said, adding, “We will write to the PM in this regard”.Meanwhile, radical Sikh body Dal Khalsa said the state has no right to meddle in religious affairs of Sikhs. “Arbitrary decision by the PMO is going to set a wrong precedent,” reads a statement issued by radical Sikh body Dal Khalsa.Sikh history should be depicted in perspective: Jathedar Endorsing the SGPC stand, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said: “The move deserves to be hailed but name is wrong, as it does not represent the Sikh sentiments.” Addressing devotees during the celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh’s birth anniversary at Takht Patna Sahib on Sunday evening, he said: “We want the entire world to be taught the great history of Sahibzadas’ supreme sacrifice, but it should be as per Sikh sentiments.”“The Sikh organisations are there to co-operate with the government in taking the decisions concerning the Sikhs. So, the government should have consulted with them first. The Sikh history should be depicted in Sikh perspective,” he added.Damdami Taksal hails move However, some Sikh organisations have hailed the PM’s move. “The PM’s announcement is commendable and is a big effort to make the world aware of the unparalleled martyrdom of the 10th Guru and his sons,” Baba Harnam Singh Khalsa, chief of Damdami Taksal, a Sikh seminary. Akal Purakh Ki Fauj chief and former SGPC member Advocate Jaswinder Singh said: “Irrespective of the nomenclature, it is an opportunity for the Sikhs. Now, it is up to the Sikhs how they grab this opportunity.” 
10-01-2022||Lucknow||All exams to be held as per schedule: AKTU||Lucknow: Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) on Sunday once again made it clear that all pre-scheduled and the ongoing examinations will be held as per the schedule and there will be no online exam as being demanded by the students, according to a press release issued by the university. A number of AKTU students have been carrying out a social media campaign demanding the university to conduct online exams instead of offline on the campus due to the rising cases of Covid 19. In a press release, AKTU vice chancellor Prof Vineet Kansal said that instructions had been issued to all affiliated colleges to conduct all classes in online mode from January 10 to 16. “Online classes will continue till January 16 and after that the university will review its decision and fresh guidelines will be issued,” he said. In the guidelines to colleges, the institutes have been ordered to ensure strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines,” said Asheesh Misra, media incharge, AKTU, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/all-exams-to-be-held-as-per-schedule-aktu-101641756564008.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP names 5 more candidates, 109 declared so far||Chandigarh : The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced the names of five more candidates for the upcoming assembly election in the state, taking the total number of nominees named so far to 109. Dinesh Dhall, who joined the AAP from the Congress two days ago, has been fielded from the Jalandhar North segment. He was inducted into the AAP by Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha in Jalandhar on Friday amid protests by several local leaders of the party. Dhall was considered close to former Congress minister Avtar Henry earlier. The party has fielded Jagtar Singh from Samrala and Hardeep Singh Mundian from Sahnewal, according to the ninth list of candidates signed by state unit president Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh. Dr Amandeep Kaur Arora from Moga and Amit Rattan Kotfatta from Bathinda Rural are the other candidates named by the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-names-5-more-candidates-109-declared-so-far-101641756504024.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Politicians make a beeline for dera HQ in Punjab woo followers||BATHINDA: A day after the election schedule was announced, political leaders of the Congress, Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) rushed to Dera Sacha Sauda’s Punjab headquarters Salabatpura in Bathinda to woo its followers. Dera management said a final decision to support a party or candidate will be taken after building a general consensus among “premis” or dera followers.As the parties and contestants are yet to chalk out election campaigning plan to adhere to instructions issued in view of Covid-19 pandemic, they assembled at Salabatpura to attend the birth anniversary function of the former head of late Shah Satnam Ji.Congress MLA from Nabha Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, ex-MLA Harminder Singh Jassi, senior Congressman from Mansa Mangat Ram Bansal and his wife and former Congress district president Manoj Bala Bansal, BJP’s Harjit Singh Grewal, Surjit Jyani and AAP candidate from Bathinda Urban Jagroop Singh Gill were among those visited the dera and met its functionaries.Covid-19 guidelines of maintaining social distancing was flouted at the religious place. On Sunday, it was the second large gathering at the state headquarters since November 29 that is seen as a show of strength by the dera in the Malwa belt ahead of the elections.Sources said a cabinet minister and a few other Congress leaders could not visit the dera due to a rush on the link road leading to the shrine, located about 45km from Bathinda.Harcharan Singh Insan, a key member of dera’s state committee said it was only a religious event. “But a definite decision will be taken by the political wing of the dera. We are keeping a close watch on the political developments of Punjab,” he added.BJP national executive member Harjit Grewal told reporters that the party intends electoral support from all Punjabis even the staunch critics of the party.Dharmsot said he attended the function to honour voters of his constituency.All political gatherings suspended Before the Election Commission of India’s announcement, several politicians in the south Malwa districts were holding large election rallies till Saturday. However, as the ECI imposed a “campaign curfew” till January 15 due to a surge in the pandemic, all scheduled physical meetings were suspended.The region has nearly ten segments where all eyes will be on the election contest. Most candidates and incumbent legislators stayed indoors today to finalise the election campaign strategy.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal is contesting from Jalalabad in Fazilka district. His media coordinator Rajya Deep said the party has yet to come out with a plan for a door-to-door contact programme and virtual meetings.Finance minister Manpreet Badal, sitting MLA from Bathinda Urban was in Chandigarh today and no political programme was held in the segment.AAP president Bhagwant Mann’s rally had to address a rally in Rampura Phul today but that was cancelled after ECI’s instructions.Ex-MP and Akali candidate from Maur Jagmeet Brar said his chain of the team is working in coordination with community leaders to remain in touch with voters in the rural segment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/politicians-make-a-beeline-for-dera-hq-in-punjab-woo-followers-101641756383994.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sidhu launches digital campaign for assembly polls||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday launched his party’s digital campaign for the assembly polls, a day after the Election Commission declared the schedule for it and banned public rallies till January 15 amid a surge in coronavirus cases. Sidhu said his party has already been emphasising on the importance of digitisation and maintaining a virtual interaction with the electorate, and asserted that the Punjab Congress has the highest digital footprint amongst the political parties. “Till January 15, directions are very clear that you will have to campaign digitally, through WhatsApp whatever it is,” Sidhu said, adding that he had addressed 40 to 50 rallies before the poll code came into the being. “We hope that things will change after January 15 and in case, if things go worse, then what cannot be cured has to be endured. We will have to pass through this litmus test. Life has to be given importance,” he said. “In Bengal, we saw big rallies, we were repenting and we were repairing rather than preventing and preparing. I think the Congress Party has taken the first initiative of preparing and with that preparedness we will be preventing,” he said. Asked when his party will announced candidates, Sidhu said this will be done very soon. “We are at it. Even today, the screening committee meeting is going on. We will take our decisions after careful thinking,” he said. On his “Punjab model”, Sidhu said it is not a personal or self-serving model. “It is the model of the people of Punjab. It is a tailor-made solution for the issues prevalent in Punjab which are created after intensive research conducted on the state and its functioning. This model brings the power back in the hands of people of Punjab for their own prosperity and growth,” he said in a statement. “The real stakeholders of the Punjab model are its people and the PPCC is soon going to pave the way for the people of Punjab through a WhatsApp service to provide their inputs for the Punjab model and seek clarifications,” he said. He said the “Punjab model” will not only bring the constitutional powers back to panchayats and urban local bodies, it will also aim at creating a “digital Punjab” where over 150 government services, permits and approvals will be made available to people on their doorstep. He said building a capable and accountable state is the key to reducing poverty. “Political leaders are the prime drivers, setting the objectives for the governance system. Today, Punjab needs a governance reform, which translates public issues into policies with a poverty reduction strategy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-launches-digital-campaign-for-assembly-polls-101641756203936.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||UP Election 2022: 95 assembly constituencies identified as sensitive||Lucknow As many as 95 assembly constituencies have been identified as sensitive in Uttar Pradesh for the forthcoming assembly elections, scheduled to start from February 10. Meanwhile, police have intensified extra vigilance and alertness in 14 constituencies of the seven districts sharing the international border with Nepal. While addressing a press conference here, additional director general (ADG) of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar, on Sunday said, “95 assembly constituencies out of the total 403, have been identified as ‘sensitive’ and extra police force is being deployed in these areas to ensure free and fair polls. Meanwhile, 33 assembly constituencies of the 17 districts have been identified as ‘expenditure sensitive’ as candidates there may spend extra money in violation of the model code of conducts.” These assembly constituencies were placed in the two categories after an initial assessment was carried out by the state police recently, he said. “Other than sensitive constituencies, extra vigilance and alertness have been increased in 14 constituencies of the seven districts, including Pilibhit, Mahrajganj, Siddharthnagar, Bahraich, Balrampur, Shravasti and Lakhimpur Kheri that share international borders with Nepal. In addition, vigilance has also been increased in 74 other constituencies of the 30 districts sharing borders with nine other states,” he stated while sharing further details. He said, total 197 international barriers and 469 interstate barriers have been put in place to curb smuggling of illegal liquor as well as other banned items. Close circuit television (CCTV) cameras are also being installed at these barriers, he added. The ADG said that the extra police force deployment would also be done in naxal-affected districts, including Sonbhadra, Chandauli and Mirzapur. Critical polling centres The ADG said the state police found that as many as 29,138 polling centres out of the 17, 4,351 across the state are marked critical due to violence or trouble reported there in the past elections. The police have identified as many as 16,237 troubles makers from 6,068 pockets across different constituencies and preventive action have been taken against them. He said total 456 polling centres of 11 districts, including Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri, Mahrajganj, Siddharthnagar, Bahraich, Balrampur, Shravasti, Lalitpur, Meerut, Chandauli and Sonbhadra are marked as communication shadow areas. He said additional communication arrangements including radio sets and satellite phones had been arranged for these polling centres. Kumar said total polling centres in 10 districts, including Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri, Deoria, Basti, Bahraich, Balrampur, Shravasti and Balia, are marked as riverine and non-motorable following which alternate mode of transport like boats, tractors and temporary bridges have been arranged for transportation of electoral officers and voters. Resources and technology As many as 109 drone cameras, 168 river boats, 420 portable CCTv cameras, 563 still cameras, 492 video cameras and 3573 body worn cameras have been arranged for use by police personnel during the upcoming assembly polls, said the ADG. Vigilance in prisons He emphasised that at least 2676 CCTV cameras and 271 static jammers have been installed in prisons across the state to stop criminals from influencing elections from jail and curb their control over jail inmates and their associates. “Total 275 criminals at district level and 869 criminals in jails, who can influence elections while remaining behind bars, have been identified and special vigil are being kept over their activities,” he added. Electoral offence status The ADG said the police have filed charge sheets in 1161 electoral offence cases out of the total 1307 cases registered during 2017 assembly polls, and punishment or fine had been imposed in 99 such cases. He said similarly, the charge sheet has been filed in 382 out of the 473 electoral offence cases registered during 2019 parliamentary elections and punishment or fine was imposed in five such cases. Anti-Covid kit for police force Kumar said anti-Covid kit including sanitizers, masks, face shields and other things required for protection from infection would be provided to all police personnel deployed in poll duty. He said the special budget have been allotted to different district and Commissionerate police for this purpose. It would also be ensured that all personnel on duty were fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-election-2022-95-assembly-constituencies-identified-as-sensitive-101641756143965.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP to abide by EC directions, says door-to-door campaign their forte||Chandigarh : Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state unit president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Sunday said that his party would abide by the Election Commission’s instructions pertaining to campaigning for the upcoming polls in the state. Mann said the AAP was a specialist in the door-to-door campaign and would quickly adapt to online campaigning for the February 14 polls. “This kind of campaigning suits us a lot,” he said at a press conference here, advocating public debates between top state leaders of various parties to enumerate their achievements, promises and roadmap. The EC has announced that no political rallies, roadshows or street corner meets will be allowed till January 15 in any of the five states going to polls, clamping restrictions to check the spread of Covid-19. Political parties have been asked to focus on virtual rallies rather than large in-person gatherings. Mann said the AAP already has a roadmap ready for the development of Punjab. “The loot of government coffers will be stopped, exchequer will be replenished and its money will be used for the welfare of people and the state,” he added, stressing social sectors such as education and health. AAP state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat and spokesperson Jagtar Singh Sanghera were also present. Go door-to-door, says Kejriwal AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, who addressed the party volunteers in Punjab in a virtual meeting, asked them to go on door-to-door campaigning. “In the next one month, we have to reach every doorstep of every household. Every booth should have a team of 10 workers who go to every house,” he said, advising them to be cautious, wear masks and follow all the norms in view of the rising Covid cases. “Digital and social media are going to serve a very significant role in these elections,” the AAP leader said, calling the party volunteers as masters of this game.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-to-abide-by-ec-directions-says-door-to-door-campaign-their-forte-101641756024067.html
10-01-2022||Other||Fire breaks out at Civil Hospital in Faridabad, no casualty reported||A fire broke out in the newborn ward at the BK Civil Hospital in Faridabad on late Saturday night, triggering panic among patients. However, no injuries were reported in the incident, hospital authorities said on Sunday. The fire engulfed the special newborn care unit on the first floor of the hospital, the officials said, adding that there were 14 women inside the unit when the incident took place. The 14 patients were safely evacuated, the officials said, adding that some patients in nearby rooms ran towards the ground floor.The officials said the fire was caused due to a short circuit in the wardroom. “Due to a short circuit, electric wires caught fire around 12.30am on the first floor. Power supply was immediately disconnected and the patients were sent to second floor. There was no electricity for nearly two hours in the entire building,” said Dr Vinay Gupta, chief medical officer of civil hospital. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the fire. “We managed to douse the fire in a few minutes,” said a fire officer. The hospital, which has over 100 beds, is visited by over 2,000 out-patients every day. Dr Savita Yadav, a senior doctor at the civil hospital, said that the situation was under control as they had immediately shifted the patients to other wards. “Electricity was restored on Sunday morning and the staff ensured that there was no loss of medical equipment and human lives,” she said. 
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Capt’s PLC appoints 5 VPs, 17 general secys||Chandigarh : Punjab Lok Congress chief and former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday appointed five vice-presidents (VPs) and 17 general secretaries.The two-time former chief minister, who formed the PLC after quitting the Congress, has appointed Amrik Singh Aliwal, Prem Mittal, Farzana Alam, Harjinder Singh Thekedar and Sanjay Inder Singh Bunny Chahal as vice-presidents, while Rajwinder Kaur Bhagike, Rajinder Singh Raja, Pushpinder Singh Bhandari, Anu Gandotra, Jagjivan Pal Singh Gill, Sandeep Sikri, Jagdish Kumar Jassal and Raghubir Pradhan have been named as general secretaries, according to Kamal Saini, general secretary in-charge (organisation). The others who have been appointed general secretaries are Sanjiv Rocky Bharghav, Jagdish Kumar Jagga, Avtar Singh Goniana , KK Sharma, Harpreet Singh Hero, SMS Sandhu, Amrik Singh Happy, Sardar Ali and Sarita Sharma. Also, Rohit Kumar Sharma has been appointed district president, Mohali, and advocate Sandeep Gorsi has been appointed the chairman of the party’s legal cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capts-plc-appoints-5-vps-17-general-secys-101641755904122.html
10-01-2022||Noida||Battleground UP: Gautam Budh Nagar takes massive preparations for assembly elections||With the model code of conduct coming into effect in Uttar Pradesh after the Election Commission of India announced a seven-phase poll schedule for the upcoming assembly elections in five states on Saturday, the district administration has prepared 552 polling centres and 1,754 booths where polling will take place in the first phase of elections due to be held on February 10. Of the 552 polling centres, 202 are critical centres while 45 have been notified by the district, on which teams will keep a close watch. Officials said that identifying such centres is an ongoing process and the list will be revised further. With a rise in the number of Covid cases , the state has restricted all public rallies and road shows till January 15. Candidates can continue with online and social media campaigning, for which monitoring teams have been set up. While voting period has been increased by an hour by the Election Commission, total voters allotted to every booth has also been reduced from 1,500 to 1,250 to ensure social distancing. “Postal ballots have also been introduced this time in the state for the elderly and disabled disable, who wish to choose this option. We have about 7,500 voters with disabilities (divyang) and 24,000 elderly people in the district who can choose this option. We have formed 116 teams for collecting postal ballots,” said district magistrate Suhas LY. He added special arrangements have also been made at all centres, where over 20 disabled voters are registered. All such centres will have a helper for assistance and e-rickshaws for transportation. Police officials said that area domination exercise has started and deployment of additional force is also being done. “The additional paramilitary forces will be on duty from Monday. We have also identified 248 troublemakers so far in the district and action is being taken against them,” said commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar police Alok Singh. The district magistrate added there are 900 booths which have been identified for webcasting. Additionally, around 100 model booths will also be set up that will be adorned with various messages for voters. “Election is a festival of democracy and the model booths will bring forth this idea. Some will have entirely female staff while some will have disabled-friendly staff. Other model booths will also have different themes,” said Suhas. Gautam Budh nagar has three assembly constituencies—Noida, Dadri and Jewar. Over 1,623,000 voters have been registered in the district. There were about 1,288,000 voters registered during the 2017 assembly polls. There has been an increase of 330,000 voters, who will cast their vote in the upcoming elections.  Officials said that it is likely for people to get enrolled and cast their votes if they fill their applications about a week before the last date of nomination (January 21). .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/battleground-up-gautam-budh-nagar-takes-massive-preparations-for-assembly-elections-101641755785263.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab: ECI notice to AAP for poll code violation||Patiala: After the model code of conduct came into force, district electoral officer Sandeep Hans issued a notice to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for distributed leaflets through newspapers.The AAP allegedly distrusted pamphlets, which are also taking rounds on social media, saying “take money from other parties, but vote only to AAP”.As the matter came into the notice of the district administration, the DC issued a notice to the AAP to clarify its position by Monday evening.“We have issued a notice to AAP district chief Megh Raj. Stern action would be taken against the person who distributed the leaflets, said an official spokesperson.Meanwhile, slamming the corrupt practices by AAP, Shiromani Akali Dal spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema urged the ECI to take notice of such practices. He said that the AAP is vitiating the atmosphere of Punjab by asking voters to take money, which is an illegal activity.Meanwhile, the administration has formed teams to remove all political advertisement from the district. All hoardings and banners of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other political leaders were removed. The DC asked returning officers to keep tab on ECI code violations. He has also formed teams to check violations in the social and other media space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-eci-notice-to-aap-for-poll-code-violation-101641755783943.html
10-01-2022||Other||Gang of 12 sold over 100 infants in seven years: Gurugram cops||A day after three persons were arrested for allegedly stealing, buying and selling newborns, the Gurugram police on Sunday arrested two more members of the infant trafficking gang from Delhi. Police said that the gang of at least 12 members, which mainly operated from Delhi and Rajasthan, sold around 100 infants over the past seven years. The suspects, who were arrested on Sunday, were identified as Veena and Pooja, police said, adding that the gang sold babies aged anywhere between 10 days and two months. According to police, the gang used to target pregnant women from the economically weaker section and convince them to sell their children. After buying newborns for an amount ranging between ₹50,000 and ₹1 lakh, the gang members would sell them to issueless couples in different states for a hefty price up to ₹7 lakh, police said. The Gurugram police have, so far, rescued two infants and arrested five members of the gang. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the gang has admitted that they have sold over 100 children in the past seven years in Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. “We are trying to trace the parents of the stolen infants and also checking cases of missing or stolen infants in these years. The gang members have revealed that a few biological parents who were unable to raise their children due to financial crisis sold babies to them,” he said. The gang members would identify those couples who were in need of children and those who were ready to sell them, Sangwan said, adding that in some cases they also stole newborn babies from hospitals and later sold them. “The gang has also sold infants with the consent of the parents, but it is illegal. We will book the biological parents as well as the parents who bought the kids. Raids are being conducted in Delhi and Rajasthan’s Alwar to arrest other members of the gang,” Sangwan said. During questioning, the gang members have revealed that in some cases, they promised issueless couples to get babies at a cheaper cost through surrogacy and collect sperm and later contact them with fake certificate after a year with a baby, police said, adding that they also used to get fake medical records of a surrogate mother. Sangwan said they are investigating if any medical staff or a doctor was also involved in the case. As the surrogacy procedure costs somewhere between ₹15-20 lakh, many childless couples were lured by the gang’s offer, he said. The incident had come to the fore on Friday night after a taxi driver drove three persons, including two women, travelling in his vehicle with two stolen female infants to DLF Phase 3 police station, and helped police bust the interstate child trafficking gang. The stolen infants were handed over to the Child Welfare Committee and efforts are on to trace their parents, police said. 
10-01-2022||Other||At 14.4°C, Gurugram records season’s coldest day||The city on Sunday witnessed its coldest day of the season as the maximum temperature dropped to 14.4 degrees Celsius (°C) which was six degrees below normal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, adding that the city recorded 16.8mm of rainfall over the past 24 hours.The rain has also helped improve the air quality of Gurugram significantly. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin, the city’s air quality on Sunday was in the ‘satisfactory’ category after over two months, with an air quality index (AQI) of 65. The city had last recorded air quality in ‘satisfactory’ zone on October 25 with an AQI reading of 90. The AQI reading of Gurugram on Saturday was 106 (‘moderate’), a climbdown from Friday’s reading of 149.Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, said, “Due to rain, the day temperature dropped significantly in Gurugram with the district recording the coldest day of this season so far. The air quality has also improved to satisfactory level in Gurugram. Over the next two days, the air quality is likely to be in moderate category after which it may deteriorate to the poor category.”According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the good rainfall activity, relatively stronger winds and reduced vehicular emissions led to the significant improvement in air quality.On Sunday, Gurugram recorded a minimum temperature of 12°C, which was five degrees above normal. The city on Saturday recorded the maximum temperature at 16.8°C and minimum temperature at 13.5°C. According to the weekly forecast of IMD, over the next five days the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 19°C and 8°C, respectively, with mainly clear sky. Meanwhile, Gurugram witnessed light rain at isolated places on Sunday. The city had received 59.4mm of rainfall between 5.30pm on Friday and 5pm on Saturday.The IMD on Sunday also issued a yellow alert predicting dense fog in Gurugram and Faridabad districts till Wednesday. According to a weather bulletin issued by MeT Chandigarh, dense fog in isolated pockets in the night and morning hours is very likely over Punjab and Haryana during the next four days. “Over the next few days, dense fog is expected over the region, due to which visibility can drop to one to two kilometres. The minimum temperature is also very likely to fall by three to five degrees over the region during the next three days, and no significant change thereafter,” Singh said. Dense fog was witnessed in different parts of Gurugram on Sunday too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-14-4-c-gurugram-records-season-s-coldest-day-101641755245681.html
10-01-2022||Other||‘Deeply disturbed’ by attack on Sikh cab driver: US state dept||New York: The US state department is “deeply disturbed” by reports of an attack on an Indian-origin Sikh cab driver at the JFK International Airport and condemned any form of hate-based violence, saying perpetrators of hate crimes should be held accountable for their actions, no matter where such crimes occur.The Sikh taxi driver was assaulted by an unidentified man, who knocked off his turban and also used expletives against him outside the JFK International Airport here, according to a video on social media.The undated 26-second video was uploaded by a Twitter user, Navjot Pal Kaur, on the micro-blogging site on January 4, showing a man assaulting the Sikh taxi driver outside the airport. She said the video was shot by a bystander at the airport.State Department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs (SCA), in a tweet on Saturday, said: “We are deeply disturbed by reports of an apparent attack on a Sikh cab driver at J.F.K. airport, captured on video last week. Our diversity makes the U.S. stronger, & we condemn any form of hate-based violence.“We all have a responsibility to hold perpetrators of hate crimes accountable for their actions, no matter where such crimes occur”.The state department’s reaction came after the Indian Consulate General in New York termed the assault on the Sikh taxi driver as “deeply disturbing” and said it has taken up the matter with US authorities and urged them to investigate the violent incident.“The assault against a Sikh taxi driver in New York is deeply disturbing. We have taken up the matter with US authorities and urged them to investigate this violent incident,” Consulate General of India in New York tweeted on Saturday.In the video posted by Twitter user Kaur, the person can be heard allegedly using expletives against the Sikh individual. He repeatedly hits and punches the Sikh man, knocking his turban off.Kaur tweeted, “This video was taken by a bystander at John F. Kennedy international Airport. I do not own the rights to this video. But I just wanted to highlight the fact that hatred continues to remain in our society and unfortunately I’ve seen Sikh cab drivers get assaulted again and again.” Simran Jeet Singh, author and Director for the Aspen Institute’s Inclusive America Project, tweeted “Another Sikh cab driver assaulted. This one at JFK Airport in NYC. So upsetting to see. But it’s crucial that we don’t look away… What I am sure of is how painful it is to watch our fathers and elders get assaulted while they’re just trying to live an honest life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deeply-disturbed-by-attack-on-sikh-cab-driver-us-state-dept-101641755185373.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Woman ‘assaulted’ for objecting to cruelty on dog||A 30-year-old woman was allegedly assaulted by two youths after she confronted them for thrashing a stray dog sitting on their doorstep in Kareli area of Prayagraj, police said. Alisha Jamal, who lives with her aged father in Karamat Ki Chowki area, in her complaint to Kareli police alleged that two youths in her neighbourhood were in habit of thrashing dogs and other animals.She further alleged that on Saturday too, they were again attacking a dog when she raised an objection. The youths then allegedly assaulted Alisha and even tried to tear her clothes. Alisha also alleged that she was assaulted on earlier occasions too by the accused for protecting and feeding dogs.A complaint had been received and further probe into the incident was under way, said station house officer (SHO), Kareli, Anurag Sharma. He added that further action will be taken after the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-woman-assaulted-for-objecting-to-cruelty-on-dog-101641755184087.html
10-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Active cases soar over 8K, 23 towers among Covid hot spots||With 2,338 fresh Covid-19 cases, the active caseload in Gurugram on Sunday crossed the 8,000-mark for the first time in the past over seven months, according to the bulletin from the district health department. More than 50% of these cases were reported from the residential societies falling under the primary health centres of Chanderlok, Tigra and Wazirabad, health officials said, adding that the test positivity rate in the district also jumped from 4% on January 1 to 20% on Sunday. Before Sunday, the active case tally was over 8,000 on May 21 last year when Gurugram had 10,287 such cases. On Sunday, 507 people also recovered in the district, shows the data.Of the 8,473 active cases, 55 patients are hospitalised and 8,418 are under home isolation, the officials said. The district on Sunday also reported six cases of Omicron variant, they said.According to records of the health department, a total of 118 Covid-19 patients, including those from other states, are hospitalised in Gurugram, of which 29 are on intensive care unit beds and three on ventilator beds.  The officials said that at least 23 towers in different housing societies have been declared containment zones in the district. “Most of the cases being reported in the district are in cluster forms, along with individual cases. These cases are mainly from the residential societies falling under the primary health centres of Chanderlok, Tigra, Wazirabad. But hospitalisation is still quite low in the district and most of the hospitalised patients are those who came for treatments for other diseases, but tested positive for Covid-19 before the procedure,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. Booster dose at 77 centres from Monday Meanwhile, the health officials said that on Monday, booster dose to health care workers, front line workers and senior citizens with comorbidities will be given at 77 vaccination centres in the district. Booster dose of Covishield will be available at 67 centres and Covaxin at 10 centres, they said. The officials said that the booster dose will be available to those who have a gap of nine months or 39 weeks since they took their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. In Gurugram, 40,000 people have been identified who are eligible for the booster dose. “There will be a separate session at each public health centre for the booster dose. A total of 26,700 slots are available for the booster dose, including both online and walk-in,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. On Sunday, 3,371 children in the 15-18 age bracket were vaccinated in the district, of whom 3,030 received their first dose at government centres and 341 at private vaccination centres. A total of 14,138 doses were administered on Sunday, including 7,906 first doses and 6,232 second doses, shows the data. With this, over 4.49 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-active-cases-soar-over-8k-23-towers-among-covid-hot-spots-101641754883991.html
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Mayawati tells partymen to celebrate her birthday by helping Covid-hit people||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has called upon her party workers to celebrate her 66th birthday on Saturday (January 15) at home in view of the implementation of the model code of conduct (MCC) after the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the schedule for assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, on Saturday and surge in the Covid-19 cases across the state. The BSP celebrates Mayawati’s birthday as “Jankalyankari Diwas”. Usually, the birthday bash of the party chief used to be a big occasion for party workers. “The usual pomp and show of the birthday celebrations will be missing this time as the party has decided to keep it a low-key affair due to the enforcement of the MCC and sudden rise in Covid cases,” said a BSP leader familiar with the development.In a meeting of party leaders and office bearers on Sunday, Mayawati told them to follow the Covid protocol and poll code guidelines during the electioneering for the assembly polls. The party leaders, office bearers, workers and supporters will celebrate her birthday with their family members in their homes, she said. “The party workers should assist the poor and impoverished people who have to suffer due to the Covid pandemic,” Mayawati said.The BSP chief is likely to release the 17th edition of her book “A Travelogue of My Struggle Ridden Life and BSP Movement” at the party’s state unit office on the occasion. “The travelogue will generate self-respect among the party supporters and guide them to take the movement launched by the BSP forward,” she said. In the meeting, Mayawati also reviewed the preparations on the 58 assembly constituencies located in eleven districts of west UP in which polling will be held in the first phase on February 10. The party has finalised the candidates on the majority of seats and the candidates have been made in-charge of the respective assembly segments. The name of the candidates will be released with the notification of the first phase polling by the ECI on January 14.In the 2017 assembly polls, out of these 58 west UP assembly seats the BJP had bagged 53 seats, BSP two while the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal had won one each. The BSP was the runner-up on 30 assembly seats while the SP was on second position on 15 seats. The Congress was runner-up on five seats and the RLD on three seats.Mayawati told party leaders that west UP was a forte of the BSP and that the party will regain its lost ground in the upcoming assembly election by bagging maximum seats. “The organisation has been overhauled up to booth level. The party candidates will use digital medium, social media as well as organise door-to-door campaigning to reach out to the voters and inform them about the policies of the BSP,” she said.
10-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Most parties yet to start declaring candidates||The Samajwadi Party (SP), usually the first to name its candidates in previous polls, has changed its strategy and is keeping its cards close to its chest this time just as most of the state’s other main political parties, barring the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), are also yet to declare their nominees for the seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly polls that will begin on February 10.The two national parties, the BJP and the Congress, have always declared nominees after the poll notification and this time looks to be no different.On the other hand, the BSP has already named over 100 candidates and party chief Mayawati on Sunday held a meeting in Lucknow to finalise the rest of the tickets.As for the Aam Aadmi Party, its district president Mahendra Singh said: “Our party has declared 210 tickets so far and more will be named in the days to come.”Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said, “We always declare tickets after the notification. The party is likely to begin declaring candidates in a day or two.”As for the BJP, senior party leader and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said, “The Central Parliamentary Board of the party declares candidates, and the process will begin soon.”The SP had declared its first list of candidates for 2017 state elections as early as March 2016 and for 2012 in April 2011.To be sure, by the time the election commission notifies the polls, the party continues releasing lists and amending them. For the 2017 polls, the then SP state president Shivpal Yadav had declared the party’s first list in March 2016 and more subsequently. But after the Yadav family feud turned intense and Akhilesh Yadav became the national president of the party while sacking Shivpal, the party scrapped all the previous lists. It then declared the actual list post-notification after allying with the Congress. But this time, the SP chief has not declared any candidates so far.The SP always deployed the early declaration strategy to give the candidates maximum possible time to project themselves in their respective constituencies and do most of their warm-up campaign before the election code of conduct came into force.So, why is it different this time?Declaring the candidates early had been the strategy of the party founder and the then national president of the party, Mulayam Singh Yadav. But, this time it is Akhilesh Yadav who is taking the party into the polls, just as in 2017 when he eventually became the party chief. Till December 2016, the situation was different. Mulayam was the party’s national president and Akhilesh’s uncle Shivpal Yadav was the state unit chief. Shivpal had declared the first list of party candidates in early 2016. Amid the Yadav family feud later that year, the party saw parallel lists of candidates, one by Shivpal and the other by Akhilesh. In January 2017, when Akhilesh became the SP national president and Naresh Uttam Patel the state president, the party scrapped all of Shivpal’s lists and even those of Akhilesh went.The party later declared candidates for 311 seats and its alliance partner Congress declared candidates on 114 seats.Akhilesh has junked the headstart strategy, opting instead for a “sure-footed approach”, said a senior SP leader.In a meeting last month with the party’s district and assembly constituency presidents, Akhilesh went to the extent of asking them to keep their ears close to the ground to check whom the BJP and the rival parties are going to field and also prepare a list of party’s probable winnable candidates. This directive came even though SP had closed its process of inviting applications from the aspiring candidates for each of the seats in September 2021.The SP leader also said that another factor that led to delaying the candidates’ declaration was the alliances that the party was making.“Soon the party and its alliance partners will begin declaring candidates,” said SP national secretary and spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.The SP has allied with Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and Mahan Dal for the western UP region, with the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and Janwadi Party (Socialist) for eastern UP areas and Akhilesh’s uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) for the Yadav belt. 
10-01-2022||Other||Covid safety measures: Varanasi admn prohibits kids, elderly from visiting public places||VARANASI: The district administration has prohibited children upto class 10 and people aged above 60, besides those having co-morbidities from visiting public places, except in emergency situation, in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Also, the night curfew will be in force from 10pm to 6am. Banned groups also include those suffering from TB, heart-related diseases, or any other serious ailments, or who have been infected with corona in the past, as per the DM’s order. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, in an order issued on Sunday, said that all schools in the district would remain closed till January 16, but are free run online classes. According to the DM’s order, administrators/managers of all religious places have been asked to issue convenient timetables to control the number of devotees during peak hours so that more devotees do not turn up on the religious premises at the same time. Public’s visit to parks, ghats, stadium and sports ground has also been prohibited after 4pm. “After 4pm, the tourists may go for boating, but they will not sit at the ghats,” the DM said. Gathering at the river banks has also been prohibited, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-safety-measures-varanasi-admn-prohibits-kids-elderly-from-visiting-public-places-101641754284108.html
10-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Hospitals asked to share data on oxygen demand||As part of preparing the district oxygen plan, the oxygen management committee on Saturday asked all Covid-19 hospitals to provide details such as the number of beds, their oxygen demands, and the distributors they are getting the life-saving gas from. Officials said that this will help them prepare an estimate for the amount of oxygen the district needs, and accordingly, augment supply to ensure there is no shortage of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) amid the third wave of the pandemic.According to health department data, there are 105 Covid-19 hospitals and health care centres in the district.On January 5, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg formed a five-member oxygen management committee consisting of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and district administration officials and tasked them with the responsibility of formulating a district oxygen plan containing key information such as the average oxygen requirement of the district, individual requirement of the hospitals, and current availability.“On Saturday, we circulated an online document to all Covid-19 hospitals in the district seeking information on the number of Covid-19 beds, their oxygen demands, and the distributor they are getting oxygen from. We want to have an updated data so that there is a rough estimate ready, based on which we can make preparations and ensure the district is prepared to deal with any kind of situation,” said Vishram Kumar Meena, additional deputy commissioner, who is also one of the five members of the committee.Meena said that the oxygen plan has not been updated since June last year.As per the officials, during the second Covid-19 wave in April-May last year, the city’s daily oxygen requirement was as high as 60 metric tonnes, and currently, the oxygen demand is less than six metric tonnes per day.According to the data from the district administration, 11 oxygen plants were set up in government health centres and hospitals following the second Covid-19 wave and cumulatively they can produce around 4,150 litres of oxygen per minute. “The committee has so far identified seven oxygen filling stations in Gurugram alone, besides the ones in Faridabad, Bhiwadi, and Panipat that are also supplying oxygen to hospitals in Gurugram. We are in the process of identifying more such filling stations. The existing oxygen supply is higher than the city’s peak demand during the second Covid-19 wave,” said Siddharth Khandelwal, assistant town planner, MCG, and another member of the committee.On Saturday, the committee members inspected four oxygen filling stations in Manesar to take stock of the existing oxygen supply and assess ways through which it can be further augmented. They also held a meeting with the five authorised oxygen cylinder distributors in the city.“We conveyed to the distributors that we will not disrupt their supply system in any manner and would only be helping them with streamlining it and ensuring that the cylinders are supplied in an organised manner. For this, data sharing is being carried out,” said Meena.
10-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai records 19k cases, but actual numbers may be higher||Mumbai: After recording a massive and consistent spike since the last week of December, Mumbai’s daily caseload has hovered between 19,000 and 20,000 cases over the past four days. The number of tests conducted in the city too, has remained consistently between 67,000 and 72,000. While this may present a picture of a stabilising third wave driven by the Omicron variant, experts warn that the numbers may be far higher that what is being officially reported. The reasons? On the one hand, an increased reliance on home test kits that allows no official supervision on positive cases, and on the other hand, asymptomatic persons who are not undergoing any tests at all. Though the daily caseload has risen by nearly 44% since December 31, the city on Sunday recorded 19,474 cases which is a 4% decline over the previous day’s 20,318 cases. Even the number of tests conducted — 68,249 — was down by 2,770 from Saturday, official figures showed. As a result, the daily test positivity rate (TPR) declined, too. In fact, TPR (a function of the number of positive cases per tests conducted) has steadily declined since last week, from 29.90% on Thursday to 28.90% on Friday, 28.60% on Saturday and 28.53% on Sunday. Experts said that TPR is no longer the most reliable indicator to judge the spread of the pandemic as a large number of people with less severe symptoms are choosing not to get tested and many are opting for home self-testing kits. Hospitalisation rates, however, must be tracked as they indicate the extent of the disease burden of the third wave, experts said. In the last one week alone, the Covid-bed occupancy has gone up to 21% from around 15% a week back.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said that Mumbai’s wave seems to have flattened with daily cases between 19,000 to 20,000. “But the true picture is difficult [to judge] due to the wide use of unreported rapid tests,” he said. “We need to focus on the other criteria like doubling rate, hospitalisations, patients needing oxygen, ventilator and intensive care. The variant is circulation is highly transmissible, therefore test positivity is likely to be higher,” said Joshi.As many as seven self-test kits have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research including Coviself by Mylab, CoviFind by Meril Diagnostics, PanBio by Abbott among others. These kits are affordable for the middle class, and range anywhere between ₹250 to ₹350.“We have witnessed a jump of almost 700% sales of our self-test kit in Mumbai in the last one week. The self-test kit is turning out to be highly beneficial given the massive increase in cases because people can get tested quickly and immediately isolate themselves,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director and co-founder of Mylab Discovery Solutions, a Pune-based firm that manufactures Coviself. According to reports, nearly 500,000 such kits have been sold in Mumbai in the past week. Chemists in Mumbai have been selling anywhere between 300 to 400 self-testing rapid antigen kits daily. “Every chemist has been reporting a high demand, but it seems to have slowed down since the past two days, as the panic is settling down,” said Hakim Kapasi, a member of the Andheri Chemist Association, an umbrella body of more than 400 chemists in the Mumbai suburb. Most test kits have a mechanism by which the suspected patient can intimate their positive status on a mobile application, which is then sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal, and thereafter to the local bodies — but this is optional. The onus is on the user to responsibly update their positive result on the app. As a result, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation cannot accurately capture the number of positive cases detected on home kits.Even so, over the past four days, self-test kits have reported around 3,000 positive results on average every day in Mumbai based on what has been uploaded to the ICMR portal. Between August 1, 2021 and January 7, only 89,326 self-test positive reports in Mumbai were intimated on the portal. “We don’t have any control on reporting of the results of self-testing,” said Mumbai’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. “We have been adding the positive reports that we come to know to our everyday tally,” she said. What’s more, the changing presentation of the disease means that many city physicians have started prescribing tests only in cases where patients have symptoms that persist beyond three days and are likely candidates for hospitalisation or for the monoclonal antibody cocktail drug. Dr Bakul Parekh, a paediatrician from Ghatkopar saw 200-odd patients in the past 10 days, but prescribed RT-PCR tests only for four of them. This hasn’t stopped him from treating his other patients as though they were Covid-positive, he said.“In a surging pandemic, any case of flu-like symptoms should be considered as Covid-19 unless proven otherwise,” said Parekh. “There is no point in testing a patient if the line of treatment does not change with a positive result. Since my patients are children, I start them on symptomatic treatment immediately, and ask them to be isolated from the elders and those with co-morbid conditions in the family. All the children have recovered within three to four days,” he said. “There is no point in unnecessarily burdening the patients as well as the laboratories,” he said. Physician Dr Jalil Parkar from Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital too has been prescribing tests only in cases where the symptoms don’t subside and the patient is a likely candidates for hospital admission. “At a time, there are four to five people in a family who have symptoms. This is because the current wave is driven by the Omicron variant which is highly transmissible. But how many people will you put through the tests when most of them have symptoms like fever, cough and cold, which subsides within five days?” he asked. According to Parkar, some patients prefer testing with or without a doctor’s prescription. “I put my patients on paracetamol and other symptomatic treatment, watch them for three days and if symptoms don’t subside, I write the test just in case they need hospitalisation. But most recover by then,” he said. Eom/js||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-19k-cases-but-actual-numbers-may-be-higher-101641753203807.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC office goes without water supply for nearly a week||The deputy commissioner's office’s water supply has been disrupted for over a week, after leakage in one of the underground pipes contaminated the water. The water shortage has affected around 200 employees working in different departments at the DC office. The crisis has been compounded due to the elections, due to which most of the staff is attending work despite the weekend. While there was no drinking water on the premises, the staffers could not even use the toilet. “We have to visit either the district court complex or the building of the additional deputy commissioner (development) to use the facilities. It is not the first time that a snag has taken place. We need to find a permanent solution to the problem,” the staffer said. The contractor supervising the work, requesting anonymity, said that the pipe had cracked due to the water pressure, which was a recurring issue. “We have repositioned the pipe, and hopefully the DC office will have water by Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dc-office-goes-without-water-supply-for-nearly-a-week-101641745102660.html
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poll date out, political parties in Mohali up the ante to woo voters||With Punjab set to go to polls on February 14, leaders of all political parties in Mohali are geared up. Mohali will witness a multi-cornered contest as in the current political scenario, the BJP and the Captain Amarinder Singh faction are also in the picture, apart from the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).AAP has declared former mayor and real estate baron Kulwant Singh as its candidate, while other parties have yet to declare their candidates. Both the Congress and the AAP have put up hoardings and banners all over the city. In the hoardings, the Congress is highlighting its achievements of the past five years, while the AAP is urging for “One chance to Kejriwal this time”.Sitting Congress MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, who has won the seat three times in a row since 2007, is once again eyeing the ticket from Mohali. On Friday, Sidhu inaugurated his election office in Sector 79 and took a dig at his opponents.Challenging his opponents, he asked them to counter him anywhere on the development work carried out in Mohali during his tenure. The people of Mohali should compare the 10 years of mayorship of Kulwant Singh, versus 10 months of work under the Congress-ruled MC, which has changed the face of Mohali and has catapulted it to 81st rank from 164th under the Swachh Bharat Survey, he said.On the other hand, Kulwant is regularly holding public meetings with people. On Friday, during his public meeting, he said with the formation of the AAP government in Punjab, corruption will be curbed and the people of Punjab will be given corruption-free, public-oriented administration. Mohali would see an all-around develop and “atrocities being committed by the present leaders” would also be taken into account, he said.From the BJP, former president of the Mohali Industries Association, Sanjeev Vashist, is eyeing the ticket from Mohali and has put up banners and posters all over the city and is also addressing public meetings. 
