11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Big jolt to YAD as Gurdeep Singh Gosha jumps ship, joins BJP||In a major setback to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), one of its most prominent faces and the president of its youth wing in Ludhiana Gurdeep Singh Gosha joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday.Gosha submitted his resignation letter to SAD leaders in the morning, relinquishing himself from all posts, including that of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) Ludhiana unit chief, before he joined the saffron fold. As per sources, Gosha was keen on fighting the Vidhan Sabha elections and was feeling marginalised after being ignored during ticket distribution. Said to be a close confidant of SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who was recently booked in a drug case, Gosha vehemently protested against the Congress-led state government over the case.Gosha was earlier eyeing a ticket from Ludhiana central constituency but the panthic party named veteran leader Pritpal Singh Pali for the seat. Thereafter, Gosha diverted his focus towards Atam Nagar and Ludhiana South constituency. In May last year, Gosha took on Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Singh Bains over a road project. However, here too he was ignored and veteran party leader and senior advocate Harish Rai Dhanda, who is fighting the case of a woman who levelled rape allegations against Bains, was offered the ticket.Gosha then began working to clinch a ticket in Ludhiana South or North constituency, but SAD opted for old horse Hira Singh Gabria and BJP defector and former senior mayor RD Sharma from South and North constituencies respectively.Not new to controversiesGosha, along with his party colleague Meetpal Singh Dugri, had made national headlines after they allegedly defaced the statue of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi at a public park in Salem Tabri area on December 25, 2018.He also came out in support of farmer unions and opposed the BJP-led central government’s three controversial farm laws. Gosha was booked by the previous Akali regime for making provocative speeches during the statewide bandh in 2012 against the proposed execution of Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted for assassinating former chief minister Beant Singh. Gosha had started his career as a worker of SAD (Delhi youth wing) and climbed up the ladder to become the district president of YAD.A headache for the BadalsGosha had become a headache for the then Akali regime led by Parkash Singh Badal and caught instant fame for his sharp criticism of SAD patriarch and Congress. His name also figured in some spats that took place at Chaura Bazar.Later, he parted ways with SAD (Delhi) and joined SAD (Badal) and enjoyed the backing of Bikram Singh Majithia.However, soon he landed in trouble when the national general secretary of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) and Antarashtri Naat Academy chariman Santokh Singh Sukhana committed suicide in a hotel room near Kotwali in 2015.Sukhana, in his suicide note, had blamed Gosha for allegedly usurping the money he (Sukhana) handed over to Gosha. However, Gosha was exonerated in the inquiry.Recently, he had launched a Save Business Front against the “highhandedness of government officials”. He is also a member of the gurdwara trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/big-jolt-to-yad-as-gurdeep-singh-gosha-jumps-ship-joins-bjp-101641924996305.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Now, SP leader orders ‘Aligarh lock’ for BJP UP unit chief||A few days after he booked a Lucknow-Gorakhpur air ticket for CM Yogi Adityanath for March 11, a day after the announcement of UP assembly poll results, Samajwadi Party (SP) spokesman IP Singh on Tuesday placed an order for an Aligarh brass lock for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief Swatantra Dev Singh on BJP UP state headquarters address.The SP later tweeted the order’s screenshot. Singh placed the order following the resignation of Swami Prasad Maurya from the Yogi ministry as some BJP MLAs also left the party during the day. Tagging Swatantra Dev Singh on Twitter, IP Singh wrote: “Omprakash Rajbhar ji, Jayant Choudhary ji, Rajmata Krishna Patel ji, Sanjay Chauhan ji and now Swamiprasad Maurya ji are with Samajwadi Party. I have sent a lock to BJP Headquarters @swatantrabjp ji as a gift, put it after March 10 (result day) and go home. It’s not a wave, it’s the SP storm.”When some followers while replying to the tweet wrote that the lock should be from Aligarh, IP Singh naming the brand of the lock said the lock was indeed from Aligarh. IP Singh was earlier in the BJP. He was expelled from the party in April 2019 for openly saying that he would support SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in 2019 Lok Sabha polls on Azamgarh seat. He subsequently joined the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-sp-leader-orders-aligarh-lock-for-bjp-up-unit-chief-101641924216220.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Maurya’s resignation: Keshav, Nandi tweet reactions; Sidharth Nath questions move||After Swami Prasad Maurya quit the UP government and posted his resignation letter on Twitter, both deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and state cabinet minister Nand Gopal Gupta “Nandi” tweeted their reactions on the development. Deputy CM Maurya, a former MP from Phulpur and a former MLA from Sirathu seat of neighbouring Kaushambi district, in his tweet in Hindi made a direct appeal: “I don’t know why Swami Prasad Maurya quit but I appeal to him, don’t quit but let us talk. Decisions taken in haste can backfire”.However, UP civil aviation minister Nand Gopal Nandi, an MLA from Allahabad South seat of Prayagraj, tweeted: “@SwamiPMaurya ji ka sapa join karna “vinaskhkale vipreet buddhi” jaisa hain. @yadavakhilesh ki doobti nayya ki sawari Swami Prasadji ke liye rajnaitik aatmahatya jaisa aatamghati nirnay sabit hoga! Bhajapa rashtra ko sarvopari manne wali vichardhara ka naam hain!”. (@SwamiPMaurya joining SP is like “when one’s doom approaches, then one’s mind, one’s intelligence works perversely”. Trying to ride sinking boat of @yadavakhilesh would prove to be a self-harming step like political suicide. BJP is the name of an ideology that holds the nation first).Meanwhile, UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh, who was in Sangam city on Tuesday, said that BJP had worked to better the lives of Dalits, the poor and farmers and Swami Prasad Maurya was a part of these noteworthy works implemented through effective implementation of various welfare schemes and initiatives.“He is aware that unlike other political parties, BJP did not limit itself to making promises and giving slogans but worked to fulfil the promises made to marginalised people of the state. Now that he is leaving BJP, it makes one wonder if in his opinion the work to better the lives of Dalits, backwards, poor and the farmers is now over,” Singh said. A powerful OBC leader, Swami Prasad Maurya had joined the BJP in 2016 after quitting the Bahujan Samaj Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mauryas-resignation-keshav-nandi-tweet-reactions-sidharth-nath-questions-move-101641923556247.html
11-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai positivity rate drops 11 percentage points||MUMBAI Mumbai’s test positivity rate dropped from a high of 29.9% on January 6 to 18.76% on January 11, a drop of 11.14 percentage points in less than a week. Test positivity rate or TPR is the number of confirmed positive cases per 100 tests conducted. On January 7, the day the city recorded its highest single-day spike of 20,971 cases, the TPR was 28.95% on account of 72,442 tests conducted. On January 8, the corresponding numbers were 20,318 cases and 71,019 tests, with a TPR of 28.61%. On Tuesday, the city recorded 11,647 cases after 62,097 tests were conducted in 24 hours, according to data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Daily cases are down from 20,700 [approximately] to 11,647 in the last four days. Mumbai’s positivity rate is down from nearly 30% to less than 20%. Eighty percent of hospital beds are vacant. On Tuesday, 851 hospital beds were newly occupied in one day, but 966 beds also got vacated.” The BMC chief urged Mumbai residents to exercise extreme caution, wear masks in public places, follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, but to not panic. Out of the 851 admissions on Tuesday, 76 Covid-19 patients needed oxygen beds. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 14,325,144 Covid-19 tests. As of Tuesday, 7,912 out of the city’s total 10,707 oxygen beds are vacant; 1852 out of its 2725 ICU beds are vacant; and 1015 out of its 1541 ventilator beds are vacant. Overall, 27,846 out of its 36,573 beds are vacant. Chahal said, “Since the beginning of the third wave on December 21, 46 deaths have been reported in 22 days.” The case fatality rate (number of deaths per 100 confirmed cases) in the city is 1.7%. Mumbai reported two deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. BMC data also indicated that of the city’s 100,523 active Covid-19 cases until Tuesday, 83% are asymptomatic. Even though the city’s Covid-19 graph seems to be gradually tapering, cases reported in just the first 11 days of January 2022 comprise 16.35% of Mumbai’s overall Covid-19 caseload. Between January 1 and January 11, Mumbai reported 153,358 Covid-19 cases out of a total caseload of 937,817 since March 2020. The state capital makes up for 13.42% of Maharashtra’s total Covid-19 cases (6,987,938), whereas at the end of December 2021, Mumbai’s share was 11.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-positivity-rate-drops-11-percentage-points-101641923076110.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Second bail pleas of seven accused moved in dist judge court||The second bail applications of seven accused named in First Information Report (FIR) number 219/2021 related to the killing of four farmers and a journalist in the October 3 Tikunia violence case in Lakhimpur Kheri district were moved in the court of the district and sessions judge here on Tuesday.The Tikunia violence last year had claimed eight lives in which two FIRs (219 and 220) had been lodged. The FIR number 220 is related to the killings of two BJP workers and a driver. The investigation under FIR number 220 is in progress.Giving this information, district government counsel (DGC) Arvind Tripathi said the seven accused included Sumit Jaiswal, Lavkush Rana, Shishu Pal, Ullas Kumar alias Mohit Trivedi, Rinku Rana, Dharmendra Banjara and Ashish Pandey. Tripathi further said the district court fixed January 20 as the date of hearing on their bail applications.Sumit Jaiswal and six others moved their second bail applications after the special investigation team (SIT) officials added sections 427 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and some sections of the Motors Vehicle Act and the Arms Act to FIR number 219 which invoked sections 147, 148, 149, 307, 326, 302, 120 B of the IPC and sections of the Arms Act. Their second bail applications in chief judicial magistrate’s (CJM) court were rejected on January 7.Sumit Jaiswal, Lavkush Rana, Shishu Pal, Ullas Kumar alias Mohit Trivedi, Rinku Rana, Dharmendra Banjara and Ashish Pandey are among the 4 accused of Tikunia violence (FIR number 219/2021). Other seven accused are union MoS home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, Latif Kale, Shekhar Bharti, Satyam Tripathi, Nandan Singh Bisht and Virendra Kumar Shukla.Barring Virendra Kumar Shukla, who was granted bail on Monday by CJM court on the grounds of charges against him under section 201 of IPC were bailable, all other 13 accused are in jail. On October 3, 2021, violence had erupted after four farmers and a journalist were allegedly mowed down by a car of Ashish Mishra and others during a farmers’ protest in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri. In the ensuing violence, three more people, including two BJP workers and Mishra’s driver, were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-second-bail-pleas-of-seven-accused-moved-in-dist-judge-court-101641922956748.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 4,593 new Covid cases, 9 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Tuesday witnesses another surge in Covid cases with the state registering 4,593 fresh infections and nine deaths. Active cases in Punjab also shot up to 23,235 with the positivity rate coming down to 18.64% on Tuesday as compare to 19.31% on Monday, according to a medical bulletin. Among the fresh cases, Patiala registered 909, highest in the state, with a positivity rate of 38.35%. Mohali logged 703 cases with 29.84% positivity rate whereas Ludhiana registered 678 cases at 24.19% positivity rate. Amritsar registered 455 cases followed by Jalandhar (330), Bathinda (233), Fatehgarh Sahib (161), the bulletin said. With fresh cases, the state’s infection tally reached 6,29,899, it said. With 687 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,89,972, the bulletin said.Till now total, 16,692 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. As many 23,235 persons were vaccinated on Tuesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-4-593-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-101641922776198.html
11-01-2022||Gurugram||Haryana records 5,746 fresh Covid-19 cases, three deaths||The surge in Covid-19 cases continued in Haryana with the state reporting 5,746 fresh infections and three deaths on Tuesday.With a fatality each reported from Ambala, Sirsa and Yamunanagar districts, the cumulative death toll in the state rose to 10,080, according to the health department's daily bulletin.The total Covid-19 case count in the state climbed to 8,05,633.Worst-hit Gurgaon district on Tuesday reported 2,385 cases, followed by Faridabad (1,015), Karnal (349), Sonipat (184), Panchkula (441) and Ambala (385).The total active cases in the state is 26,813, while the overall recoveries were 7,68,717, as per the bulletin.The recovery rate was 95.42 percent, it said.Haryana has witnessed a surge in Covid cases during the past fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-records-5-746-fresh-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-101641922597950.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls amid Covid: BJP increases its booth-level committees||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has modified its organisational preparations for the UP assembly elections going to be held amidst the pandemic. Taking note of the Election Commission’s decision to make one booth for every 1200 voters in each district instead of 1500 as was the norm earlier to maintain adequate social distancing, the BJP has also increased the number of its booth committees.“For example, earlier, the party had 1,252 booth committees in the Sangam city area whose numbers have now been increased to 1,293 by the party,” said BJP city unit president Ganesh Kesarwani. “With this, a committee of 21 people has also been constituted at each booth to motivate voters to cast their votes and also ensure that they face no problems in exercising their franchise,” he added.“Apart from the president, general secretary, other office bearers of all party frontal organisations have also been included in these committees. Women have also been given proper representation so that door-to-door campaigning can reach women of every household also. In this, workers of every caste and class have been given representation,” Kesarwani said.BJP leader and former convener of BJP legal cell of Kashi Kshetra that covers 16 districts, including Allahabad’s city, trans-Ganga and trans-Yamuna areas, Devendra Nath Mishra said BJP keeps on changing the structure of its organisation from time to time as per the need.“Just before the 2017 assembly polls, the number of presidents in the district was increased from two to three. Earlier, there were city unit and district unit presidents. In 2017, the system of city unit, trans-Ganga and trans-Yamuna district presidents was implemented. Not only this, earlier there were 10 “mandals” in the city itself but whose numbers were then increased to 15 two years ago,” he said.Mishra said this time every “Panna Pramukh” has been entrusted with the task of focusing their attention to 60 voters each taking into account that a voter list’s page has 30 names on one side and another 30 on its reverse side. “The booth level committee members, including the ‘Panna Pramukhs’ have already started visiting homes of voters concerned apprising them of the party’s achievements and motivating them to come out and vote on the polling day,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-amid-covid-bjp-increases-its-booth-level-committees-101641922536262.html
11-01-2022||Bhopal||MP minister won't wear mask, says immunity strong as she practises 'Agnihotra'||Madhya Pradesh minister Usha Thakur replied to a query on not wearing a mask amid a rise in Covid-19 cases by claiming her immunity was strong as she had been practicing 'Agnihotra', or 'healing fire', a ritual done to purify the air and surroundings, for the past 30 years. Speaking to reporters in Khandwa on Monday, Thakur, the state's culture minister, also said a gamchha (cotton towel) doubled up as a mask for her. "My daily routine for the last 30 years include performing Agnihotra every day at sunrise and sunset, which increases my immunity so that viral attacks don't create problems for me," she said.On being asked that she seemed unwell when she visited Khandwa last, Thakur said she was down with cold at the time and was not suffering from any viral attack. Her statements were widely shared on social media on Tuesday. In May last year, she had grabbed headlines amid the pandemic by asking people to perform 'havan' (fire-based rituals) to purify the environment, claiming that such an act to eliminate outbreaks was a tradition since the ancient times. In April, a video showed her performing 'puja' in front of the statue of Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar at Indore Airport to ward off Covid-19. In March last year, she had said that adoption of a "Vedic lifestyle" would protect against coronavirus and conducting a 'havan' with cow dung cakes would keep a house sanitized for 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-minister-won-t-wear-mask-says-immunity-strong-as-she-practises-agnihotra-101641921571048.html
11-01-2022||Pune||As MVA enters third year of government, rumblings at local level rise||PUNE Earlier last week, Shahaji Patil, a Shiv Sena Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Sangola in Solapur district startled many when he claimed that he could win the 2019 elections only due to the support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and other small parties, while lamenting that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has deprived seniors of ministerial births.Patil said he was not given any ministry and was asked to keep quiet by his party after the elections. “There are only 1,100 votes of Shiv Sena in the tehsil. Despite that I was elected as an MLA due to the support of the BJP, NCP and other parties,” Patil claimed.Two days later, Patil clarified that Shiv Sena has a strong base and most of the votes he garnered during 2019 elections were only due to his party and the appeal among masses for Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. In his clarification, Patil said, he was pointing at senior leaders like Baban Shinde from NCP to have been kept out of ministry despite winning polls for three decades.This isn’t the first instance leaders at local level are expressing against the parties they belong to or members from alliance partners of MVA government. There have been multiple instances in the past three months where rumblings among leaders from the Shiv Sena and NCP have been on display or in some case, they have clashed over local issues through acrimonious statements made against each other.For instance, the three-time MP from Shiv Sena Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil has on multiple occasions expressed that NCP is trying to “trample” Shiv Sena in Pune district. When contacted, Adhalrao Patil reiterated saying NCP is trying to “finish” Sena even as the latter is following alliance dharma. His latest grumble was over cancellation of bullock cart race he had organised in Khed-Ambegaon region on January 1. The race, according to Adhalrao Patil, was cancelled at the behest of NCP, whose Dilip Walse-Patil comes from the same region and is home minister in the MVA government.When asked if Shiv Sena has taken cognisance of “expansionist” NCP at the cost of Sena in Pune, Adhalrao said, “I have not been contacted by anyone so far from my party even as I have alerted them.”Political observers attributed silence from key Sena leaders to avoid disturbing equations among three partners – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – at state level to keep the government intact. “Those who are raising issues mostly find themselves inconvenienced due to changed political equations post formation of MVA government and have upcoming municipal polls in mind. Those maintaining silence right from top leadership are the ones who are beneficiaries as they have got key positions in the government,” said Chitra Lele, professor, political scienceWhat Lele pointed out was seen when another senior Shiv Sena leader Ramdas Kadam went into revolt mode earlier last month. Kadam, called his party colleague Anil Parab as “traitor”. “Leader like Parab is out to finish the party,” alleged Kadam.Kadam even tried to approach chief minister but was not offered a chance. Some Sena leaders said the leadership has become inaccessible in the past few months.In yet another instance, Sena MLA from Nashik district Suhas Kande criticised NCP’s Chhagan Bhujbal alleging that Bhujbal sanctioned more funds for his own constituency under District Planning Development Council. Former union minister and Sena leader Anant Geete, accused NCP chief Sharad Pawar as “backstabber” In most instances, those engaging in war of words with leaders of alliance partners find the new political equation unsuitable to their local politics, something the BJP may want to encash in the upcoming municipal polls. On record though, BJP leaders have repeatedly said in the past that the MVA government will fall due to its inherent contradictions.While at local level, some leaders are uneasy, their leadership has deepened ties by strengthening the alliance.
11-01-2022||Pune||Retired PMPML employee killed in accident near Navale bridge; second case this week||PUNE: A retired PMPML employee was killed in an accident near Navale bridge after getting crushed by a truck on Tuesday morning. The incident happened one day after a woman was killed in a similar way near the same spot.The deceased has been identified as Vijay Ranganath Kulkarni, 70, a resident of Vadgaon area. The woman who was killed on Monday morning was identified as Pooja Nilesh Kamble, 30, also a resident of Vadgaon.“He had of material needed for a religious ceremony with him. We suspect he was going to perform some pooja. He fell from his bike and his head got under the rear tyre of the truck,” said hawaldar Yashwant Golande of Vadgaon police outpost of Sinhgad road police station who took the body for post mortem.The man is survived by his wife, son, daughter-in-law and grandchild.The woman who died on Monday morning was riding pillion with her friend when a container sped past them from the right, making them lose balance and fall. While the rider fell on the left, the woman fell on the right and the rear tyre of the truck ran over her head.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Sinhgad road police station in both the accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-pmpml-employee-killed-in-accident-near-navale-bridge-second-case-this-week-101641921395891.html
11-01-2022||Pune||63-year-old duped of ₹50k by fake caller in Pune||PUNE A 63-year-old man from Pune was duped of ₹50,000 by a caller who claimed to be an employee of a mobile service provider in July 2021.The senior citizen received a call from the man around 11:30am claiming his SIM card was going to need an update. The complainant fell for the ruse and asked the caller how he could do that. The caller then sent a link to the complainant saying it will help him update his KYC for the SIM. When the man clicked on the link, he received an OTP which the man convinced him to share. Once the secret code was shared, the caller used it to siphon funds worth ₹49,010 from his bank account.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station. Police inspector (crime) Dada Gaikwad of Chatuhshrungi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/63yearold-duped-of-50k-by-fake-caller-in-pune-101641921216128.html
11-01-2022||Pune||Lack of NGOs put a leash on Pune’s canine population control measures||PUNE The animal birth control for dogs in the city is at a standstill, as only one agency, Universal Animal Welfare Society is getting the work done. However, the contract of other agencies has been withdrawn abruptly.As per the data received from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), in 2020, the population of dogs in Pune was three lakh. The PMC had set a target to neuter 90,000 to 1,00,000 dogs per year to beat the reproduction rate and bring the number of dogs to minimalAccordingly, the corporation had issued tenders to three NGOs to operate its three pounds in Mundhwa, Baner and Sangamwadi (Naidu Hospital) and addition to Blue Cross Society and four other agencies to operate in their private units.“Pune was a pioneer city in the field of animal birth control for dogs and was the first city in Maharashtra to stop killing of dogs and start sterilisation in 1997, but the current situation is that the entire program has been brought to standstill,” said Manoj Oswal, secretary, Jeev Raksha Animal Welfare Trust, which was one of the agency which had won the tender and now were informed that the contract has been withdrawn.In 2021 new tenders were floated Jeev Raksha Animal Welfare Trust and Animal Welfare Society were selected for the contract. The corporation was in the process of issuing the work orders to these organisation and proposal was sent to the standing committee, however the proposal was withdrawn abruptly, according to officials.Dr Sarika Funde, veterinary doctor with the PMC health department said, “The contracts were withdrawn by the Pune municipal commissioner on the basis of some technical issues and he wants to bring in more agencies with the inclusion of 23 merged villages. We are aware that we are falling behind in the birth control of the animals but the process has begun at Naidu and Baner.”Till 2017 the contract was with People for Animals, later it went to Universal Animal Welfare Society and Janice Smith Animal Welfare Trust but the work orders were not issued for almost a year. Finally, when both organisations started the work, the work was halted again on flimsy complaints. Universal approached High Court and their work commenced in July 2021. Janice Smith still awaits order to restart the work.According to data collected by Oswal, due to shortfall in the target, at least 30,000 new puppies survived in last nine months and unfortunately 60,000-70,000 puppies died in the period. “We are hoping that the corporators in Pune shall take this subject seriously and convince the commissioner to allow the organisations to resume work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lack-of-ngos-put-a-leash-on-pune-s-canine-population-control-measures-101641920796032.html
11-01-2022||Mumbai||At 11,647, Mumbai reports fourth straight day dip in Covid cases, positivity falls to 18.75%||Mumbai on Tuesday reported 11,647 fresh Covid-19 cases, a drop of 2,001 from the previous day, taking the tally to 9,39,867, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.Two patients succumbed to the infection in the past 24 hours. This was the fourth day in a row when the city witnessed a dip in its daily Covid-19 count.According to a BMC bulletin, with new additions, the Covid-19 tally jumped to 9,39,867, while the death toll climbed to 16,413. The metropolis reported 2,001 fewer cases than Monday despite 2,855 more Covid-19 tests conducted in the last 24 hours.A day before, Mumbai had reported 13,648 Covid-19 cases on the back of 59,342 tests, and also five fatalities. The coronavirus positivity rate in the financial capital also dipped to 18.75 per cent from over 23 per cent a day ago.Also read | Govt starts paying refund to med students who lost govt college seat to Maratha quotaMeanwhile, Maharashtra saw a surge of 34,424 fresh cases, with the cumulative infections reaching 6,987,938. With 22 more deaths, the total fatalities climbed to 141,669.At least 18,967 people recuperated from the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 66,21,070.Maharashtra reported 34 new cases of Omicron variant, taking the total tally to 1,281. Out of these 499 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.Of the new cases reported on Tuesday, 25 were from Pune city, six from Pune rural, two from Solapur, and one from Panvel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-11-647-mumbai-reports-fourth-straight-day-dip-in-covid-cases-positivity-falls-to-1875-101641919619284.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid-19 effect: Universities scramble to shift exams to online mode||Due to a spike in Covid-19 cases, universities, both government and private, are slowly switching to conduct remaining exams in online mode or have deferred them for later dates waiting for the situation to ease.Following a protest by s large number of students across the state in the recent past, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University has decided to conduct practical exams and project work in online mode from January 14 to 23. Earlier, the university faced criticism from students for conducting all the theory papers in offline mode.AKTU controller of exams, Anurag Tripathi, on Tuesday, has written a letter to all the directors and principals of affiliated colleges in this regard. The letter reads in view of the prevailing Covid situation across the state, the university has decided to hold practical exams and projects online.In another development, Integral University, Lucknow, postponed all its ongoing end semester examinations, immediately, for the rest of the courses for second-year students and onwards due to a surge in Covid cases in UP and Lucknow. The revised schedule for the remaining exams will be announced soon.University of Lucknow is yet to make a decision about its upcoming exams to begin later this month. However, due to Makar Sankranti, which is a public holiday, the university has postponed its January 14 exam to January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-effect-universities-scramble-to-shift-exams-to-online-mode-101641920376088.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow admn plans mega anti-Covid drive in rural areas||With the Covid-19 cases surging, the district administration is set to launch a mega anti-Covid drive in the rural pockets of the state capital, including all 494-gram panchayats. Officials said the decision is aimed at keeping a strict watch on the Covid outbreak in the rural pockets, and to boost vaccination and other exercises to check the spread of the virus.“Fight against Covid has to be a collective action, and it’s for the same reason uniform efforts are being made in both urban and rural parts of the state capital to keep a check on Covid outbreak,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, Lucknow. The administration also held a meeting with the gram pradhans and the officials of the Panchayati Raj department to carry out thorough anti-Covid exercises in the rural parts of the district.As a part of the drive, the district administration would strengthen the ongoing vaccination drive and also boost the vaccination of the children between 15 to 18 years of age. Besides, the administration has also directed the officials to carry out sanitisation drives in the villages and re-activate the nigrani samitis to keep a close watch on the migrants and villagers.Nigrani samitis have an active role to play. The samitis act as a bridge between the officials and the commoners, and should keep a strict watch on the villages and motivate people to go for the vaccination in maximum numbers, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-admn-plans-mega-anti-covid-drive-in-rural-areas-101641919780983.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow University felicitates its best sportspersons who won gold in various competitions||LU felicitates its best sportspersons HT Correspondent letters@htlive.com LUCKNOW: University of Lucknow’s Dean Students Welfare and Lucknow University Athletic Association felicitated sportspersons, who bagged gold medals in various competitions. This event was held in continuation to the recent convocation celebration. Yash Verma, a student of BA 5th semester, was conferred with the Pierre Gold Medal. This medal is given to the best player of the university. Yash is a tennis player and has participated in many international and national competitions. His achievements include the Raja Shanker Sahai of Murawan Gold Medal in 2020, 11 gold medals and 12 silver medals in various competitions, LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said. Apart from Yash, Shreya Kumar, a student of BSc 5th semester, bagged the Raja Shanker Sahai of Murawan Gold Medal for her contribution in the field of sports and education. Her achievements include the Rani Lakshmi Bai Award in soft tennis conferred by the UP government in 2017. Shreya has won eight gold and seven silver medals at various national competitions. She has also represented India in the Junior World Championship in Thailand and South Korea in 2018. Dignitaries present during the medal distribution ceremony included Prof Poonam Tandon, dean student welfare, Desh Deepak, president, Lucknow University Sports Council, Rupesh Kumar, secretary and Sanjay Medhavi, treasurer of the council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-university-felicitates-its-best-sportspersons-who-won-gold-in-various-competitions-101641919296150.html
11-01-2022||Patna||Chaos at IGIMS as it resorts to online registration for OPD patients||Tabassum, a 55-year-old woman of Patna City, was seen pleading with folded hands in front of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) staff to get her vigorously coughing daughter admitted in the pulmonary ward for treatment on Tuesday. On Saturday, the doctor at outpatient department of pulmonary division had sought pathological test reports of Sana Shabnam (16) and asked her to admit in the ward for treatment. But she was denied admission, as her mother was totally unaware of the online mode of registration and the way to do it. Likewise, Ajay Mishra of Ara could not meet the doctor in endocrine department to show his father’s report and get the doses of insulin modified as he was unable to register online. On Friday last, the doctor had asked for show him the blood sugar records to modify the medication. These are just a few of the hundreds of patients who returned disappointed owing to their unfamiliarity with the changed system of registration. Owing to the surge in Covid cases, the IGIMS resorted to online mode of registration since Monday for outstation patients. Accordingly, each department has been capped to see only 50 patients per day, against the normal inflow of 150-200 patients. Medical superintendent of IGIMS, Manish Mandal, said the hospital administration could not risk its doctors getting exposed to the Covid-19. “Already, 10% of our doctors have already tested positive for Covid. Excess load of patients can upset the entire system of treatment,” he said. “We have issued notices about change of registration for doctors’ appointment. The patients can choose the date of their appointment of doctors as per their availability,” said Mandal. Some of the patients’ attendants acknowledged the limitations of the state’s premier medical institution, but said the system of registration could have been better designed so that the needy people need not to fall on the mercy of touts and be able to do the registration it on their own. “The mobile app required for registration is not compatible with iPhones, older version of android or normal feature phones. There is no concept of a help desk at IGIMS. And those who booked the appointment slot online are required queuing up before a counter to get the printed registration slip before meeting the doctors,” said Upendra Kumar, a native of Babura block of Ara, who had come for consultation at the cardiology department. One Manju Kumari, a native of Barh, said she was asked to pay for rescheduling the online appointment as the doctor, who was treating her son, was unavailable. “I have to return home with my son and reschedule the appointment next week, probably by then the doctor would be available,” she said, adding that getting the Covid test done for patients at the IGIMS was another harrowing ordeal. The patients getting admitted in the IGIMS are deemed to have undergone mandatory RT-PCR tests. “But there as just two counters, one for men and another for women. People have to stand in queue for hours in disregard to social distancing norms, leaving the people exposed to contract the disease,” said Rohit Kumar, who had come all the way from Samastipur for treatment at gastroenterology department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chaos-at-igims-as-it-resorts-to-online-registration-for-opd-patients-101641918757379.html
11-01-2022||Patna||4 wanted Maoists held in Buxar||PATNA Four members of the People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), a splinter group of banned the CPI (Maoist) which is mainly active in Jharkhand, were arrested in Bihar’s Buxar district late Monday night, police said. Those arrested were identified by police as Nivesh Kumar Poddar, Subham Poddar, Dhruv Kumar Singh and a woman whose name police didn’t disclose. All are wanted in separate cases in Jharkhand and were operating from Khunti, Dhurwa, Khelari and Ranchi, police said.“Buxar police received information that some wanted PLFI members were travelling in a car bearing registration number of West Bengal and were passing via National Highway 84. A police team set up barricades on Veer Kunwar Singh Setu around 11.50 pm and apprehended them. Huge amount of cash and mobile phones have been recovered from their possession,” said Upendra Sharma, deputy inspector general of police (Sahabad range).Buxar superintendent of police (SP) Sudhir Kumar Singh told HT the police team recovered ₹12 lakh cash, 19 cell phones and a luxury car from their possession.He said the Jharkhand Police on January 9 had issued a lookout notice against Nivesh and Subham after an FIR was lodged against them in Ranchi on January 6. A police team from Ranchi reached Buxar late Monday and will produce them before the court to take them on transit remand, he said.
11-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: Extra cops to keep vigil on false news circulated on social media||The state police have increased the strength of cops deployed at social media monitoring cell to keep intense vigil and initiate action against false news been circulated ahead of UP assembly polls, said additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar here on Tuesday.He said 15 extra cops have been deployed at the social media monitoring cell. “Earlier, there were one deputy superintendent of police, three inspectors, eight sub-inspectors and 21 constables,” he said.He said the social media monitoring cell will work round-the-clock in three shifts and an additional team has been deployed to check genuineness of viral news and keep updating the monitoring cell.Kumar said the monitoring cell will keep vigil on all social media platforms and instant messaging applications like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Telegram and WhatsApp etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-polls-extra-cops-to-keep-vigil-on-false-news-circulated-on-social-media-101641918699337.html
11-01-2022||Patna||Tejashwi flies to Hyderabad, meets Telangana CM||Bihar’s leader of opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), met Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Tuesday, two days after leaders of the Left parties visited the latter in Hyderabad. The meeting assumes significance amid an ongoing political slugfest between the TRS and BJP in the state. KCR has been advocating a non-Congress, non-BJP front at the national level as, according to him, both the national parties “failed in developing” the nation.“Former Bihar CM Sri Lalu Prasad Yadav’s son and Bihar Assembly Opposition Leader and RJD key leader Sri Tejashwi Prasad Yadav made a courtesy call on Chief Minister Sri K Chandrashekhar Rao at Pragathi Bhavan here on Tuesday,” an official release said.Though there was no official mention about the agenda of the meeting sources said both the discussed the political developments in the country including upcoming polls to UP and other states.Along with Tejashwi Yadav, former Bihar minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui and other RJD leaders like former MLA Bhola Yadav, were also there, the release added.Recently, Rao had separate meetings with top leaders of CPI(M) and CPI, including Sitaram Yechury and Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, at his official residence.Before leaving for Hyderabad on a chartered flight, Tejashwi Yadav told reporters in Patna that there was internal conflict within the ruling NDA in Bihar over seat adjustment for upcoming polls to fill up 24 seats of the Legislative Council. He also wished chief minister Nitish Kumar a speedy recovery from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-flies-to-hyderabad-meets-telangana-cm-101641918697553.html
11-01-2022||Patna||Data operator put on notice for bungling Covid test results||A data entry operator in Bihar, who allegedly made incorrect entries about Covid-19 testing results on the portal that led to many people getting contradictory results through SMS and actual test reports, has been issued strict warning, health officials said on Tuesday, when the state reported five Covid-19 deaths and added 5,908 new cases, taking the total count of active cases to 25,051. At least 10 people were stumped last Sunday after they received SMS intimation of being negative, but found their RT PCR test report positive. The special Covid-19 sample collection camp was held at Patna’s Budh Marg locality on January 6 and results declared on January 9. Shailja Sinha, Rama Shankar Lall, 58, Devanand Rai, 45, and Shiv Shankar Prasad, 30, were among 10 people who tested positive for Covid-19, but received SMS of them being negative. “On Sunday, I received an SMS stating that my Covid-19 test was negative. However, when I checked the RT PCR report on the link provided to me, it was positive. I then went for a rapid antigen detection (RAD) test on Monday and it was negative. It’s all too confusing,” said Lall. Most of the samples were tested at the Rajendra Memorial Institute of Medical Sciences Institute, a research institute of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at Patna’s Agamkuan. There were similar complaints last year too during the second wave of the pandemic. Such was the load on government laboratories then that in a few cases, the RT-PCR test report and SMS notification arrived after the death of a patient. “We found there was one centre in Patna where the data entry operator was making incorrect entry on our Covid-19 health portal, the data of which is automatically integrated on the ICMR website. This led to people getting contradictory results through SMS and their actual test report. We have done the correction and issued last warning to the operator concerned,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. Meanwhile, five Covid-19 patients, all males with pre-existing diseases, died in the last 24 hours. The deaths were reported from the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), Sai hospital and one from Bhagalpur, said Singh. Younger people getting infectedPeople in the younger age group were getting infected by the virus more this time as compared to the old, additional chief secretary (health( Pratyaya Amrit said on Tuesday. Giving a breakup of the age-wise distribution of the people infected by SARS CoV-2 between January 1 and 10, he said 28% were in the 20-29 years age bracket, 23.9% in 30-39 years age group, 15.2% between 40 and 49 years of age, 12.5% in 50-59 years age group, 10% in 10-19 years of age, 8.6% above 60 years of age and 1.9% in 0-9 years of age. With Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly in Bihar, up from 352 on January 1 to 5,908 on January 10, the state’s test positivity rate had also moved up from 0.37% to 3.14% during the corresponding period, he said.Patna, which had the state’s highest test positivity rate of 20.65%, added 2,202 new Covid-19 cases on Monday followed by Muzaffarpur (264 cases), Samastipur (249), Darbhanga (232), Bhagalpur (210), Jamui (180) and Gaya (160).
11-01-2022||Mumbai||2 die after consuming toddy in Dombivli, shop owner booked||Vishnu Nagar police, Dombivli, booked a toddy shop owner for culpable homicide not amounting to murder following the death of two men who consumed liquor made from sap of palm trees from his shop. The deceased were identified as Sachin Padmukh, 27, and Swapnil Chalke, 32. According to police, Chalke was working as a traffic warden with Dombivli traffic police but was on leave for the last two months due to health issues.“Padmukh and Chalke both were residents of Kopar in Dombivli (W). On Monday evening, the two along with their friends went to the toddy shop near the railway tracks at Kopar village in Dombivli. At around 9pm on their way home, they suffered health issues. They were taken to a hospital and were declared dead there,” said a police officer.The family of Padmukh had demanded action against the toddy shop owner. The police have registered a case under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.The Vishnu Nagar police have detained the shop owner, Ravi Bhatni, and are further investigating the matter. As per the police, two others who were drinking with the deceased too had health issues but were discharged later and are stable. “During investigation, it was found that the two died of over-consumption of toddy. Accordingly, we have registered a case against the toddy shop owner and have started the investigation. We are waiting for the medical report and accordingly further investigation will be carried out,” said senior police inspector, Pandarinath Bhalerao.
11-01-2022||Mumbai||Authorities decide to crackdown on activities that lead to Waldhuni River pollution||In a meeting held between the Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) officials, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), police officials and Maharashtra State Electricity Development Corporation Limited (MSEDCL), it was decided to crackdown on activities leading to pollution in Waldhuni River.The meeting was held at the AMC office on Monday, where officials initially blamed each other for the existing pollution in the river. However, following a productive discussion, they have jointly decided to work towards acting against jeans washing units, discharge of untreated effluents by industries and tankers into the river that are the major causes of pollution in this river. “We have discussed the major causes of pollution in the river and have come to a conclusion to jointly act against all the illegal activities that lead to pollution in the river,” said Prashant Rasal, chief officer, AMC.The authorities also highlighted reasons for the delay in action against the industries causing pollution. “Once the notice is sent to a company to shut down for flouting norms, the respective authorities need to disconnect the power and water supplies to that company. However, in many cases, this is delayed. We have requested the concerned authorities to cooperate and disconnect the power and water supplies to ensure the industries do not remain open,” said an officer of MPCB, Kalyan. Earlier, the civic body had taken action against jeans washing units in its vicinity. However, the units continued to function illegally. “We will be acting upon the jeans washing units strictly in the coming days with a dedicated team,” added Rasal.
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid: JNMC begins inoculating booster dose to high-risk individuals||The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on Tuesday said all high-risk health and frontline workers as well as senior citizens with co-morbidities can walk into vaccination centre at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) for booster jabs provided the second dose was taken nine months ago. “Such people can also book a slot online through the government’s CoWIN portal,” the varsity said in a press release said a day after precautionary inoculation began across the country.On day one on Monday, overall 92 people in the 60 and above age bracket and healthcare and frontline workers were inoculated.“Eligible people are receiving the precautionary shots at JNMC in line with Centre’s guidelines. We have a well prepared infrastructure and medical staff to implement the process smoothly,” said AMU vice chancellor prof Tariq Mansoor.He added: “The immune-compromised people or those suffering from chronic conditions that could weaken immunity are vulnerable and need additional protection. I urge all senior citizens to immediately get the booster dose.” “We have adequate logistics to manage the daily footfall of the category of people who need additional dose. It is hoped that the successful administration of the third dose will soon release the country from the grip of the third wave driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant,” said prof Shahid A Siddiqui (principal, JNMC).“Individuals who received two doses of the Covishield vaccine will get a third dose of the same. Those who got Covaxin will get a third jab of it,” said vaccination in-charges prof Saira Mehnaz and Dr Ali Jafar Abedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-jnmc-begins-inoculating-booster-dose-to-high-risk-individuals-101641918276012.html
11-01-2022||Bangalore||Bengaluru’s daily Covid tally crosses 10,000, curbs extended in Karnataka till Jan 31||Ther rise in the daily new Covid-19 infections in Karnataka saw no respite on Tuesday as 14,473 more people tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. Of the new cases, more than 10,000 have been reported from the Bengaluru Urban district alone (10,800 to be exact).The daily positivity rate crossed 10 per cent in the state and in Bengaluru, it shot up to 15 per cent, health minister K Sudhakar said.Amid the rise in cases, the state government decided to extend the existing Covid-related restrictions till the end of January. The decision was made following a review meeting by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai with state officials. Bommai tested positive for the infection on Monday and is currently isolating at home.Also read | Delhi's Covid tally up again with 21,259 new cases; active caseload nears 75kMeanwhile, five people lost their lives due to related ailments during the day, pushing the death toll to 38,379, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The active caseload also increased by 13,112 and reached 73,260 cases. On Monday it was at 60,148.Restrictions extended till January 31All Covid-related norms in the state have been extended till the end of the month with some additional curbs announced on Tuesday. All district officials, outside Bengaluru Urban, have been allowed to decide on closing of schools and other colleges based on the prevalence of the cases in these institutions.Among major restrictions, rallies and protests have been prohibited in the state. A major political debate has emerged in the state with state units of the ruling BJP and Congress holding events that attracted large crowds.For marriages, 200 people are allowed in open spaces and 100 in closed venues and all Covid protocols should be adhered to. Public transport, including the Bengaluru Metro Rail, have been allowed to operate with their seating capacity.In Bengaluru, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) and other districts’ deputy commissioners have been empowered to impose containment measures after assessment of the situation within their jurisdictions. The state police have also been allowed to impose Section 144 to enforce stricter adherence to the restrictive measures, if needed.The state government has also ordered intensive surveillance along borders with Maharashtra, Goa and Kerala. Further, violators of Covid norms have been warned of legal proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengalurus-daily-covid-tally-crosses-10-000-curbs-extended-in-karnataka-till-jan-31-101641916820333.html
11-01-2022||Other||Channi govt deliberately did not arrest Majithia: Chadha||Chandigarh :Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Tuesday alleged that the Charanjit Singh Channi government was deliberately not arresting Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case. Addressing a press conference, Chadha said Majithia himself has claimed that both Channi and deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa knew his whereabouts, but he was not arrested. Chadda claimed that they (AAP) had informed the media beforehand that the Channi government would allegedly file a very weak case against Majithia and when arrested, the government would help him to get an easy bail. “The government had registered a case against Majithia to delude the people of Punjab that they are taking action against the drug mafia when they had done nothing for their whole tenure,” he alleged. Chadha said the Channi government proved to be a weak and unstable government. “During his tenure of 111 days, Channi government changed DGPs and AGs three times and transferred SP and SSP dozens of times,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channi-govt-deliberately-did-not-arrest-majithia-chadha-101641916775863.html
11-01-2022||Kolkata||Kolkata’s Covid count sees mild dip with 6,565 infections, Bengal’s active caseload breaches 1-lakh mark||Kolkata on Tuesday reported 6,565 fresh cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and six related deaths, the city's health bulletin showed. The Bengal capital logged 7,574 cases of the viral infection a day ago. The neighbouring North 24 Parganas added 4,016 cases to the state’s Covid-19 tally.Bengal's overall active cases breached the 1-lakh mark during the day with 21,098 more people testing positive for the infection. This was 1,812 more than the previous day’s count, taking the state's total caseload to 17,95,430.As many as 19 people succumbed to the contagious infection taking the death toll to 19,936. The state now has 1,02,236 active cases as 13,042 were added to the previous day's count.A total of 8,037 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours.The administration has, thus far, tested over 2,19,91,090 samples for Covid-19, including 65,210 in the last 24 hours.A day ago, the Bengal government had asked officials in five districts witnessing a huge surge in Covid-19 cases to strictly enforce Covid-19 restrictions and speed up vaccinations to arrest the disturbing trend.The districts included Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly, North 24 Parganas and Birbhum.According to news agency PTI, chief secretary HK Dwivedi directed officials to earmark areas reporting more Covid-19 cases as 'containment or micro containment' zones to cap the rise of transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkatas-covid-count-sees-mild-dip-with-6-565-infections-bengal-s-active-caseload-breaches-1-lakh-mark-101641913485698.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drugs case: Will join investigation today, says Majithia||Chandigarh : A day after he was granted interim bail by Punjab and Haryana high court in a NDPS case, former minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said he would join the investigation on Wednesday as mandated by the HC. Addressing the media at the party headquarters in Chandigarh, he thanked his party, people of Majithia constituency that he represents as an MLA, and that of entire Punjab for supporting him during the difficult days. Blaming chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, state congress chief Navjot Sidhu and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, the SAD leader said: “It is now clear that I was targeted as part of a vendetta exercise by the top leadership of the Congress government.” “I also thank a Punjab Police officer who was appointed the DGP but preferred to recuse and step down than to register a false case and other officers who refused to accede to the CM,” he added. Majithia said never before in the history of the state have three DGPs and four directors of the Bureau of Investigation (BOI) been transferred in three months’ time. He said the state government ran away from a PIL being heard on the issue of drugs and filed a false case against him which was done on the orders of then DGP S Chattopadhyay, who was appointed in for the purpose, Majithia alleged. Commenting on Prime Minister’s alleged security breach, the Akali leader said: “It was a planned conspiracy hatched by the CM, the state Congress chief and the home minister.” “The DGP, who was given the top post in the state for 20 days despite not being eligible, has damaged Punjab by his irresponsible acts,” he said, criticising the CM for downplaying the PM’s security breach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drugs-case-will-join-investigation-today-says-majithia-101641914496154.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chamba DC among 1,550 new patients of Covid in HP||Chamba deputy commissioner is among the 1,550 people who tested positive for Covid on Tuesday as the Himachal’s total case tally mounted to 2,34,835. It was also the highest single-day spike since for second consecutive day in the state. A total of 1,200 cases were reported in the state on Monday. However, no new death was reported in any of the 12 districts.Kangra logged highest 325 infections followed by 287 cases in Solan and 270 in Hamirpur. As many as 153 cases were reported from Shimla, 148 from Mandi, 117 from Una, 89 from Kullu, 73 from Bilaspur, 27 from Chamba, 12 from Kinnaur, and two from Lahaul-Spiti.A government spokesperson said that Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana has been tested positive with mild symptoms. He is under home isolation as suggested by doctors.Meanwhile, the active cases have jumped to 5,476 while recoveries reached 2,25,462 after 258 people recuperated.Kangra is still the worst-hit district with its case tally reaching 53,767, followed by Mandi (32,390) and Shimla (28,603).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chamba-dc-among-1-550-new-patients-of-covid-in-hp-101641912815611.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Can’t delay further, Cong to name candidates in a week, says Sidhu||Chandigarh : Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said the party would announce the names of its candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in a week. Sidhu said the announcement of candidates cannot be delayed further. “There is a system of verification, screening committee and the central election committee, which announces the candidates,” he said at a press conference in Chandigarh in response to a question on the party’s nominees for the state polls. The Congress is still to name its candidates any of the 117 seats whereas its principal rivals, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party (SAD-BJP) alliance, have named most of their candidates. The Congress screening committee, which held half-a-dozen meetings, has reached consensus on half of the seats, mostly won by the party in 2017, and given its recommendations to the central election committee headed by party president Sonia Gandhi. The nomination papers can be filed from January 21 to 28. PPCC chief spells out resource generation model Outlining his Punjab model for resource generation, Sidhu said separate corporations for liquor and sand mining, cable regulatory commission, promotion of the transport corporation with change in policy and regulation of total outdoor advertisement would be the key to this. “The liquor corporation will regulate the industry and sell liquor. The state-run corporation will own production and distilleries. Further, opening of government-run liquor stores will help in generating employment,” he said, pegging the likely revenue generation at over ₹25,000 crore. The PPCC chief said sand mining was being run by a mafia benefitting a few powerful people in the system. “There are 102 mining sites with an estimated demand of sand of 2.4-3 crore tonnes annually. This could be hugely capitalized for revenue generation and employment with the help of online booking at fixed price, use of technology for ordering, delivering and monitoring,” he said, advocating government control with appropriate regulated policies to generate additional revenue and jobs. In the cable industry, he spoke about encouraging competition to end monopoly, levy of carriage charges, etc to generate ₹2,000 crore each year. He also said a corporation would be set up to sell and regulate the packaged water bottle of Sutlej, Ravi and Beas rives. ‘Willing for debate if anyone has better agenda’Asked about the tussle between him and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over their separate models of governance, Sidhu said he was talking about the Punjab model with the consent of the Congress general secretary. This would go to them before the manifesto, he said, adding that his future would depend on this agenda. “If anyone has a better agenda, I am willing to have a debate,” he added. Asked about Akali leader Bikram Majithia’s interim bail in a drug case, the state Congress chief said he would not speak on a sub-judice matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-can-t-delay-further-cong-to-name-candidates-in-a-week-says-sidhu-101641912216356.html
11-01-2022||Mumbai||Cops rescue four-month-old sold to childless couple||Mumbai The VP Road police rescued a four-month-old baby, allegedly sold by her biological father to a civil engineer from Tamil Nadu for ₹4.80 lakh, and arrested a total of 11 persons, including the child’s father and the civil engineer.According to the police, Ibrahim Altaf Shaikh, the father of the girl, was in a live-in relationship with the mother. The woman delivered the child four months ago, but on December 1, due to some reason, the mother left the baby with Anwari Shaikh, owner of the house. She did not come back for three days. Later, Ibrahim Altaf Shaikh took the baby from Anwari, claiming that he was taking her to a doctor to give her a vaccine, said a police officer. After a month when the couple did not return, Anwari Shaikh approached the VP Road police station and narrated the story. “After recording the complainant’s statement, a police team was formed. On the basis of technical evidence Ibrahim Shaikh was nabbed in Mumbai,” said deputy commissioner of police Saurabh Tripathi. After detailed interrogation, Shaikh confessed that he had sold his baby to a childless couple from Tamil Nadu. Police inspector Vinayak Patil and his team then picked up five people including two women, added Tripathi. Questioning of the five suspects revealed that they worked as middlemen and were connected to each other. During the course of the investigation, they picked up five more suspects and brought them to Mumbai, added another officer. During interrogation, it was found that the childless couple were working with an IT firm and were approached by a local doctor regarding the child. The couple had agreed to pay ₹4.80 lakh for a newborn baby. The doctor is still wanted in the case while Anand Nagrajan was brought to Mumbai and arrested, added Tripathi.A DNA test will be conducted to verify whether Ibrahim Altaf Shaikh is the biological father or not. The girl has been sent to the children’s home.The arrested have been identified as Ibrahim Altaf Shaikh (32), Mohammad Sherkhan alias Sheru Pir Mohammad Khan (39), Laxmi Deepak Murgesh (28), Saddam Abdullah Shah (26), Amjad Munna Shaikh (38), Tahira alias Reshma Gulab Nabi Shaikh (35), Kartik Rajendran (31), Chitra Kartik (23), Tamil Selvan Thangraj (36), Murti Palanisami (39) and Anand Kumar Nagrajan (44).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-rescue-four-month-old-sold-to-childless-couple-101641911735642.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||BSF recovers 22kg heroin, weapons along Pakistan border in Tarn Taran||TARN TARAN: The Border Security Force (BSF) has recovered 22kg of heroin smuggled from Pakistan in the Khemkaran sector in three search operations on Tuesday. Beside heroin, BSF personnel of the 103 battalion have also recovered a pistol, a magazine, eight live rounds and 430 grams of opium. The BSF troopers on duty observed some suspicious movement between the barbed wire fence and the Zero Line near around 11.30pm on Monday. A brief search of the area was launched but nothing was found. A search operation was launched again on Tuesday morning and it was found that a plastic pipe was inserted in the barbed wire fence to smuggle heroin and weapons. When the plastic pipe was searched, 20kg heroin was recovered. Officials said due to dense fog on Monday night, smugglers from across the border tried to sneak in the contraband into the Indian territory. In another incident in the Ferozepur sector, the BSF recovered one packet (weighing around 1kg) of contraband suspected to be heroin. In another incident, the BSF troops of the Ferozepur sector recovered one packet of heroin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-recovers-22kg-heroin-weapons-along-pakistan-border-in-tarn-taran-101641911195708.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP in damage-control mode after Swami Prasad Maurya’s exit||LUCKNOW Taken aback by the sudden exit of state labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya, a grassroots level OBC leader, and the subsequent resignation of a few other party lawmakers, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in UP quickly put in place a dual strategy aimed at checking further exodus while getting some key opposition leaders to join the party. With three other BJP lawmakers quitting and at least a dozen others said to be among those who could resign anytime, the BJP high command promptly directed the party’s OBC state BJP chief Swatantra Dev and state general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal to talk to and placate all disgruntled leaders. The BJP’s counter strategy involves getting some important leaders from the main opposition Samajwadi Party (that Swami Prasad has gone to) to join the BJP. In this connection, names of some Brahmin leaders of the Samajwadi Party were in circulation, who, some BJP leaders indicated, could join the party around Makar Sankranti (January 14) regarded by Hindus as auspicious. Even as some UP ministers and BJP leaders began targeting Swami Prasad, the ruling party people admitted that the labour minister’s exit was a “big loss” before the state goes to polls from February 10. The development took place when a high-level BJP meeting in Delhi to finalise candidates for the 58 seats in western UP (that go to polls in the first phase) was underway. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were participating in it.The immediate fall out of Swami Prasad’s exit became apparent as some BJP lawmakers openly announced their resignation after describing themselves as Maurya loyalists. “Yes, I am going too,” said Roshan Lal Verma, BJP lawmaker from Tilhar assembly segment of Shahjahanpur, who said he would go wherever Swami Prasad goes. Verma had taken Maurya’s resignation to the Raj Bhawan. “We felt humiliated. I complained against a minister and officials but none heard me,” Verma said accusing some senior ministers in the UP government of not providing them respect. Another BJP lawmaker from Tindwari assembly segment in Banda, Brijesh Kumar Prajapati, sent in his resignation while Bhagwati Sagar, BJP lawmaker from Bilhaur, also quit. Meanwhile, Swami Prasad Maurya’s supporters distributed sweets and said that the mercurial OBC grassroots leader would now strengthen the Samajwadi Party. Some ministers too were said to be contemplating a similar switch but at least one of them – Dharam Singh Saini (also from the OBC community), who is close to Maurya, denied the buzz. “It is true that Mauryaji is like my elder brother but I am not quitting the BJP. If my name is in circulation among such leaders who are to quit, I am not one of them,” said Saini. Maurya, who said he didn’t get respect in the BJP and said he won’t reconsider his decision even if he was allowed to pick up a dozen candidates of his choice, had similarly quit the BSP in 2016 after failing to convince his then party chief Mayawati to field his son Utkrisht Maurya and daughter Sanghmitra on a BSP symbol. He had also alleged that Mayawati denied him a ticket from Padrauna Assembly segment as it was an area where Yogi Adityanath wielded a lot of influence. On Tuesday, Maurya accused the Yogi Adityanath government of neglecting traders, backwards and virtually threatened the ruling party that it would get to know how much political backing and appeal he has. “Swami Prasad Maurya ke pass janadhar kitna hai, ye 2022 mein BJP ko pata chal jayega jab woh haregi (how much political backing Swami Prasad has will be known in 2022 polls when BJP loses,” he said. Maurya’s daughter Sanghmitra Maurya is a BJP MP from Budaun from where she had defeated Samajwadi Party heavyweight Dharmendra Yadav. In November, Sanghmitra Maurya was seen with SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav though back then, none had any inkling about the massive political development that was in the works. “I don’t know what led to respected Swami Prasad Mauryaji’s resignation. I appeal to him discuss the issues as decisions taken in haste often prove to be wrong,” deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya said in a tweet from Delhi. Meanwhile, some BJP leaders began targeting Swami Prasad, making it clear that the bid to placate the OBC leader had failed. “Keshav Prasad Maurya is sun, Swami Prasad Maurya is darkness,” tweeted BJP spokesman Gaurav Bhatia. UP minister Nand Gopal ‘Nandi’, the state’s minorities and civil aviation minister, also targeted Swami Prasad. “Swami Prasadji’s joining SP is like taking a decision that is doomed. To travel in the SP boat that is set to sink will prove to be self-destructive,” Nandi tweeted.
11-01-2022||Pune||At 11.5 degrees Celsius, Pune reports lowest night temperature in January so far||PUNE On Tuesday, Pune reported the lowest night temperature at 11.5 degrees Celsius. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), minimum temperature is likely to fall further bringing cooler winds to the city. There has been a gradual fall in minimum temperature across Maharashtra.On Tuesday, Nashik reported to be the coolest place in Maharashtra at 10 degrees Celsius with Mahabaleshwar reported to be the second coolest with minimum temperature at 10.2 degrees Celsius. Pune was the third coolest in the state.However, the minimum temperature reported so far for January is four degrees more than the reported lowest minimum temperature for this month in the last decade.According to the weather department, day and night temperatures on Makar Sankranti on January 15 will be around 30 degrees Celsius and 14 degrees Celsius respectively.Speaking about the drop in temperature, Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said , “There is a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation lies over northwest Rajasthan and adjoining central Pakistan in lower and middle tropospheric levels. A trough runs from North interior Karnataka to north central Maharashtra at lower tropospheric levels. A cyclonic circulation lies over north Konkan and neighbourhood and a trough runs from the cyclonic circulation to Jharkhand at lower tropospheric levels. The cyclonic circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels. Confluence of winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal at lower tropospheric levels is very likely over East and adjoining central India till January 14,” said Kashyapi.Under its influence, parts of Central India including Vidarbha in Maharashtra may receive isolated rainfall along with hailstorm, he added.“Pune may witness a drop in day temperature however, gradual rise in night temperature is expected. Night temperature may increase to as high as 15 degrees Celsius in the next few days,” said Kashyapi.The skies are expected to remain clear for the next few days in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-11-5-degrees-celsius-pune-reports-lowest-night-temperature-in-january-so-far-101641910896601.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Four magical words that became a part of my life||“The right word is always a power, and communicates its definiteness to our action,” English novelist George Eliot once concluded. During a recent post-dinner walk on the silent streets of my village, I excitedly counted four right words, which became a part of my life in 2021. For the magic they hold, I consider myself so fortunate to get oriented to them, from which I have been drawing inspiration, ever since I caught them. Truly, they simplified my thought process, enriched my mind and most essentially have laid the seeds of much-needed tranquility in me. Hence, I would love to declare them as four beautiful gifts, which I attained in 2021. It all began in February last year as I commenced reading Ikigai: The Japanese Secret to a Long and Healthy Life, one of the bestselling books, in which my eyes clapped upon many inspiring Japanese concepts, but ‘wabi sabi’ intrigued me the most. According to it, people or situations surrounding us are not always going to be as per our expectations but despite that we should imbibe in ourselves the habit of finding something good in them. If I have ever become upset due to some reason, I remind myself that I forgot to apply ‘wabi sabi’ and the moment I turn it into action, I feel bathed in calm. Excited, I often talk about it. While I was still reading this book, which continued till April-end – mostly before bed time, I once phoned my Osaka-based friend. “Have you read it?” I asked him, hearing the traffic noise of Osaka downtown. He had already read the book two years ago but I felt grateful as he introduced me to a beautiful Japanese word, ‘kaizen.’ “Kai means good, zen means change. In other words, it refers to continuous self-improvement by working on one’s weaknesses. First identify them, and then get rid of them, which will eventually grow us as human beings. In Japanese homes and offices, we keep this word pasted where we can see it daily, from bathroom mirrors to work desks,” he explained. Interestingly, just a few days ago, while I was at a Sikh temple, the thought for the day also gave a similar message, which began with, “Rather than looking at weaknesses of others, see your own.” In the first week of October, as I was sorting papers in my drawer, I came across an old brochure of Hawaii tourism board, which I had got from a tourist office in Sydney, during my visit in 2019. As I leafed through it, I loved the way they had described their ‘Aloha’ spirit, explaining it in detail. “Aloha is all about cheer and joy. Wherever you go, carry your cheer along to brighten the mood of anyone you meet. In Hawaii, everyone has Aloha in them,” it read. I paused to ask myself why I had not scanned the brochure earlier but was glad to still have it with me. Aloha has often reminded me of Oscar Wilde, who once said, “Some create happiness, wherever they go; others when they leave.” But with the Aloha spirit in us, we will continue to create happiness wherever we are and wherever we go. How simple! Early December, as I visited my friend in Haryana, who is married to a Bulgarian girl, she rolled out ailyak as we contemplated on fast-paced life. “In Bulgaria, we keep reminding each other of ailyak since it underlines the power of patience and calmness as without it life can become messy.” Don’t we all need the support of ailyak in our lives? Let’s not forget, we are always in a rush, be it on the road, while having meals or even in the fastest lift. Hope, I am right to declare these meaningful words as ‘beautiful gifts.’ After all, nothing could be better than the gifts that help one evolve. More the mind evolves, the better the journey of life becomes. Looking forward to more such gifts every year. rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor 
11-01-2022||Pune||PMC gives nod to extend garbage processing plant capacity by 200 metric tonne at Uruli Devachi||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday gave its nod to extend the garbage processing capacity by 200 metric tonne per day at Uruli Devachi garbage depot.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “With 23 villages being merged in Pune city, the daily garbage collection has increased. It has become difficult to manage the additional garbage generated in these villages. Considering this, we have decided to increase the processing limit at the existing plant in Uruli Devachi.” According to officials. after merging the 23 villages, the daily garbage collection has reached 2,200 to 2,300 metric tonne. From this about 250 to 300 metric tonne garbage goes for recycling. The remaining 1,800 to 1,900 metric tonne garbage needs to be processed.The existing company had proposed to increase the plants capacity by 200 metric tonne. The PMC approved the proposal and decided to handover one acre land for the same at Uruli Devachi garbage depot.The PMC has approved the setting up and operating innovative system for garden waste in the city. As Pune has enough greenery, large number of garden waste is getting generated in the city. The operator would set up the plant as well as run it for next 10 years, said officials.Rasane said that along with this, the standing committee has also given a nod to treat the surplus garbage pilled at Ramtekadi garbage depot which is lying ideal for the last few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-gives-nod-to-extend-garbage-processing-plant-capacity-by-200-metric-tonne-at-uruli-devachi-101641909820952.html
11-01-2022||Mumbai||Govt starts paying refund to med students who lost govt college seat to Maratha quota||Mumbai More than two years after nearly 112 medical and dental aspirants lost their merit-earned seat in a government institute and subsequently had to opt for a seat in a private one due to the sudden introduction of the Maratha quota, the government started the refund process. This amount was promised to students—106 undergraduate students enrolled in the 4.5-year MBBS course and six postgraduate medical and dental students—by the then BJP-led government and was finally approved by the current MVA government in the state cabinet in August 2021. “The official approval for the refund came through last year and we were waiting to hear from the government about the refund, as well as payment of fees for the second academic year. We have received the refund for the fees we paid in the first year. Second year onwards, the government directly started paying the fees to the respective institute. We are thankful that the medical institute never insisted on the fees in the second year since the matter was sub judice, but waited for the direct payment to come through the government itself,” said Juga Chirania, father of one of the students. Chirania’s daughter was originally allotted a seat in a government medical college but had to forgo the seat after the inclusion of the Maratha quota, and instead was placed in NKP Salve Medical College, a private medical college in Nagpur. While the fees at the GMC was around one lakh rupees for the academic year, the fees that they paid at the private medical college was nearly ₹10.5 lakh a year. The government had promised a 90% refund and Chirania received a refund of nearly ₹8.5 lakh for the first year. In 2019, the then BJP-led Maharashtra government introduced a 16% reservation quota in admissions to professional courses. Admissions to UG medical courses was underway and the sudden inclusion of new quota seats meant fewer seats for students in the open category. The direct impact of the new quota was felt by over 100 UG and PG medical students who despite higher marks, missed their open category seat in a government medical institute and were instead placed in a private medical institute. A long legal battle ensued and after the court’s intervention, the MVA government in August 2021 approved the refund of ₹7.5 crore per year to the 112 affected students. Since parents had already paid the fees for the first academic year, the refund of the excess fees paid by students was refunded starting Tuesday.While parents are happy about the move, many are still awaiting justice. Activists allege that nearly 250 students were affected by the sudden inclusion of both the Maratha as well as the economically weaker sections (EWS) quotas in 2019. “The figures approved by the government is for only half the affected students, so our fight continues. We are happy at least these students are finally getting justice,” said Sudha Shenoy, activist fighting for the rights of medical aspirants.
11-01-2022||Lucknow||‘The party I go to…’: Swami Prasad Maurya’ prophecy after exiting BJP||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh’s labour minister, Swami Prasad Maurya, 68, resigned from the state cabinet on Tuesday, delivering a severe jolt to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly elections starting February 10.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted a photograph with Swami Prasad Maurya, who quit the Yogi Adityanath-led cabinet a few minutes after he meeting Akhilesh Yadav to join the SP on Tuesday. Maurya’s resignation was followed by more exits from the BJP with three MLAs – Bhagwati Sagar from Bilhaur (Kanpur), Brajesh Prajapati, MLA from Tindwari assembly seat of Banda and Roshan Lal Verma, Tilhar Shahjahanpur - reportedly sending their resignation letters to the party. There were reports that some other legislators and BJP leaders were also in touch with the Samajwadi Party.“Despite the adverse situation, I have worked with all responsibility and dedication as a minister of labour, employment in chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s cabinet. But I am resigning from the UP ministry in view of gross neglect towards Dalits, backward classes, farmers, unemployed youth and small-medium sized traders,” said Maurya in a letter addressed to the UP governor. UP Raj Bhawan confirmed receipt of the resignation letter from Maurya. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is yet to react to Maury’s exit. “Ab pata chalega Swami Prasad Maurya kaun hai. Main jahan rahunga, wahan sarkar banegi. (Now it will be known to them who Swami Prasad Maurya is. The party I go to will form the government,” Maurya told reporters later.On June 22, 2016, Maurya resigned from the BSP and as leader of opposition in the state assembly, accusing the BSP of running a ‘money for ticket’ syndicate and joined the BJP.He was elected to state assembly from Padrauna seat of Kushinagar while his daughter Sanghmitra Maurya is BJP MP from Badaun. Both of them have remained unavailable for comments. In a post on Twitter, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said: “Known for his fight for social justice and equality, Swami Prasad Maurya is welcome with greetings and honour, along with his workers and supporters. There will be a revolution on the social justice front. There will be a change in 2022.” Reacting to Maurya’s resignation, senior BJP leader and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said: “I do not know the reasons why respected Swami Prasad Mauryaji has resigned. I appeal he should sit to talk. Any decisions taken in haste could prove wrong.”“This must be a fall out of pressure tactics instead of ideological commitments. Maurya may be pressuring the BJP for distribution of tickets his way while the BJP may be having its own considerations. Leaders may not be satisfied over the distribution of tickets and so may leave their respective parties before polls,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University. 
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Century on, SGPC republishes book on maharaja of Nabha||AMRITSAR: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has republished a book on erstwhile maharaja of Nabha, Ripudaman Singh, after around a century, considering it relevant even today amid people’s struggle against the government policies.According to the SGPC office note that proposed the republishing of this historic document during the headship of Jagir Kaur last year, the book entitled “Truth About Nabha: The tale of betrayal with Maharaja Ripudaman Singh by British Empire” is an important document. “It’s been around 100 years since it was published during the Gurdwara Reforms Movement by the SGPC. At present, it should be republished keeping in view of the need of the hour. And it should also be sent to the masses by translating it into Punjabi,” it states.Not authorised to talk officially, an SGPC official said when the book was proposed to be republished, the farmers’ agitation against three farm laws was at its peak. “As the SGPC was also making its contribution to the agitation, it resolved to take such a decision,” he added.The 80-page book in English is a historic account of how British rulers betrayed Nabha’s ruler and expelled from the princely state. In 1923, British rulers forced Maharaja Ripudaman Singh to leave Nabha and settle at Dehradun. In 1928, he was formally deposed by the British for sedition and succeeded by his eldest son, Pratap Singh. He was stripped of his rank and titles and exiled to Kodaikanal in the Madras Presidency, where he died in 1942 at the age of 59.“The booklet is an attempt to lay before all lovers of truth the facts which compelled them (Sikhs) to determine to get the grievous wrong done to Nabha and the Panth redressed by all peaceful and legitimate means,” reads the foreword of the document, earlier published in 1923. It is believed that the book was authored by scholars of the gurdwara body, but their names are not mentioned.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said: “The apex gurdwara body is making efforts to reprint all the history documents which are out of print for many decades and are still relevant to be read by the community. Republishing this book is also a part of these efforts”.
11-01-2022||Other||Limb development genes responsible for fingerprint patterns: BHU scientist||A study, recently published in one of the most prestigious scientific journals of Science -CELL, has found that fingerprint patterns in humans are determined by the limb development genes. The study was conducted by a team of international scientists from Shanghai, Australia, UK, USA, and India, said BHU in a press statement.Dr Chandana, scientist from Centre for Genetic Disorders, Institute of Science, BHU was the only scientist from India in the team.Fingerprints are known to be unique to an individual but they can be generally categorized into three types – arch, loop, and whorl. To understand the genes responsible for fingerprint patterns, the team studied DNA from more than 23000 individuals from different ethnic groups and identified 43 genetic loci contributing to fingerprint pattern. Interestingly, they found that most of these genetic loci are from the genes involved in the limb development pathways rather than genes related to skin development, stated the press release.One of the topmost genes identified was EVI1, which has been known for its role in embryonic limb development. When the team further tested using mouse models of EVI1, they found that genetically modified mice with decreased expression of EVI1 developed abnormal skin patterns on their digits compared to the wild-type normal mice.Dr Chandana said, “There are no fingerprints in mice, but it was interesting to develop a method of scoring the ridges (the analogue of fingerprints). When we compared these ridge patterns between modified EVI1 and normal mouse, we found a similar result as humans.” This is one most comprehensive study on genetics of fingerprint patterns.Prof Parimal Das, coordinator of Centre for Genetic Disorders, said, “Comprehensive study like this involving population genetics, mice model, cell biology, protein network, is a powerful approach to unravel the biology of complex traits and is the need of the hour.”Prof Anil Kumar Tripathi, director, Institute of Science said, “Genetic association of fingerprints with limb development is a new dimension of developmental biology which may have important societal implications. Participation of Dr Chandana in this study reflects her zest for inquiry into the mysteries of nature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/limb-development-genes-responsible-for-fingerprint-patterns-bhu-scientist-101641904715636.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's Covid tally up again with 21,259 new cases; active caseload nears 75k||Delhi's daily count of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up again on Tuesday after 21,259 fresh cases were registered, taking the caseload to nearly 16 lakh, according to the health department's bulletin. A day ago, 19,166 people had tested positive for the virus.As many as 23 people died due to related ailments pushing the cumulative toll to 25,200.However, more patients were discharged on Tuesday (82,884) as compared to Monday (76,670), taking the total recoveries to 14,90,074. The active caseload in Delhi neared 75,000 (74,881 to be exact).Also Read| Delhi brings in new curbs to combat Covid spread. Check what's open, what's shutMore than 82,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. These include 61,060 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 21,824 rapid antigen tests, the health department's bulletin showed.Containment zones in the national capital have climbed to 17,269 and 50,796 infected patients are in home isolation.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 11th January 2022🏥 #delhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/1Nas5HywNwThe national capital has been placed under fresh curbs to ward off the spread of Covid-19. According to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), all private offices will be closed except those falling under the exempted category. Dine-in services in all restaurants and bars will be suspended but food delivery is allowed.Night curfew and a weekend curfew is already in place in the national capital, while establishments such as gymnasiums, cinema halls and spas have been shut until further orders. All schools, colleges and educational institutions are also closed and students have to attend online classes.Also Read| Amid Covid surge, Kejriwal says no plan for lockdown in Delhi, but some curbsEarlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal ruled out the possibility of a lockdown in Delhi. “About 22,000 Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 24-25% in the last few days...Don't worry, we will not impose lockdown...At the DDMA meet we requested Central govt officials to cover the entire NCR for restrictions, they assured us on the same,” Kejriwal said, according to news agency ANI.The authorities have vaccinated 2,77,19,689 beneficiaries against Covid-19 so far. Of these, more than 1.6 crore beneficiaries have received the first dose, while more than 1.16 crore have received both the doses.Over three lakh children between the ages of 15-18 have been vaccinated and precautionary doses have been administered to 18,858 beneficiaries, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-tally-up-again-with-21-259-new-cases-active-caseload-nears-75k-101641902319062.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||UP minister Swami Prasad Maurya resigns from cabinet, likely to join SP||LUCKNOW UP’s labour minister, Swami Prasad Maurya, 68, resigned from the state cabinet on Tuesday, giving a severe jolt to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections in the state. Considered a strong OBC face, the five-term MLA was likely to join the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP). Maurya was a minister in the Mayawati-led government and leader of opposition earlier. His decision to jump ship to the SP may further strengthen Akhilesh Yadav’s party among the Dalits and the OBCs. The resignation led to more exits from the BJP with three MLAs – Bhagwati Sagar from Bilhaur (Kanpur), Brajesh Prajapati, MLA from Tindwari assembly seat of Banda and Roshan Lal Verma, Tilhar Shahjahanpur, reportedly sending their resignations to the party. Maurya’s resignation came amid indications that some other ministers/legislators and leaders from the BJP were also in touch with the Samajwadi Party. “Despite adverse situation, I have worked with all responsibility and dedication as a minister of labour, employment in chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s cabinet. But I am resigning from the UP ministry in view of gross neglect towards Dalits, backward classes, farmers, unemployed youth and small-medium sized traders,” said Maurya in a letter addressed to the UP governor. The UP Raj Bhawan confirmed receipt of the resignation letter from Maurya. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was yet to come out with any reaction on the resignation. “Ab pata chalega Swami Prasad Maurya kaun hai. Main jahan rahunga, wahan sarkar banegi. (Now it will be known to them who Swami Prasad Maurya is. The party, where I remain, will form the government,” said Maurya speaking to media persons later. On June 22, 2016, Maurya had resigned from the BSP and as leader of opposition in the state assembly, accusing the BSP of running ‘money for ticket’ syndicate and joined the BJP. His move of quitting the Yogi Adityanath ministry came a few minutes after he met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav to join the SP on Tuesday. He was elected to state assembly from Padrauna seat of Kushinagar while his daughter Sanghmitra Maurya is BJP MP from Badaun. Both of them have remained unavailable for comments. In a post on twitter, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav welcomed the minister to his party. A picture of Maurya and Akhilesh Yadav was also posted. Yadav said: “Known for his fight for social justice and equality, Swami Prasad Maurya is welcome with greetings and honour, along with his workers and supporters. There will be a revolution on the social justice front. There will be a change in 2022.” Reacting to Maurya’s resignation, senior BJP leader and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said: “I do not know the reasons why respected Swami Prasad Mauryaji has resigned. I appeal he should sit to talk. Any decisions taken in haste could prove wrong.” “This must be a fall out of pressure tactics instead of ideological commitments. Maurya may be pressuring the BJP for distribution of tickets his way while the BJP may be having its own considerations. Leaders may not be satisfied over the distribution of tickets and so may leave their respective parties before polls,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University. 
11-01-2022||Noida||SC disposes of plea against blocking of roads due to farmers' protest||Taking into account that farmers' protest against three agriculture laws has ended and roads blocked due to it are opened, the Supreme Court on Tuesday disposed of a PIL of woman resident of Noida who sought direction to ensure that the road between Noida to Delhi is kept clear so that the passage is not affected.A Bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul disposed of the PIL saying it has now become infructuous beacuse of the clearance of roads.Noida resident Monicca Agarwaal had filed the plea in the apex court and alleged that her travel to Delhi is taking two hours instead of normal 20 minutes.She had contended that despite the various directions passed by the apex court to keep the to and fro passage clear (the road), the same had still not happened.Being a single parent who has some medical issues, Agarwaal said that it has become a nightmare to travel to Delhi. The plea said she stayed and worked in Noida, but since she had a marketing job she had to travel frequently to Delhi.Earlier, the apex court had said that farmers have right to protest but roads can't be blocked indefinitely.The top court also took grim view of the continued blockade of highways in Delhi-NCR due to farmers protests against the three agriculture laws and said that this can not be a perpetual problem.The Bench had said that redressal of the issue can be through judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates and asked how can highways be blocked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sc-disposes-of-plea-against-blocking-of-roads-due-to-farmers-protest-101641900131512.html
11-01-2022||Other||Broader anti-BJP alliance may be easier said than done in Goa||PANAJI:  Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker Mahua Moitra last week suggested the opposition parties in Goa could join hands to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the February 14 assembly elections. In a tweet, she said TMC will do everything possible to defeat BJP in Goa. Moitra said TMC chief Mamata Banerjee has done it in West Bengal and will not shy away from going the extra mile in Goa. She called for ensuring none of the parties in the Opposition ended up supporting the BJP after the polls.Congress leader P Chidambaram backed the idea by suggesting a day later that his party was open to support from other parties seeking to remove the BJP from power. “Congress is capable of defeating BJP, but if any party wants to support Congress to defeat BJP why should I say no?” Chidambaram said. He added that Congress was yet to receive a formal offer from the TMC. “...for the moment, there was nothing to consider.”The Goa Forward Party (GFP) too suggested an alliance was on the cards. Vijai Sardesai, the GFP chief, said the Opposition parties needed to “keep egos aside” to defeat the BJP.But there has been dissonance over the issue within the Opposition camp, suggesting the broader alliance is easier said than done. Congress’s Goa in charge Dinesh Gundu Rao has rejected reports suggesting Rahul Gandhi summoned party leaders to discuss an alliance with TMC as “completely baseless and unfounded.”Also Read | Goa minister, another MLA quit BJPThe Congress and the GFP have announced an alliance while the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and TMC have separately tied up. Analysts said the broader alliance was unlikely because of the bad blood between Congress and the TMC. TMC is mainly banking on the Congress leaders, who have defected to the Banerjee-led party. The defections earlier triggered a war of words between the two parties.Political analyst Cleofato Almeida Coutinho said such an alliance “would not be possible” even if desirable. “The TMC and Congress are fighting for the same vote base...” Rao said the TMC’s offer for a grand alliance has come too late and after the Bengal-based party sought to belittle the Congress. “If they wanted an alliance, they should have come earlier and in a good way. You cannot poach our people and then ask for an alliance.”The TMC’s first focussed on Banerjee’s strong leadership, which it insisted was best placed to take on the BJP in Goa. It contrasted her leadership style with that of the Congress, which was projected as lacking the intent and mettle to fight the BJP.Analysts said the broader alliance would ensure the anti-BJP vote is not split. “The decision of the MGP, which claims to have a Hindu conservative vote base, not to align with the BJP has put the ruling party on the back foot. Now, the possible consolidation of the opposition camp would further dent the party. Without (late former chief minister) Manohar Parrikar’s charisma to bank on, the Goa BJP has its back to the wall,” said political observer Mayabhushan Nagvenkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/broader-anti-bjp-alliance-may-be-easier-said-than-done-in-goa-101641898834902.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Congress sets up manifesto, campaign committees||The Congress on Tuesday constituted its manifesto and campaign committees for the February 14 Punjab assembly elections. Also read: PM Modi’s Ferozepur rally would have seen highest-ever turnout, but…: ShekhawatThe manifesto committee that is headed by Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa as chairman will have Lok Sabha member Dr Amar Singh as convener and cabinet minister Manpreet Singh Badal as co-chairman, according to an official statement issued by All India Congress Committee KC Venugopal. The committee, which has been tasked with drafting the Congress manifesto, includes ministers OP Soni and Rana Gurjeet Singh, Jaiveer Shergill, Lt Gen JS Dhaliwal (retd), Rahul Ahuja, Alex P Sunil, Surinder Kumar Dawar, Hardayal Kamboj, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Jasleen Sethi, Ashok Choudhary, Amit Vij, KK Agarwal, Raman Subramanian, Manju Bansal, Vijay Kalra and Surjit Singh Swaich as members. The campaign committee headed by former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar as chairman will have Lok Sabha member Ravneet Singh Bittu as convener and Amarpreet Singh Lally as co-chairman. Cabinet ministers Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Raj Kumar Verka, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Pargat Singh and former minister Sham Sunder Arora as members. Other members include Rajinder Beri, Yoginder Pal Dhingra, Jugal Kishore Sharma, KK Bawa, Hardip Singh Kingra, Bishop Emmanuel Rahmat Masih, Navjot Dahiya, Jathedar Charan Singh, Davinder Singh Garcha, Gulam Hussain, Balbir Sidhu, Sandeep Sandhu, Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon, Durlab Singh and Samrat Dhingra. Both Bajwa and Jakhar were named chairmen of the panels last month. The committees will have Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress Legislature Party leader Charanjit Singh Channi, four state unit working presidents and AICC secretaries from Punjab and heads of all frontal organisations as permanent members. The campaign committee will include all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members of the party from Punjab as permanent members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-congress-sets-up-manifesto-campaign-committees-101641898714938.html
11-01-2022||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Clearing the air||The artificial lungs on the billboard at Jungli Maharaj (JM) road which were white when installed on December 27 in the presence of Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and municipal officials are quite grey now. Sharmila Deo, from Parisar, the NGO that brought the exhibit to Pune says, “The pollutant deposit in just two weeks shows how unhealthy the city air is. The billboard has generated considerable interest in the issue. We hope it will lead to more robust air action planning and implementation.” Pune is among 19 cities in Maharashtra and 132 in India, with air too polluted to meet the standards set by the Central Pollution Control Board. Under the central government’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) initiated in early 2019, these cities are expected to reduce air pollution by 20 to 30 per cent as compared to 2017. Three years on, most cities in Maharashtra have prepared air action plans. Studies have been commissioned to understand the sources and quantities of different air pollutants in each city. As the collective understanding evolves, the plans can become more specific and linked to pollution reduction targets. The plans aim to address sources such as road dust, vehicle emissions, biomass and waste burning, industrial emissions, and promote greening and public awareness. The NCAP and associated funding should help cities find comprehensive solutions in these important areas. Amarnath, programme coordinator, Centre for Environment Education suggests that “Addressing air pollution from a narrow perspective and knee-jerk measures may be of limited value and may even be counterproductive. Instead, cities should address root causes of air pollution and catalyse innovation and transformation in those sectors”. For example, most cities aim to reduce road dust by edge-to-edge paving, black topping of roads, and repairing potholes. However, hard paving also means that little or no water percolates into the soil, and the area may become prone to flash floods. Instead, city governments should adopt the mandated road design codes and develop complete streets with proper footpaths, stormwater management and road maintenance. Making roads walk-friendly while improving their surface and water permeability would be even better for air quality. Instead of hard paving, nature-based solutions can be incorporated into street design for dust mitigation. Akash Hingorani from Oasis Designs, the urban-landscape design firm that designed Jungli Maharaj road, suggests that urban streets can play a critical role in stormwater management. Streets designed with swales help filter, convey, slow, spread and soak rainwater, while supporting native plant biodiversity. The vegetation improves air quality and buffers sidewalks from vehicular traffic and noise. De-concretising unnecessarily paved areas and replacing with nature and water-sensitive designs can make cities more resilient to climate change and extreme weather events. Most of the Maharashtra city air action plans also mention road widening, signal-free corridors, and multi-level parking. Perhaps the view is that keeping motorised traffic moving instead of idling will reduce air pollution. Unfortunately, since vehicle numbers are increasing in all these cities, such measures may not curb vehicular emissions. On the contrary, they might lead to an increase in air pollution since more drivers would be attracted to the wider roads and green signals. Improving the walking, cycling and public transport facilities along with regulating parking and restricting private vehicles in some congested areas may be the most effective way to reduce vehicle emissions. However, currently most city air action plans in Maharashtra, with the notable exception of a few like Pune and Nagpur, do not mention street design at all, and none mention curbs on motorised vehicles usage. Many city action plans mention purchase of buses. The attention to public transport is welcome. Cities need to further think through the arrangements for operating the bus services which is not a trivial task. The urban ministry and transport ministry have institutional mandates and years of experience with bus-based public transport. The expertise of agencies affiliated to these ministries could guide the bus purchase and operations that cities are now getting into. The city plans mention air pollution from industries. Some plans only state the number of units within the city limits while some mention that erring units have been given notices for compliances or even closure. However, simply issuing closure notices may not help. The public interest in air quality and the policy leadership under the NCAP should promote cleaner production and the shift to cleaner fuels and renewable energy. Micro and small units may need technical support, financing, and handholding to make the shift. It is not only regulatory action through pollution control boards that cities need. The NCAP must spur coordinated, knowledge-backed, thoughtful actions at the relevant urban scale since significant air pollution sources may lie outside municipal boundaries. Cities are expected to form local committees for managing such engagement. They should help enhance public and stakeholder understanding about health risks from polluted air, aim for targeted pollution reduction, learn about potential solutions and good practices, and plan and implement locally relevant actions with public participation. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-clearing-the-air-101641897698398.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Inter-state gang of robbers busted, 7 members held||Police busted a gang of inter-state robbers by arresting seven of its members and recovering arms, ammunition and a number of stolen items, including vehicles. Also read: Punjab elections: Ex-Congress MLA Arvind Khanna, Tohra’s grandson join BJPHoshiarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kulwant Singh Heer said on Tuesday that four .32-bore pistols, three daggers, two cars, a scooter, a motorcycle, 10 mobile phones and two gold chains were recovered from the gang. The accused were identified as Aditya Bawa and Maninderjit Singh, residents of Gobindpur in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Jashandeep Singh of Shergarh in Sirsa, Kamaldeep Singh of Fateh Nagar in SBS Nagar, Harkamal and Tarwinder Singh of Hoshiarpur and Hukum Dev of Jharkhand. Aditya Bawa was a sharpshooter wanted for kidnapping the manager of Punjab National Bank, Sirsa, the SSP said. He said that the gang had looted six petrol pumps in different cities of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interstate-gang-of-robbers-busted-7-members-held-101641897154958.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi brings in new curbs to combat Covid spread. Check what's open, what's shut||Delhi will be placed under fresh curbs from Tuesday in the wake of a rapid surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fueled by the Omicron variant.For the past few days, daily cases in Delhi have been above the 20,000 mark except Monday, when 19,166 people tested positive for Covid-19. Even though deaths have been relatively low, the authorities are exercising caution due to the Omicron strain which is no longer a mild variant and has been killing and hospitalising people just like the previous variants in several parts of the world, as warned by the World Health Organisation (WHO).According to the latest order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), all private offices will be closed except those falling under the exempted category. Dine-in services in all restaurants and bars will be suspended. However, food delivery services will continue as usual.The national capital is already observing night and weekend curfews to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. The government, however, is against imposing a full lockdown as it had done previously.Here are details of some of the frequently asked questions (FAQs) that might arise following the latest guidelines:Are we allowed to attend offices?For the government sector, only people engaged in essential services such as Covid-19 management will be allowed to attend offices. Rest all will work from home (WFH).Similarly, in the private sector, people working with private banks, insurance companies, courier services, non-banking financial corporations and other organisations providing essential services can attend office. Those working in any other sector will have to switch to the work-from-home mode.Will night and weekend curfew still be in place?Yes. Both the curfews will be in place. All non-essential services and non-essential travel are banned.Are we allowed to eat outside?No, all dine-in services in restaurants, bars have been suspended. People are also not allowed to eat from food stalls. However, all food delivery services will continue.Will schools, colleges and educational institutions conduct offline classes?Offline classes are not allowed and only online mode of learning will go on for now.Will shops remain open?Shops in markets or malls can remain open on an odd-even basis from 10am till 8pm.Are we allowed to go to cinema halls, gymnasiums and spas?No. All these establishments have been closed for now.Can we commute using public transport?Yes, the Delhi Metro and DTC buses are operating at full capacity. However, passengers are not allowed to travel standing on the buses or metros.(With inputs from Saurya Sengupta, Alok KN Mishra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-brings-in-new-curbs-to-combat-covid-spread-check-what-s-open-what-s-shut-101641891449602.html
11-01-2022||Kolkata||Covid -ve reports, full vaccination must for Gangasagar Mela attendees: HC||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court on Tuesday made negative RT-PCR test reports as well as full Covid-19 vaccination mandatory for all pilgrims attending this year’s Gangasagar Mela amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in West Bengal. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava directed the state health secretary to ensure that only those who have received two vaccine doses are permitted to enter the Sagar Island for the mela with negative test reports. “The chief secretary of West Bengal will be personally liable to ensure the compliance of the directions,” the court said. Around half a million people from across India are expected to arrive for the mela, which was inaugurated on Monday. Pilgrims would take the holy dip there on January 14 on the occasion of Makar Sankranti at the confluence of the Ganga and the Bay of Bengal. On Friday, the court allowed the West Bengal government to organise the mela subject to strict safety protocols. The court formed a three member committee with a representative of the state, leader of the opposition in the assembly, and chairman of the state human rights panel to ensure the protocols were being followed. On Monday, the government and doctors’ forums urged the court not to include a political member (the leader of the opposition) in the committee. The court on Tuesday formed a new two-member committee comprising Justice (retired) Samapti Chatterjee and member secretary of the West Bengal Legal Services Authority to ensure the protocols were being maintained.The government on December 2 imposed restrictions to check the spread of coronavirus. It capped the number of people attending social, cultural and religious gatherings to 50. “Gangasagar Mela is also in the nature of social, religious and cultural gathering. Therefore, this order clearly applies and it is required to be implemented by the state authorities with full force,” the court said earlier. The mela is the second largest congregation of pilgrims in India after the Kumbh in Prayag. In 2020, around five million pilgrims from across India attended it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid-ve-reports-full-vaccination-must-for-gangasagar-mela-attendees-hc-101641894754677.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt to offer free online yoga classes to Covid patients in home isolation||The Delhi government will offer free online yoga classes to Covid-19 patients in home isolation, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. Registrations for the purpose began on Tuesday and classes will start on Wednesday, he said.“In the first such initiative, we have decided to start special yoga classes for all Covid-19 patients who are getting treated in Delhi under our home isolation programme. They will be able to learn yoga and pranayama from our instructors...through one-to-one online classes. For this, a big team of instructors has been created who have been specially trained to teach Covid related asanas and pranayama to the patients,” Kejriwal said.Registration links will be sent to Covid-19 patients, where they can register for the classes and book their preferred time slots. Each yoga class will be an hour long. The patients can pick slots between 6am and 11am or 4pm and 7pm.“Our team of instructors has the capacity to impart yoga classes to 40,000 patients simultaneously at present. Each class will have only 15 patients so that the instructor is able to give attention to every person and talk on a one-on-one basis. We also had the option to offer video classes where one instructor is teaching about 10,000 patients. We decided against that because that does not ensure personal attention to the patients,” Kejriwal said.Also Read | Delhi orders WFH for private offices, closure of restaurants and bars“Yoga and pranayama improve immunity. They also help to uplift the mental and emotional state of a person. I hope this helps people and keeps everybody in Delhi healthy,” Kejriwal said.On December 13, Kejriwal announced the “Dilli Ki Yogshala” programme under which the government will offer free yoga classes to people within their housing societies, colony parks or even community centres. The programme was to start from this month. But due to the surge in Covid-19 cases and the restrictions in place, the plan was deferred.“We had a team of at least 400 certified yoga instructors ready for this programme. Their classes were to start from this month, but due to the new Covid wave, the programme was deferred. So, the chief minister held a meeting to discuss how these instructors could help in the ongoing Covid-19 management and that is when this idea came up. The chief minister immediately gave a go-ahead for the same,” said a government official, who did not want to be named.The programme was approved in February. For the trainers, the government has roped in the Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University and its own training and technical education team. The Centre for Meditation and Yoga Sciences (CMYS) was established in collaboration with the university. CMYS launched diploma and certificate courses and enrolled 650 plus students. These students were then trained and certified to be yoga instructors, and will now teach yoga to people of Delhi, a second official said.
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Ex-Congress MLA Arvind Khanna, Tohra’s grandson join BJP||Former Congress MLA and businessman Arvind Khanna joined the BJP along with Kanwar Singh Tohra, the grandson of late Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Gurcharan Singh Tohra in the national capital on Tuesday. Also read: Punjab polls: Youth wing leaders revolt against AAP over tickets to turncoatsTwo-time MLA Khanna had left active politics in 2014. He was elected from Sangrur in 2002 and from Dhuri in 2012. Both the leaders joined the party in the presence of Union minister and the party’s election in-charge for Punjab, Gajendra Shekhawat, and party co-in-charge and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. According to senior BJP leaders, the party plans to field Khanna from Ludhiana City though a final decision is yet to be taken. Kanwar Singh Tohra is the younger son of former PWD minister Harmel Singh Tohra. Another leader who joined the BJP is Gurdeep Singh Gosha, the general secretary of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Dharamveer Sareen, a former councillor from Amritsar, also joined the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-ex-congress-mla-arvind-khanna-tohra-s-grandson-join-bjp-101641889474633.html
11-01-2022||Bangalore||Karnataka Police file second case against DK Shivakumar for padayatra; 40 others also named||Police in Karnataka's Ramanagara have filed a second case against state Congress chief DK Shivakumar and 40 otehrs, including his brother, Lok Sabha MP DK Suresh, for allegedly violating Covid-19 norms during the Shivakumar-led ‘padayatra’ (foot march) demanding early implementation of the Mekedatu drinking water project across the Cauvery in the southern state.Also Read | BJP lashes out at Karnataka Congress chief over refusal to get Covid-19 test“Around 41 persons, including Shivakumar and Member of Parliament, DK Suresh, have been named in an FIR that has been filed at the Sathanur police station for violation of Covid-19 norms,” informed a police officer.In the first FIR, filed on Sunday, day 1 of the 10-day padayatra, a total of 30 people were named for allegedly violating the Covid-19 norms imposed across Karnataka.Also Read | ‘Shows his culture’: Karnataka CM Bommai targets state Congress chief Shivakumar over padayatra despite Covid surgeMeanwhile, Shivakumar, on Tuesday, continued with his protest march, sharing pictures on his Twitter handle of people giving him a ‘rousing’ welcome. “The rousing welcome given by the people of Kanakpura to Day 3 of #Mekedatu Padyatra speaks of their commitment towards Karnataka's future. These pictures speak for themselves,” he posted. The rousing welcome given by the people of Kanakpura to Day 3 of #Mekedatu Padyatra speaks of their commitment towards Karnataka's future. These pictures speak for themselves:#NammaNeeruNammaHakku pic.twitter.com/iJg65pfEic“Day 3 of #Mekedatu Padyatra started with taking blessings at the temple. The cause we are marching for unites all Kannadigas and we sought blessings to fight till the last breath,” he said in yet another tweet.
11-01-2022||Jaipur||Over 93% eligible population receive first dose of Covid vaccine in Rajasthan, second dose coverage at 76%||More than 93 percent of the eligible population in Rajasthan has received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine, Health Minister Parsadi Lal Meena said on Tuesday.The 70-year-old Meena, who was administered the precautionary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital here, said the pandemic can be defeated only by vaccination. "Be it the first dose or the second or the precautionary dose, whether eligible adolescents or elders, everyone should get the dose," he said.In a statement, he noted that recently Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has directed that by January 31, all eligible people will have to get both the doses, otherwise their visit to government offices will be stopped. For the interest of the country, the state and also for the sake of one's own interest, everyone should get both the doses in the stipulated time, he added.Meena said there is tremendous enthusiasm among the common people regarding vaccination in the state.The minister said that so far more than 93 percent of the population in the state has received the first dose of vaccine and 76 percent of the eligible people have received the second dose.At the same time, more than 40 per cent of adolescent girls in the age group of 15 to 18 have been given the first dose.He said that people are also enthusiastic about the precautionary dose and so far about one lakh people have received the third dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/over-93-eligible-population-receive-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-rajasthan-second-dose-coverage-at-76-101641887114804.html
11-01-2022||Kolkata||Calcutta High Court drops Suvendu Adhikari from Gangasagar Mela monitoring panel||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday dropped the leader of the opposition in the state assembly from a three-member committee formed on January 7 to monitor monitoring compliance of Covid restrictions at Gangasagar Mela in Sagar Island. The West Bengal government run by the Trinamool Congress objected to the inclusion of the Leader of the Opposition, BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, in the committee. The division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice Kesong Doma Bhutia has instead reconstituted it to a two member committee comprising former Justice Samapti Chatterjee and the member secretary of the West Bengal Legal Services Authority. Earlier, while allowing the annual congregation of pilgrims to take place between January 8 and 16, the bench directed that the entire Sagar Island be declared a notified area. The bench on Monday iterated that this be done within 24 hours. It also instructed that all those visiting the Mela should be doubly vaccinated and test negative in an RTPCR test, conducted 72 hours before reaching the venue. It has also asked for strict regulation of crowds to maintain social distancing. Declaration of the island as a notified area will empower the state to take measures for safeguarding the health and welfare of the pilgrims as it deems necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-high-court-drops-suvendu-adhikari-from-gangasagar-mela-monitoring-panel-101641887405026.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Police busts terror module behind Pathankot Army camp attack, 6 held||Punjab Police has solved the hand grenade attacks including an attack at Pathankot Army Camp by busting a major terror module backed by the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) group with the arrest of its six operatives.The SBS Nagar police have also recovered six hand-grenades (86 P), one pistol (9mm), one rifle (.30 bore) along with live bullets and magazines from their possession, Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab VK Bhawra said.Those arrested have been identified as Amandeep alias Mantri, Gurwinder Singh alias Gindi, Parminder Kumar alias Rohit alias Rohta, Rajinder Singh alias Malhi alias Nikku, Harpreet Singh alias Dholki and Raman Kumar.As per the information, in two instances some unidentified persons had hurled hand grenades at Pathankot-- one near Chakki Pull on November 11, 2021, while another grenade attack took place outside Triveni Dwar, 21 sub-area of Army at Pathankot on November 21, 2021.Separate First Information Report (FIRs) in this regard were registered at Police Station Pathankot Division 2 and Division 1 respectively.The DGP said that during the preliminary interrogation, accused persons revealed that they were directly in touch with self-proclaimed Chief of ISYF (Rode) Lakhbir Singh Rode and his close aides identified as Sukhmeetpal Singh alias Sukh Bhikhariwal and Sukhpreet alias Sukh for planning terrorist attacks."The entire cache of the recovered hand grenades, arms and ammunition were pushed in from across the International border by Lakhbir Rode and arrested accused persons had been tasked for further attacking the pre-identified targets which were mainly police and defence establishments, religious places etc," he said.The accused persons have also confessed to having lobbed hand grenades for two times in Pathankot, he added.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), SBS Nagar, Kanwardeep Kaur said that the SBS Nagar Police have registered the FIR dated 07-01-2021 under sections 16,17,18 and 20 of the UA(P) Act, sections 4 and 5 Explosive Substances Act and section 25 of the Arms Act at Police Station City Nawanshahr."Further investigations are on," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-busts-terror-module-behind-pathankot-army-camp-attack-6-held-101641887269585.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana doctors’ strike hits OPD services at civil hospitals||Unaware of the strike call given by doctors at civil hospitals across the state, patients and their attendants were seen waiting outside outpatient departments (OPDs) on Tuesday morning, while the authorities struggled to make alternative arrangements to tide over the shortage of staff. Also read: Despite Covid-19 surge, travel bookings see negligible dropProtesting under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA), the doctors alleged that the Haryana government has ignored their demands and backtracked on promises made to them by state health minister Anil Vij. However, they said, emergency and Covid-19 treatment will not be affected but OPD services would be hit during the strike. “We don’t want to cause any harm to the patients but we are left with no other way to get the government to address our issues,” a protesting doctor said at Karnal’s civil hospital. The protesters are seeking incentives for specialised doctors and that 40% in-service candidates should be given benefits in post graduate services. They are opposed to the government’s decision to directly recruit senior medical officers (SMOs). “For 14 years, I’m the only radiologist in Karnal and even I have to visit nearby districts. Incentives and specialist cadre will help increase the strength of radiologists in the state,” said Dr Sarita. Meanwhile, the authorities in Karnal were running OPDs by taking the services of contractual and retired doctors besides interns to avoid inconvenience to patients. Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Kumar said that there was no impact of the strike on the OPD services as alternative arrangements have been made. Rohtak civil surgeon Dr JS Punia said 20 of the hospital’s 42 doctors were working and attending to OPD services. “I have directed the doctors and other staff to ensure no patient goes home without treatment. I am personally monitoring the situation,” Dr Punia added. Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya also assured that patients will not suffer. HCMSA president Dr Jasbir Singh Parmar said more than 3,000 doctors affiliated with the association were seeking creation of specialist cadre, stopping direct recruitment of senior medical officers (SMOs) and revision of the postgraduate policy. OPD services are hit hard in Ambala and Yamunanagar civil hospitals. Dr Parmar said, “We were called to meet additional chief secretary (ACS), finance, TVSN Prasad on behalf of the government. However, the officer was suffering from high fever and the meeting got cancelled. Later, the state executive body resolved that the HCMS doctors will be on mass casual leave throughout Haryana.” He said on January 12 and 13, all services will be provided as per routine, but there will be a total shutdown of services, including emergency/Covid and post-mortem from January 14 till the doctors’ demands are met. Earlier, the doctors were scheduled to observe a similar strike on December 13, but postponed it after a meeting with Vij, who had assured them that all their issues will be resolved. ACS (health) Rajeev Arora and Vij were unavailable for comments, while chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had on Friday said the health minister chaired a meeting with the doctors and a solution will be out soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-doctors-strike-hits-opd-services-at-civil-hospitals-101641887014361.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Three flights cancelled, 10 delayed due to fog in Chandigarh||Three flights from Chandigarh International Airport were cancelled and 10 were delayed due to fog on Tuesday morning. Also read: Despite Covid-19 surge, travel bookings see negligible dropThe Indigo flight to Mumbai, which was to depart at 6.15am, the Go First flight to Mumbai, which was to depart at 8am, and the Go First Airlines to Ahmedabad, which was to depart at 10.15am, were cancelled due to poor visibility. Air India flight to Leh departed late by nearly six hours, while two Kullu flights — Alliance Air and Air India — took off with a delay of nearly three hours. The Indigo flight to Delhi, which was to depart at 6.45am was delayed by 20 minutes, while the Go First flight to Srinagar, which was to leave at 11.15am was delayed by 35 minutes. Other affected flights also arrived or departed late by 30 to 40 minutes. Similar conditions to continueThe city woke up to very dense fog, and similar near-zero visibility conditions are expected to continue in the morning in coming days as well, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The visibility was down to 50 metres (very dense fog) at 5:30 am at the IMD observatory in Sector 39. By 8:30 am, it rose to 200 metres (dense fog), and was 500-1,000 metres (moderate fog) at 11:30 am. The fog finally cleared around noon.“After the recent rain spells, high humidity in the air and drop in minimum temperature will lead to fog formation for the next three to four days, especially in the early hours. People driving on roads in the morning must take precautions,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, minimum temperature went down from Monday’s 10.4°C to 8.5°C on Tuesday, still three notches above normal. Maximum temperature also dropped from 16.8°C to 15.7°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 17-18°C while minimum temperature will remain around 7-8°C. However, cold wave conditions are unlikely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-flights-cancelled-two-delayed-due-to-fog-in-chandigarh-101641885394768.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi orders WFH for private offices, closure of restaurants and bars||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday ordered the closure of restaurants and bars, and asked private offices, except those engaged in essential services, to shift to work from home (WFH) mode amid a surge in Covid-19 cases.“Restaurants will be allowed only home delivery and takeaway of food items,” the DDMA said in an order that came into force immediately.The exempted category of private offices includes banks, insurance, mediclaim, and pharmaceutical firms, among a few others. The DDMA warned of action including under the Disaster Management Act and fines in case anyone is found violating the order. It has asked authorities to ensure compliance with the order.The order came as the positivity rate in Delhi touched the 25% mark on Monday, up from 23.5% the previous day. The rate is the highest since May 6 when 26.3% of all samples returned positive.Delhi added 19,166 Covid-19 cases on Monday, around 3,500 fewer than Sunday’s count of 22,751. This drop was likely due to lower testing usually on Sundays and public holidays.The hospitalisation rate remains low. Despite more than 65,000 active Covid-19 cases in the city, fewer than 2,000 hospital beds were occupied on Monday. Over 14,000 people recovered from the disease on Sunday.The DDMA order noted that Covid-19 cases, including those of the fast-spreading Omicron variant, were rapidly increasing. “Therefore, it has been felt necessary that some more additional restrictions are required to be imposed in Delhi to contain the spread.”The latest decision is part of stricter measures planned to check spike in coronavirus cases even as the Delhi government has decided against imposing a sweeping lockdown in the Capital.The latest move is expected to be disruptive with traders and the hospitality industry saying there will be significant economic losses and the wages and employment of people in the sector would suffer. Medical experts said the curbs may be disproportionate to the threat driven by the Omicron variant, which is manifesting in a less virulent manner.Also Read: 46 Covid-linked deaths in Delhi in 5 days, more than 50% of them seniors: ReportAn official said the decision to increase curbs was taken after a jump was recorded in the number of deaths.The city recorded 17 deaths on Sunday and Monday, the highest since June 16. An interim analysis of the fatalities showed that over 75% of the 46 deaths that took place between January 5 and 9 were of unvaccinated people. At least 21 of the fatalities had an incidental Covid-19 positive test since they were likely admitted due to other illnesses, which may or may not have been made worse by the viral disease.Kabir Suri, president, the National Restaurants Association of India, said the sector has been one of the worst-hit. “We were the first ones to be shut and almost the last ones to restart during the first and second lockdowns and I reckon that this third wave is going to be even worse than last year. We somehow survived so far, but with the new guidelines announced... in Delhi it seems highly unlikely that we can sustain any longer,” he said in a statement.“We are also very worried about the fate of 301,715 people employed in Delhi restaurants. We don’t want them to suffer but unfortunately, we don’t have adequate resources to support them for long.”Confederation of All India Traders general secretary Praveen Khandelwal said instead of imposing a ban, it will be more appropriate to enforce Covid-19 protection protocols at restaurants. “The restaurant owners should be responsible for implementing such protocols in restaurants.” He added that the ban could leave thousands jobless.An official defended the move, saying restaurants were a risk since people needed to remove their masks to eat or drink. “It is well known that crowding in closed spaces accelerates the transmission of coronavirus. It was unanimously felt that such places may turn into super-spreaders even after 50% seating capacity cap already in place and thus it was decided to close the restaurants and bars,” the official said, asking not to be named.Jugal Kishore, head, the department of community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital, said drastic restrictions would not bring any further benefits. “The poor working on daily wages and in restaurants would be greatly affected by closing down. Health services also get affected due to curfew, which may have an effect on overall health conditions of the people.”Meanwhile, all existing restrictions such as the weekend curfew and night curfew will continue to remain in place.All yellow alert restrictions continue to be in place under which educational institutions, gyms and cinemas are closed, but 100% seating capacity in Metro trains and buses is allowed to avoid crowding at transport hubs. Passengers will, however, not be allowed to stand in Metro trains or buses.Shops in malls and markets are operating on an odd-even basis between 10am and 8pm. On weekdays, only one weekly market in a zone is allowed to open. Only 20 people are allowed to attend weddings and funerals.According to the DDMA order, Delhi government departments catering to essential services such as Covid-19 management will function as usual, while the staff of all other government departments will work from home.WHAT’S OPEN, WHAT’S CLOSED?Can I go to a restaurant and dine out?No. Starting today, restaurants in the Capital won’t be open for dine-in services. Only deliveries and takeaways are allowed.Can I order food at home? Will the delivery agent be stopped?Yes, you can order food at home. No, the delivery agent won’t be stopped. Delivery services are allowed.Can I eat at a food stall on the roadside?No, you can’t.Am I allowed to head to office?No, unless you work in a firm that’s part of the category exempted from the restrictions. All private offices, except those engaged in essential services, must switch to work-from-home (WFH) mode from today.Which firms are allowed to call employees to office?The exempted category of private offices includes companies that are engaged in essential services, such as private banks, media, insurance and mediclaim offices, pharma companies, etc.​​Can I visit a shopping mall/ cinema hall/ theatre/ gym/ restaurant during the weekend?No. Cinemas, theatres, gyms and spas are shut until further order. Shops located inside shopping malls will operate on an odd-even basis (10am-8pm).Is the night curfew still in place?Yes, a night curfew is in place from 10pm to 5am every day. It prohibits all non-essential travel and movement.Will there be a weekend curfew?Yes, a weekend curfew will be in place from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday. All non-essential travel and movement will remain prohibited and establishments will remain closed.Are schools and colleges open for in-person classes?No, educational institutions in Delhi have been shut since the end of December due to a surge in cases.What if I have to attend a wedding or funeral?You are allowed to attend a wedding or a funeral as long as you are among a maximum of 20 persons invited to attend the event.Are public transport services such as Metros and buses operating?Yes. Delhi Metro and DTC buses are running at 100% capacity. But passengers are not allowed to stand inside trains and buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-surge-eateries-bars-to-be-closed-pvt-offices-to-shift-to-wfh-101641883774661.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi-NCR dholwallahs worry their Lohri might be dull, this year too||The fun and frolic of Lohri is incomplete without dancing to the beats of dhol. The sound of this percussion instrument compels one to put aside the popcorn and rewari and shake a leg around the bonfire. But this year, the festival, which falls on January 13, may not entail a grand celebration owing to the rise in Covid-19 cases, thereby leaving Delhi-NCR dholwallahs in a fix. “Jo enquiries thi, ab nahin hai. Dilli se bahar thoda kaam chal raha tha pehle, par ab woh bhi zyada nahi hai,” says Rajesh Bhatt, a dholwallah from Karol Bagh, adding, “Meri Kolkata jaane ki ticket book thi, woh event postpone ho gaya. Meri team ne Goa jaana tha, woh bhi cancel... Humein umeed hai ki NCR mein kuch log ghar bulayenge Lohri par.” Celebrations are being planned at several homes in NCR, but the surge in Covid-19 cases and Omicron has forced party planners to keep dholwallahs out of the scene, leaving them with almost no work. “I had 10-15 functions scheduled this month, par sabne mana kar diya aane ke liye. Ghar pe bulane mein bhi log interested nahin hain. Kisi ke ghar me chhote bachhe hain toh kisi mein bade buzurg. Last year phir bhi business thoda bahut hua tha, ab lagta hai Lohri aise hi dull si jayegi,” rues Surya Rana, a dholwallah from south Delhi. And those who are inviting dholwallahs home have strict norms in place — fully vaccinated and masked up at all times. “Jo ghar pe Lohri mana rahe hain, sabse pehle unhone pucha ki vaccine lagwayi hai ki nahi. Do teen enquiries aisi ayi, par abhi final plan confirm hona baki hai… Covid ne toh bilkul kaam thap kar diya,” says Jai Bhatt, a dholwallah from Patel Nagar. Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
11-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19: In revised guidelines, Delhi makes work from home compulsory for private offices||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday issued revised guidelines over the coronavirus situation in the city, directing that all private offices in the national capital, except those under the exempted category, shall follow work from home.“All Private Offices shall be closed, except those which are falling under the ‘Exempted Category’ as prescribed in DDMA's GRAP Order no.460 dated 08.08.2021. The practice of work from home shall be followed,” the agency said in a notification.
11-01-2022||Delhi||Angels return to social media: Volunteers offer help online amid rising Covid cases||Mention the word ‘wave’ and daunting memories of how Delhiites struggled to cope amid the second Covid-19 wave last year come rushing back. With this in mind, some kind souls have once again come forward to lend help to those in need. Aanya Wig, a gender rights advocate who volunteered as part of Covid Fighters India, is back to posting leads on social media for help. “The bigger problem is lack of awareness on resources, more than their availability. We’re working on verifying information and posting it in our spreadsheets that are connected to websites which collect data from us to post elsewhere. This helps people easily avail what they are searching for,” says Wig. Some like Gurugrammer Pratima Arora have started offering “home-made breakfast and dinner” for Covid-19 or Omicron patients. “One of my neighbours didn’t reach out to anybody when she got Covid-19, and her husband was struggling. So, I thought why not lend a helping hand through food,” she says. Arranging hospital beds and attending to SOS calls last year was a Facebook group, Gurgaon-Delhi Covid Helping Hands. And amid the surge in cases, Dheerak Kaninwal from Gurugram has brought the group back in action. “We’ve started posting about those who need food for Covid-infected patients and answered queries about beds,” says this IT professional.And some, like Sonia Singh, are reaching out to those who have less or no access to social media. This Gurugram-based media producer is facilitating doorstep delivery of medicines and other essential items to individuals in the city. “Not everyone is tech savvy to order through apps and websites... So many helped each other at that time (of second wave), out of empathy and some even came forward to give us leads. Even now, whoever sees the relayed message steps in if they are in a position to help,” she says.And this heart warming gesture can be seen not just in Delhi-NCR, but even in Mumbai. Joy Das, an advertising executive who using Twitter to provide food, medicines and groceries, says: “I feared a repeat (of the second wave), and that this year might turn out to be the same as 2020. Last year, I spent sleepless nights arranging whatever help was needed. Social media becomes so beautiful when people come together to help!”Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
11-01-2022||Mumbai||Bulli Bai app case: Accused moves Mumbai court for bail||MUMBAI: Vishal Kumar Jha, who was the first to be arrested in connection with the Bulli Bai app used to put hundreds of Muslim women on “auction”, has filed a bail application in a Mumbai court. The court on Monday posted his plea for a hearing on Thursday to allow the prosecution to file a reply.In his plea, Jha said the main accused in the case was someone else and the other accused from different states were not connected to him. The plea was moved after he was remanded in judicial custody.The Mumbai Police told Metropolitan Magistrate K C Rajput that Jha has contracted Covid-19 and should be sent in judicial custody as he was admitted to a Covid centre. When Jha’s lawyers, Aarti Deshmukh and Shivamsinh Deshmukh, moved the bail plea, the prosecution opposed it saying they will need to interrogate him.Jha said he has handed over his laptop, mobile phone, and SIM cards to the investigating agency and he is in no position to tamper with any evidence. He claimed the prosecution has failed to provide any concrete evidence in support of allegations against him.Mumbai Police are probing the app hosted on the code-sharing platform GitHub. The app was named after derogatory references to the Muslim community. Hundreds of Muslim women, including vocal activists and top professionals, were listed for “auction” along with their photographs sourced without permission and doctored. Jha was arrested from Bengaluru for allegedly running one of the Twitter handles used to promote the app. The Mumbai Police later arrested Shweta Singh, 18, and Mayank Rawat, 20, from Uttarakhand in the case. Neeraj Bishnoi, 21, the creator of the app, was arrested days later last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bulli-bai-app-accused-moves-mumbai-court-for-bail-101641880834917.html
11-01-2022||Patna||4,737 fresh Covid-19 cases in Bihar, 6-yr-old among five dead||Bihar on Monday reported 4,737 fresh coronavirus infections and five deaths, including that of a six-year-old girl, a bulletin issued by the state health department said. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar tested positive for COVID-19 during the day and is in home isolation. His ministers Tarkishore Prasad, Renu Devi, Ashok Choudhary, Shahnawaz Hussain and Sunil Kumar, besides former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi have also tested positive for the infection, it said. With the fresh cases, the state’s overall active coronavirus count jumped to 20,938, while the toll increased to 12,106, the bulletin said. The number of infections on Monday was less than 5022 cases reported in the state on Sunday, the bulletin said. Patna recorded all time high of 2566 COVID-19 cases on Monday. On Sunday, the state capital had logged 2,018 cases, it said. Bihar government began administering the booster dose of COVID-19 vaccine to vulnerable groups such as healthcare and frontline workers and the elderly people. The state's overall caseload on Sunday stood at 7,50,137, the bulletin said. All the five deaths reported on Monday took place in the city - three in AIIMS, Patna and one each in PMCH and IGIMS. The six-year-old girl died at AIIMS, Patna where she was admitted for treatment and tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. She died on Sunday, a health department official said. A 50-year-old person, who underwent a kidney operation at AIIMS, Patna too tested positive and died on Sunday as did a 72-year-old cancer patient, the official said. The state has so far accounted for one confirmed case of the Omicron variant. The official said 691 persons recovered from the pandemic in the past 24 hours, a marginal decline to 95.59 per cent pushing the total number of recoveries to 71,70,92. The recovery rate on Sunday was 96.11 per cent. The number of active cases is 1,119 in Gaya, followed by 956 in Muzaffarpur, 602 in Begusarai and 471 in Saran. The positivity rate on Monday was 3.13 per cent, up from less than two per cent till Saturday, the official said. Altogether 6.25 crore samples have been tested so far, including 1.51 lakh in the last 24 hours, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4737-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-bihar-6-yr-old-among-five-dead-101641874900715.html
11-01-2022||Patna||Some migrant workers return to Bihar amid surge in Covid-19 cases||PATNA: As the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic sweeps the country, officials expect some migrant labourers to return to their homes in Bihar.“The situation is not that alarming this time. There are stray reports about people returning home... there is no hint of the state administrations resorting to the total lockdowns to deal with the third wave...,” said additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad.Chief public relations officer (eastern central railway) Rajesh Kumar said trains were carrying passengers lesser than their capacities. “...we are ready to deal with any sudden rush.”Migrant workers have started returning particularly to Bihar’s eastern districts from Delhi, Punjab, Mumbai and Kerala. “People are getting infected at an alarming speed,” said Yugal Paswan, a migrant worker who returned to his native Purnia.The return of nearly 2.5 million migrants to the state during the lockdown imposed in March 2020 to check the pandemic spread created chaos and prompted the government to announce schemes to rehabilitate them. A majority of migrants later returned to their places of work.The migrant workers used whatever modes of transportation were available to return to their homes in 2020. Some even cycled or walked hundreds of kilometres.Officials said the schemes launched for the migrant workers during the first phase of the pandemic have been suspended for want of labourers after a majority of them returned to places of work. “Most of the district innovation centres out of 200 set up to rehabilitate migrants ran out of steam. Each district set up four to five innovation centres for 10-15 people. Many industrial units came up,” said additional chief secretary (industries) Brijesh Mehrotra.The state industries department sought a ₹7,000 crore package from the Centre to rehabilitate the migrants and collateral-free loans to the micro, small and medium enterprise sector. It announced schemes to provide work in existing factories and other units and launched a portal to engage migrant workers at the local levels.Officials said the schemes were shelved because of a lukewarm response from the local industrial and corporate sector struggling for survival during the second wave of the pandemic.
11-01-2022||Delhi||46 Covid-linked deaths in Delhi in 5 days, more than 50% of them seniors: Report||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is proving to be deadly for the seniors in national capital Delhi. According to an audit report on Covid-19 deaths released by the Delhi government, 46 fatalities have been reported in the last five days, out of which 25 people are above the age of 60, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan reported.Also Read | Covid admissions in Delhi to peak at 46,000, say expertsThe report further said that 28 of those who died due to Covid-19 in the said time period are males, while 18 are females, the Livehindustan report further said. A more worrying aspect is that 50 per cent of the total 46 fatalities happened withing 24 hours of contracting infection, it added.Of these 23 people, 12 died on the day they contracted Covid-19, while 11 passed away during treatment in hospitals either due to cardiac arrest or stopping of blood flow in veins connecting heart and the lungs.In the samples tested between January 1 and 9 in Delhi, 78.7 per cent were found to be infected with the heavily-mutated Omicron variant. Another 17.4 per cent of the sample were found carrying the Delta strain.After a review meeting on Monday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) suspended dine-in facility at restaurants in the city and shut down bars in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, but decided against imposing a full lockdown.The DDMA meeting, chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, also discussed ways to strictly enforce existing restrictions to check the spread of the coronavirus and its Omicron variant.Also Read | Delhi’s daily tally below 20,000 due to fewer tests; positivity 25%Officers were also advised to strictly ensure that people wear masks and adhere to social distancing norms in markets and public places to break the chain of transmission, Baijal said in a tweet.Delhi logged 17 more deaths due to Covid-19 and 19,166 infections in a day as the positivity rate rose to 25 per cent, the highest since May 4 last year, according to the city health department's data on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/46-covid-linked-deaths-in-delhi-in-5-days-more-than-50-of-them-seniors-report-101641872251654.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Clean air targets not met in Delhi NCR||Air quality in Delhi and its satellite cities has failed to improve significantly in the three years since the launch of the National Clean Air Programme, as annual levels of PM 2.5 in the capital fell by a mere 5% to an annual reading of 102 micrograms per cubic metre (mcm) in 2021 from 108 mcm in 2019, a private tracker showed.The annual level of PM 2.5, minute dust that enters deep into the lungs and bloodstream, was two and a half times the national annual benchmark of 40 mcm, and as much as 20 times the safe limit prescribed by the World Health Organization. The clean air programme aims to reduce air pollution by 20-30% across 132 cities by 2024, a target that Delhi looks sure to miss.Delhi recorded an annual PM 10 reduction of just 4.6%, dropping from a reading of 217 mcm in 2019 to 207 mcm in 2021, over three times the benchmark of 60 mcm, according to data analysed by an NCAP tracker developed by advocacy groups Respirer Living Sciences and Carbon Copy. The tracker compiles Central Pollution Control Board’s data from its continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations.The central government launched NCAP on January 10, 2019, to address air pollution in 102 cities, to which 30 more were added later. None of these cities met the national ambient air quality standards between 2011 and 2015 under the National Air Quality Monitoring Programme.Ghaziabad on the outskirts of Delhi remained the most polluted among the 132 cities, recording a marginal drop in the annual PM 2.5 levels from 117 mcm in 2019 to 111 mcm in 2021. Noida fared a little better, dropping down to 98 mcm last year compared to 114 mcm 2019.Not much has changed between 2019 and 2021, with the same cities occupying the list of the most polluted cities in the world in 2021 as they were in 2019, said Ronak Sutaria, chief executive of Respirer Living Sciences .“The pollution in these cities is affecting the entire airshed, and solutions need to be thought about across political and governance boundaries,” Sutaria said.The only two times Delhi saw good air quality in the past six months was due to heavy rainfall, which settled down the pollutants, pointed out Aarti Khosla, director at Climate Trends, which runs Carbon Copy.“This alone speaks strongly on how much any policy goals have created an impact,” Khosla said. “The new Air Quality Commission for Delhi does talk about tackling air pollution as a region, but a lot more is required still.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clean-air-targets-not-met-in-delhi-ncr-101641855926956.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||DJs resort to virtual busking to stay afloat amid Covid curbs||Public gatherings, parties or big fat weddings are a big no-no at the moment due to the rising Covid cases in the city. And the DJs are struggling with the question of how to survive in such challenging times. Be it performing at corporate parties or intimate get togethers, there’s hardly any scope for them, and that’s what has now compelled them to resort to virtual busking. Many from the industry, in order to earn their livelihood, are asking for monetary donations while playing at live concerts on social media. “We cannot force people to pay in an Insta live, so we put up our number out there on the screen using a placard or something, and request them to donate money via mobile apps. Some of them request for specific songs and we use that as an opportunity to emphasise and convince them on how much it’s important that they pay us in such times. We clearly inform them that the DJ is playing from home and the money will go directly to his/her account,” says DJ Varrun, who lives in Kalkaji.Asking for money like this, isn’t as fun for these creative souls as it might appear. “We are really struggling for financial help at this point when we haven’t earned for a good part of last year, and therefore have to put out our numbers to ask for donations upfront. People like to listen to music, and many join the live sessions, but don’t really end up paying any substantial amount. Most viewers come to hear us play for free. Bas views mil jate hain, promotion ho jata hai,” rues DJ Himansh, who is based in Uttam Nagar.Things were just beginning to stabilise for DJs, just when the cases started rising again. “When the number of cases had subsided in the city, clubs weren’t happy paying us as much the pre-pandemic times. After struggling to get some work for a very long time, I finally took up a job at a club and majorly reduced my salary expectations. Abhi third salary aayi hi thi, ki yeh sab ho gaya hai. Ab thode dino mein club wale bolenge ki ghar par hi baitho toh mai khana kahan se khaunga,” worries DJ Himansh, adding, “Virtual concerts for corporate clients and private parties are not proving to be very helpful. If we get to play physically, we earn ₹15-20 thousand at one event. But in a virtual concert, it’s not even ₹5,000! Some people also say ki aap khali baithe ho toh apna time use kar lo... I had so many bookings for parties in January and February, ab sab cancel ho gayi hain.” And Kirti Nagar-based Dishant Kohli, who goes by the name DJ Kamazaki, adds, “Third wave almost shuru hi ho gayi hai, and I didn’t know what to do, to earn at least a basic amount with my skills. Even to conduct virtual gigs, one needs a fast internet connection and that costs money! So when I realised I’m unable to break even, I started promoting my number on live sessions. But zyada kuchh nai milta, iss bari toh himmat hi toot gayi hai.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/djs-resort-to-virtual-busking-to-stay-afloat-amid-covid-curbs-101641852754760.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Covid admissions to peak at 46k: Experts||Contrary to the estimate of about 64,000 beds made by the Delhi government in November-December, the city administration on Monday said experts have suggested that the maximum bed requirement even in the worst case scenario during the ongoing wave of Covid-19 could go up to 46,000 beds.Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal chaired a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday to review the city’s preparedness for the Covid-19 surge across the country. During the meeting, the state health department, after inputs from experts, presented five scenarios to escalate the number of Covid-19 beds in the city.Keeping the percentage of Covid-19 positive patients requiring hospitalisations at 5%, the government has estimated it will require 13,800 beds if daily cases touch 30,000. This scenario will include 8,400 oxygen beds and 5,400 intensive care units beds.The second scenario is if daily cases hit 40,000, when the estimated number of hospitalisations will be 2,000 and total beds required will be 18,400 (11,200 oxygen and 7,200 ICU beds).The third scenario estimates 50,000 daily cases, 2,500 hospitalisation and a target of 23,000 beds (14,000 oxygen and 9,000 ICU beds). The fourth accounts for 75,000 cases, which will need 34,500 beds.The final, and worst-case, scenario sees Delhi adding 100,000 cases a day, with 5,000 hospitalisations, which will see the city need 46,000 beds.Reports seen by HT showed that at present Delhi had 31,695 Covid beds ready as on Monday, of which 9,844 were ICU beds.The immediate target for authorities is to escalate this to 37,000 beds, of which 10,594 will be intensive care unit ones. “The DDMA was satisfied that this target has almost been achieved by now. All of these beds are oxygenated beds. Going by the current trend, experts have suggested that Delhi may require up to 46,000 Covid beds only, but we have a plan ready even for 50,000 beds and 64,000 beds, the detailed plan for which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had already announced on November 30 last year,” said senior government official.Even as more than 1,200 healthcare professionals across Delhi have tested positive for the virus over the last 10 days, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that nearly 200,000 workers were prepared to handle the Covid surge in the capital.
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||J&K LG gets booster dose, launches drive for healthcare, frontline workers||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha Monday launched the booster dose vaccination drive for healthcare and frontline workers and those over 60 years of age with co-morbidities. The drive for precaution dose was launched from district hospital in Jammu’s Gandhi Nagar, where the LG also received the jab. Sinha appealed to all eligible people to get their precautionary vaccine shot at the earliest. He also flagged off 34 advanced life support ambulances of 108 services for Jammu division, which has 10 districts. The ambulances have been procured under the World Bank-funded Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project. “The UT government is making several interventions to strengthen public health response to Covid. Advanced life support ambulances will be a step in the fight against the global pandemic,” said Sinha. He was informed by the senior health officials that as per the directions, all necessary arrangements have been made for administering the precautionary dose to eligible population through walk-in and pre-registration mode. Former BJP MLA among patientsA former MLA of the BJP was among the latest patients of Covid who tested positive in Jammu on Monday. “Thirteen patients and a paramedical staffer in district hospital, Samba, besides eight employees in Kathua DC’s office tested Covid positive,” said a health official. “The 13 patients, who tested positive in Samba district hospital, had come to various OPDs. Their samples were taken and they were found positive,” he added. The contact tracing of positive patients and paramedical staff has been initiated. Amid spike in the contagion, the administration on Monday declared 15 new micro-containment zones in Jammu and Samba districts that included police headquarters in Jammu and hostel of Sainik School in Nagrota. The additional district magistrate, Samba, Suram C Sharma, has declared six micro-containment zones in the district. “There has been sufficient ground for proceeding under Section 144 of CrPC for immediate prevention or speedy remedy is desirable to prevent danger to human life, health and safety,” read an order issued by him. “There will be no in or out movement from the micro-containment zones,” read the order. Among these cases, over 10 have surfaced in the Sainik School, Nagrota. To contain the spread of Covid in Jammu district, district magistrate Anshul Garg has also declared seven new micro-containment zones in Gangyal, Gandhi Nagar, Domana, Nagrota, Gandhi Nagar, Channi Himmat, and Janipur. Kathua DC Rahul Yadav said during a random sampling at government offices, eight employees tested Covid-positive in his office. He also informed that the health department has intensified testing at Lakhanpur — the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-lg-gets-booster-dose-launches-drive-for-healthcare-frontline-workers-101641850052341.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir witnesses 200% surge in active Covid cases in 10 days of Jan||The increase in daily Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir continued on Monday after 706 infections were reported in the union territory and four persons succumbed to the disease, an official health bulletin said. The active cases climbed to 4,024 from 1,337 on December 31 – marking an increase of 200% in the first 10 days of January. The administration and health authorities have started taking measures to control the third wave of the pandemic. The in-person teaching at educational institutions and coaching centres was stopped after the administration, in a review meeting on Sunday evening, ordered all schools, colleges and coaching centres to adopt online medium of teaching. Night curfew is already in force while market associations have been asked to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour and allow no gatherings at shops. Government Medical College, Srinagar, on Monday cancelled winter vacation of faculty members of all its associated hospitals and urged them to resume duties from Tuesday. Adviser to J&K Lieutenant Governor, Farooq Khan, on Monday visited various government hospitals in Srinagar city and said that the administration should not be forced to take harsh measures and people must follow appropriate behaviour. “A spike in Covid cases has started. We are witnessing carelessness on the part of people,” Khan said in a press conference. He said that people have been throwing caution to the wind owing to reports that Omicron is not that deadly. “They should realise that there may be a few cases of Omicron in J&K, but major cases are those of Delta variant which had been deadly. I would like to request people not to take it lightly. We don’t want to use force and involve police or magistrates to forcibly prompt people to wear masks and follow SOPs,” Khan said.On Sunday, the union territory had seen 687 infections besides witnessing three deaths due to the virus. This is the first time since June 16 that the UT has witnessed infections above 700.J&K is seeing a steep rise in cases for the past six days with 418 cases on January 5, 349 cases on January 6, 542 on January 7 and 655 cases on Saturday. The first four days of January had recorded daily cases ranging between 165 and 199, while in December the union territory had reported 143 average cases daily.Of the total cases on Monday, 345 infections and three deaths were reported in Jammu division while Kashmir valley saw 361 patients and a fatality. Jammu division’s Jammu district reported the highest 233 cases followed by 26 in Reasi.Kashmir valley witnessed 172 cases in Srinagar followed by 64 in Baramulla. As many as six districts saw single digit or zero cases.Khan cautioned that if people won’t follow SOPs, then the things might turn worse. He said they were trying to prevent such an eventuality where the administration was forced to impose a lockdown. “But it would depend on the cooperation of the public at large to ensure we don’t get into that kind of situation. If they take all preventive measures, then there shouldn’t be any eventuality where we go for a lockdown,” he added. Jammu district has taken over with the highest number of active cases at 1,427 followed by Srinagar and Baramulla districts with 919 and 286 such cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 209 with active cases reaching 4,024. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 92,518 vaccine doses were administered on Monday. The total number of people who have recovered reached 3,36,790, pushing the recovery rate to 97.51%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have risen to 3,45,358 and the death toll has climbed up to 4,544.Officials said that 46,857 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,164 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 885 deaths.Khan said they have kept three hospitals — Chest Disease Hospital Dalgate, SMHS hospital and SKIMS Medical College Hospital, Bemina — in Kashmir for Covid patients.“The administration is ready to face any situation. Enough beds and oxygen plants are available in hospitals and we are also solving doctors’ issues as well. By and large, we are prepared to deal with Covid,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-witnesses-200-surge-in-active-covid-cases-in-10-days-of-jan-101641847412249.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu-Srinagar highway reopens partially||The Jammu-Srinagar national highway was on Monday opened for light motor vehicles while mercury plunged below zero at many places in Kashmir during the night.Officials said the highway was opened this morning as per the plan, though there was a mild landslide in Ramban, which was cleared.The ski resort of Gulmarg shivered at minus 10 degrees Celsius for the second night on Monday as the skies started to clear following days of rains and snowfall across Jammu and Kashmir. However, Ladakh was overcast on Monday with light snowfall at many places.The weather office said that five out of the seven weather observation stations in Kashmir valley recorded sub-zero temperatures during the night while Srinagar and Qazigund were slightly above zero. The mercury settled at 0.2 degrees Celsius in Srinagar during the night while it was 0.6 degrees in south Kashmir’s Qazigund.Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded -2.6 degrees Celsius temperature, while it was -1.7 in Kokernag, -0.6°C in Kupwara and -1.0 °C in Konibal.Normal life resumed to a large extent in Kashmir and majority of flights operated at Srinagar International Airport following improvement in weather conditions in Jammu and Kashmir. In Jammu division, Banihal and Batote recorded -1.8 degrees and -0.8 degrees, respectively during the night. In Ladakh, Drass recorded lowest of -8.8°C while it was -9.5°C in Leh during the night.“Weather to remain overcast with light snowfall at most places in Ladakh. Please drive very slowly on snowed roads to avoid accidents and use lower gear. Don’t apply sudden brakes,” said director of meteorological departments at J&K and Ladakah, Sonam Lotus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammusrinagar-highway-reopens-partially-101641847232102.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Metro tells high court it has ₹6k crore in bank||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday told the Delhi high court that it has ₹6,208.03 crore in its various bank accounts, a day after Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL) filed an application in the court seeking contempt action against the former for not disclosing its complete bank account details.DAMEPL, a subsidiary of the Reliance Infrastructure, filed an application in the high court on January 7 that DMRC is deliberately trying to delay the execution of over ₹4,600 crore arbitral award against it by not disclosing its bank account details.DAMEPL said that DMRC is trying to defeat the arbitration process by making a limited disclosure of account details despite the court’s order directing it to disclose all its bank account details.The application by DAMEPL was filed in response to an affidavit by DMRC filed on January 5, in which Metro made a partial/ limited disclosure of its bank accounts with respect to ₹1,642.69 crore out of the total funds of ₹5,800.93 crore that it had disclosed in the court through its last affidavit filed on December 21, 2021.On December 22, Justice Suresh Kait directed DMRC to file an affidavit furnishing the details of its bank accounts along with the balance amount.The judge observed that while the attachment of DMRC’s properties was not permitted under Section 89 of The Metro Railways (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002, there was no such embargo with respect to its bank accounts.The Monday’s affidavit said that of the total ₹6,208.03 in DMRC’s bank accounts, ₹1,642.69 crore is not the earning of the company. This includes ₹514 crore committed liability due to employees on account of leave salary and post-retirement medical expenses for which provision also created in the books of accounts of DMRC, and ₹114 crore- portion of security deposits of smart cards refundable to the commuters.The matter is likely to be heard next on Tuesday.The consortium of Reliance Energy Limited (renamed as Reliance Infrastructure Limited) and M/s Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles, SA terminated the Concession Agreement in October 2012 citing failure of DMRC to cure defects in the structure supporting the Airport Metro Express Line. DMRC invoked the arbitration clause of its contract with the consortium.The concession agreement between the two was signed on August 25, 2008. Under the agreement, DMRC was to carry out the civil works, excluding at the depot, and the balance, including the project system works, were to be executed by DAMEPL, a joint venture of Rinfra and a Spanish construction company -- Construcciones Y Auxiliar De Ferrocarriles -- with a shareholding of 95 and five per cent respectively.In 2017, the Arbitral Tribunal awarded damages to the tune of ₹4600 to Reliance Infra, an award upheld by a single-judge bench of the Delhi high court in 2018. A division bench of the same court set aside the award in 2019 after which Reliance Infra approached the Supreme Court.In September 2021, the apex court set aside the division bench’s judgment of January 15, 2019 order and upheld the arbitral award in favour of DAMEPL, saying that there was a disturbing tendency of courts setting aside arbitral awards.In November, the Supreme Court dismissed DMRC’s plea seeking a review of its judgment which upheld the 2017 arbitration award in favour of DAMEPL, enforceable against it. The DMRC stated that since the corporation was facing a “financial crunch”, undertaking a “sudden liability” would impact public interest and authorities were, therefore, working out a solution. It had also claimed that the amount liable to be paid was approximately ₹5,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-tells-high-court-it-has-6k-crore-in-bank-101641846872240.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||No compromise on right to bodily integrity: Delhi HC on marital rape||The Delhi high court on Monday observed that even though there can be no compromise on the bodily autonomy of a woman, marital rape cannot be treated as a prosecutable offence because of the qualitative difference between a marital and non-marital relationship.Describing the difference, Justice C Hari Shankar said a marital relationship holds an expectation and also a legal right for reasonable sexual relation from the spouse. “In a marital relationship, there is a qualitative difference. There is an expectation of a conjugal relationship of both parties. When a party gets married, a person has an expectation and to a certain extent, the legal right also to express normal sexual relationship with your partner. Because if it is denied, it can lead to civil consequences and can also lead to divorce,”Justice C Hari Shankar said. He added that qualitative difference has a part to play in the exception that has been added to the Section 375 of IPC.Exceptions to Section 375 IPC (rape) decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape.The judge, however, clarified that he was neither expressing his final opinion on the petitions nor examining whether marital rape should be punished at this stage.Justice Shankar, who was hearing a bunch of pleas filed in 2018 seeking to criminalise marital rape, along with Justice Rajiv Shakdher, observed that a non-marital relation, no matter how close, cannot be compared with a marital relationship.“If the legislature feels that where parties are married, we should not categorize this as rape as it would be categorised in a case where parties are unmarried and the man says I want to have it (sex) then it is a matter of force. You are not exercising any right which is socially or legally in any manner given to you. Here (marriage) the man is exercising what he believes to be the conjugal right,” Justice Shankar said. He emphasised that the offence of rape was punishable with 10 years imprisonment, and the issue of removal of marital rape exemption required serious consideration.“There is no compromise with a woman’s right to sexual and bodily integrity. A husband has no business to compel. (But) the court can’t ignore what happens when we knock it (marital rape exception) off,” Justice Shankar said.The court was hearing PILs by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought striking down the exception in the law arguing that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.The judge also expressed his reservations with regard to the use of the term marital rape , saying that every act of rape has to be punished and the repeated use of marital rape to define any form of an unwilling sexual relationship between a husband and a wife was a “pre-decision” (jumping to a conclusion).“There is no (concept of) marital rape in India... If it is rape marital, non-marital or any kind, it has to be punished. Repeated use of the word, according to me, obfuscates the actual issue,” he said.Advocate Karuna Nundy, appearing for the NGOs, argued that the marital rape exception created an anomaly as it was under-inclusive(not included) and violated the Constitution.She contended that the exemption violated the right to dignity and sexual autonomy of women, and that there were thousands of victims who approached her clients for protection.In 2018, the Delhi government, in its response, told the predecessor bench hearing the case -- headed by then acting chief jJustice Gita Mittal -- that wherever a spouse indulged in sexual relations without the willingness of the other, it was already an offence under IPC and a woman was entitled to refuse sexual relations with her husband under the right to bodily integrity and privacy as per Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.The Centre, in its affidavit filed in the case, said that marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage, and an easy tool for harassing the husbands.The matter will now be heard on January 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-compromise-on-right-to-bodily-integrity-delhi-hc-on-marital-rape-101641846572203.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||IIT-B professor Rangan Banerjee named new IIT-Delhi director||Rangan Banerjee, a professor at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, was appointed the new director of the IIT-Delhi on Monday.V Ramgopal Rao, the incumbent IIT-Delhi director, announced the development on Monday and tweeted, “I am happy to inform you that Prof. Rangan Banerjee from the Department of Energy Sciences & Engineering, IIT Bombay has been appointed as the next Director of IIT Delhi. Hearty congratulations and best wishes to Prof. Banerjee.”Officials at the ministry of education confirmed Banerjee’s appointment. “Banerjee’s name has been cleared as the next IIT-Delhi director. A notification in this regard will be issued on Tuesday,” said an official who asked not to be named. Banerjee holds a PhD in mechanical engineering from IIT-Bombay. He is a Forbes Marshall Chair Professor in the Department of Energy Science and Engineering at the institute.The search-cum-selection committee last September shortlisted three names for the top post at the IIT Delhi. Besides Banerjee, JNU vice chancellor Jagadesh Kumar and Santosh Kapuria, a professor at IIT-Delhi, were the other two contenders of the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iitb-professor-rangan-banerjee-named-new-iit-delhi-director-101641846332161.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s TB hospital to get Covid centre amid government probe||Despite a probe ordered by the Delhi government for “vacation and sealing” of its building citing risk to lives of patients and doctors, the directorate of hospital administration of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday ordered setting up of a 50-bed Covid designated facility at the Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis (RBIPMT) hospital. On Monday, the Covid beds availability portal run by the Delhi government displayed that there were 50 beds available in the hospital, but no patients were admitted there. Delhi PWD minister Satyendar Jain on January 1 ordered an inquiry into the allegations that the hospital was operating out of a damaged premises, which has already been declared dangerous. The order came days after AAP MLA Atishi released a video of her visit to the hospital, showing dilapidated condition of a hospital block. The North MCD shot back at the government for ordering an inquiry, saying that it was the civic body itself that declared the portion dangerous, and asserted that no patient facilities were being run from the damaged area. Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of the north corporation, said that the issue was being “unnecessarily politicised” by the AAP government. “The facility is now ready to serve people during these testing times, as the city faces the third wave of Covid-19,” he added.Leader of the house Chhail Bihari Goswami said the preparations have been completed. “We can add more beds if the demand goes up. Despite its image being maligned by government, the facility will be once again used for treating Covid patients. It had also been used as Covid facility during the second wave,” he added. A Delhi government spokesperson said the move to open Covid section in the hospital was “in bad faith and unnecessary”. “The corporation is well aware of the state of the building, and it had itself marked it dangerous as per the visuals in the public domain. Such an order seems unnecessary and could have been avoided,” the spokesperson added.Jain said that the civic body has also operationalised 100 bed Covid facility at Hindu Rao hospital with 10 beds reserved for kids. “We are also making arrangements at Balakram hospital where provision of 300 oxygen cylinders and 100 concentrators has been made. A 50 bed Covid hospital can be made operational at short notice. A similar facility for children can be made available at Girdhari Lal maternity hospital,” he added.While ordering the inquiry, Jain stated that it has been brought to the minister’s notice that the building of the hospital is in dilapidated state and MCD itself has declared it unsafe for human habitation and in spite of that the hospital is being run and lives are being put in danger. A few days before the order was issued, AAP MLA Atishi made a surprise visit to the hospital and live-streamed it on social media to show the dilapidated block on the hospital premises. Leader of the Opposition in the North MCD and AAP councillor Vikas Goel had filed a complaint at the Mukherjee Nagar police station. Goel on Monday said that no action has been taken on the complaint yet. “Some parts of hospital are dangerous. I am not aware in which portion Covid hospital will be operated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-tb-hospital-to-get-covid-centre-amid-government-probe-101641845972140.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Temperature to drop amid dense fog in Chandigarh||After rain spells over the weekend, cloud cover will give way to dense fog from Tuesday in Chandigarh, said the weatherman on Monday. It will be accompanied by a drop in mercury.Dense fog, especially in the morning, can be expected for at least the next couple of days, said an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official.“Earlier the rains and winds had kept fog from forming in the city. But dense fog, which can reduce visibility to 200 metres is expected in the coming days. A drop in temperature, by up to five notches, is also likely due to clear skies at night,” said the official.Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from Sunday’s 13.2°C to 16.8°C on Monday. Minimum temperature went down from 11.1°C to 10.4°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 20°C and the minimum around 7-9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/temperature-to-drop-amid-dense-fog-in-chandigarh-101641845504170.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU V-C Raj Kumar gets Covid, is in home isolation||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar has tested positive for Covid-19, his secretary confirmed on Monday. “The V-C is in isolation at his residence, and he has appealed to all varsity employees to take precautions and follow standard operating procedures concerning Covid-19,” he said. Meanwhile, PU registrar Vikram Nayyar is also in isolation and his test report was awaited till the filing of this report. Both had attended an online meeting of the senate together on Saturday. Only 50% judges to hold court at HCChandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday curtailed its operations in view of rising Covid-19 cases. An official said only 50% judges would hold courts on any given day. The HC’s current strength is 49 judges. The officer said that decision has been taken in view of the Chandigarh administration’s condition of allowing only 50% workforce in offices. The HC has already shifted to virtual hearings from January 5. Accident victim gives new lease of life to fiveFamily of a 43-year-old woman, who succumbed to her injuries at the PGIMER following a road accident in Mohali, donated her organs and gave a new lease of life to five patients, including one at the AIIMS, Delhi, where her heart for sent for transplantation after creating a green corridor. The woman has been identified as Nisha Thakur, who was declared brain dead on January 5. Her pancreas and kidneys were used for two terminally ill renal failure patients, while her corneas restored sight of two patients at the PGIMER.PGIMER doctors get ICMR awardsFour PGIMER doctors received ICMR Awards 2020 on Monday. Dr Surjit Singh, director, PGIMER, got the ICMR Amrut Mody Unichem Prize. Dr Pinaki Dutta of endocrinology department got the ICMR- MN Sen Oration Award. Dr Shankar Prinja of community medicine has been awarded the ICMR-Dr MK Seshadri Prize, while Dr lnderpaul Singh Sehgal of Pulmonary Medicine got the ICMR-Dr PN Raju Oration Award.Body found near rivulet in Khuda Lahora The body of a 30-year-old Nayagaon man was recovered from near a rivulet at Khuda Lahora on Monday morning. Identified as Ramkaran, aka Vipin, the deceased was a migrant labourer. Police said he had reached Khuda Lahora in an auto-rickshaw after work in Kishangarh around 11pm on Sunday. A passerby found his body covered in mud on the bank of the rivulet in the morning. No injury mark was found in preliminary examination, and police suspect he slipped into the rivulet as he was reportedly drunk. Family attacked for playing loud musicThree men in their mid-20s were arrested on Monday for allegedly attacking a resident of Mauli Jagran and his family with sticks and stones after he objected to them playing loud music. The accused have been identified as Sumit, 26, of Mauli Jagran and Akash Dubey, 24 and Sukhwinder Singh alias Subhjeet, 22, both residents of Panchkula. The victim, Baljit Singh, alleged that the trio and their accomplices attacked him and his family members at his house on January 8. He added that his family members were admitted to GMCH-32 after suffering injuries.Theft at brass sheet factory in Industrial Area Burglars fled with 67 bags of brass, weighing around 4,000 kg, after breaking a portion of a wall of a factory at the Industrial Area, Phase 2. The theft came to light on Sunday morning after an employee reached the factory, said owner Harvinder Singh Khanna, who produces brass sheets. The accused even took away the digital video recorder from his office. A case of theft has been registered at the police station in Sector 31. Chandigarh man held for gambling The district crime cell of Chandigarh Police arrested Sanjay, alias Makhan, of Sector 56, while he was gambling near his house on Sunday. Police recovered ₹15,000 from him. Later, he was released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-v-c-raj-kumar-gets-covid-is-in-home-isolation-101641845502691.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kolkata woman visiting Chandigarh raped in auto in Sector 17||Taking advantage of the night curfew, an auto-rickshaw driver raped a 35-year-old Kolkata woman near General Post Office in Sector 17, Chandigarh, late on Sunday night.The woman, who had hired the auto for the bus stand in Sector 17, was rescued by three home guard volunteers. The accused, identified as Jai Dev, 27, of Darua village, was later arrested. He was produced in court on Monday and sent to judicial custody. The case is a grim reminder of the 2017 incident wherein a 21-year-old woman hailing from Dehradun, who was in the city to attend stenography classes, was gangraped by an auto driver and his two aides at a forest area in Sector 53.In the present case, the victim had come to the city to meet a friend at Mauli Jagran. After not finding the friend home nor having any contact number, she went to the railway station. However, as there was no train available, she hired Jai Dev’s auto around 10pm to go the ISBT in Sector 17, from where she was to take a bus to Delhi. After reaching Sector 17, the accused took a slip road and allegedly raped the victim in the auto near the General Post Office, which is situated just half a kilometre from the police post. The victim told police that Jai Dev had first touched her inappropriately, and when she objected, he assaulted and threatened to kill her. Home guards rescue woman“Hearing her cries, three home guard volunteers posted at the Haryana mini secretariat came to her rescue,” said Charanjit Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, central). However, the auto driver managed to escape.The victim then called police with the help of home guard volunteers around midnight. The victim could not remember the auto’s number, but shared a few details about the driver’s physical appearance. “The accused was arrested on the basis of his physical description provided by the victim,” said Om Parkash, station house officer (SHO), Sector 17.The auto used in the crime has also been impounded. The accused has been booked under Sections 376 (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Police are recommending award for the three home guard volunteers who rescued the victim, said DSP Charanjit Singh. After the 2017 rape, the Chandigarh administration had put in place many safeguards, including making police verification mandatory to ply auto-rickshaws. It is also mandatory to paste laminated information behind the driver’s seat displaying names, mobile numbers and photos of the auto owner and driver. However, the rules are often flouted. 
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine: 955 get booster dose in Chandigarh on Day 1||Health departments across the tricity on Monday rolled out precaution vaccine doses for healthcare and frontline workers besides senior citizens with co-morbidities.Chandigarh administered 955 such booster doses against Covid-19, while 602 beneficiaries received their third jab in Panchkula. Mohali lagged behind with just 127 precaution doses. As per the UT health department, the target population for booster doses is over 50,000. On Monday, 511 senior citizens, 362 healthcare workers and 82 frontline workers were administered the dose.In Panchkula, the booster dose was given to 170 healthcare workers and 351 seniors. The district health department has also vaccinated 40,000 children to date, while the number stands at 29,517 in Chandigarh. In Mohali, director, health and family welfare, Punjab, Dr GB Singh launched the state-level precaution dose drive at the district hospital. Aman Malik, 61, was given the first booster dose.Of the 127 people jabbed, 80 were senior citizens and the remaining were healthcare and frontline workers. “Beneficiaries must not be Covid positive three months prior to a booster dose,” said Dr Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-955-get-booster-dose-in-chandigarh-on-day-1-101641845500165.html
11-01-2022||Noida||Precaution dose vaccination begins in Noida||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar health department on Monday administered 4,468 booster doses to healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) as well as those over 60 with co-morbidities at 105 centres. Thirty of these centres are exclusively administering the booster dose. Apart from government centres, several private centres also inoculated over 5,000 people. According to data from the health department, 46,247 HCWs and FLWs need to be vaccinated with the booster dose in Noida in total.Additionally, around 170,000 senior citizens have been administered both vaccine doses in the district so far. Officials said that the response for the booster dose in Noida has been better than expected, especially among healthcare workers.“There was misinformation earlier about the vaccine and the response was mild when vaccination started last January. We had to run awareness programs and conduct camps in hospitals. However, people are more willing to take the additional shot now and the response will increase in the next few days,” said Dr Amit Vikram, district immunisation officer. Senior citizens who took the booster dose said that the vaccination has been helpful in reducing the severity of infection and should be taken by all those eligible. “We came for our vaccine on the first day itself as we have seen our family struggle during the second wave. Some of our younger relatives suffered much when they got infected by Covid as they had not taken the vaccine yet. I had mild symptoms, probably because I had taken both doses,” said Bijendra Rai, a senior citizen who took the booster dose at a private hospital in Sector 137 on Monday. The state government has also asked all districts to finish vaccinating all children in the 15-17 age group by January 15. Noida has inoculated 30,266 children in this category already. According to estimates, the district has a target of 116,000 in this category and still needs to vaccinate over 85,000. An average of 17,000 people in the 15-17 age group will have to be vaccinated daily to meet the target in Noida. However, not more than 5,000 are being vaccinated daily so far. Officials said that while the number of centres is being increased, more online slots are also being allotted for adolescents. “There are already around 79 vaccination centres for the 15-17 age group and every centre is administering about 250-300 doses daily. However, while some centres are overcrowded, others have few beneficiaries. We may be changing dose allocation. Also, we request that people check centres online and go for vaccination even if slots are not available, since offline slots are available in most centres,” said Dr Vikram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/precaution-dose-vaccination-begins-in-noida-101641845498983.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali accident: Pillion rider killed as bike hits stray cattle||A 35-year-old pillion rider was killed after a motorcycle rammed into a stray cattle at Dera Bassi on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway late on Sunday evening.Identified as Amar Singh, the victim was a resident of Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi.Investigating officer Kuldeep Singh said Amar Singh was returning home with his friend Kamaljit Singh when the accident took place near his village on the highway. Kamaljit, who was riding the bike, told police that a stay cattle suddenly came on the road and he was unable to avoid a collision. Amar Singh sustained head injuries after hitting the road, and was rushed to a private hospital, where he was declared brought dead.Police have recorded Kamaljit’s statement and handed over the victim’s body to his family after the postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-accident-pillion-rider-killed-as-bike-hits-stray-cattle-101641845497559.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man’s car snatched at knifepoint in Mullanpur||Five men wielding knives snatched an SUV from a Chandigarh-based contractor on the Siswan-Baddi road falling under the Mullanpur police station in Mohali district on Sunday evening.The incident comes a month after a Punjab Civil Services officer’s car was snatched at gunpoint on the Sector 86/87 road in Mohali on December 8. It is at least sixth such case in the past six months in the district.Victim Ravi Sharma, who is a resident of Sector 47, Chandigarh, was returning from Baddi along with his friend Sanjeev Sharma on a Mahindra XUV-500 when the incident took place around 5.30pm, said police. As they reached near Siswan, five men in a Maruti car waylaid their vehicle and asked the two to get down. They first broke the number plate of the SUV and then allegedly started thrashing them and threatened them with a knife before snatching the vehicle’s key. Later, they fled in the two cars towards Majri side, Ravi Sharma told police in his statement.Ravi is a contractor who supplies workers to factories, and had gone to Baddi for business. Station house officer (SHO), Mullanpur, Simarjeet Singh said: “We have registered a case against five unknown persons. We are checking the CCTV footage and are hopeful of solving the case soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-s-car-snatched-at-knifepoint-in-mullanpur-101641845496303.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 967 Covid cases in record surge||As many as 967 people were tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Monday, an all-time high since the pandemic broke out in March 2020. The previous record was set on May 9, 2021, when the second wave peaked at 895 cases. The UT’s tally has climbed to 69,388.Even the PGIMER authorities confirmed that 98 more healthcare workers of the institute tested positive on Monday, taking the total number since December 20 to 549. Those found positive include junior resident doctors, senior residents, faculty members, nurses, sanitation staff and other staffers.Amid the rising numbers, the Chandigarh administration on Monday declared 33 more micro-containment zones, across the city. Meanwhile, a 68-year-old man from Dadumajra, who was brought dead to GMSH, Sector 16, tested positive posthumously. He had a history of heart disease, hypertension and diabetes mellitus. It took the city’s death toll to 1,081.The daily positivity rate also jumped to 23.13%, as of 4,181 samples tested by the health department, 967 were found positive on Monday.The active caseload has gone up to 3,253, though hospitalisations remain low. Of the total active cases, only 135 people are hospitalised at government and private facilities while 3,072 are isolated at their homes and 46 at mini-Covid care centres.However, even as hospitalisation rates are low across the tricity, the occupancy of 126 ventilator beds at government and private facilities rose drastically from nine to 25 within a day. Meanwhile, only 236 out of 519 oxygen beds were occupied and all 21 ICU beds were vacant. The occupancy included patients from other states admitted in the Chandigarh hospitals. UT health secretary Yashpal Garg on Monday reviewed preparedness of private hospitals to handle the surge. He told them to reserve 50% beds for Covid-19 patients and warned them against flouting the cap on treatment charges and guidelines issued by the Union government and UT administration.“Presently there is no need to fix daily quota of oxygen cylinders for private hospitals. However, private hospitals and private refilling vendors are directed to maintain a record of number of cylinders being used per day, rates charged and all necessary details,” Garg said.Covid in Panchkula: Positivity rate shoots up to 40%The single-day positivity rate climbed to an all-time high of 40% in Panchkula, as 344 of the 858 people sampled for Covid-19 were found infected with the virus in the district on Monday. The fresh cases were spread across sectors in Panchkula, with a number of them also surfacing in neighbouring towns and villages, including Kalka, Pinjore and Raipur Rani.The district has reported 33,010 cases so far, of which 1,622 are still active. Among them, only 41 patients are hospitalised while the remaining 1,581 are in home isolation.Dr Mankirat, spokesperson for the civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “This is the highest positivity rate since the pandemic began. The reason is that those who tested positive were sampled on Sunday, when testing numbers remain low and more symptomatic patients come forward, leading to more positive reports.”Dr Mukta Kumar, chief medical officer, Panchkula, said the health department is ensuring that adequate health infrastructure is in place. “Two Covid care centres with total bed capacity of 64 have become functional near Mansa Devi Complex and at the community centre in Sector 12A. Another will come up in Sector 21,” she said.On objections being raised by the Citizens Welfare Association, Panchkula, against opening of these centres in residential areas, Dr Kumar said: “Most positive people are home isolated, which means they are living at their homes inside these sectors. When people don’t object to that, then why object to Covid care centres in community halls. There is no risk to others.”Covid in Mohali: Non-essential shops to shut by 8pmAmid surge in Covid-19 cases, Mohali district magistrate has ordered the closure of all non-essential shops at 8pm. The night curfew is already in place from 10pm to 5am, and shops can open at 5am.According to orders issued under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, all shops and vehicles/persons dealing with essential commodities, such as food, medicines, milk and milk products, poultry, etc, shall be exempted. Further, there shall be no restrictions on movement of raw materials, finished goods or personnel, related to manufacturing of pharmaceuticals drugs, including vaccines and medical devices, diagnostic testing kits, etc. Any violation will invite criminal proceedings.Meanwhile, the district on Monday reported 671 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the count to 72,388. As many as 364 cases surfaced in Mohali subdivision, 201 in Kharar and 106 in Dera Bassi. Even the active caseload has surged to 3,221, though only four patients are hospitalised: two each at PGIMER and Max Hospital Despite low hospitalisations, the district administration is ramping up health infrastructure to prevent a repeat of the second wave. “From January 15, we will have the provision of 30 ICU beds at the government hospital in Phase 6. We already have the provision for 500 beds for both L2 (oxygen support) and L3 (critical) patients in government and private hospitals of the district,” said deputy commissioner Isha Kalia. Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Phase 6, has come up with a 100-bed makeshift hospital on the college premises. With this, the total capacity of beds at government hospitals in Phase 6 will reach 330.We have already set up a Covid skill lab and, all four oxygen plants (1,000 LPM) are functional,” said Dr Bhavneet Bharti, director-principal of the medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-967-covid-cases-in-record-surge-101641845495042.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Weekly tally surges 1000% in Chandigarh tricity||In a steep surge, the Chandigarh tricity area reported 6,441 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past one week (January 3- 9), nearly 12 times the previous week’s tally. On January 9 alone, as many as 1,850 cases were reported. Meanwhile, four virus-related fatalities were also reported in the tricity. In the week ending on January 2, the tricity had reported 547 cases and one fatality. As Chandigarh also logged an all-time high infections on Monday and the tricity’s daily tally climbed to of 1,982, medical experts believe the ongoing upward trend can be regarded as the beginning of the third wave.Of the three cities, Mohali remained the worst affected, with 2,473 cases in a week, up from 144 earlier. In Chandigarh, the case tally was 2,360, against 287 the previous week, and Panchkula’s tally rose from 116 to 1,608. Of the four fatalities, Mohali reported two while Chandigarh and Panchkula accounted for one each.The second wave had peaked in May, when the tricity recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month. After the weekly cases dipped below 100, a gradual rise was seen in December before a sudden spike this month.Meanwhile, even the positivity rate is rising across the tricity. For example, on January 9, the average weekly positivity rate in Chandigarh has reached 12.54%, up from 2.97% in the week ending on January 2. However, the hospitalisation rate is quite low across the three cities. For instance, in Mohali, only four of 3,221 positive patients are hospitalised.‘Community transmission increasing case load’Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said: “The cases saw a sudden spike due to overcrowded gatherings, election rallies and festivals, where people did not bother to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. This is because the infection is spreading in the community. Despite the surge, people can be seen not wearing masks in public places. If they would have understood their social responsibility, cases could have been controlled.”However, the health department has increased daily testing and are making possible arrangements to handle the surge, she said.“Though hospitalisation and fatality rates are quite low, this does not mean people should take this variant lightly. After all, there are elderly parents, co-morbid persons and children at home, who are in the high risk group,” Dr Mukta Kumar, chief medical officer, Panchkula, said.Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer for Covid-19, Mohali, said, “Though cases are increasing drastically, most patients are asymptomatic and are recovering very quickly. Infection is transmitting quickly but the severity is low, as most of the people are now fully vaccinated against the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-weekly-tally-surges-1000-in-chandigarh-tricity-101641845493496.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Mohali govt hospital to add 30 ICU beds||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases and the active caseload going past 3,000 in Mohali, the district administration is ramping up health infrastructure to tackle the third wave. Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia said that since the past one week, sampling for conducting Covid-19 tests has been increased from 1,500 to 4,000 daily. “From January 15, we will also have the provision of 30 ICU beds at the government hospital in Phase 6. We already have the provision for 500 beds for both L2 and L3 patients in government and private hospitals of the district,” she said. Amid the pandemic, the Mohali administration in 2020 created a dedicated chain of Covid-19 hospitals in the district: L1, L2 and L3. Facilities under the L1 category deal with uncomplicated cases. Cases that require more attention are sent to L2 category hospitals, whereas critical patients are shifted for specialised treatment to hospitals equipped to handle L-3 category cases.Despite these systems in place, the administration was caught off-guard due to the high number of hospitalisations and severity of infection during the second wave last year, due to which patients had to be shifted to other hospitals in nearby districts. Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Phase 6, has come up with a 100-bed makeshift hospital on the college premises. With this, the total capacity of beds at government hospitals in Phase 6 will reach 330.Dr Bhavneet Bharti, director-principal of the medical college, said: “We have already set up a Covid skill lab and, all four oxygen plants (1,000 LPM) are functional.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-mohali-govt-hospital-to-add-30-icu-beds-101641845492113.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s daily tally below 20,000 due to fewer tests; positivity 25%||Every fourth sample collected for a Covid-19 test in Delhi returned a positive report in the past 24 hours, according to government data on Monday, even as lower testing the previous day gave the Capital its first drop in daily infections in over three weeks.To be sure, despite more than 65,000 active Covid-19 cases in the city, fewer than 2,000 hospital beds were occupied on Monday.Delhi added 19,166 cases, the state’s daily health bulletin showed, around 3,500 fewer than the Sunday bulletin’s count of 22,751 cases. However, this drop was likely due to lower in testing, usually seen on Sundays and public holidays. Just over 76,000 samples were collected on Sunday, compared to over 96,000 on Saturday.The test positivity rate touched 25% on Monday, up from 23.5% the previous day, and the highest since May 6, when 26.3% of all samples returned positive results.There were 17 Covid-19 deaths reported on Monday, taking the total death toll in the city to 25,177 over the course of the pandemic. The active caseload in Delhi was 65,806.The bulletin reflects data from noon the previous day to noon on the day it is released.Nearly 86% of the dedicated Covid beds were vacant, with only 1,999 patients requiring medical care in a hospital. Of these, 503 needed oxygen support -- of these, 65 were on ventilators -- and a total of 443 patients were the intensive care units.The Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which is fuelling the current wave of infections, while more transmissible than previous variants, causes lower hospitalisations, according to trends in India and other countries. Most patients suffer only mild symptoms, and are able to recover at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-tally-below-20-000-due-to-fewer-tests-positivity-25-101641845433254.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana to soon have plastic recycling machines||Ludhiana With an aim to encourage recycling of plastic waste, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has initiated a first-of-its-kind project to install plastic reverse vending machines at different locations in the city. The proposal, a part of the smart city mission, will have a provision of giving away reward coupons for disposing plastic waste in the machines. A total of 10 machines have been proposed to be installed at such venues as Civil hospital, the bus stand, Sarabha Nagar main market, Model Town’s Gol market, Dugri market among others at an estimated cost of ₹50 lakh and will be made operational in the next two weeks. The authorities said the locations are subject to change depending on feasibility and the amount of plastic waste generated from particular neighbourhoods. The machine will accept and crush plastic bottles, aluminum cans and multi-layer packaging, all shiny flexible packaging, ketchup, toothpaste tubes and have a bin capacity of 2,000 100ml to 2500ml bottles. The crushed, compacted material will then be sent for recycling. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the MC is facing difficulties in finalising the locations as the electricity-powered machines needed to be installed under sheds to avoid damage during rainfall. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, meanwhile, said the machines are being supplied by a contractor who will also be looking after the maintenance for the next five years, following which the civic body will take over charge. He added that the aim of the project was to reuse plastic waste and put an end to littering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-to-soon-have-plastic-recycling-machines-101641845431873.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Undertrial hangs self in Sangrur jail||An undertrial, facing charges of vehicle theft, hanged himself to death in the Sangrur jail on Monday.Dalpreet Singh, 27, alias Laddi, a resident of Bhawanigarh town of the district, ended his life by hanging himself in the Sangrur jail on Monday. His post-mortem will be performed in the presence of a judge on Tuesday, said Manjit Singh, jail superintendent.Rameshwar Gir, the father of the deceased, said he received a call from the police that his son had ended his life. “The CIA personnel took my son on January 1. He had also undergone surgeries,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/undertrial-hangs-self-in-sangrur-jail-101641845373634.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drug case: HC gives Akali leader Majithia interim protection from arrest till Jan 18||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia, on Monday got interim protection from arrest till January 18, in the drugs case registered against him by Punjab Police in Mohali on December 20. The Punjab and Haryana high court bench of justice Lisa Gill while granting Majithia interim protection also directed him to join the probe by the special investigation team (SIT) on January 12. He has also been directed not to leave the country and provide his mobile number to the SIT, which would be available and switched on at all times. He has also been asked to share with the SIT, his live location through WhatsApp. The court also said he would not directly or indirectly try to contact any of the witnesses or anyone connected with the case. The court also said that he would appear before the SIT as and when required. The court also made it clear that prosecution can press for custodial interrogation, if required. Majithia was booked by police under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, including Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence). Majithia’s whereabouts are not known. On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s plea. In the high court, Majithia has roped in Supreme Court lawyer Mukul Rohtagi and senior advocate RS Cheema. For Punjab Police, former Union minister P Chidambaram is leading the team of lawyers. The bench said the state police have primarily relied on statements of Jagdish Singh Bhola, the kingpin in 2013 drugs case, Maninder Singh Aulakh, the SAD leader and his wife, Jagminder Kaur and businessman, Jagjit Singh Chahal. Bhola stands convicted (in FIR Number 56 of 2013) and Chahal and Aulakh, have been acquitted. Statements of these three were recorded by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and STF head Harpreet Singh Sidhu did not record fresh statements of Chahal and Aulakh during his inquiry. Sidhu’s statement to Punjab Police on December 22, after registration of FIR, is a reiteration of the status report submitted by him in high court in 2018. Similarly, Niranjan Singh, the former ED deputy director, in his statement has narrated sequence of events of agency’s probe. Bhola, who recorded his statement on January 3, merely reiterated his earlier statement. Sidhu, the STF head, had submitted the 2018 report in the high court on the “role” of Majithia, which became the basis of the FIR. As of Niranjan Singh, he had summoned Majithia in 2014 in connection with money-laundering allegations in the drugs trade and recorded statements of some other accused. The STF report was based on a note prepared by Niranjan Singh. “Having heard learned counsel for the parties and keeping in view the facts and circumstances, it is considered expedient at this stage, that the petitioner, at the first instance, should join investigation,” the bench said, asking him to cooperate in the probe. Earlier, Majithia in his plea had termed the FIR an “election stunt” and alleged that the government has changed three Punjab Police chiefs in three months to get this FIR registered. The plea also accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards Majithia. Punjab Police, in its response, had said that the government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels during the Akali regime in the state. Majithia was a key minister in the Akali government and it was during the SAD term that the cartel was unearthed, the police submitted, seeking his custody. The SIT also said incriminating material had come on record against Majithia. A sealed cover report was also given to the court claiming that witnesses could be threatened, if their identity is made public. The court has perused the same and was sealed again. The SIT denied allegations of political vendetta and contended that the FIR had been registered on the basis of prima facie evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-case-hc-gives-akali-leader-majithia-interim-protection-from-arrest-till-jan-18-101641845372148.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha opens office in Ludhiana, 65 apply to contest polls||As many as 65 persons, on Monday, gave their representation to the committee while expressing their intentions to contest the upcoming assembly polls under the banner of Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), a political group representing 22 Kisan Unions.The SSM which is likely to forge an alliance with Bhartiya Aarthik Party (BAP) opened its office in civil lines near Fountain Chowk.Earlier, during the day it was said farmer leader and SSM chief Balbir Singh Rajewal and Harmeet Singh Kadian will visit and formally inaugurate the party office, but the plan was shelved. SSM Committee member Mukesh Chander Sharma said there were more than 65 persons who applied with the party and expressed their intention to contest election. He added that their applications will be scrutinised and further decisions will be taken by the party leaders.Sharma said SSM will announce its first list of candidates most probably on Wednesday but it is sure that within this week SSM will announce all candidates for 117 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sanyukt-samaj-morcha-opens-office-in-ludhiana-65-apply-to-contest-polls-101641845252052.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 83 accused arrested in 2021 for gambling, ₹6.5L recovered||In a drive against gambling and illegal lottery, the special branch of police commissionerate, Ludhiana, have arrested as many as 83 accused in the year 2021.The police have lodged a total of 49 cases against the accused and also recovered ₹6.50 lakh in cash from them.Inspector Beant Juneja, in-charge special branch, said the special drive started in 2021, will continue in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-83-accused-arrested-in-2021-for-gambling-6-5l-recovered-101641845192054.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala police team attacked in Ludhiana, one arrested||A team of Ambala police has been assaulted by family members of Agwad Gujran village of Mullanpur Dakha, after they asked the accused to join the investigation in a year old case of threatening a woman over phone.Following the complaint of assistant sub-inspector (ASIRavinder Kumar, incharge at police post number 3, Ambala City; the Mullanpur Dakha police lodged an FIR against the accused. One of the accused Satwinder Singh has been arrested, while rest of the accused including his father Iqbal Singh, mother Joginder Kaur, two daughters Komal Preet Kaur and Harjit Kaur are yet to be arrested.The ASI said a woman Ritu Harbart of Ambala had lodged an FIR under Sections 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against a man Sidharth Ponu Swami for making derogatory remarks against her on social networking sites after she had initiated a drive for vaccination of puppies before selling them. Later she received threatening calls from different numbers.ASI said during investigation the police found that one of the threatening calls was allegedly made by the accused Satwinder Singh. They along with the Mullanpur Dakha police went to the house of the accused for questioning, who along with his family members tried to intercept their way and also assaulted them. A case under sections of IPC has been registered against the accused at police station Mullanpur Dakha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-police-team-attacked-in-ludhiana-one-arrested-101641845072148.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Model code in force: Over 9 lakh posters, banners and hoardings removed across UP||LUCKNOW Over 9 lakh (9,60,482) political campaign items such as posters, banners, hoardings, etc were removed from government and private establishments across the state with the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) coming into force after announcement of election schedule for 403 assembly seats, said UP chief electoral officer (CEO) Ajay Kumar Shukla. While 7,32,186 publicity items were removed from government properties, 2,28,296 publicity items were removed from private properties. Wall writings, posters, banners and other material were also removed, he said. Action was taken in 38,891 cases of wall writings on government properties, 3,42,907 posters, 2,30,987 banners and 1,19,401 other cases in various districts. In the case of private properties, action was taken in 19,615 cases of wall writings, 1,14,688 posters, 58,769 banners and 35,224 other cases, he added. The chief electoral officer said law and order system had been implemented effectively for peaceful polling while action was being taken by enforcement agencies including police, income tax, excise and narcotics departments. Till Monday, 10,007 licensed arms had been deposited with the police department, nine licenses were confiscated and four licenses cancelled. Similarly, while taking preventive action under various sections of the IPC and CrPC, the police arrested 28,474 people and non-bailable warrants issued against 335 people. The excise department confiscated 6,588 litres liquor worth ₹15.58 lakh in the statewide drive, said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/model-code-in-force-over-9-lakh-posters-banners-and-hoardings-removed-across-up-101641845012006.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poll code: Ludhiana schools asked not to accept funds from political parties||The direction issued by local education department on Monday to strictly follow the guidelines pertaining to code of conduct, has left government schools in a spot of bother, which were expecting to receive development grants from the local political leaders.The move comes with the code of conduct coming into force, after the election dates for upcoming assembly elections in five states have been announced, including Punjab.Adhering with the directions of the Ludhiana deputy commissioner, the education department released a letter to the school heads and principals of the government schools to not accept any cheques or grants from the representatives of political parties including councillors, MLA, minister and others for development works in the schools.Work up-in-the-air“There are many pending work which need to be done on an urgent basis. We had also sought some financial help for the construction of some rooms in the school from some political representative who was supposed to release the grant this week but now, we can’t accept any cheque or funds amid code of conduct, halting the work here,” said a principal of GSSS.Special zoom meetings were recently held by the state education department with the deputy district education officers, principals and the school heads across the state directing them to expedite the utilization of the grants released to the schools. Another principal said political parties tend to distribute bicycles, smart phones and other things to the students before elections but now they won’t be able to do so.No posters on schools’ wallsThe department has also asked the principals not to allow anyone to paste hoardings or posters of the political parties on the walls of schools.“We have been communicated through e-mails by the department that no hoardings should be there near the school premises and thus the staff has also been alerted to keep an eye on any such activity,” said principal of a government school.Strict action in case of violationDistrict commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has warned all the government departments in Ludhiana of strict departmental action in case of violation of guidelines pertaining to code of conduct.District education officer, Secondary, Lakhvir Singh Samra claimed that the schools have been strictly asked to adhere with the orders released by the deputy commissioner or else they would face the action in case of any violation. 
11-01-2022||Delhi||Over 18,000 get booster shots in Delhi on Day One of drive||Amid a surging third wave of Covid-19 infections, Delhi on Monday administered over 18,000precautionary doses, or booster shots, of the Covid-19 vaccine to senior citizens, health-care professionals and frontline workers, the government data showed. According to government records, 300,000 people are eligible to get a precautionary dose in Delhi from January 10. The Delhi government data showed that on Monday, 18,795 precautionary doses (till 8pm) were administered and the recipients included 8,040 senior citizens, 6,212 health-care workers and 4,543 frontline workers.According to the Co-WIN dashboard, which gives the latest vaccination counts, 18,835 precautionary doses were administered in Delhi on Monday. While the vaccination started slow, with only seven doses being administered at 9am, it soon picked up speed and 834 shots were administered by 10am, 2,834 by 11am and 3,051 by noon. By 9pm, the capital had administered 18,835 booster doses. A senior official of the Delhi government’s health department said text messages were sent to all those aged 60 years or more, who have completed nine months since their second dose of vaccination, urging them to get the precautionary dose at the earliest. Additional staff were also deployed at vaccination centres in the city to help senior citizens with queries and assist them during the process. “Around 3 lakh (300,000) people are currently eligible to get the precautionary dose. The central government guidelines have stated that the third dose will be of the same vaccine as the one administered as the first and second doses; that is, if a person received Covishield doses in the first two rounds, the third dose will also be Covidshield and if she received Covaxin as the first and second doses, the booster dose will also be the same. When a person books an appointment on the Co-WIN app, the centres will be filtered accordingly,” explained the health official. Many senior citizens, health-care and front-line workers who received their precautionary dose on Monday said they were looking forward to getting the third dose before the fresh wave of Covid cases, fuelled by the Omicron variant, start peaking. “I received my second dose in April and several experts in news discussions had highlighted that immunity starts waning after six to seven months. That was worrisome, especially because Covid cases have started rising once again. The process to get the booster shot was quite simple— it barely took us an hour for the vaccination to get done,” said 69-year-old Shambhu Nath Rawat, who came to the vaccination centre being run out of an East Delhi Municipal Corporation school in Pandav Nagar. Padmini Singh, a government school teacher who was also eligible to get the precautionary shot on Monday, encouraged maximum people to get vaccinated. She said she tested positive for Covid-19 last July, even after being fully vaccinated, but because she was immunised, her symptoms were mild. “I am talking from personal experience — vaccines are lifesavers. I got infected in July and the only symptoms I had were loss of smell and slight fatigue. I recovered within a week. I fell ill at a time when so many people had a hard time even breathing and could not get the required help because the system was under so much pressure. I know the government has a responsibility to be prepared during the pandemic, but it is also our duty to be prepared against the infection,” she said. Walk-ins and appointments will both be allowed for those eligible for the booster shot. There will be no need to register with a new account— the existing account on Co-WIN will have an additional section for “precautionary dose”. After getting the shot, one can also download the vaccination certificate from Co-WIN. Delhi government officials said private hospitals that are functioning as vaccination centres can provide vaccines to their staff in their own hospitals and may foot the expense on their own or pass it on to beneficiaries. 
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Over 2,500 Afghan students await visas to return to India||With five months since the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan, there are over 2,500 Afghan students enrolled in Indian institutes awaiting the issuance of visas so they can return to India.The details were shared by Farid Mamundzay, ambassador of Afghanistan to India, on Monday. He was in Zirakpur to address a trade and business conference. Mamundzay said that he has requested the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to expedite the issuance of visas to these students who are in Afghanistan. “These students are missing out on their studies as they were in the midst of their degree programmes. They have already lost one semester of studies,” he said.Mamundzay said his office is trying to bring around 50 female students first, and more students will be brought in subsequent batches.After sweeping through many provinces, Taliban fighters entered the capital Kabul on August 15, 2021, leading Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to flee the country and the Afghan government to collapse.The ambassador said that India’s policy to issue visas to Afghans has changed after the Taliban takeover. “It has a drastic impact on the Afghan people, particularly on students. India has only issued around 200 visas in the last five months, and among them only two visas were issued to students,” said Mamundzay.On scholarships to students, he said that there were almost 1,000 scholarships awarded to students in Kabul and a good number of them were in the process of obtaining visas. “Post August 15, our request to the Indian authorities was that those scholarships should be given to Afghan students who are in India, which included students on self-financed basis, and second to those who had completed their bachelors or masters degree,” he said, adding, 450 scholarships were obtained for both types of students.“We have requested for around 70 fresh scholarships, which are currently under process, for the students who are already in India. These are mostly for students who are here on self-financed basis, and we requested the ICCR to include them in the scholarship scheme,” said Mamundzay.
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Police bust terror module behind Pathankot army camp blast case, six held||The Punjab Police on Monday busted a terror module backed by the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) with the arrest of six of its operatives in connection with a grenade blast at the Pathankot army camp on November 21 last year.The Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police recovered six hand grenades, a pistol, a rifle along with bullets and magazines from them, Punjab director general of police (DGP) VK Bhawra said in a release. The separate police teams led by superintendent of police (investigation) Sarabjit Singh Bahia, deputy SP, Harjit Singh, in-charge, CIA, Dalbir Singh Sidhu, and SHO, Sadar Banga, Harpreet Singh, executed the operation under the supervision of SBS Nagar SSP Kanwardeep Kaur. Those arrested have been identified as Amandeep, alias Mantri, Gurwinder Singh, Parminder Kumar, Rajinder Singh, Hapreet Singh and Raman Kumar, all from Gurdaspur district. In two instances, unidentified persons had hurled hand grenades in Pathankot, one near Chakki Pull on November 11, 2021, and the other outside Triveni Dwar of the army’s Pathankot cantonment on November 21. Separate cases were registered in this regard at the Pathankot division 2 and division 1 police stations, respectively. In the statement, DGP Bhawra said the accused admitted that they were directly in touch with the self-proclaimed chief of ISYF (Rode) Lakhbir Singh Rode and his aides, Sukhmeetpal Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, and Sukhpreet, alias Sukh, for planning terrorist attacks. “The recovered hand grenades, arms and ammunition were pushed in from across the border by Lakhbir Rode and the six accused had been tasked with attacking identified targets which were mainly police and defence establishments and religious places,” he said, adding that the accused persons have also confessed to having lobbed hand-grenades twice in Pathankot. SBS Nagar senior superintendent of police Kanwardeep Kaur said the case has been registered under Sections of the UAPA, Explosives and Arms Act at the city police station.The police said the role of Lakhbir Rode was also found in the killing of Balwinder Singh at Bhikhiwind on October 16, 2020, besides the recovery of the tiffin IED, RDX, arms and ammunition from his relative Gurmukh Singh Rode in Jalandhar in August 2021. A senior police officer said all accused were connected with Sukhpreet Singh of Kharal village, who is presently in Greece and further linked with Lakhbir Singh Rode. The accused got in touch with Sukhpreet through Rajinder Singh, who was in the Gurdaspur jail in the Shiv Sena leader attack case. He said the accused were asked to execute the attacks in lieu of a small amount of money, ₹50,000, and sent abroad. All accused hail from poor family. He said Central agencies, including the Intelligence Bureau and the National Investigation Agency, also got involved in the investigation after the arrest of the accused. Besides, all accused were produced before the SBS Nagar court and sent to police custody till January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-bust-terror-module-behind-pathankot-army-camp-grenade-blast-case-six-held-101641844653665.html
11-01-2022||Noida||First poll code violation in Ghaziabad as parties gear up for virtual rallies||Even as the Election Commission of India (ECI) on January 8 announced that no political rallies, roadshows, or street corner meetings will be allowed in Uttar Pradesh till January 15, the Ghaziabad police, lodged an FIR in the first case of violation of Model Code of Conduct (MCC) against a probable candidate of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) who allegedly called a public meeting on the night of January 9 in Loni.The Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7, 2022.The police said that they booked Haji Aquil, four of his accomplices, and 30 other unidentified persons under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and The Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act.“We will inform the returning officer of Loni to disallow him from conducting any rallies during the campaign,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).The police said that they came across a video on social media on Sunday and confirmed that the alleged violation took place. Taking cognisance of the video, the Loni police booked Haji Aquil and others for the violation.The video sourced from the police shows that a garlanded Aquil walked along with several members of the public on a road while dhols (drums) were played.Aquil, however, denied the alleged violation.“I had gone to the house of a family where death had taken place. I went there to offer condolences but many people followed me. I did not make any speech or violate any law or MCC,” Aquil said.Virender Jatav, district president of the BSP, said that he will check the FIR against Haji Aquil.“He is a probable candidate but a list of final candidates is being prepared and will soon be released by the party within a couple of days. Our party is also gearing up to hold virtual rallies and it will be more interesting and challenging to connect to voters during the pandemic,” he added.The Ghaziabad district goes to the polls on February 10 under phase 1 of the assembly election in Uttar Pradesh.Major political parties in the district are busy finetuning their strategies for virtual meetings, itineraries for the poll campaigns, and finalising their candidates from the five assembly segments of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, and Modinagar.Presently all five seats are held by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Our social media team is strong and we will strictly go by the directions given by the ECI in this regard. Our meetings will be held virtually in the wake of the pandemic and this mode will benefit us as we have strong social media teams. This election, we will hold about 50% of our campaign virtually. A majority of it will take place in urban segments while small teams of five persons, as directed by ECI, will go canvassing door-to-door in rural segments where virtual/online connectivity is not proper,” said Tarunima Srivastava, UP state spokesperson for Aam Aadmi Party.She added that the party will finalise its remaining candidates this week. Three candidates, Sachin Sharma from Loni, Dr Chhavi Yadav from Sahibabad and Mahesh Tyagi from Muradnagar have already been finalised.“Recently, we conducted two meetings with our leaders in UP--about 150,000 persons connected with us online,” Srivastava added.Meanwhile, members of the BJP said that they have formed a booth-level strategy to connect to voters in localities through online mode.“Our virtual rallies in the past have attracted about 300,000 people online. We have deployed a huge base of ‘panna pramukhs’ in all localities. Every such person is assigned a role to connect to voters as per the electoral roll page related to his/her locality. This, we have been experimenting for past two years now and we have a wide outreach to voters through online modes,” said Ashwini Sharma, media co-ordinator for BJP’s city unit.The party is also banking on a strong IT cell.“Our IT cells have been created at district-level, state-level and national-level, and we have the ability to connect them together as per our needs. So, the reach is wide. We have such virtual connectivity available in different assembly segments as well,” Sharma added.The office-bearers of the Congress said that they are waiting for directions in this regard from the state unit.“All preparations have been made for virtual rallies and now we are waiting for the guidelines from the state unit. The virtual rallies will hold importance against traditional modes of campaigning this time due to the rise in Covid cases. We will follow the directions issued by the ECI in this regard,” said Bijender Yadav, district president of the Congress party.He added that the list of candidates will be finalised within this week.According to the latest electoral rolls, there are about 2,899,484 eligible voters in the five assembly segments and part of the Dhaulana segment. The number of voters also includes 30,273 first-time voters.
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Industry opposes revival of truck unions in Punjab||The industry has strongly opposed the decision of the Punjab government to revive truck unions in the state. On January 7, the Congress government had issued a notification for the revival of truck unions in the state just a day before the model code of conduct was implemented. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, JS Bhogal, publicity secretary, Honey Sethi, organising secretary and Rajat Gupta, press secretary, Chamber of Commercial and Industrial Undertaking (CICU) jointly issued a statement that they strongly oppose and criticise the decision of the Punjab government to revive truck unions. It will prove to be detrimental to the growth of the industry, which is already passing through a critical phase, said Ahuja. The representatives further emphasised that this decision will create burden on the industry as transport charges are already high in the state. The government had claimed that this decision was taken to end the mafia of goods transporters, but as a result, the union will arbitrarily impose a high tariff on the movement of goods. “The government should understand the situation of the industry and form committees to fix genuine rates to ensure that the interests of the trucking community as well as trade and industry, are safeguarded,” said Pankaj Sharma. Earlier, the Federation of Punjab Small Industries Associations (FOPSIA) said they have decided to oppose political parties which are assuring the reconstitution of truck unions in the state. Recently, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have also announced to revive truck unions in Punjab if the party is voted to power. FOPSIA president Badish Jindal said, “Multinational companies are scared to invest in the state and the local industry is fed up of cartelisation of truck unions.” It was the main reason that even after the formation of the Invest Punjab Policy in 2013, industries showed no interest in investing in the state. Looking at all these factors, the Congress government decided to ban 134 truck unions in the state in 2017. This was a major relief for the trade and industry of the state then, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/industry-opposes-revival-of-truck-unions-in-punjab-101641844593416.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Burglars target locked house, electrical shop in Ludhiana; decamp with ₹75K||Gang of burglars targeted a locked house in Daad village and an electrical shop in Gobind Colony at Chandigarh road.In the first case, the Sadar police lodged an FIR against unidentified burglars for targeting a locked house in New Sarabha Nagar in Daad village.Complainant Harjinder Kaur Dango said she along with her family members had gone out of station on January 3. She returned on January 9 to see the lock of the main gate of the house broken open. The burglars had decamped with ₹60,000 in cash and gold jewellery from the house.Head constable Parminder Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 457 (Lurking house trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence) and 380 (punishment for theft) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused.In another case, burglars stole ₹15,000 in cash, 35 electrical motors, 35kg copper and one LED after carving a whole in the wall of a shop in Gobind Colony at Chandigarh road.The Jamalpur police have lodged an FIR against unidentified accused following the complaint of shopkeeper Ranjit Singh of Gobind Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglars-target-locked-house-electrical-shop-in-ludhiana-decamp-with-75k-101641844592213.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Factory worker decamps with ₹50,000, arrested||The Basti Jodhewal police on Monday arrested a factory worker, who decamped with ₹50,000 cash after breaking open his employer’s drawer. The police have recovered ₹45,500 cash from the accused. An FIR has been lodged following the statement of factory owner Vikas Sumani of Omaxe Royal Residency, Pakhowal road.The accused Lalit Mahato of Samastipur of Bihar worked as an office boy in Vikas Sumani’s factory at Guru Vihar of Jodhewal for the past four years and used to live in the premisesVikas said on January 8, the accused broke open the lock of the drawer and fled. He came to know about it on January 9 when he came to the factory to the cash missing and Lalit Mahato was also not present in the factory.Sub-inspector Jasvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said police have registered a case under Section 381(theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master or employer) of Indian Penal Code. The police arrested the accused hours after the incident when he was trying to escape from the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-factory-worker-decamps-with-50-000-arrested-101641844531815.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s mercury may drop to 6°C this week, says IMD as night-time chill returns||Minimum temperatures in Delhi have started dipping once again, and could touch six degrees Celsius by Saturday, according to a forecast by the Met department, after consecutive western disturbances kept the city’s nights warmer than usual for much of the previous week.Colder north-westerly winds blowing from the snow-clad mountains will aid the dip in temperatures, with Delhi also expected to record spells of moderate fog for the remainder of this week, with a possibility of dense fog as well.Delhi recorded a maximum of 18.1 degrees Celsius on Monday – two degrees below normal for this time of the season. In comparison, it was 15 degrees on Sunday – the lowest maximum recorded so far all winter. The minimum temperature on Monday, however, fell to 9.6 degrees, which is three notches above normal, but a sharp drop from 13.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said the northern plains will once again see colder nights after the higher mountains received significant snowfall. “Cold wave conditions are unlikely this week, but the minimum will start to drop slowly and could drop to 5-6 degrees by the end of the week. The maximum temperature on the other hand will return to 20-21 degrees,” Jenamani said, adding that there was an increase in the moisture levels too, which will contribute towards greater fog density.“Delhi recorded shallow fog on Monday morning, with visibility over 500 metres in most parts, but this is expected to drop to 100-200 metres this week,” he said.The withdrawal of the western disturbance on Sunday night also left Delhi’s air worse off. The city’s air quality index (AQI) returned to the ‘moderate’ category after two days in the ‘satisfactory’ zone, with a 24-hour average reading of 151 as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin on Monday, up from 69 on Sunday.An AQI between 51 and 100 is classified as ‘satisfactory, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and over 400 is ‘severe’ as per the CPCB.As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, Delhi may breathe relatively clean air until January 12, with wind speeds expected to drop from January 13.“The maximum temperature has started to increase and wind speeds are also good at the moment, which will keep air quality around the ‘moderate’ range. From January 13 onwards, low wind speed is expected, which will lead to a deterioration in AQI,” said Gufran Beig, founder project director at Safar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-mercury-may-drop-to-6-c-this-week-says-imd-as-night-time-chill-returns-101641844471903.html
11-01-2022||Noida||Noida adds 1,222 cases on Monday; cases increase in healthcare workers, prisoners||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar reported 1,222 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the district’s active case tally to 5,780.According to data from the health department, within a week, the number of patients hospitalised in the district has gone up from zero to over 80.The number of notified hospitals in the district for Covid-19 treatment has also gone up from two to seven now, officials said.“We have given permission to few hospitals to treat patients for Covid. However, all those who were notified earlier are allowed to start Covid treatment if they wish to do so. They just need to notify the health department about the number of cases,” said Dr Sunil Saxena, chief medical officer.“We have to monitor the cases for another week. If there is no sharp increase, it is likely that we have already seen the peak and cases may also start reducing,” added Dr Sharma.A total of 5,764 cases have now been added to the district’s in January so far. So far, Gautam Budh Nagar has reported 69,527 cases since the pandemic began in March, 2020, and 1,792,596 tests have been conducted in the district. Officials said that no Omicron case was reported in Gautam Budh Nagar after the first one and no traveller tested positive for Covid-19 according to Monday’s report.Nearly 6,000 tests are being conducted everyday in the district now, and the positivity rate was recorded at 29.9% on Monday.Positivity rate refers to the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to all those who have been tested for it.With increasing cases, the health department has also increased focused sampling, especially among the healthcare workers. Intensive testing has also been done at the Luksar jail in Greater Noida as 11 prisoners have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.“There are still eight infected prisoners in our hospital, while three have been discharged. We have 42 active patients now,” said Dr Tritya Saxena, medical superintendent of Noida Covid hospital, Sector 39.Several healthcare workers at various government and private hospitals in the district are also infected. At the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, around 20 staff and students have tested positive and have been isolated.“Hospitalisation has increased and we have around 40 patients now, including our staff. However, none of them is serious or in the ICU. We are giving them symptomatic treatment,” said brigadier Dr Rakesh Gupta (retd), director of GIMS.With several members of staff testing positive, the burden on the Covid testing lab at GIMS that has now cleared all backlog of samples collected over the past week is slowly increasing. The GIMS lab has the capacity to test 12,000 samples a day and is currently receiving around 3,000 samples daily from Noida and Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-adds-1-222-cases-on-monday-cases-increase-in-healthcare-workers-prisoners-101641844292050.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Confectioner arrested for wife’s murder, suspected infidelity||A 27-year-old confectioner was arrested for allegedly murdering his wife, on suspicion of infidelity, in Anand Nagar of Haibowal, on Sunday. The accused, Vikrant Kumar alias Vicky, had allegedly thrashed the victim, Simran alias Manisha, 27, with a baseball bat and then strangled her with a handkerchief on Saturday.After the committing the crime, he had tried to pass it off as an accident and called his brother-in-law, claiming that Simran had fallen off the terrace when she was washing clothes. The victim’s brother, Karan Singh alias Sunny, said when he reached their house, he found Simran lying unconscious on a bed. They took her to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), where doctors declared her dead.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Ashwani Gotyal said the accused had fled from the hospital. A murder case was registered against the accused on January 8 at Haibowal police station.In his statement to the police, the victim’s brother also said that the accused used to thrash Simran in an inebriated condition. Further, Vikrant had no regular income and Simran was keen on taking up a job, but the former was against it. The ADCP said the accused confessed to the crime and said he had murdered Simran as she was having an extra-marital affair. Simran had married Vikrant in 2013. The couple has a seven-year-old daughter and five-year-old son. At the time of the crime, the children were at their maternal grandparents’ house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-confectioner-arrested-for-wife-s-murder-suspected-infidelity-101641844112191.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi HC reserves judgment in challenge to ration plan||The Delhi high court on Monday reserved its judgment on a plea by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh challenging the doorstep ration delivery scheme of the Delhi government even as it questioned the latter as to how the proposed scheme is better at preventing corruption in distribution of food grains, when compared to the existing programme.“You are painting the whole community of Fair Price Shops (FPS) with the same brush. Are they all corrupt? As per the LG, you are only replacing one set of people with another. So how will you ensure these new people are not corrupt? Are these people from across the planet?” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh observed.The court said that it is only trying to ascertain the rationale behind the proposed scheme, and that its queries may not have a bearing on the legality of the scheme. It also asked as to why the proposed safeguards such as geo positioning, bio-metric verification and iris scanning cannot be introduced to the current system of ration delivery.Appearing for the Delhi government, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, told the court that it does not claim that the scheme would ensure complete sanitisation of the system.“There will be some leakage, but I am entitled to change the system to an extent where this leakage is minimised. My rectification will make it significantly better. In any case, I am entitled to change the policy even if there will be leakage in it. There is no prohibition in the National Food Security Act (NFSA),” Singhvi argued.Advocate Asmita Singh, also for the Delhi government, told the court that the safeguard of verification was introduced at FPS, however, it was misused and legal action has been initiated against many operators.To this the bench said, “So law will take its course. Whosoever is found to be indulging in any irregularity, can be proceeded against...this could happen with your new bidder also.. On what basis are you claiming minimised corruption? They are also human beings only, of Indian origin, sharing same gene pool...”Appearing for the ration dealers, advocate Visheshwar Shrivastava, told the court that there are a lot of checks and balances in the National Food Security Act, and in case a person is found indulging in unlawful activities, his licence may be cancelled.Shrivastava also told the court that Delhi government cannot be said to “state government” for the purposes of NFS Act, in a smuch as Section 2(22) defines State, in relation to Union territory, as its Administrator, in this case the LG. He added that in any case, the Delhi government is bound by the guidelines issued by the Union government.He also pointed out that “Targeted Public Distribution System” under the NFSA means the system for distribution essential commodities to the ration card holders “through fair price shops”.The court did not fix the next date of hearing.The court is hearing a plea by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh, a group of FPS owners, in which they have challenged the doorstep ration delivery scheme and demanded that it should be declared ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power or authority).The scheme has become a flashpoint between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government and the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi, with the former saying that the plan violates the provisions of NFSA and will deprive migrants of foodgrains, and the latter pointing out that it will root out the ration mafia and ensure that all beneficiaries get their ration.On November 15, the Supreme Court declined to entertain two separate petitions (one by the Centre and another by FPS owners) against a Delhi high court interim order on September 27 that allowed the AAP government to stop supplying foodgrain to fixed price shops for patrons who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration. The high court interim order also effectively gave a go-ahead to the state government scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-reserves-judgment-in-challenge-to-ration-plan-101641844053193.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF juniors tennis tournament: Top seed Manas enters main draw||Top seed Manas Dhamne beat R Senthil Kumar in straight sets in the final boys U-18 qualifying round to enter the main draw during the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-2) being held at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10, on Monday. In the girls’ U-18 second qualifying round, Charmi Gopinath and Kotistha Modak won their matches and moved into the final qualifying round. Charmi Gopinath upset fourth seed Hannah Nagpal 4-1, 4-2. Kotistha Modak beat Gauri Mangaonkar 4-2, 4-0 in a one-sided match.ResultsBoys’ singles final qualifying round: Manas Dhamne (IND) [1] bt R Senthil Kumar (IND) [8] 4-1, 5-3.Boys’ singles’ second qualifying round: Manas Dhamne (IND) [1] bt. Adhirit Awal (IND) 4-1, 4-0; R Senthil Kumar (IND) [8] bt Shivaraj Chandan (IND) 4-1, 5-3; Vineeth Mutyala (IND) [2] bt Tarun Korwar (IND) 4-2, 4-2; Jasmeet Duhan (IND) bt. R Sundararaman (IND) [7] 4-0, 0-4 [10-3]; Krish Tyagi (IND) bt Debasis Sahoo (IND) 4-0, 4-2; Monil Lotlikar (IND) [5] bt Akarsh Gaonkar (IND0 4-1, 5-4(5); Bhushan Haobam (IND) [4] bt Rishivandhan Sadeeshkumar (IND) 4-1, 4-2; Deep Munim (IND)[6] bt Saharia Choudhary (IND) 4-1, 4-1;(Girls’ singles’ second qualifying rd): Charmi Gopinath (IND) bt Hannah Nagpal (IND) [4] 4-1, 4-2; Kotistha Modak (IND) bt Gauri Mangaonkar (IND) 4-2, 4-0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-juniors-tennis-tournament-top-seed-manas-enters-main-draw-101641844051891.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh property dealer booked in 3rd cheating case||Property dealer-cum-financier Ram Lal Chaudhary, 64, a resident of Sector 46, has been booked for the third time for cheating a Ludhiana man of ₹1.10 crore on the pretext of getting his son acquitted in a murder case.In his complaint to the police, Teja Singh, a resident of Ludhiana, alleged that Chaudhary had taken ₹1.10 crore from him to get his son, Barjinder Singh, acquitted in a murder case .He said that Barjinder had been arrested in 2012 and is still in jail. During the trial In 2014, he came in contact with Chaudhary through one Jarnail Singh, who is also from Ludhiana. Chaudhary assured him that he will get his son acquitted and claimed to have links in judiciary .Teja had paid the amount in cash to Chaudhary in the presence of his daughter Ranjit Singh, Karamjeet Singh and Jarnail. Teja also submitted a video footage of him making the payment.He said that even after six years, Chaudhary did not get his son acquitted and only returned ₹25 lakh.A cheating case was registered at Sector 34 police station on Monday.Chaudhary was earlier arrested in November 11, 2021, for cheating a Gurugram resident of ₹5 crore. Police have already filed a chargesheet in that case. Another case was registered against him on November 18 for duping a retired official of the Haryana revenue department in lieu of getting his name cleared from a vigilance case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-property-dealer-booked-in-3rd-cheating-case-101641843871750.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 28 complaints of poll code violations lodged in two days||Within two days of the model code of conduct coming into force, following the announcement of state assembly elections, as many as 28 complaints of poll code violations have been registered with the election office in Ludhiana. Of these, six complaints are against cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.Most of the complaints pertain to hoardings dotting the city, while a few are related to cheques being issued under the Punjab Nirman Scheme.Taking note of the plaints, deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer Varinder Kumar Sharma directed the department concerned to freeze bank accounts of these schemes.A letter – of which Hindustan Times has a copy-- reads that several complaints have been received with regards to cheques being issued in the name of development schemes of the Punjab government, including the Punjab Nirman Programme. The complainants stated the cheques were being distributed even after the model code of conduct came into force at 3:30 pm on Saturday, January 8, 2022.In the letter written to municipal commissioner, ADC, urban development, ADC development, chief administrator, GLADA, executive officer, improvement trust and others, the deputy commissioner has directed the staff to immediately look into these allegations, and if the found to be true and if any official is found to be involved in facilitating the distribution of cheques, the names and designation of the persons responsible are to be sent to his office.District election officer Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “It is a routine exercise. The banks were directed to freeze the account of these schemes so that no payment is released by banks against such checks after the imposition. The due process was followed.”Plaint against LITThe district election officer-cum-deputy commissioner also received a complaint that officers of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust had issued work orders worth crores of rupees after the implementation of model code of conduct. After receiving the complaint, he has asked the department to produce the dispatch register and some other records of LIT and started investigation into the matter.The DC has handed over the investigation of the matter to additional deputy commissioner Rahul Chaba. Earlier, the trust had landed in controversy for selling 3.79 acres on Dugri Road at throwaway prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-28-complaints-of-poll-code-violations-lodged-in-two-days-101641843751636.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Concern as Delhi adds 8 dengue infections — rare for Jan 1st week||The weekly vector borne disease report, issued jointly by the three municipal corporations, every Monday, has declared eight new dengue cases during the first week of the new year— a marked departure from the previous five years when no case was detected during the period. The report takes into account cases notified till January 8, senior public health officials from the civic bodies said. They said dengue has now become endemic in the city and the number of cases are not falling to zero even during peak winter. The data over the last five years shows that the number of dengue cases in the first week of January has been zero in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. “Dengue is now endemic to the city and cases are witnessed all through the year. The mosquitoes have also adapted to the cold environment and larvae breeding is still happening. We used to have a zero dengue period during peak winter, which is no longer the case,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Of the eight reported dengue cases, three were from areas under the south corporation, and one each from north and east corporations while the origin of three cases could not be traced. Delhi’s hospitals have also reported three more cases which were found to be infections acquired from other states.The action taken report for the week also shows that the municipal domestic breeding checkers have detected 83 properties with larvae breeding in the first week with 93 legal notices being issued and prosecutions being launched in five cases. Of the 83 sites, 78 were in areas falling under South Delhi Municipal Corporation while five were reported from areas under the north corporation. With the city witnessing record rainfall this January — the month is already the wettest Delhi has seen in 22 years, according to the India Meteorological Department — and waterlogging being reported in many parts of the city over the week, the number of vector-borne disease cases may further rise in the coming weeks, entomologists said. Delhi has so far recorded 63.6mm of rainfall, the highest for the month of January since 1995, when Delhi received 69.8mm of rainfall in the entire month.“Warmer temperatures and humid environment are ideal breeding conditions for mosquitoes. A lot depends on the temperature over the next week,” a second official added, also on condition of anonymity. Multiple studies in the recent years show that aedes aegypti eggs can survive in low and sub-zero temperatures for a short period of time. Once the temperature drops to about 20°C, the adult mosquitoes become less active in the open environments and stop functioning once the mercury drops below 10°C. Delhi has recorded 9,613 dengue cases and 23 fatalities in 2021, making it the second worst annual outbreak on record. The dengue outbreak in 2015 had led to 60 deaths and 15,867 infections. Dismayed by the poor public health response to the outbreak, the Delhi high court had ordered the constitution of a task force to take steps to prevent the city from “being infested by mosquitoes”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/concern-as-delhi-adds-8-dengue-infections-rare-for-jan-1st-week-101641843691806.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 50% govt schools staffers asked to come to work||The district education officer (DEO) issued a fresh order to all government and government-aided schools on Monday, allowing only 50% staffers to attend work. The UT education department had earlier asked all teaching and non-teaching staff to come to school from Monday onwards, which many teachers had opposed.Savinder Singh, chairman of the Joint Action Committee of Teachers, UT Chandigarh, said they had met education department officials regarding this on Monday and are thankful for the decision.The order by the DEO also carries instructions regarding conduct of online classes. Schools have been asked to prepare worksheets and learning material for students unable to attend online classes, which can be collected by their parents. They have also been asked to maintain a record of how many such students were unable to attend online classes and the reasons for the same.Heads of schools will have to attend work everyday and maintain a record of the teachers’ attendance and supervise the online teaching process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-50-govt-schools-staffers-asked-to-come-to-work-101641843635056.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Doctors’ strike: Govt OPDs to remain shut today in Haryana||As the third wave of Covid batters the nation including Haryana, at least 3000 government doctors will observe a state-wide strike on Tuesday and shut out-patient department (OPD) services at all government hospitals the whole day (9am-3pm).On Monday, the doctors, under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMS), were scheduled to meet senior officials of the state government but could not and decided to go ahead with the strike.Dr Jasbir Singh Parmar, president of the association, said, “We were called to meet additional chief secretary (ACS), finance, TVSN Prasad on behalf of the government. However, the officer was suffering from high fever and the meeting got cancelled. Later, the state executive body resolved that the HCMS doctors will be on mass casual leave throughout Haryana.”Dr Parmar said on January 12 and 13, all services will be provided as per routine, but there will be a total shutdown of all services including emergency/Covid and postmortem from January 14 till the doctors’ demands are met.The doctors are demanding creation of specialist cadre (as by the Centre and Bihar governments), stopping direct recruitment of senior medical officers (SMOs), and revision of the postgraduate policy.Earlier, the doctors were scheduled to observe a similar strike on December 13, but postponed it after a meeting with Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who had assured them that all their issues will be resolved.Dr Parmar said doctors are not willing to bother the public amid the pandemic but are bound to go on a strike. If there is any hassle, the government will be responsible.ACS (health) Rajeev Arora and Vij were unavailable for comments, while chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had on Friday said the health minister chaired a meeting with the doctors and a solution will be out soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doctors-strike-govt-opds-to-remain-shut-today-in-haryana-101641843391828.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn asks school principals to inform students about Covid vaccination camps||UT health secretary Yashpal Garg issued an order on Monday asking principals of all private and government schools in the city to inform students in the age group of 15 to 18 about vaccination camps being organised on campus.In case principals don’t comply with these directions, action under provisions of The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 will be taken against them, the order stated.It was found that in some schools where the vaccination camps were held, students were not informed, resulting in low turnout and vaccination figures. This led to wastage of the vaccine doses. “Though Covid vaccination is voluntary, it is our duty to inform every eligible child about the available option,” Garg mentioned through the order.A senior official of the UT education department said, “Last week, there was an issue with bad weather, due to which the turnout had been affected adversely at all schools. But, we are getting good response from the students.” Daily vaccination camps are organised at 26 schools of the city by teams of the UT health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-asks-school-principals-to-inform-students-about-covid-vaccination-camps-101641843334093.html
11-01-2022||Noida||Eighth time daily case-spike cross 1000 mark during pandemic as district gets 1344 fresh cases||Ghaziabad:Ghaziabad recorded a major single-day spike of over 1,000 fresh Covid cases a day for the eighth time since the start of the pandemic by reporting 1,344 cases on Monday.According to data from the district health department, 7,982 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, leading to the sample positivity spiking to 16.84% on Monday. The average positivity rate for January till now is 7.17%.Positivity rate refers to the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to those who have been tested for it.Officials of the health department said that the overall sample positivity rate in the district during the pandemic so far is 2.65%.“The positivity rate is rising fast along with the sharp increase in cases. It is expected that there may be a further rise in cases till the end of January or the first week of February and thereafter we may witness a decline. Of the 4,442 active cases till Monday, we have only 15 patients who required hospitalisation. So, the severity is very low or minimal,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer.The state government on Sunday issued directions reducing patients’ stay in home isolation from 10 days to seven. Officials said that this will significantly reduce the number of active cases because patients who stayed in home isolation are marked as active. However, once they are discharged in a lesser number of day, it will lessen the number of such cases.According to records of the state control room, the district witnessed its first spike of 1,000 or more cases in a single day on April 22, 2021, when 1,023 cases were recorded.Thereafter, 1,068 cases were recorded on April 27, 2021, 1,375 on April 30, 2021, 1,204 on May 01, 2021, 1,085 on May 2, 2021, and 1,057 and 1,373 on May 4 and 5, 2021 respectively.Monday was the first day this year when the district recorded more than 1,000 cases a day.During the second wave of the pandemic, the peak of Covid cases was witnessed from mid-April to May last year.“Gauging the rise in cases, we have directed that all Covid-positive women will give birth at our L3 category government facility of Santosh Medical College. The occupancy of Covid beds has not increased but we have asked hospitals to be on standby in case of any eventuality,” the ACMO added.According to experts, the trend of rising cases indicates that the current wave may rhea its peak by the end of January or early February.“This can also be delayed if everyone follows all Covid precautionary measures such as wearing masks properly and maintaining social distancing, but the peak will arrive. We have seen that patients isolated at home displayed symptoms such as a drop in oxygen levels, breathlessness, cough, fever, cold or sore throat etc, and if these symptoms persist for four or more days, one must consult the doctor,” said Dr Sharad Joshi, associate director (pulmonology) at Max Hospital, Vaishali.“The severity level of these symptoms is not high. It is seen that patients isolated at home are recovering well within 6–14 days depending upon the symptoms,” Dr Joshi added.From January 5 to January 10, the district has conducted more than the daily target of 7,400tests the government assigned it.During the six-day period, the district conducted 50,712 tests, resulting in 4,144 cases–a positivity rate of 8.17%.According to officials, there are only 1001 patients who needed to be shifted from home isolation to hospitals due to their deteriorating health during the pandemic since September 30, 2021.NEW MEASURES IN PLACEFollowing a Covid review meeting in Lucknow on Monday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed a slew of measures, which included the physical presence of only 50% employees in government/private organisations; the encouragement of work from home culture, and a minimum of seven days of salary and leaves for any employee of private organisation in case he/she tested positive for Covid.He also directed that persons who tested positive for Covid at airports, railway stations and bus stations should be admitted to institutional isolation and arrangements should be made for their food and treatment.The CM also directed nodal officers should be sent to stay for at least three days in their respective districts to review Covid preparedness and also directed all districts to ensure that all persons get at least the first Covid vaccine dose 10 days before the state assemble election day.
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||SHOs to be held accountable if a case remains pending for over 10 days: Vij||Setting tight deadlines for the police to dispose of cases, Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Monday said the station house officers (SHOs) will be held accountable if any case remains pending for more than 10 days.If there is a delay of more than 60 days in any case, the additional director general of police (ADGP) concerned will have to submit a reply along with the records, said Vij while presiding over a meeting of the police brass through video-conferencing.While giving a timeline regarding the disposal of pending cases, Vij said the government will now fix responsibility and accountability of all officers and employees due to whom there has been a delay in the cases.Vij set the deadlines to dispose of cases for police personnel from SHOs to ADGP. For example, the DSPs concerned will be held responsible if a case is pending for more than 20 days.Vij asked the police that challan teams should be deployed at important places to prevent the rapid spread of Covid infection. “No lapse of any kind will be tolerated in implementing the Covid protocol,” Vij said.Director general of police (DGP) PK Agarwal, additional chief secretary (ACS), home Rajeev Arora, and ADGP AS Chawla were among others present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shos-to-be-held-accountable-if-a-case-remains-pending-for-over-10-days-vij-101641843093871.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala MC gets third nominated councillor, first from JJP||The 23rd councillor and third nominated member was inducted into the Ambala municipal corporation (MC) House on Tuesday, as 25-year-old Pooja Chaudhary was accorded the oath of office by mayor Shakti Rani Sharma.Chaudhary, an MSc in mathematics, is the wife of Jannayak Janata Party’s (JJP) state spokesperson Vivek Lallana. JJP is the junior alliance partner with the BJP in the Haryana government. Chaudhary was inducted into the House during a low-key event at the conference hall of the MC office, which was attended by MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata, executive officer Jarnail Singh, JJP’s national secretary Surjeet Sonda and other party leaders. The oath was also streamed live for other House members.With this, the party that was officially formed in 2018, made its entry into the Ambala MC. During the corporation elections in December 2020, the party contested in alliance with the BJP on a 16-4 formula, but couldn’t win even a single ward.Sharma said she hopes that young minds like Chaudhary will work for the development of Ambala.the newly-inducted councillor thanked her party leaders and deputy chief Minister Dushyant Chautala for showing faith in her. Now, there are three nominated members in the house including two from the BJP – advocate Sandeep Sachdeva and Suresh Sahota, who took oath in November last year. No party has a majority in the house, while the BJP and Haryana Jan Chetna Party have eight members each.The nomination will help JJP grow its stature in the urban belt, an official said. In August last year, the department of urban local bodies had forwarded three names, including Vivek’s, to deputy commissioner (DC) Vikram, for “character verification”, as the celebrations began. However, Vivek’s name was struck-off at the last moment despite his proximity with Dushyant. Months later, his wife Pooja was recommended for the post in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-mc-gets-third-nominated-councillor-first-from-jjp-101641843092017.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||UP-based man, niece crushed to death as gas tanker overturns in Panipat||A 30-year-old man and his eight-year-old niece were crushed to death and four others sustained injuries as a gas tanker overturned near Siwah village of Panipat district on Monday.The deceased have been identified as Seefa and her uncle Shokeen, both residents of Kairana in Uttar Pradesh. They were going to Rohtak on the bike.Police said the incident took place when the driver of the tanker lost control of the vehicle and it overturned after hitting the bike of the deceased. Four other commuters also got trapped under the tanker.Soon after getting the information, police reached the spot and started a rescue operation. Those trapped were taken out with the help of locals and rushed to hospital but one man and his niece succumbed to the injuries.Three of the injured were admitted at a civil hospital in Panpiat and a woman of Siwah village has been referred to PGIMS, Rohtak.Police said the deceased’s bodies have been sent for postmortem.Driver of the gas tanker had abandoned the truck on the spot and escaped.Investigating officer Rajbir Singh said a case has been registered against the unknown driver under the IPC and the vehicle has been impounded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upbased-man-niece-crushed-to-death-as-gas-tanker-overturns-in-panipat-101641842971678.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali MC House meeting: Fresh tenders to be issued for upkeep of bus queue shelters||The Mohali municipal corporation House on Monday passed the resolution to issue fresh tenders for maintenance and advertising rights at 33 bus queue shelters in the city. A virtual meeting of the House was held on Monday under the chairmanship of mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu. Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal and deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present.The contract of the private company which had constructed the shelters is valid till March 25. The company is just paying ₹2,516 per month from one bus queue shelter to the MC against advertisements rights, which are displayed within the shelters.As per the instructions issued by the government, this allotment work is to be done through e-auction, for which it is necessary to fix the rules. The resolution states that the reserve price of per bus shelters is ₹25,000 per month, which amounts to ₹1 crore per annum.Manual sweeping contract to be cancelledThe second resolution proposed to send 697 recently recruited sanitation employees for work in various areas of Mohali and to cancel the contract of manual sweeping.According to the resolution, the sanitation branch report said that the sanitation contract has been with a private company, Lion Services, since 2015. The contract had been extended by a resolution of the House on November 7 till February 14, 2022, on the condition that if the recruitment of sanitation employees is done before three months and the tendering process for mechanical sweeping is completed, the contract will be terminated.Now, after the recruitment, a resolution has been passed to terminate the contract of manual sweeping. The resolution said that the MC needs 40 more employees for the work of manual sweeping in Mohali, hence it was decided to extend work of cleaning of toilets to the contractors till new recruitment is done.Maintenance cost of parks to be increased by 25%In addition, during the ongoing process of awarding new contracts to the parks, approval was also given to extend the tenure of the contractors of these parks and also to increase the maintenance cost by 25%.In another important resolution, the municipal commissioner has been given the power to settle objections raised regarding the extended delimitation of MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-house-meeting-fresh-tenders-to-be-issued-for-upkeep-of-bus-queue-shelters-101641842915469.html
11-01-2022||Other||4 girls buried to death, one injured in landslide in Nuh village||Four girls were buried to death and one was grievously injured on Monday after a landslide in a village in Nuh district, police said.All the girls belonging to Kangarka village in the Taouru sub-division of Nuh had gone to dig some mud for their homes when a big chunk of land collapsed on them.While four girls died of asphyxiation before they could be rescued, one had extricated herself despite getting injured and is admitted to hospital for treatment.The district administration and police reached the spot and are trying to find the cause behind the mishap. Families of the deceased have not filed any complaint.The deceased were identified as Vakeela (19), Taslima (11), Janista (17) and Gulafsha (9), while the injured is Sofia (8).The bodies were sent for postmortem while the condition is in a stable condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-girls-buried-to-death-one-injured-in-landslide-in-nuh-village-101641842791731.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU teachers suspend strike: Varsity likely to conduct exams from Jan 24||With teachers protesting against non-implementation of UGC pay scales suspending their strike after more than a month on Sunday, Panjab University (PU) is likely to conduct semester examinations (theory) from January 24 onwards.The practical examinations are expected to start from January 17. The semester examinations were earlier scheduled to be held in December, but PU had to postpone them amid the protest.The teachers called off the strike following a meeting on Sunday, after the model code of conduct came into force in Punjab in view of the forthcoming assembly elections in the state.Members of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) and Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) in a letter to the varsity, stated, “It was decided to suspend the ‘education bandh’ for the time being, which has been in force since December 1 and in the interest of students, it has been decided that all the academic activities be restarted with immediate effect.”Teachers in PU and other universities and colleges across Punjab and Chandigarh, under the banner of PFUCTO, had declared an indefinite protest on December 1 to demand immediate implementation of the revised scales as per the seventh pay commission and withdrawal of Punjab government’s decision to delink the pay scales from UGC. They had suspended all academic activities since then.No clarity on proctoring yetAs of now, there is no clarity whether PU will use online proctoring during the upcoming exams. The varsity had been preparing to use proctoring this time, but no final decision was announced.Only emergency services at dental instituteIn the wake of steep rise in Covid-19 cases, a PU panel on Monday recommended strict compliance to Covid norms on campus. It also recommended that only emergency services will be run at the PU dental institute and no elective procedures be held. “These suggestions are subject to the approval of the authorities,” said a panel member. It is also likely that the teaching will be held online at the dental institute again.
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Labourer booked for minor girl’s rape||The PAU police on Monday booked a 24-year-old labourer for allegedly raping a minor girl for the past one year and impregnating her.The accused has been identified as Nitin Kumar. He is married, while the victim is 16 years old.Sub inspector Rajinderpal Singh, PAU station house officer, said that according to the victim, the accused lives near her house. He had been sexually exploiting her for almost a year and threatening her against telling anyone. The SHO added that the victim is eight months pregnant. She lodged a complaint with police on Monday. Taking swift action, police registered an FIR and launched a manhunt against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-labourer-booked-for-minor-girl-s-rape-101641842671637.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khattar in Delhi, meets Union railways and environment ministers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said the state government has proposed to the central government to develop a regional rapid transit system rail route to facilitate connectivity from Hisar airport to Delhi airport.Khattar met Union minister of railways Ashwini Vaishnaw and Union minister of environment, forest and climate change Bhupender Yadav in Delhi on Monday.During this meeting, detailed discussions were held to speed up different projects in Haryana.Khattar said 10 new railway stations will be built on the eastern dedicated freight corridor and the western dedicated freight corridor passing through Haryana. Possibilities of exploring industrial sector around these stations will also be considered, Khattar said, while speaking to reporters in Delhi.Khattar said discussions were held with Vaishnaw to develop areas around 10 railway stations to be set up on the eastern and western dedicated freight corridors passing through Haryana.The Union railways minister said Khattar has assured to redress the issues in a time-bound manner.Khattar said he held detailed discussions with Union minister Bhupender Yadav regarding de-silting of the Najafgarh drain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-in-delhi-meets-union-railways-and-environment-ministers-101641842613960.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Youth wing leaders revolt against AAP over tickets to turncoats||Chandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leadership faced revolt by some of its youth leaders on Monday over the allocation of party tickets to turncoats. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, AAP’s Mohali district youth wing president Gurtej Singh Pannu claimed that the party claimed to be different, but had given tickets in 56 constituencies to political leaders who switched sides from other parties, within one or two days of their joining the party. “Why were hardworking party workers ignored in Mohali and other places?” he asked. Pannu was accompanied by Sheera Bhanboura, vice-president (Youth), AAP, Punjab, and Morha Singh Anjaan, founder member, among others. They listed Majitha, Mohali, Jalandhar North, Bathinda Rural, Jalandhar West, Gurdaspur, Qadian, Bholath, Lambi, Ludhiana North, Dharamkot, Nakodar and Pathankot as the seats where party hoppers were fielded, ignoring deserving ticket aspirants from within the party. Bhanboura said that tickets were being given to people having no commitment to the party’s ideology. “We had some hope from the AAP but Kejriwal and his aides are ruining everything,” they said, announcing their intent to intensify their agitation against Kejriwal and the Delhi unit of the party who were taking all decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-youth-wing-leaders-revolt-against-aap-over-tickets-to-turncoats-101641842611779.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala: Dental, ENT OPDs shut down after health workers test Covid positive||The health department has decided to shut dental and ENT OPDs at government hospitals in the district, as 25 doctors and 21 health workers have tested positive for Covid in the last two days. Officials said that maximum health workers have tested positive from these two departments. The district on Monday reported 303 fresh infections, including three of the Omicron variant, taking the active patients’ tally to 1,466. Two deaths were also reported including a 60-year-old from Barara and a 32-year-old TB patient from Cantt. Both were on oxygen support. Deputy commissioner Vikram conducted an inspection at the civil hospital and Covid call centre at government ITI. The DC also chaired a meeting with SDMs, civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh and doctors of private hospitals and medical colleges on ramping up the facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-dental-ent-opds-shut-down-after-health-workers-test-covid-positive-101641842553196.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: All parties out to win Bundelkhand battle||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could not win even one of the 19 assembly seats in Bundelkhand in 2007 despite the region having been the party’s bastion since the Ram temple movement and this time all parties are out to win the electoral battle there.The setback prompted the party to rebuild brick by brick and in the next five years it launched Mission Bundelkhand, fielding the likes of firebrand leaders Uma Bharti and Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti. The BJP went on to win three seats in the 2012 assembly polls— originally two and later bagged one in a by-poll.It was by no means the end of the party’s Mission Bundelkhand. In October 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the mission once again with new vigour from Mahoba, one of the most backward districts, with a Parivartan rally. The strategy worked and the BJP bagged all 19 assembly seats in the region in 2017, marking a complete turnaround in its fortunes from the situation in 2007.Ahead of the 2022 polls, the Prime Minister again revved up Mission Bundelkhand from the Mahoba police lines ground on November 19, 2021. He inaugurated four water projects that were completed at a cost of ₹3240 crore. The projects would, according to the Uttar Pradesh government, help 4.30 lakh people get drinking water in five districts.Modi accused the previous governments of playing the game of commissions in the making of dams and drains while the people remained thirsty. Like the BJP, the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), too, has been very active in the region with its chief Mohan Bhagwat visiting Bundelkhand four times in 2021. The Sangh held its all- India convention in Chitrakoot for eight days.Like the BJP, the opposition parties are well aware of the importance of Bundelkhand. Two days before the PM’s visit, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was in Chitrakoot. She reached Bharat Ghat on the banks of the Mandakini river in a boat to launch the party’s Aadhi Aabaadi campaign to mobilise roughly 70 million women.She interacted with the women as part of the Shakti Samvad programme from different walks of life with a new catchline “Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon”. She also addressed the party’s first show of strength through a public rally in Mahoba.The Samajwadi Party (SP), which notched up its best performance winning six seats in Bundelkhand in 2012, hasn’t left any stone unturned this time. Party president Akhilesh Yadav spent three days in the region as part of his Vijay Rath Yatra. Even otherwise, he’s been in the region regularly, contacting his party cadres from Chitrakoot to Lalitpur.The intense political activity is a measure of the importance of Bundelkhand for political parties.“The extreme backwardness of the region and other issues such as drought, water crisis, migration, unemployment, mining and so on, the region has a condensed population of farmers with small holdings, Dalits and OBCs. The parties are trying to outdo each other to send a message to Dalit, OBCs and farmers in other parts of the state,” said Vimal Sharma, president of the Bundelkhand Kisan Union.In order to strengthen the social equations, the BJP made Swatantra Dev Singh its state president. Singh, an OBC leader, is from Jalaun in Bundelkhand. To reach out to Dalits, the party has given the task to five-time MP Bhanu Pratap Varma. Another Dalit leader and former MP Priyanka Singh Rawat has been made president of the party’s Kanpur-Bundelkhand region unit. She is the first Dalit and woman to hold this position.The Samajwadi Party, too, has been focusing on the region with Akhilesh Yadav taking out his Vijay Rath Yatra from Hamirpur on October 13, 2021. “For the first time, the party has been active among the Dalit and backwards who voted for the BJP the last time,” said Arvind Srivatava, social scientist in Banda.The BSP, surprisingly, has been missing from action in its stronghold. The party was at its weakest point after dominating the region for decades, said Pushpendra Singh, a progressive farmer from Banda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-all-parties-out-to-win-bundelkhand-battle-101641842551774.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers demand compensation as rain inundates standing crop||Thousands of acres of standing crop and vegetables were inundated in the northern parts of Haryana after heavy to very heavy rainfall in the past four days.As per reports, waterlogging was reported across state especially in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Ambala, Karnal, Kaithal and Sonepat districts. According to farmers, rain and high velocity winds have flattened mustard crop and waterlogging is harmful for vegetables, especially potato, cauliflower and peas.Officials of the agriculture department said there are no reports of major losses to wheat but waterlogging is harmful for all crops, including wheat.“Around 500 acre standing crop in three villages of Sadhaura block of Yamunanagar district are under two feet water for the past three days but the government did not send any official to assess the loss to the crops,” said a farmer of Chappar village in Yamunanagar.As per reports of damage to crops collected by the office of Pradeep Meel, deputy director agriculture of Kurukshetra district, 50-100% loss was reported in 2,000 hectare wheat, 2,500 hectare of mustard and 100 hectare of pulses in district. The reports of loss to vegetables are being assessed by officials of the revenue and horticulture departments.Also, officials of the Karnal agriculture department said around 10-20% of the mustard crop in district has been affected by rain as high-velocity winds have flattened the crop. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said revenue department officials will assess the crop loss.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has written to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal for a special girdawari to assess loss to all crops and vegetables and immediate compensation to farmers.“Rainfall for the past four days has caused huge losses to crops, especially mustard, potato and cauliflower as thousands of acres are still underwater,” said Karam Singh Mathana, working president of BKU (Charuni).Additional chief secretary to Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare department Dr Sumita Misra said, “A girdawari is ordered by the revenue department. And the agriculture department has also done its own survey. The deputy commissioners have been directed to send survey report and directions have been issued to officials of the agriculture department to remain in touch with farmers.”
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Bathinda gets 4 para companies, 26 more to arrive this week||BATHINDA: A total 30 companies of the paramilitary forces will be deployed in the Bathinda police range to maintain law and orders during the state assembly elections.Bathinda inspector general of police (IGP) Jaskaran Singh said four companies of the Border Security Force (BSF) arrived till Monday.“Of the available paramilitary personnel, three are being stationed in Bathinda and one will be deployed in Mansa district. Twenty-six more companies will arrive this week and all security arrangements have been planned,” said the IGP.He said duty roster for the district police force has also been prepared to maintain a strict vigil.Meanwhile, in view of the assembly elections, the district administrations in the south Malwa belt have ordered depositing of firearms to the police station and ammunition dealers.In the Bathinda range, 75% of licensed weapon holders have already submitted their arms.Exercising the powers vested under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the district authorities in the region have also issued orders not to carry firearms, ammunition, explosives, flammable items and sharp weapons such as spears etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-bathinda-gets-4-para-companies-26-more-to-arrive-this-week-101641842313236.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 1,963 persons receive booster dose of Covid vaccine on Day 1||As many as 1,963 persons received the booster dose of Covid vaccine on Monday, after deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma launched the drive. Of the total persons who received the dose, 1,294 were healthcare workers, 57 were frontline Covid warriors and 612 were senior citizens.Launching the drive from Dumra auditorium of Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH), the DC said that all healthcare and frontline workers and those above the age of 60 and having other ailments are eligible for a booster shot, if they have completed nine months from the date of receiving the second dose.He urged all government staff deputed on election duty to get vaccinated at the earliest.ADC Jagraon-cum-nodal officer for vaccination Dr Nayan Jassal said all heads of departments have already been issued formal letters and if any official becomes Covid positive during election duty, it would be the sole responsibility of the heads and the official concerned.The DC later inaugurated a special Covid OPD on DMCH premises.Meanwhile, some healthcare workers and senior citizens who had turned up for the booster shots were sent back as they had not completed the nine-month gap period. It was only when they arrived at the venue that they learnt of the gap requirement.District now has 110 vaccination centresWith the National Health Mission workers returning from strike, the health department has now increased the number of vaccination centres. Sharing details, civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said earlier vaccination was being carried out at 12 to 15 centres but from Monday, the number of vaccination centres has been increased to 110. “Today, we inoculated 42,091 people,” said Dr Singh.Special vaccine camp for staff on Covid duty The DC informed that a special vaccination camp is being organised at the auditorium of Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, on Tuesday, from 10 am to 2 pm, for all persons on election duty. These include government staff, teachers, bank employees etc. Both Covishield and Covaxin doses will be available at the camp. Employees are required to carry their department ID card. Family members of the employees are not eligible for this camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-1-963-persons-receive-booster-dose-of-covid-vaccine-on-day-1-101641842254588.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Nine-fold increase in Covid cases in Haryana||Haryana saw a massive climb in the Covid trajectory with the state reporting over 19,000 infections last week as compared to 2,284 reported the week before. The nearly nine-fold increase in a week signals a rapid spread of the viral illness across state.As per the health department statistics, 19,234 infections were reported between January 3 and 9 as compared to 2,284 between December 27 and January 2. The last time so many cases were reported during a surge in a week was during April 5-11 last year when 18,748 cases were reported, according to the data.State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said at this rate, they expect the infection to hit peak in the next two weeks. “The doubling rate for the infection is 2-3 days,” he added.Dr Chaudhary said data showed that maximum cases reported in the present wave of infection are of the Omicron variant. “However, there are still a significant number of Delta variant cases and thus, we cannot become lax. We need to have a test which can differentiate the two variants as the whole genome sequencing takes time. Clinical management of the two variants is altogether different,” he said.Dr Chaudhary said a surgical mask worn with a good cloth mask on the outer or an N-95 mask gives good protection from these variants.6 districts high on active casesThe state, as on January 10, has over 22,000 active cases with six districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Karnal, Ambala and Panchkula, accounting for 84% of the total active cases. Statistics showed that these six districts have emerged as the most-affected ones.In terms of per week growth percentage, Gurugram topped with 72%, followed by Rohtak 55%, Panchkula 35%, Sonepat 19%, Kaithal 17%, Faridabad 16%, Karnal 15%, and Ambala 11%. About 2.86 lakh individuals were tested by the health authorities for the virus last week. The daily positivity rate which was 0.33% on December 27, and 2.63% a week later (on January 3), has shot up to 14.9% on January 10.As per random whole genome sequencing to detect the variant in infected persons, 162 patients have been detected with Omicron variant and 145 of them have been discharged.More than 2.16 crore individuals in state have been inoculated with the first dose of Covid vaccine while 1.54 crore persons have been vaccinated with both the doses. About 11,405 persons were given the precaution dose on January 10.More restrictions in HaryanaThe Haryana government on Monday prohibited large congregations including public meetings, rallies, protests and dharnas in view of a spike in Covid cases.Besides 11 districts where stringent curbs were earlier put in place, the government put similar restrictions in eight more districts – Sirsa, Rewari, Jind, Fatehabad, Mahendergarh, Kaithal, Bhiwani and Hisar.Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and entertainment parks will remain closed in these districts. Malls and markets in these districts, except those dealing in essential supplies, will be shut down at 6pm.The restrictions also entail closure of sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools (except for training of sportspersons for participation in national or international events as well as for organising national and international events). No spectators or visitors will be allowed in the events. All business-to-business exhibitions have also been prohibited.Government and private offices, except for emergency or essential services, have been advised to function with 50% staff attendance. Bars and restaurants are allowed to operate with 50% seating capacity.5 deaths, 5,736 new cases reported in stateHaryana on Monday reported five fatalities and 5,736 fresh Covid cases, according to the health bulletin.The fresh Covid cases included 26 Omicron cases. Two people succumbed in Ambala and one each in Gurugram, Karnal and Yamunanagar districts, pushing the death toll to 10,077. The number of active cases rose from 1,417 on December 31 last year to 22,477 on Monday.Gurugram recorded 2,621 new cases, Faridabad 1,071, Panchkula 344, Sonepat 322, Ambala 303, Karnal 171, Panipat 113, Rohtak 103, Jhajjar 98, Yamunanagar 91, Kurukshetra 84, Rewari 74, Bhiwani 65, Hisar 64, Kaithal 63, Jind 39, Sirsa 34, Fatehabad 21, Mahendergarh 17, Charkhi Dadri 16, and Palwal and Nuh 11 each.
11-01-2022||Other||UP polls: Model code in place, troublemakers on police radar||The model code of conduct is in place and the police have begun identifying trouble makers and antisocial elements so that action under section 107/16 (a preventive measure to pre-empt breach of peace) could be initiated against them. Apart from identifying trouble makers and such elements likely to disturb peace, the police are also keeping eye on those supplying illegal liquor and firearms. “Besides this, travelling with lot of cash without any appropriate explanation is also prohibited under the model code of conduct,” police officers said. IG (range) Rakesh Singh said a meeting of police officials was held through Google meet during which instructions were issued to all cops to be alert while taking precautionary measures. “Directions have been issued to collect details about activities of persons who were found involved in disrupting peace in previous elections and take appropriate action. However, any action under 107/16 would depend on the person’s current verifiable report and not on basis of previous reports,” he added. Police personnel have been directed to collect and verify information about such persons through local contacts. “Action will be taken against policemen who are found involved in anomalies or who end up taking action against wrong persons just for the sake of maintaining record,” he added. In previous elections, precautionary action and notices served by cops against innocents, minors and in some cases even the dead, had led to much embarrassment to the police mainly due to lack of prior verification. In 2021 Prayagraj police took action against 75000 persons under section of 107/16 and 151.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-polls-model-code-in-place-troublemakers-on-police-radar-101641842251568.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Court to deliver verdict in rape case against ex-Jalandhar bishop on Jan 14||Thiruvananthapuram : The special court in Kottayam will deliver its verdict in a nun rape case on January 14 in which former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal is the lone accused. The case against Mulakkal was registered by Kerala Police in June 2018 after the 43-year-old nun filed a complaint. The case attracted national attention after five fellow nuns staged a sit-in in Kochi seeking action against the Bishop. In her compliant, the victim said she was subjected to sexual abuse by the bishop during the period between 2014 and 2016. Later, he was arrested and removed from the post of the bishop. He was charged under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 376 (2) (indulging in sex by exhorting authority), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Earlier, Mulakkal had approached the high court and Supreme Court with discharge petitions but both were rejected. There were also many attempts to delay the trial and some witnesses were also turned hostile. One of the key witnesses in the case, Father Kattuthara, died mysteriously in 2019. Cardinal Mar George Alancherry, senior-most priest of the Catholics in the state, was also deposed in the case as a witness. Later, the police provided security to fellow nuns and the victim, who are staying at the convent since the case surfaced. There were many attempts to vacate these nuns from the convent but later the high court had to intervene. The victim is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab, which also runs three convents in Kerala. But Mulakkal denied all charges saying he was framed after he took action against her for financial irregularities in the convent. Despite widespread criticism, the church reportedly supported the accused and allegedly tried to isolate the nuns. Reformists in the church later formed an outfit Save Our Sisters (SOS), which took up their cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/court-to-deliver-verdict-in-rape-case-against-ex-jalandhar-bishop-on-jan-14-101641842131767.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Majithia bail: Party’s stand on being targeted by govt vindicated, says Sukhbir||Chandigarh : Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday welcomed the stay on the arrest of former minister and party leader Bikram Singh Majithia by the Punjab and Haryana high court in a drugs case. He said that the party’s faith in impartiality of the judiciary has been vindicated. In a statement, the SAD president said: “The judiciary of our country is a bulwark against persecution. Whenever a law is wrongfully used for political purposes, it is the judiciary that steps in to restore the dignity of the individual. This has happened today also.” He said the SAD’s contention that the Congress government was following a policy of personal and political vendetta against the top SAD leadership had also been proved by the recent developments. “It is a matter of record that a majority of the police officers refused to become party to the vendetta exercise of the Congress government. Many also filed their objections in writing. However, the Congress government was successful in registering a false case against Majithia after changing two state police chiefs and three directors of the Bureau of investigation. We are confident the judicial process will right this wrong,” added Sukhbir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/majithia-bail-party-s-stand-on-being-targeted-by-govt-vindicated-says-sukhbir-101641841893157.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||UP CM stresses on ‘3-Ts’ to contain Covid spread||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inspected Integrated Covid Control and Command Centre (ICCCC) in Lucknow on Monday. The Lucknow district administration had established ICCCC during first Covid wave to monitor the situation and to enhance coordination between administrative and the health departments. The CM stressed upon the 3T formula-- testing, tracing and treatment -- to keep a check on the Covid outbreak and inspected the contact tracing section where he also interacted with the officials and staff of the ICCCC. “Currently, there are 33,900 active cases in the state. Ninety per cent of these patients are asymptomatic and under home isolation. ICCCC in each district keeps in touch with COVID-19 patients and provides them with medical kits,” the chief minister said after the inspection. There are 4,800 COVID-19 cases in Lucknow, of which 45 patients are admitted to hospitals. “The new variant of COVID-19, Omicron, is quickly transmitting, but it is also less virulent. If a patient is infected with COVID-19, then within 3-4 days the patient will recover from the infection. However, people shouldn’t lower their guard,” the CM added. The CM said that over 21 crore doses of the COVID-19 vaccine have been administered till now in Uttar Pradesh (UP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-stresses-on-3-ts-to-contain-covid-spread-101641841774533.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Jayant Chaudhary looking to reap political harvest after farmers’ agitation||The Uttar Pradesh assembly polls are being seen as a litmus test for Jayant Chaudhary, 43, who came to lead the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) after the party’s founder president and his father Ajit Singh died due to Covid-19 complications at the age of 82 on May 6, 2021 and he is now hoping to gain from the aftermath of the farmers’ agitation. Jayant Chaudhary has the onus of recovering the ground that the party completely lost since 2014 Lok Sabha elections that were held in the wake of Muzaffarnagar riots that erupted between Jats and Muslims on August 27, 2013 and continued for around 20 days. The communal riots in which at least 60 people were killed and thousands displaced dealt the RLD’s traditional vote bank (Jat-Muslim) a severe blow. The RLD had considerable influence in more than 40 Jat-dominant assembly constituencies falling under the Meerut, Saharanpur, Agra, Aligarh, Moradabad and Bareilly divisions, but in 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections Jats threw their weight largely behind the BJP while Muslims also turned their back on the RLD after the Muzaffarnagar riots. The RLD drew a blank in 2014 and 2019 parliamentary elections. It won only one seat in the 2017 assembly elections. But the lone MLA, too, later joined the BJP in April-May 2018 after having been expelled from the RLD for cross-voting in favour of the BJP during the Rajya Sabha elections. The upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls are believed to be an existential battle for Jayant Chaudhary and his party. Is the situation any different this time? The RLD believes the political climate to be favourable to it this time in west UP after the farmers’ agitation and the party is confident of reviving its fortunes. “Things are very different this time and our party, under the able leadership of Jayant Chaudhary, is going to spring big surprises in the assembly elections,” RLD spokesman Anil Dubey said. Much of the RLD’s confidence comes from the fact that it has emerged as the biggest political beneficiary of the farmers’ agitation in the region. The party consistently opposed the Centre’s three controversial farm laws (now repealed) and actively supported the farmers’ agitation that went on for around a year in the region. Jayant Chaudhary was seen frequently sharing the dais with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who was leading the stir. Tikait is yet to declare whether he will campaign in favour of the RLD during the polls. Amid the agrarian unrest in the region, Jayant organised a number of ‘bhai-chara’ rallies with a view to recreating the Jat-Muslim chemistry. The rallies drew huge crowd comprising both Jat and Muslim farmers of the region, giving an indication that the divide between the two communities had somewhat blurred. Now, the RLD, traditionally a farmers’ party, is anxiously looking forward to reaping the political harvest out of the farmers’ agitation when the state goes to polls. Second, the party also hopes to get sympathy votes due to the death of its founder president and former minister Ajit Singh in May last year. Singh, the son of the ex-prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh who is revered as farmers’ messiah, still enjoys respect in the community and the party is leaving no stone unturned to cash in on the same. Third, the RLD believes that its alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the backdrop of renewed Jat-Muslim bonhomie facilitated by the farmers’ agitation will help consolidate its position in the elections. Though 9% of the Jat population is concentrated in around two dozen districts in western UP, their number is not enough to ensure victory of the RLD unless Muslims who outnumber Jats in many districts come on board. The RLD-SP alliance, being seen as a tough challenge to the ruling BJP in west UP, is relying on issues such as unemployment and price rise, apart from prevailing perceived agrarian unrest especially among cane farmers. “Farmers and youths and women are at the centre of our campaign,” RLD national general secretary Trilok Tyagi said. “The BJP promised to double farmers’ income by 2022 but it only ended up halving their income by increasing price of diesel and fertilisers while the unemployment rate is very high,” he said. He further said that unlike the BJP that was widening the Hindu-Muslim divide “we were working for communal harmony in the region by reaching out to people through bhai-chara rallies”. “The Jat-Muslim acrimony is a thing of the past now and this will work in our favour,” he claimed. The RLD has already declared its manifesto, promising crore jobs, and 50% reservation to women in government jobs to woo youths and farmers and women on the one hand and features icons like BR Ambedkar, APJ Abdul Kalam and, of course, Chaudhary Charan Singh on posters and in the manifesto on the other. Observers, however, point out that it may not be an easy ride for the RLD despite all the hype created by the purported agrarian unrest and its alliance with the SP. The BJP, according to them, still remains a dominant force in the region despite many odds. “The RLD is, no doubt, a force to be reckoned with in several districts in western UP, but it is not strong enough to be able to make a successful dent in the BJP’s social engineering in the region,” said Sanjiv Kumar Sharma, a political scientist and former head of the department of political science in Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut. “Moreover, the party has also lost much of its aura after the passing away of Ajit Singh and I do not think the RLD will get any sympathy vote because Singh died naturally at a ripe age,” he added. He said farmers’ agitation could have worked in favour of the RLD had the Centre not repealed the three controversial laws. “But now this is no longer an important issue. The same farmers who were not allowing BJP leaders to enter villages during the stir are now welcoming them with open arms,” he said. Sharma said that though RLD had an alliance with the SP creating some hype, it was doubtful if the alliance would do any miracle. “We know the SP-BSP-RLD all fought together in 2019 and it was then touted to be the most formidable alliance. But we also saw that both the RLD’s top leaders Ajit Singh and Jayant Chaudary lost in their den,” he said. “On the contrary, the SP-RLD alliance may further consolidate Hindu votes in favour of the BJP if Muslims vote en bloc for the alliance,” he cautioned. Tyagi said Jayant Chaudhary had worked hard to win hearts in the region by reaching out to them even during the pandemic and standing with them through thick and thin. 
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Daily Covid cases breach 800-mark for first time since second wave||As many as 806 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Monday, an overnight jump of 58% in daily cases. Three persons also succumbed to the virus on the day, a health bulletin released by the administration stated. This for the first time since the second wave of infections in May that the district has recorded over 800 Covid cases in a single day. On Sunday, the district had logged 509 cases while the day before, it had 561 cases.As many as 62 others from outside the district also tested positive for Covid here on Monday. Of the fresh cases reported today, five patients are under trials, 34 are the healthworkers, 106 persons are those who came in contact with the infected persons while 407 and 73 patients were reported from flu corner and OPD.2,931 active cases and countingHealth officials said that the district currently has 2,931 active cases, of which 2,873 persons are in home isolation while 51 are undergoing treatment at private hospitals and seven at government hospitals. There is also one patient on ventilator support.Toll touches 2,124Those who succumbed to the virus on Monday include a 44-year-old man of Basti Jodhewal, a 59-year-old man of Machhiwara Khaas and a 55-year-old man of Jamalpur. The deceased were undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Sector 32, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), and civil hospital. The district’s cumulative toll since March 2020 now stands at 2,124. Health officials said that this is for the first time since June 18, 2021 that three deaths were reported in a single day in Ludhiana.According to the health department, no case of Omicron variant was reported on the day though the district had previously detected five cases. Covid care OPD (flu corner) and 24X7 helpline number inauguratedFor the convenience of the general public and to provide the best medical care facilities, DMCH has started Covid Care OPD and 24x7 helpline numbers (98759-32675, 9872004539) near its physiotherapy department. This OPD will be functional 24x7 hours and any patient (with asymptomatic / with mild symptoms) can avail the facilities.209 healthcare workers among those infectedAs many as 209 healthcare workers have been infected by the virus in the past 10 days. While nearly three cases of healthcare workers were reported on January 1, the number multiplied to 47 by January 9. Of the total, there are 12 doctors from CMCH, while four are from DMCH. Besides, the list also includes 41 students of nursing institute of DMCH in Malakpur. Majority of those tested positive are doctors and nursing staff treating Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-daily-covid-cases-breach-800-mark-for-first-time-since-second-wave-101641841533103.html
11-01-2022||Lucknow||Cows dying due to insufficient fodder in UP: Congress||Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) media and communication department chairman Naseemuddin Siddiqui on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of indulging in politics and said the cows were being treated as stray animals due to wrong policies of the state government. Siddiqui told media persons that the cows were dying as they weren’t getting sufficient fodder in cow shelter homes. He claimed 4.5 lakh stray animals roamed freely across the state and said due to them farmers were even thinking of abandoning farming, as most of their time was spent on protecting their crops. He alleged that the funds allocated for maintenance of animals were being misused. He said Congress had a plan to protect the cows and claimed that if voted to power his party would help farmers get rid of the problem of strays. “There would surely be a “bahaar” (spring) after the “patjhad” (autumn),” he said when asked about reports of UP Congress Committee (UPCC) vice president Imran Masood joining the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cows-dying-due-to-insufficient-fodder-in-up-congress-101641841531780.html
11-01-2022||Noida||Apparel exporters in Noida demand reduced yarn price, write to Textile Ministry||Apparel exporters in Gautam Budh Nagar have written a letter to the Ministry of Textiles to decrease the prices of yarn, which is adversely affecting the garment industry in the district, they said on Monday.According to the letter written by the Apparel Export Promotion Council, the cotton price per candy in October 2021 was ₹67,000 and yarn price ₹331. The cotton price was increased to ₹74,000 this January -- a hike of ₹7,000, with the yarn price set at ₹401 -- an increase of ₹70.“The rise in the prices is not according to the formula adopted by the industry. According to its price increasing formula, for every ₹1,000 increase in the cotton price, the yarn price will also be increased between ₹3.50 and ₹4. But now, with an increase of ₹7,000 in the price of the cotton, the yarn price reached ₹401... whereas it should be around ₹359,” said A Sakhtivel, chairman of AEPC.The council has requested the ministry to suggest the mills to bring down the yarn price by ₹40 per kilogram.Lalit Thukral, president of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC) and an executive member of AEPC, the total export value of the apparel sector in India is ₹130,000 crore, of which ₹40,000 crore revenue is generated in Uttar Pradesh alone.“Gautam Buddh Nagar is known as the ‘City of Apparel’ as it generates nearly ₹32,000 crore revenue through apparel export, out of the total ₹40,000 crore revenue generated in Uttar Pradesh... Exporters enter into a price agreement with the buyers at least six months before the supply of apparels. Now, as the mills have been increasing the prices frequently and arbitrarily, the buyers or importers are not willing to increase the prices as well,” Thukral said, adding that this has made the situation worse for the Indian exporters, especially those in Gautam Buddh Nagar. The district houses nearly 3,000 garment export firms.
11-01-2022||Other||Unvaccinated man dies of Covid in Gorakhpur, CMO appeals for vaccination||A 63-year- old Covid positive man died in Gorakhpur’s BRD medical college, the first Covid death during the last five months in Gorakhpur.The victim was a resident of Badhalganj and was suffering from paralysis for the last three years, officials said. “The man was admitted to the BRD medical college on January 3 and died on Saturday night. His oxygen level was 90 and he was not vaccinated,” chief medical officer (CMO) Gorakhpur Ashutosh Dubey said.“I appeal to everyone for vaccination and to follow COVID protocol,” he added.During the last 24 hours, 219 new corona cases were reported in Gorakhpur. No Covid deaths were reported, the CMO said.The total corona cases in the district reached 60252 till Monday evening, of which 58598 have been discharged. There are 805 active positive cases in Gorakhpur now and number of total deaths due to corona is 849, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unvaccinated-man-dies-of-covid-in-gorakhpur-cmo-appeals-for-vaccination-101641841232860.html
11-01-2022||Other||Two cops hurt as police team attacked in Pataudi while rescuing woman||At least two police personnel were injured on late Sunday night when they came under attack by a group of miscreants while acting on a woman’s molestation complaint made to the police control room. The incident took place in Daulatabad Kuni village under Pataudi police station area, police said. The injured police personnel are assistant sub-inspector Ashok Kumar and constable Raj Kumar Singh. Both were rushed to the community health centre, Pataudi, for treatment, police said. According to police, the two policemen, along with another constable, were deployed at an emergency response vehicle (ERV) which rushed to the village after receiving information that a person barged into the house of a woman and was molesting her. As per the FIR lodged by the injured constable, Ugrasen alias Fauji and his five associates attacked the police team with blunt weapons in which the two policemen received injuries to the head and other parts of their bodies. Urgrasen is an ex-serviceman and the complainant woman’s neighbour, police said. Police said that Ugrasen and his associates have been booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, including Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). All the suspects are at large, they said.Another FIR has been registered against Ugrasen for attempting to outrage modesty, criminal intimidation and house trespassing on the basis of the woman’s complaint. Singh has alleged that the suspects threatened the police team to not come to the village again else they will face dire consequences. The constable’s smartphone was also snatched by the suspect, police said. Rakesh Kumar, SHO of Pataudi police station, said that Ugrasen and his associates were in an inebriated state when they attacked the police team. “It was Ugrasen who barged into the woman’s residence, after which she called the police control room,” he said. “The suspects will be arrested soon. We are also trying to find out if they have any criminal antecedents,” the SHO said, adding that both police personnel have been discharged from the health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-cops-hurt-as-police-team-attacked-in-pataudi-while-rescuing-woman-101641841112678.html
11-01-2022||Other||Lucknow: Integral University, UPNEDA sign MoU for research, skill development||Lucknow Integral University, Lucknow and Uttar Pradesh New and Renewable Energy Development Agency (UPNEDA) on Monday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for a collaboration to promote skill development, technical training, cultural and personnel exchanges. The MoU was signed between the faculty of architecture, planning and design, Integral University, Lucknow, and UPNEDA, which will help in propagation, promotion and enhancement of research in the use of renewable energy systems and means of saving energy in various sectors. On the occasion, Bhawani Singh Khangarot (IAS), director, UPNEDA was also present and the MoU was signed by Prof Mohammed Haris Siddiqui, registrar, Integral University, Lucknow, Prof Zeba Nisar, head, department of architecture, FOAPD, Integral University and Ram Kumar, ECBC, cell in-charge, UPNEDA in UPNEDA office, Lucknow. The other dignitaries present on the occasion were Anil Kumar, secretary, UPNEDA, Saurabh Diddi, director (buildings), Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), SM H Adil, director, GEED, Ashok Shrivastava, In-charge, UP State Designated Agency (UPSDA), Ar. Khurram Ashraf, associate professor, Integral University, Ar. Shweta Verma, associate professor, Integral University and Ar. Safa Seraj, head, department of design, Integral University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-integral-university-upneda-sign-mou-for-research-skill-development-101641841051633.html
11-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Four more members of child trafficking gang held||The Gurugram police on Monday arrested four more members of the infant trafficking gang which was involved in stealing, buying and selling newborns in different states in the country. With this, nine members of the gang have been arrested so far, police said.The suspects were identified as Kanchan Kaur, Reena, Satyender Prasad and Palak alias Sarabjeet, all residents of Rohini in Delhi. Police said Kanchan and Palak were touts who used to buy and sell children, and Reena and Satyender are a married couple.Police said they also recovered a stolen child from Palak.Police said that the 12-member gang had distributed their roles and responsibilities and three of them used to strike a deal with the buyers, while the rest used to travel to other states to identify issueless couples. In the past two days, the Gurugram police arrested five members, including four women, of the gang.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the gang members used to convince couples from the economically weaker section to sell their children. “They targeted those who already had at least three children and were in dire need of money. They would visit slums and used to take up a room on rent for two months. They used to befriend people and convince them to sell their newborns,” he said. Sangwan said the gang members used to buy an infant for anything between ₹20,000 and ₹2 lakh and sell the child for ₹50,000- ₹10 lakh. Two of the suspects -- Surender Kaur and Neha -- who were arrested on Saturday were earlier arrested in 2014 for the similar crime. They had data of more than 300 families, said police, adding that they have recovered their mobile phones and are scanning the data to get exact number of infants sold. Sangwan said they have recovered a few numbers of surrogacy clinics in Delhi, Gwalior and Jaipur. “We have recovered several fake surrogacy certificates and names of women are same in all certificates who is of one of the suspects,” he said. The suspects used to visit fertility centres in different states and used to look for childless couples. Then they would source contacts of such couples and later used to give them offers, police said. Police also said that the members of the gang were in touch with other such gangs in states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Chattisgarh, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Jharkhand. Four teams of the Gurugram police have left for some of these states to question a few doctors and their staff, said police. 
11-01-2022||Noida||Greater Noida: 6 arrested for selling girls to older men for marriage, 1 rescued||Greater Noida: Police arrested six people on Sunday for allegedly kidnapping a 12-year-old girl and selling her off for ₹70,000 to a 52-year-old man for marriage in Haryana, officials said on Monday.Three women and as many men, including the groom, have been arrested, said the police, adding that a group of five people have been involved in human trafficking, mainly in Haryana, for the past two years.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), Gautam Budh Nagar, said the victim went missing on December 26, 2021, while playing outside her home in Badalpur’s Chapraula village in Gautam Budh Nagar. “Based on a complaint by the victim’s mother, a case was registered against the unidentified people under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 363 (kidnapping) at the Badalpur police station on December 26 last year. Police launched an investigation and found out that the gang had lured the girl and married her off to an elderly person in Haryana’s Rohtak,” Shukla said.The police conducted a search on Sunday, and rescued the girl from the house of the groom -- Jasveer Singh -- a resident of Sonipat’s Girdharpur village in Haryana. Singh was arrested immediately.“Singh revealed during interrogation that a group of women had sold the girl to him for ₹70,000,” according to Shukla. Based on information provided by Singh, the police conducted searches in Gautam Budh Nagar and Haryana, and arrested the human traffickers -- Gudiya (23) and Kiran (35), residents of Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad; Pooja (24), a resident of Badalpur in Haryana; Sunil Kumar (30) and Dhramraj (32), residents of Rohtak in Haryana.The suspects confessed to the crime, and told the police that they used to identify minor girls in the Greater Noida area and allegedly trafficked them for marriage. They used to lure the children to go with them, take them to Haryana, after which the group would sell them off to buyers for marriage, said the police.Police said that IPC sections 370 (trafficking) and 376 (rape), and sections 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have been added to the FIR.The suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Monday, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-6-arrested-for-selling-girls-to-older-men-for-marriage-1-rescued-101641840691741.html
11-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: 92% of NCR’s broad-gauge network electrified||PRAYAGRAJ: The North Central Railways (NCR) has completed electrification of a total 216 route kilometers and 314 track kilometers between April-December 2021, informed NCR officials. With a total broad-gauge network of 3,222 route kilometers in NCR, the electrified route km (2933) now stands at 92%.Route kilometre is the distance between two points on the railway route irrespective of the number of lines connecting them, whether single line or double line while track kilometre is the length of all running tracks, including tracks in sidings, yards and crossings. “The major routes which have been electrified during the first three quarters of current financial year includes Birlanagar-Udimor (101 km), Mahoba-Khajuraho (64 km) and Shikohabad-Mainpuri (51 km),” informed chief public relation officer (CPRO), NCR, Shivam Sharma. In addition, newly laid double line between Chaunrah-Malasa (19 km), Nandkhas-Parauna (32 km)—(both part of Bhimsen-Jhansi doubling project— and third line between Babina- Jhansi (24 km) too have been opened along with electrification, he added. At present, NCR has 2,933 electrified Route kolometers and 6313 electrified track kilometers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-92-of-ncr-s-broad-gauge-network-electrified-101641840633611.html
11-01-2022||Mumbai||Day 1 of booster shot: 5% eligible beneficiaries jabbed||Mumbai: Maharashtra administered 49,307 booster doses to health care workers, frontline workers and senior citizens on Monday, the first day of the much awaited national vaccination drive for the third dose, dubbed ‘precautionary dose’. Mumbai administered the highest number of boosters (10,698) in the state, followed by Pune (6,638) and Thane (4,692).Maharashtra has 935,810 eligible beneficiaries — health care, frontline workers and the citizens over 60 years of age (with co-morbidities) — which means that the state administered the booster dose to 5.2% of them on Day 1. In the state, Mumbai has the highest number of beneficiaries with 186,088, followed by Pune (102,947), Thane (81,736), Nagpur (44,393) and Nashik (45,003).In Mumbai, only 6% of the 88,892 eligible health care workers, 2.2% of eligible frontline workers (80,969), and 30% of eligible senior citizens with co-morbidities (12,139) turned up on Monday. In all, 5.7% of the eligible beneficiaries in the city (186,088) turned up to take the shots. “We were expecting a turnout of at least 100,000 to 200,000 people,” said the state’s immunisation officer Dr Sachin Desai. “Hopefully, the response will be better in the coming days,” he said. Desai said that active or recent infections among people due to the ongoing surge could be the reason behind low turnout. Prime minister Narendra Modi announced the roll out of precautionary doses last month as a measure to stem the tide of Covid-19 infections. The first part of the drive was to be rolled out to health care and frontline workers, as well as citizens above the age of 60 years, with co-morbidities. Together, these groups constitute some of the most vulnerable to the pandemic, and were also part of the initial recipients of the national vaccination drive that started last January.“We received a great response from senior citizens for the precaution dose,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the civic-run jumbo facility in NESCO, Goregaon. By 2 pm on Monday, the centre had administered 700 booster doses, of which 613 were senior citizens, and the remaining were health care and frontline workers. A large number of health care workers have been infected in the third wave of the pandemic, making them ineligible to take boosters until three months from recovery as per the protocol set by the Centre. As of Monday, Maharashtra had 206,046 active Covid-19 cases, and the majority —103,862 — were in Mumbai. While the wave in Mumbai seemed to be stabilising with a decline in cases over the past four days, the caseload in Mumbai’s periphery and other parts of Maharashtra are expected to rise in the coming days. “We had a reasonable prediction of the third wave, and could have started the booster doses way earlier,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, a respiratory medicine expert from PD Hinduja Hospital, who got his booster shot on Monday. “While it is too late for Mumbai, there are other areas that are yet to see a surge. There should be tremendous focus on getting people vaccinated and administering the booster doses in such places where a surge is likely,” he said. Maharashtra’s first dose coverage is over 90%, while 60% of the population is fully vaccinated . In Mumbai, the first dose coverage has crossed 100%, while full vaccination coverage is over 90%. The beneficiaries for the booster dose received a message from CoWin informing them about their eligibility. While the state had considered April 10, 2021, as the cut off for the first day, people who have received their second dose on or before April 11 will become eligible on Tuesday. “Every day, about 60,000 odd more beneficiaries will become eligible for boosters,” said immunisation officer Desai. A senior doctor said that almost all the staff at their hospital had taken boosters from the extra doses available in the vials. One vaccine vial is meant for administering 10 doses, but manufacturers commonly overfill them to cover any spillage or wastage, and careful extraction can thus yield 11 to 12 doses. “We will now register them onto the portal if they need a certificate. Eventually, the numbers will average out,” the doctor told HT on condition of anonymity. “We have got good response for the precautionary doses. The number of beneficiaries will keep increasing every day. We have been tapping the elderly people eligible for the dose through our Har Ghar Dastak drive for the awareness among them. The overall vaccination rate because of the fresh wave of the Covid-19 has gone up of late. We expect good response for the precautionary dose too because of it,” said Desai.Dr PD Gandhal, deputy director, Nashik Division comprising five districts, said, “We have received very good response from the eligible beneficiaries for the precautionary dose in our division. The inauguration of the booster dose drive was done by divisional commissioner and other senior officers by taking their doses. There is awareness among the health care and frontline workers about the drive and I think we will be able to vaccinate beneficiaries in due course.”In Navi Mumbai, , 621 beneficiaries and in Thane, 928 were given the booster dose. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation had organised the booster doses of vaccination at General hospitals of NMMC at Vashi, Nerul and Airoli and Mother and Child hospital in Turbhe along with all the 23 primary civic health centers. A total of 621 beneficiaries received their booster dose on Monday of which 299 were health care workers (HCW), 206 were front line workers (FLW) and 116 beneficiaries were citizens above the age of 60. “FLW, HCW and citizen above the age of 60 who have received a second dose of the Covid vaccine on or before 12 April 2021are eligible for the vaccine. We have urged all the eligible to come forward and get their booster doses. Third wave is a sign that the immunity of the people have now gone down and the booster dose is important,” NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. The booster dose will be available at the same centres on Tuesday as well. The precautionary dose of covid vaccine will be given free of cost to the corona warriors as well as civilians above 60 years of age at the immunization centers at NMMC centres. In Raigad district, a total of 1,046 beneficiaries got booster doses. (With inputs from Raina Shine)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-1-of-booster-shot-5-eligible-beneficiaries-jabbed-101641840513169.html
11-01-2022||Pune||PMPML plans to convert old buses to electric||PUNE The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) plans to convert its old buses into electric buses due to rise in fuel prices. The PMPML has also appointed an agency for the same. The PMPML has converted one old bus into an electric bus on pilot bases.The PMPML administration put the proposal to convert the 10-year-old buses in to electric buses which got approved in the board of directors meeting recently.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane who is also the director on PMPML said, “The administration had put the proposal for same. It is good to convert old buses from the fleet to electric buses as it would help to save cost as well as convert old buses in green buses.”PMPML to pay ₹91 crore for hired buses during lockdown periodThe PMPML board of director has given a nod for paying ₹91 crore compensation for private buses which were hired by the utility. Due to Covid-19 pandemic buses were not operational, but the board of directors has given a nod for the compensation.Bharatiya Janata Party leaders Ujwal Keskar and Suhas Kulkarni objected the decision. Keskar said, “During lockdown, buses were not operational then why should PMPML pay compensation. This would add more burden on the utility.”Keskar appealed to mayor Murlidhar Mohol, to publish all the related documents and the exact proposal on website as citizens would be able to understand logic behind this decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-plans-to-convert-old-buses-to-electric-101641921035885.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Hisar at 4.7 ° Celsius coldest place in Haryana and Punjab||Chandigarh: Cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold recording a minimum temperature of 4.7 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological department’s weather report here.Rohtak also experienced a cold night, recording a low of 6 degrees while Gurugram’s minimum settled at 6.9 degrees Celsius.Sirsa registered a low of 6 degrees. However, Ambala, registered an above normal low temperature at 9.6 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Bathinda reeled under intense cold recording a low of 5.4 degrees while Amritsar recorded a minimum temperature of 7.5 degrees. Pathankot too experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.7 degrees Celsius.Jalandhar recorded a low of 7.9 degrees while Moga registered a low of 6.2 degrees. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hisar-at-4-7-celsius-coldest-place-in-haryana-and-punjab-101641905855417.html
11-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Where no one is a stranger||The air is foggy. It’s not the pollution, but the steam from piping hot chai boiling in a pan.This is an extremely buzzy tea house. And it’s extensive. Tables are dispersed across its corners and niches. The large counter is topped with rows of small plates, each with a buttered bun. Customers are trooping in, some are trooping out. Each new person seems to be habitual to the place, entering almost unconsciously, as if stepping inside their house.Kaley Tea Stall does feel like home, even to a first-timer. The vibes are intimate. You feel some mysterious connection to these walls with their mosaic of faded multicoloured tiles, to the chippy blue tables, and to the tatty menu on the wall.Just what is it about this tea house that puts one at ease? Is it the friendly Pervez quietly attending to the chai? Is it the homey sight of eggs and chopped pyaaz? A separate counter is dedicated to masala omelette under the supervision of cook Muhammed Habeeb. Or can it be the cashier at the counter — Virender Kumar — who chats with customers with such casual affection, as if we were his village cousins?This tea house has been at Old Delhi’s Turkman Gate for more than 80 years. It is perhaps the only place in the conservative Walled City that is managed by a woman. Though this evening, Ms Nasreen is at her home in nearby Bulbuli Khana. The tea house was opened by her “sasur” Muhammed Hafeez. He named it after his son, now deceased.To tell you the truth, the chai establishment looks like a hole in the wall from the street outside. Only upon entering, you get a sense of its labyrinthine scope. The front area is claimed by a bench. Deeper inside lie more tables, one of which is scooped into a cozy chamber. Sitting there gives a thrill of being incognito. As if you were the target of a James Bond-like chase in the Old Delhi alleys moment back, and are now safely hidden.This moment, two men have taken over a corner table, their caps are placed beside their chai glasses. With a chuckle, they introduce themselves as best friends, saying, “Hum do hanso ke jode hain (we are a pair of swans).”The shop remains open from 5am until late night (it closes early these days due to pandemic-related restrictions). Try to visit it on a winter morning. The place is packed even at that unfriendly hour, with everyone swaddled in shawls and blankets, and the steam from the chai making the entire setting look like a fantastical apparition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-where-no-one-is-a-stranger-101641855196372.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||KU historian appointed as ICHR chairman||Professor Emeritus, Kurukshetra University Raghuvendra Tanwar has been nominated as chairman of the ICHR, New Delhi. As per a January 5 notification issued by Union ministry of education, Prof Tanwar’s appointment is for three years. The primary aim of ICHR is to promote historical research, and encourage scientific and objective writing of history. Prof Tanwar, who joined KU as lecturer in August 1977, has an outstanding academic record, with two gold medals in MA history. He was appointed as director of the Haryana Academy of History and Culture in 2016. Prof Tanwar is known for his study of India’s Partition, particularly Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ku-historian-appointed-as-ichr-chairman-101641844771977.html
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 3,969 fresh Covid cases, 7 deaths||Chandigarh : Amid continuous surge in Covid cases, Punjab on Monday reported 3,969 fresh infections taking the tally to 6,25,347, according to a medical bulletin. The state also reported seven Covid-related fatalities taking the deaths toll to 16,683. The active cases in the state also rose to 19,369, registering a positivity rate of 19.31%. Among the fresh cases, maximum 806 were reported in Ludhiana, 687 in Mohali, 455 in Patiala, 311 in Jalandhar and 290 in Pathankot, the bulletin said. With 885 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,89,285 in the state, it said. Raja Warring tests +veTransport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring also tested positive for Covid, confirmed Muktsar civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-3-969-fresh-covid-cases-7-deaths-101641842433316.html
