12-01-2022||Pune||Pune’s Covid tally may peak by January-end: divisional commissioner||Pune: The Covid cases tally in Pune district may hit peak in the last week of January, the administration has predicted. Considering the experience from the first and the second wave, Pune is almost three weeks behind Mumbai and its Covid graph is likely to plateau from January end onwards, said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. According to Rao, the health experts have predicted Pune’s positivity rate to climb up to 35% from current 21% in the coming days considering the trend seen at Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata though fatalities and hospitalisations will not increase much. Currently, Pune district’s hospitalisation rate for Covid-affected patients stand at 6%. Doctors and public health experts said they have observed that in most cases of Covid patients, lungs are not affected as a result of which fatalities rate is less than 0.01%. He said going by how experts have assessed situation in Mumbai, Pune is likely to reach situation where Mumbai currently is. The current weekly positivity rate in Pune stands at 21% and is likely to move up to 35%. “The Covid situation data collected earlier shows that Pune is three weeks behind Mumbai as far as pace of the infection is concerned,” Rao said. He, however, highlighted that factors like non-adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour by people, the local climatic conditions and demography may also play role in advancing or delaying the peak in the district. The Pune district is currently witnessing over 8,000 cases daily (as of January 12), which is almost double than what was being reported a week ago. Around two weeks ago Pune’s positivity rate was 3 per cent. The positivity rate for the past four to five days has climbed to 21 per cent even as fatalities are under control. “According to experts and administration, we hope to be in better place by second week of March,” he said. As on Wednesday, Pune district recorded 8,261 Covid cases, taking the district’s tally beyond 1.21 million with the death toll increased by two to touch 20,214. Even as the daily case load has increased, the current rate of hospitalisation, which stands at 6 per cent, is low, an indication that most patients are either asymptomatic or suffering from mild infections. “This is a silver lining for us that hospitalisations are under control. At the same time, in most cases, doctors have reported that lungs of Covid-infected patients are not damaged unlike in the second wave,” he said. Rao said if the current situation is compared with the international data, none of the countries’ rate of hospitalisation or criticality has drastically moved in an upward direction. Citing the reasons for less hospitalisation, he said that there are three factors that can be attributed to less hospitalisation. First is Omicron is creating less complications among patients while the second is treatment protocol is improved and evolved and doctors have become more confident. “The third and important factor is public at large, too have gained sufficient confidence and the panic which used to be there, is now less,” he said. Speaking about restrictions in the region, Rao said, the administration is unlikely to impose any additional restrictions when it will review the situation on Friday with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. He said that in the present scenario, both Omicron and Delta are affecting people. “As per the virus behaviour, it is predicted that in the later part of the wave, Omicron will replace Delta completely and the fatality rate may again go down,” he said. When asked whether there is any data on how many critical are infected by Omicron or Delta, he said that so far, the treatment protocol for Omicron and Delta is the same. “But we are not doing genome sequencing to ascertain the variant, but those who are going on ventilators or critical. We are scientifically assuming that it is going to be a Delta variant,” he said. 
12-01-2022||Pune||Pune sees mercury drop to 11.4 degrees Celsius||Pune: Pune city witnessed a further drop in night temperatures on Wednesday, when Shivajinagar reported a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius. Days in Pune are also cooler as per the weather department. The minimum temperature across Maharashtra has seen a drop. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was 10 degrees Celsius at Nashik, however, on Wednesday, the minimum temperature dipped to 9.6 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature in Pune was reported as 26.2 degrees Celsius. Pune city reported a chill during the day as well. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that partly cloudy skies will continue for the next few days in the city. “Along with cloudy skies, a haze is likely in the morning hours in the city. The day temperature is forecast to be around 27 degrees Celsius which will be cooler than normal and the night temperature will be around 12 to 13 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi. The warmest place in Maharashtra with the highest maximum temperature on Wednesday was Solapur at 31 degrees Celsius, as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-sees-mercury-drop-to-11-4-degrees-celsius-101642011830554.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Woman gets 10-year jail in drug peddling case||The court of additional district and sessions judge Monica Goyal on Wednesday sentenced a woman to 10 years’ imprisonment in a drug peddling case. The court also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on the convict. The prosecution stated that the case was registered on March 17, 2019 when Bihar resident, Manju Devi, was arrested while in possession of banned psychotropic substances under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Police said they were conducting checking near a temple when the police noticed the woman carrying a black bag and conducted a search on the basis of suspicion. She was then arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-gets-10-year-jail-in-drug-peddling-case-101642011593377.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP loses an MLA to RLD, gets one from Congress in UP’s Jatland||MEERUT The Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP) suffered a blow in west UP ahead of the coming state assembly polls, as its disgruntled MLA from Meerapur constituency of Muzaffarnagar Avtar Singh Bhadana announced to join the Rashtriya Lok Dal ( RLD)on Wednesday and contest the election on Jewar seat of Noida. The Congress got a similar jolt as its MLA from Behat seat Naresh Saini defected to the BJP in Delhi. Speaking to HT on phone, Avtar Singh Bhadana said that he decided to quit the BJP because the party hurt the honour of the Gurjar community by creating undue controversy on Gurjar Pratihar Samrat Mihir Bhoj. Bhadana claimed that he would contest on Jewar seat of Noida as an SP-RLD alliance candidate. In a tweet, he also posted his picture during his meeting with RLD chief Jayant Choudhary on Wednesday. He said that he was in politics for honour and self-respect and not for making money or wealth. “ I can’t compromise with honour and respect of Gurjar Samaj and myself. So, I decided to quit the BJP which has been ignoring farmers and our community,” said Bhadana who claimed that he along with his supporters and Samaj worked hard to ensure the victory of the BJP in the previous election. “Hamne Yogi ko jitaya ab harwane ka kaam karenge aur SP- RLD gathbandhan ko jitayenge,” said Bhadana who won the previous election as BJP candidate from Meerapur constituency of Muzaffarnagar. Bhadana was inactive in his constituency for the past three years after failing to get a berth in the Yogi government and resigned as member of the national executive committee of the party. Earlier, former MP of Congress and a prominent Jat leader in western UP Harendra Malik, his former MLA son Pankaj Malik and national secretary Imran Masood had also joined the Samajwadi Party. They all said that in the changed political situation, only Samajwadi Party could defeat the BJP. So, they decided to quit the Congress and joined the SP.Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Behat seat Naresh Saini joined the BJP in Delhi two days after party leader Imran Masood and MLA from Sadar Dehat of Saharanpur Masood Akhtar joined the Samajwadi Party. BJP’s district president in Saharanpur Bijendra Kashyap said that Saini joined the BJP in Delhi in the presence of the party’s state president Swatantra Dev Singh and deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma on Wednesday. MLA Naresh Saini’s phone was switched off. Naresh Saini defeated former MLA and BJP leader Mahaveer Singh in the 2017 assembly elections on Behat seat of Saharanpur amid resounding victory of the party in western UP. Saini was considered a close associate of former Congress leader Imran Masood and Saharanpur was the only district in the region where the Congress won two seats in 2017. Naresh Saini won on Behat seat and Masood Akhtar on Saharanpur Dehat seat. He is also a close aide of Imran Masood. Akhtar joined SP with Imran Masood on Monday but Naresh Saini didn’t open his cards and two days later he decided to join the BJP, leaving Imran Masood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-loses-an-mla-to-rld-gets-one-from-congress-in-up-s-jatland-101642011590415.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||After Gurdeep Gosha exit from Youth Akali Dal, local leaders in Ludhiana scramble to clinch his post||After the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) suffered a jolt with its youth wing leader Gurdeep Gosha jumping the ship to join the Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of assembly elections in the state, the race has begun among local leaders to clinch the post he left behind.Gosha was the district president of Youth Akali Dal in Ludhiana Urban-1, covering Ludhiana West, Atam Nagar and South constituencies, while Manpreet Manna is the district president for Ludhiana Urban-2, covering Ludhiana Central, North and East constituency.As per sources, former district president Gurpreet Babbal, Gurpreet Bedi, Baljit Chhatwal, Harpreet Singh Soni Dang are among those in the race to bag Gosha’s post but the leaders themselves are keeping their aspirations under the wrap. Some sources in the party have indicated that the party may not announce YAD president for Urban-1 as selecting one leader might demoralise the others who will be left behind and the party is not willing to take the risk ahead of assembly elections. The party may appoint the president after elections on the basis of the work carried out during elections.Meanwhile, the SAD district leadership stated that Gosha’s exit will not affect the party.Lambasting Gosha for leaving the party ahead of assembly elections, SAD district president, Harbhajan Singh Dang said there are many other capable youth leaders in YAD and Gosha’s exit will not affect them. He said that discussions are on with the high command and the final decision has to be taken by the high command only. The party will look into the working of these leaders before appointing the new district president. Gosha had joined BJP in Delhi on Tuesday. YAD leaders said he was aspiring for a party ticket in the upcoming elections and had joined the BJP after facing rejection from the SAD high command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-gurdeep-gosha-exit-from-youth-akali-dal-local-leaders-in-ludhiana-scramble-to-clinch-his-post-101642011050398.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Will take a final call on my political future tomorrow, says Swami Prasad Maurya||LUCKNOW Supporters wearing red caps replaced those with saffron scarves at bungalow number 14 on Kalidas Marg on Wednesday morning, after UP labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya tendered his resignation from the state cabinet on Tuesday. Located 25 yards from the residence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, the official bungalow of Swami Prasad was agog with activities as a large number of his supporters from various districts thronged the place to express their loyalty to him. Hordes of SP leaders and workers sporting red caps raised slogans in support of Maurya. “BJP supporters, who used to assemble in the bungalow, have disappeared within 24 hours. A barrier has been erected on the road leading to deputy CM Keshav Maurya’s bungalow,” said Mahadev Kushwaha, an aide of Swami Prasad Maurya.Maurya was holding closed-door meetings with rebel BJP MLAs to discuss the future course of action. “While three rebel MLAs - Roshan Lal Verma, Brijesh Kumar Prajapti and Bhagwati Sagar resigned from the BJP on Tuesday, others will follow suit after getting a green signal from Mauryaji,” added Kushwaha. Meanwhile, Maurya came out of the meeting to announce that he will make an announcement about his political future on January 14. “It’s an auspicious day when the country celebrates the festival of Makar Sankranti. The announcement will prove to be last nail in the BJP government’s coffin. I will hold hold discussions with supporters coming to meet me from across the state. Those who are not able to visit Lucknow are in contact with me on phone. The talks will continue till Thursday, and I will make the final announcement about my next move on Friday,” he said. Stating that his meeting with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh on Tuesday was warm and cordial, Maurya said: “We had discussions over the current political scenario in UP and plan for the assembly elections. A large number of BJP MLAs are in contact with me. They will soon desert the party.” When asked that the BJP had directed deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya to talk to him and withdraw his resignation, Swami Prasad said: “Backward leaders in the BJP, including Keshav Prasad Mauryam, are sidelined in the party. They should join hands with me in the fight for social justice and rights of weaker sections in society.” 
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Night curfew no deterrent, burglaries continue unabated in Ludhiana||Though police claim to be keeping a strict vigil to impose to night curfew restrictions, criminals continue to have a free run as a robbery and three burglaries were reported in the city on Tuesday. Farmer loses revolver, Canadian dollars to burglarsIn the first case, a gang of burglars stole a .32 bore licensed revolver, 7,100 Canadian Dollars and some cash in Indian currency from a locked house in Golden Avenue on Hambran road. Complainant Sukhdeep Singh, who is a farmer, said that he, along with his family members, had gone out of station when the crime took place.When they came back on Wednesday morning, they were shocked to see the entire house ransacked and immediately sounded the police.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gian Singh, the investigating officer, said closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras have captured two masked miscreants entering and escaping the house. A case under Sections 380 (theft), 454 (house breaking) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons.Rishi Nagar house burgled while family was vacationing in ShimlaA Rishi Nagar family that had gone to Shimla to enjoy the snowfall was in for a shock when they returned home. In their absence, thieves broke into the house and took away an LCD, a laptop, a thinkpad, two gold earrings, one pendant, ₹5,000 and other valuables.Complainant Munish Kumar of Rishi Nagar said he, along with his family, had left for Shimla on January 8. When they returned on Tuesday night, they found the entire house ransacked. He said the burglars seem to have entered the house after breaking open the grilles of a window on the second floor. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gian Singh said a case has been registered and cops are scanning CCTV cameras to identify the accused. Burglars target grocery shopBurglars struck at a grocery shop near the busy Aarti Chowk (Prof Mohan Singh Chowk) on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.The owner, Jatinder Pal Singh of Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, said he had locked the shop at 9pm on Tuesday. On Wednesday morning when he came to the shop, he found the locks broken. He said the burglars took away ₹15,000. Division number 5 police have registered an FIR against unidentified persons. ₹35,000 robbed from liquor vend employeesThree motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed ₹35,000 from the employees of a liquor vend in Nangal village of Dehlon on Tuesday night and fled. Ashok Kumar, the liquor vend employee, said that three men had turned up at the vend to buy liquor on Tuesday evening. Around 10pm when the employees were locking the vend, the trio struck again and brandished sharp-edged weapons at them and forced them to part with the cash. After the trio left, they called the police. Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 of the IPC has been registered and a hunt launched for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-no-deterrent-burglaries-continue-unabated-in-ludhiana-101642010450760.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Samajwadi Party grapples with problem of plenty ahead of ticket distribution||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav had declared his intent to form alliances with smaller parties, instead of the major players, over 14 months before the scheduled for the UP (Uttar Pradesh) polls was announced. He had made the announcement at his ancestral village Saifai in Etawah district the day before Diwali in November 2020.“No alliance with any big parties. The experience with the big parties on both occasions was bitter (The SP had tied up with the Congress in the 2017 assembly polls and the BSP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections without much success). Only small, regional parties. And anyone and everyone from other parties is welcome to join the SP,” he had said.The influx had begun a few months before with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) former minister Ghura Ram in July 2020. Since then, inductions from all the major political parties into the Samajwadi Party have increased for the UP polls.Commenting on the trend, Akhilesh had said about three months ago: “The Samajwadi Party never had such a beeline (of leaders from other parties) in its entire history and more are waiting to join it.”This trend lies at the root of the party’s problem of plenty when it comes to the number of ticket aspirants and probable candidates for the 2022 UP polls.In October 2020, as advance preparations for the polls, the Samajwadi Party formally announced an application process, asking ticket seekers to send in their applications. Despite the already overwhelming response to the process, the deadline of January 26, 2021 was extended till August 2021. The SP has received nearly 7000 applications for tickets for the 2022 polls.Yet, till Wednesday (January 12) morning, the SP had not declared even a single list despite the election dates having already been announced on January 8.Never before in its history has the SP delayed the process to this extent.Although the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress always begin declaring their candidates after the poll announcement, the SP has never done so in the past.The Samajwadi Party had declared its first list of candidates for the 2012 UP assembly polls as early as March 2011 and for the 2017 elections in April 2016. Of course, the party kept on modifying the lists. This tradition was in sync with the party’s then national president Mulayam Singh Yadav’s strategy to give the candidates a headstart in their constituencies.“Never before did the SP have such support of people and parties across the regions of UP. People are so anti-BJP and know that the SP is going to displace the BJP. The candidates’ selection process is on. It’s only a matter of time that the lists would start coming,” said Samajwadi Party national secretary and spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.The SP’s problem of plenty of ticket seekers has two elements — one related to the alliances and the other has emerged due to individual leaders (MLAs, ex-MLAs, former legislators, ministers) who have joined from the other parties.The Samajwadi Party has allied with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L), the Mahan Dal, the Janwadi Party (Socialist), and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Uttar Pradesh.The SP chief on Wednesday held a three-hour meeting with the heads of these parties. This was the SP’s first joint meeting with all the alliance partners.After the meeting, Mahan Dal chief Keshav Dev Maurya said: “It was a very harmonious meeting. We also had a wonderful breakfast together and strategised. The seats (of the SP and alliance partners) for the first and the second phases of the polls will be announced in a day or two.”The SP, according to the alliance talks, is likely to keep 350 of the total 403 seats with itself and distribute the remaining 53 seats among the alliance partners in the east, west, Rohilkhand, and Ccntral UP. The SP will keep all the 19 Bundelkhand seats to itself.“About 36 seats will be given to the RLD, about 10 to the SBSP, nearly six to the PSP-L and the rest will be distributed among the other partners,” said a senior party leader privy to the developments over the alliances.Hours after the meeting, the Samajwadi Party (SP) named Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader KK Sharma as first candidate for the UP assembly elections. “NCP leader KK Sharma will contest Bulandshahr’s Anupshahr constituency (number 67) as the joint candidate of SP-NCP,” the SP said.The RLD and the PSP-L are looking for more seats. The RLD, people aware of the matter, said also wants two seats in eastern UP, though it is basically a western UP party.So far, 10 BSP and four BJP MLAs have joined the SP ahead of the polls. Five more BJP MLAs, including Swami Prasad Maurya who quit the Yogi cabinet on Tuesday (January 11), are all set to join Akhilesh’s party. The SP is likely to field most of these turncoats. There are a large number of former MLAs, ex-MPs, former ministers and ex-senior office bearers from other parties who have joined the SP in the last two years.This heavy influx of leaders from the other parties and alliance partnerships would deprive many of the SP’s original leaders the opportunity to contest the polls on nearly 80 seats. This has triggered a bit of dissatisfaction among the SP cadres and also those leaders who have recently entered the party as not all the new entrants will get the ticket.When Akhilesh had invited applications from the aspirants for the polls, he had put a rider that no application will be accepted for the 47 seats that the SP had won in 2017 as the party is likely to take a call on these seats separately. This way, the SP has prevented any heartburn among the sitting MLAs of the party.On alliances, the SP also has made a deal on some seats with the alliance partners to field SP candidates.As for the turncoats, only those will be given tickets who have their own support base (Dalit, Muslim, backwards etc) to add to the SP’s strength, said a senior SP leader.So, what about the ticket seekers from among the SP’s homegrown leaders and those who joined it from other parties?“Akhilesh has not promised tickets to all while they joined the party. However, Akhileshji has been always saying that “sabko samman milega (all will get respect). So as you know, the UP assembly seats are not the only option for such deserving aspirants (who would not get the ticket) and the turncoats. The party has told them they will be accommodated in other ways — Rajya Sabha membership, UP Legislative Council membership, chairmanship of various boards of the UP government (minister rank positions), senior party positions and tickets for the next Lok Sabha polls ,” said a senior SP functionary.Prof SK Dwivedi, a political analyst and former head of the department of political sciences, Lucknow University, said, “So far as I have observed, Akhilesh Yadav had been behaving in a mature manner. Unlike other parties, the SP, so far, has not shown any major panic. At least, it has not surfaced yet. Disgruntlement will be there as any alliance partner would want more and more share while all aspirants would like to contest. These are not new problems for any political party that is resurgent. Let’s see how things unfold. The battle certainly has revved up and the UP elections will not be one-sided this time unlike 2017.” However, even as the UP poll scene appears to have become electrified now, an SP MLA from Sirsaganj (Firozabad) Hariom Singh Yadav joined the BJP. Soon after, the SP expelled him for six years from the party. 
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Major drug haul, six arrestedon Indo-Nepal border||Lucknow: In a major drug haul, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Lucknow zone seized a huge cache of psychotropic drugs and arrested six people for involvement in smuggling of drugs across the Indo-Nepal border. The arrests were made at Rupaidiha of Bahraich district, UP narcotics department officials said. The drugs were seized in an operation relating to curbing of illegal diversion of narcotics and psychotropic substances across the Indo-Nepal border. Acting on specific intelligence inputs, the Narcotics Control Bureau (UP) seized the psychotropic drugs and narcotics along with a huge amount of cash from various medical stores and other unauthorized premises in Rupaidiha of Bahraich district. According to a press statement issued by the NCB, a total of 4237 tablets containing Alprazolam, 2665 tablets containing Nitrazepam, 5530 tablets of Tramadol and Diazepam injection and Pentazocine injection and 4471 bottles of Codeine-based cough syrup worth Rs. 30 Lakh were recovered from six premises, four of which were medical stores. Unaccounted cash currency of Rs. 1,75,400 (Indian rupees) and ₹59,000 (Nepali rupees) were also seized in this operation which led to arrest of six people. The arrested accused were identified as Anil Kumar Mishra, Govind Kumar Verma, Ishtiyak Ahmad, Md Galib, Shiv Kishor Vishwakarma and Radhe Shyam Verma, all residents of Bahraich district. The arrest was made with support of 22 battalion of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). Narcotics Control Bureau, Lucknow Zone had been receiving the information of diversion and trafficking of narcotics and psychotropic medicines in the bordering areas of India and Nepal. In view of the coming assembly elections in UP and Uttarakhand, the NCB has deployed its teams in the field to develop intelligence related to drug trafficking and conduct operations and seizures based on intelligence. Teams on Indo-Nepal border are keeping a close watch on smuggling of drugs in poll-bound areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/major-drug-haul-six-arrestedon-indo-nepal-border-101642010390151.html
12-01-2022||Pune||140,000 students’ forms not forwarded by colleges with SPPU exams set for Feb 15||PUNE As the state government has closed down colleges and university campuses till February 15 due to the Covid pandemic, preparations for conducting online exams has begun at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). One of the major issues which SPPU’s examination department is facing is a delay in the inward process of the movement of examination forms by colleges. Of a total 850,000 students across streams, only 500,006 students have filled the forms, and colleges have forwarded 361,434 forms. Over 300,000 students are yet to fill the forms. Colleges do not forward the exam form to the SPPU if a student has not paid his/her fees. Now the SPPU examination department has set a deadline of January 15 for all its affiliated colleges in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar district to forward all the exam forms. “We have been taking continuous follow up and instructing the colleges to forward the examination forms submitted by the students immediately. Still a large number of forms have not yet forward by colleges. This delays the entire examination process, as only after all the filled-up forms are in can we start to schedule the examinations as per courses and subjects. There are 6,862 subjects for 284 courses with the university and its affiliated courses. To set up the papers and carry out the examination process preparations, it takes 15 to 20 days,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. “So we have not given a deadline of January 15 to all the colleges to forward the available to the university, so we can start our further process of scheduling the exam dates. Most probably the examinations would start from February 15 and its detailed schedule will soon be declared on the universityofficial website,” added Kakade. On other hand students are facing many difficulties to appear for the semester exams. Kedar Mande, a Commerce student said, “My father passed away due to Covid last year and we are suffering financially. I cannot afford to pay college fees for this year, but want to appear for the examination. We will pay the college fees in installments, but my exam form has not yet been forwarded by the college.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/140000-students-forms-not-forwarded-by-colleges-with-sppu-exams-set-for-feb-15-101642010030207.html
12-01-2022||Pune||MSRTC staff firm on strike, 73 days and counting...||The striking workers of Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) division are firm on not resuming duty, even after several attempts by the state government to placate them, the latest being a meeting between transport minister Anil Parab, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and the transport body unions. For the past 73 days, MSRTC workers have been on strike over the primary demand of urging the transport body becoming a state government department, a possibility the government has refuted citing the financial burden. As workers have refused to toe the line taken by unions, the MSRTC and the government has also decided to take a tough stand. The MSRTC management has began hiring drivers on contract, while also offering jobs to the retired staff to enable more buses to get on the streets. “Not many workers have joined work in the last one week and still there is a shortage of drivers and conductors in the division. Although we have started contract bus operations for Shivneri and Shivshahi buses, for normal ST buses to run in full swing we have now started the process of getting contract drivers from the appointed agencies,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune’s divisional controller. The most crucial part of the agitation has been that striking workers have refused to be part of any union, all of which are affiliated to different political parties. “The state transport department has appointed four agencies to provide contract drivers on a daily basis and initially, daily, eight divisions will be given 100 drivers each to start the service from Sunday. Accordingly, we have now started bus operations on various routes with contract drivers. Each driver will be given a salary of around ₹20,000 per month and these drivers are in eight divisions - Pune, Nagpur, Bhandara, Dhule, Jalgaon, Nashik, Aurangabad and Solapur,” added Gaikwad. For the last two months MSRTC workers and several unions are protesting various demands. A Kruti Samiti of unions was formed earlier to have a conversation with the state government. Apparently, the main demand of merging the MSRTC into state government was compromised, according to workers, so now workers (apart from union members) are on strike. To support the state government, private tourist bus associations gave 2,000 buses to be used across the state, operating from state transport depots. Sandeep Jagdale, an MSRTC driver said, “We had a meeting of all the workers who are still participating in the strike. Though we all are suffering financially there is a lot of anger against the state government. Till the merger process is not done we will continue to fight and remain on strike.” Action in Pune divisionIn MSRTC’s Pune division, a total of 1,300 workers of the 4,200 workers have resumed work. Show cause notices has been served to 69 workers After three rounds of inquiry hearing, these will be dismissed if the do not resume duty. Pune division has suspended 488 workers, of which 66 workers have since rejoined work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-staff-firm-on-strike-73-days-and-counting-101642009491987.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Father-son duo killed by group in Lonikand||PUNE A father-son duo was killed by a group of people, who are currently on the run from the police, on Wednesday evening at 7pm.The deceased have been identified as Sunny Kumar Shinde,22, and Kumar Maruti Shinde, 55, both residents of Shindevasti in Lonikand.Sunny Shinde was released from jail three months ago after he was arrested for allegedly killing another man in Lonikand in February 2021.The man deceased in the February 2021 case was identified as Sachin Shinde. His associates are on the police radar for having killed the two on Wednesday.A case under Sections 302, 34 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fatherson-duo-killed-by-group-in-lonikand-101642009190128.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Actor Hemant Birje, wife suffer minor injuries in accident along Pune-Mumbai Expressway||PUNE Bollywood actor Hemant Birje, 56 and his wife were injured after their car met with an accident on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway on Tuesday night, police said.The actor was heading to Pune from Mumbai and was close to Urse toll plaza around 9pm when the accident happened.The actor lost control of his vehicle and rammed into a divider, according to the police.The actor and his wife sustained minor injuries and the three were taken to Pawna hospital on Somatne Phata and were later discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/actor-hemant-birje-wife-suffer-minor-injuries-in-accident-along-pune-mumbai-expressway-101642008770224.html
12-01-2022||Pune||2 arrested for bludgeoning man to death in a parking lot in Bibwewadi||PUNE Pune police on Wednesday arrested two men for bludgeoning to death a 26-year-old man and leaving him in a parking lot in Bibwewadi area of Pune.The disease man has been identified as Vishal Ovhal, 25, a resident of Padmavati Vasahat area of Pune. The arrested men have been identified as Shivdatta alias D alias Dattatray Chandrakant Sakat, 35, a resident of Upper Ota in Bibwewadi. He was remanded to police custody for four days on Wednesday by a local court.“Both used to drink together. There’s a toddy shop in Bibwewadi where some people had beaten up Ovhal. The accused helped him reach home and they met up again in the evening to consume alcohol in the parking lot. Under the influence of alcohol, Ovhal accused Shivdatta of having planned the earlier attack as well. Shivdatta hit him with a stone on the stitches that were holding together the wound that he had already sustained earlier that day. He collapsed and the accused fled from there,” said police inspector (crime) Anita Hivarkar of Bibwewadi police station who is investigating the case.The body of the man was found lying in a pool of blood in the parking lot of Rajiv Gandhi complex located at Mahesh society chowk in Bibwewadi on Tuesday afternoon around 1:30 PM. His paternal uncle lodged a complaint in the matter. His body was taken to the Sassoon General Hospital for post-mortem, said officials.The police managed to get a blurry CCTV footage of the man who hit Ovhal but could not identify him. A source told the police that he was planning to flee to Solapur to evade arrest. He was arrested while trying to flee.A case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian penal code was registered at the Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2-arrested-for-bludgeoning-man-to-death-in-a-parking-lot-in-bibwewadi-101642008589867.html
12-01-2022||Mumbai||State cabinet approves property tax waiver for houses of up to 500 sq ft in Mumbai||Mumbai Weeks ahead of the civic polls, the state cabinet approved the proposal to waive off property tax for 1.61 million flats of up to 500 square feet in Mumbai and suburbs. Cumulatively, the waiver will save ₹462 crore for the citizens. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had on January 1 announced waiver of entire property tax for the smaller houses below the size of 45.45 sq mt or 500 sqft.The decision came amid criticism of the partial waiver announced by the previous Bharatiya Janata Party-Shiv Sena coalition ahead of the Brihnamumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections in 2017. The previous Devendra Fadnavis government, in consultation with the Shiv Sena led-BMC in 2019, had announced the wavier of only the general tax component of the property tax, drawing criticism for alleged half-hearted implementation of the poll manifesto.The decision of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government’s cabinet also comes after the Opposition had raised the issue during the Winter Session held in December.“The decision taken by the CM on January 1 received the state cabinet nod on Wednesday. The government has already issued a gazette notification last week. It will be applicable for the flats in BMC jurisdiction,” said an official from the urban development department.BMC collects ₹4,000-5,000 crore in property tax annually, of which ₹462 crore, including ₹45 crore of state government’s share, come from smaller flats.The property tax has eight components, including general tax, education cess, water tax, sewerage tax, tree cess and water benefit tax.While the previous Sena-BJP government had waived off only general tax (around 30% of the total property tax), the new decision will result in a complete waiver of the property tax, which ranges between ₹5,000 and 12,000 per flat per annum.Announcing the waiver on January 1, CM Thackeray had said, “We have fulfilled most of our promises made during 2017 BMC polls and this one is another important promise being fulfilled.”There are 4,00,000 housing societies in Mumbai. BMC individually issues property tax bills to flat owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-cabinet-approves-property-tax-waiver-for-houses-of-up-to-500-sq-ft-in-mumbai-101642007450056.html
12-01-2022||Bangalore||Cong’s Mekedatu march banned, orders Karnataka govt after high court rebuke||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday ‘prohibited’ with immediate effect any participation in the ongoing Mekedatu Padayatra by the Congress hours after the Karnataka high court pulled up the government for its inaction. In its order on Wednesday evening, the government said that “all, inter-district (within Karnataka) and intra-district (within Ramanagara), movement of vehicles and persons for participating in “Nama Neeru Namma Hakku” padayatra, or whichever name it is called with similar purpose from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, is prohibited with immediate effect and will be in force until further order for strict implementation by all Deputy Commissioners, Superintendents of Police, all Police Commissioners of the State.”The order comes after the Bommai-led administration was sharply criticised by the high court for inaction against the Congress and its padayatra with hundreds and thousands of people at a time when Covid-19 infections across the state have seen a steep and scary rise.“The transport commissioner is directed to take adequate measures to implement this order and aid the district administrations and police commissioners of the state. Any person violating these measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 5l to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section l88 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable,” the state government’s order said.The government also said that the Congress, in an “act of defiance, is endangering lives of large number of people.”The Congress started the march from January 9 to pressure the government into initiating works to construct the contentious Mekedatu reservoir-cum-drinking water project.“The protest/padayatra is likely to aggravate already worsening Covid-19 situation in the state. The state government is satisfied that the current circumstance requires stringent enforcement of Covid-19 behaviour and prevent large gatherings in protests, rallies, padayatra, etc, to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19 in the State,” according to the government order.The Congress has so far heeded to no threats and continued its march despite several participants testing positive.Congress state president DK Shivakumar also challenged the government to take action as the march itself promises rich political dividends for the part and him personally in the Old Mysuru region or Vokkaliga belt ahead of crucial zlla and taluka panchayat elections which can help indicate the prospects in 2023 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congs-mekedatu-march-banned-orders-karnataka-govt-after-high-court-rebuke-101642007389805.html
12-01-2022||Patna||Bihar Council polls: Cong awaits word from Delhi after RJD offer of tie-up||Congress leaders in Bihar said they were waiting for a word from the party high command to resolve the coalition issue with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) ahead of the impending election for 24 Legislative Council seats the state. The alliance between the two parties was all but broken during the bypolls for two seats of the state assembly in October last year, when both contested in two seats against each other. Soon after the election results, which saw both losing Tarapur (in Munger) and Kusheshwar Asthan (in Samastipur) out to the ruling Janata Dal (United), RJD chief Lalu Prasad had announced that the coalition with the Congress would continue. Talking about Council elections, likely in February-March, Prasad had hinted that the Congress would be offered 7-8 seats while Chirag Paswan faction of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and left parties could be allowed to field nominees on 1-2 seats under the alliance. While the RJD had already finalised candidates for seven-eight seats, Congress is showing little urgency. “The issue of coalition rests with the party high command. We are waiting for their word to engage in talks with the RJD,” said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha. A senior Congress leader said RJD’s de facto leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had talked to Jha to discuss the seat-sharing issues on Monday, but it could not happen. “Elections have not announced yet. We have enough time resolve the seat-sharing formula and finalise candidates, who have already started their preparations on all seats they are comfortable with,” Jha said. Last time, Congress had contested four seats — Bettiah, Saharsa, Katihar and Purnia — and won only Bettiah local bodies’ seat. However, winner Rajesh Ram switched sides and joined JD(U). Likewise, RJD had won four seats — Munger, Vaishali, Arrah and Sitamarhi — in the biennial elections held in 2015. However, three of its winning leaders, Sanjay Prasad, Radha Charan Seth and Dilip Rai, quit the party ahead of 2020 assembly polls. Only Subodh Rai, who won from Vaishali seat, remained loyal to the party. Soon after elections for Panchayati Raj institutions (PRIs), the state election commission had sent its recommendation to the Election Commission of India to conduct the polls for 24 Legislative Council seats of the local bodies’ constituencies, which have been vacant since July 16 last year when the six-year tenure of the elected representatives expired. The elections to these seats could not be conducted owing to the delay in reconstitution of the PRIs. 
12-01-2022||Patna||Bihar govt defends move to honour CM’s father on Jan 17 every year||Amid opposition from some quarters, Bihar’s chief secretary Amir Subhani has justified the state government’s recent decision to hold a state function at Bakhtiyarpur in Nalanda district on January 17 every year to honour five freedom fighters from the area, which includes chief minister Nitish Kumar’s father Kaviraj Ram Lakhan Singh “Vaidya”.Bakhtiyarpur is the native place of Kumar. “The cabinet decision mentions not only late Kaviraj Ram Lakhan Singh, but also four others, whose participation in the freedom struggle is well known locally. The cabinet took a decision which is appropriate ,” Subhani told HT on Wednesday.On January 5 this year, the state cabinet had passed a resolution declaring that a state function would be held near the statues of all five eminent freedom fighters — CM’s father Ram Lakhan Singh, Sheel Bhadra Yajee, Mogal Singh, Shaheed Natun Prasad Yadav and Doomar Prasad Singh — near their statues at Bakhtiyarpur on January 17 every year.On January 17 last year, Governor Phagu Chouhan had unveiled life size statues of the five freedom fighters at different places in Bakhtiyarpur.The reasons behind choosing January 17 as the day are not very clear.Asked if Kumar’s father drew the pension meant for freedom fighters, Subhani said it was not a yardstick for somebody to be recognised or being honoured as a freedom fighter. “There are many prominent freedom fighters who never took pension,” he said. In the past, CM Kumar has talked about how he, as a student, would often listen about the freedom struggle from his father who was a freedom fighter and also an Ayurvedic practitioner “Vaidya”. CM father was also in Congress for a long time. After the cabinet decision, former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Amitabh Kumar Das sent a letter to Governor Phagu Chauhan, urging him to seek a detailed report from the state government about Kaviraj Ram Lakhan Singh’s contribution in the freedom struggle. “I have also filed an RTI (right to information) application seeking details from the prison department as and when Singh was in jail and in which prison he was lodged and under what charges,” Das said. “I have been a student of history and I have done extensive study on Indian freedom struggle. But there is no mention of Singh as freedom fighter,” he said. Das, an IPS officer of 1994 batch, was given compulsory retirement in 2018. Over the past few years, he has made several allegations against top politicians, including the chief minister. Das had returned his police medal to the President of India Ramnath Kovind when there was a move to demolish a part of the historic Khuda Baksh library in Patna for the proposed elevated road on Ashok Rajpath. The elevated road’s alignment was later altered. Meanwhile, chief secretary Subhani said the government would definitely give a reply to the RTI query on the contribution of Ram Lakhan Singh in freedom struggle if it has been submitted.
12-01-2022||Patna||Council polls: BJP no to 50:50 sharing; says 13 seats belonged to BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has shot down the proposal by ally Janata Dal (United) in Bihar that both parties contest an equal number of seats in the upcoming elections for 24 seats in the state’s Legislative Council, likely to be held in February or March. “First and foremost, BJP central parliamentary committee will take a final decision on the matter. Secondly, and most importantly, of the 24 seats falling vacant, 13 were of BJP,” state BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said on Wednesday. On Tuesday, JD(U)’s parliamentary board chairman and former union minister Upendra Kushwaha had demanded an equal share of seats for the Council elections.Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who is from BJP, on Wednesday said Kushwaha’s statement had no significance. “The top leadership will decide and fix the electoral formula.” he said.Kushwaha had cited the formula adopted by the two allies during the 2020 assembly polls, when JD (U) got 122 seats and BJP 121, of which they adjusted smaller allies like VIP and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi’s party Hindustan Awam Morcha (HAM). Kushwaha on Tuesday also demanded a share for the two smaller constituents of NDA. However, a senior BJP leader familiar with the developments, said, “Our party is unlikely to adjust HAM-S and VIP.“We will rethink our strategy if our demands are not met,” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan. VIP president and minister Mukesh Sahni said his party has demanded four Council seats. “It is up to BJP. There is no pressure. If we are not adjusted, we might contest on all 24 seats,” he said. THE BREAK UPTotal No of Council Seats: 75Vacant seats: 24 (From Local Authorities Constituencies)Party wise break up: JD (U): 23BJP: 15HAM,VIP, Ind: 1 eachRJD: 5CPI: 2Cong: 3
12-01-2022||Patna||Delay in proposal for 7th UGC pay reimbursements costs Bihar ₹383 cr||The Bihar government has suffered a financial loss of ₹383.50 crore, as it could not ensure timely submission of proposal and requisite documents to avail reimbursement of central share in lieu of implementation of the seventh UGC pay scale in the state, officials familiar with the matter said.The last date submission to the union ministry of human resource development (HRD) was March 31, 2021, when the scheme expired.Though the government had blamed Covid pandemic and the lockdown as reasons for delay, it was not accepted.Bihar’s former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, who is currently a Rajya Sabha member, said he had also raised the issue in the Upper House, but union minister of state for education Dr Subhash Sarkar said the scheme had been closed.“The central government had decided to reimburse the financial burden due to implementation of revised pay scales on the basis of 7th Pay Commission recommendations for teachers and equivalent cadres in universities and colleges to all states wishing to adopt and implement the scheme. The reimbursement to be made was for the period from January 1, 2016, till March 31, 2019. The state governments needed to furnish necessary documents i.e. notification/ order issued by the state government for implementation of the scheme of revision of pay, undertaking of the amount released by the state government, copies of amended statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, etc. of state universities for reimbursement of the central share by the central government,” he said.Modi said the last date for submission of complete documents for reimbursement under the scheme was March 31 2021. “The Bihar government had submitted a proposal for reimbursement of central share amounting Rs. 383.53 crore on account of implementation of revised pay scales of teachers and equivalent cadres. However, the complete proposals along with the requisite documents, as per the norms of the scheme, could not be received in the MHRD within the stipulated time i.e. before last date of the expiry of the scheme on March 31 2021,” he said.State’s higher education council vice chairman Kameshwar Jha said the Nitish Kumar cabinet had notified the new 7th UGC pay scale much in advance and also made payments to serving teachers and employees, but the submission of desired documents to the HRD ministry for reimbursement got delayed at the level of the directorate.“The government is also working to clear the arrears of the pensioners and it will also happen soon. But yes, the delay has hurt Bihar financially,” he said.However, in Magadh University, even widows, who lost their husbands to Covid-19, having been waiting for regularisation of pension for over six months while other pensioners are awaiting payment, as the university does not have a registrar after the arrest of the incumbent PK Verma last year along with three other senior officials in connection with a corruption case. Verma was also holding the additional charge of registrar at the Aryabhatt Knowledge University (AKU), where a temporary arrangement was made earlier this week.MU vice-chancellor Bibhuti Narayan Singh said that soon after the arrest of the registrar, he had requested the Raj Bhawan for a replacement, as pension and salary payment had also got stuck. “Later, I was asked to send a panel and I sent three names. On Tuesday, Raj Bhawan notified JP University (Chapra) registrar Ravi Prakash ‘Bablu’ as the temporary arrangement in MU until further orders. Once he joins, things will proceed,” he said. 
12-01-2022||Indore||5 Covid positive passengers stopped from boarding Dubai-bound flight at Indore airport||A 37-year-old pregnant woman and four other passengers tested positive for coronavirus at the Indore airport on Wednesday following which they were prevented from boarding the Air India's Dubai-bound flight, an official said. The woman, who was from Bhopal and six months' pregnant, had not taken a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while the other four infected passengers were inoculated, Dr Priyanka Kourav, medical officer of the Madhya Pradesh health department, told PTI. "Every passenger boarding the weekly Indore-Dubai flight has to undergo a rapid RT-PCR test at the airport. On Wednesday, 76 passengers were tested and the results of two women, two men and a 17-year-old boy came out positive,” she said. Four of the infected persons were vaccinated against the viral infection, she said. "Two of these infected passengers have taken two doses each of Sinopharm and Pfizer's vaccines for coronavirus prevention, which means both of them have received a total of four doses of the vaccines,” she said. The infected passengers include one each from Indore and Barwani and three from Bhopal, the official said, adding that all the five people are asymptomatic and have been advised to isolate at home. The administrations of Indore, Barwani and Bhopal were being informed about the infected passengers, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/5-covid-positive-passengers-stopped-from-boarding-dubai-bound-flight-at-indore-airport-101642006740862.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: SP-NCP announce joint candidate for Anupshahr seat||LUCKNOW The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Wednesday named Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader KK Sharma as its first candidate for the UP Assembly elections. The announcement came hours after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav held the first joint meeting of the SP’s alliance partners -Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Janwadi Party (Socialist), Mahan Dal, Apna Dal (Krishna Patel), and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) - at the party’s Janeshwar Mishra Trust office in Lucknow. “NCP leader KK Sharma will contest Bulandshahr’s Anupshahr constituency (number 67) as the joint candidate of SP-NCP,” the SP said.The party tweeted: “NCP UP chief Umashankar Yadavji met SP national president Akhilesh Yadav and discussed the elections. NCP leader KK Sharma will be the joint candidate of SP-NCP for the Anupshahr constituency of Bulandshahr. There will be a change in 2022.”After Akhilesh exited the meeting, Mahan Dal chief Keshav Dev Maurya said: “The meeting went off well. It happened in a harmonious atmosphere along with a nice breakfast. The ticket announcements will start soon.”Elections for the 403 UP Assembly seats will begin on February 10 and the results will be announced on March 10.Samajwadi Party leaders said the party was likely to field its candidates on about 350 of the 403 seats, and distribute the rest among alliance partners. The Jayant Singh Chaudhary-led RLD is likely to get 36 seats, SBSP about 10, PSP-L about 10, and the rest will be distributed among the smaller allies.Anupshahr is among the 58 Assembly constituencies going to vote on February 10 in the first phase of the seven-phased UP polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-sp-ncp-announce-joint-candidate-for-anupshahr-seat-101642007029777.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Purvanchal: Crucial region has changed political colour every election in Uttar Pradesh||Ten districts of the crucial Purvanchal (east UP) region have kept changing political colour since the 2007 assembly election, each time going on to support the eventual winner in the assembly polls.A strong performance in the region is a lucky charm for political parties, observers say. These 10 districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh have 61 assembly seats.The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 37 seats in 2007, the Samajwadi Party (SP) 33 in 2012 and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 35 in 2017 as the region travelled through different political shades from blue to red, and then red to saffron over the last 15 years. Once again, eastern Uttar Pradesh is in focus, this time for the 2022 assembly elections. While the ruling BJP is leaving no stone unturned to retain the Purvanchal region, the main opposition Samajwadi Party is on its toes to restore the political ground that it lost in 2017.Past statistics say whichever party the majority of eastern UP supported in successive assembly elections since 2007 has formed the government in Uttar Pradesh.This trend started in the 2007 assembly election in which the voters of Purvanchal (eastern UP) supported the BSP that won 37 seats in the region and 206 seats overall, four seats above the magic figure of 202 needed to form the government.That year, the SP won 18 seats in the region and the BJP just four. However, the BSP couldn’t maintain its bond with the people of this region and others for five years as it fell short of the people’s expectations, local people say.“We thought there would be development in rural pockets across the state, but it didn’t happen,” says Santosh Rai, resident of Ghazipur. Suresh Yadav and Durga Chaurasia, two other residents of Ghazipur, echoed similar sentiments. Chaurasia said during the BSP’s tenure, city-centric development happened, that too was focused on Lucknow and Noida. People’s disenchantment with the BSP became an opportunity for the Samajwadi Party which worked at the grassroots level to win their support.As a result, the SP wrested most of the seats from the BSP in the 2012 election to win 33 seats in the region, including nine in the SP stronghold Azamgarh alone. The BSP’s tally in eastern UP shrank to eight seats and the BJP’ increased to 11 seats (in 2012). The Congress won three seats. Independents bagged three seats, the Quami Ekta Dal two seats and the Apna Dal one seat. With 224 seats, including 33 from eastern UP, the SP formed a full majority government in UP. But by the time the SP government completed its five-year tenure, majority of the voters started looking for an alternative due to several reasons like rising crime rate and preference to two communities, say Omprakash Pandey, resident of Naseerabad village in Ballia.The majority of eastern Uttar Pradesh voters turned to the BJP in 2017 and the party won 34 of the region’s 61 seats. Its allies Apna Dal (Sonelal) bagged four and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) three seats. Together with its allies, the BJP registered a resounding victory on 41 seats, while the SP’s tally shrank to 12 and the BSP’s to 7. The BJP alone won 312 seats in Uttar Pradesh and formed the government. Its allies won 13 more. One of them, the SBSP led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, parted ways with the BJP after the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Excluding the SP stronghold Azamgarh, the BJP performed well in 2017 in the Purvanchal region’s all other nine districts —Varanasi, Mirzapur, Bhadohi, Chandauli, Ghazipur, Sonbhadra, Jaunpur, Mau and Ballia.The SP failed to open its account in Mirzapur, Bhadohi and Sonbhadra and Varanasi, the BJP stronghold, in 2017.Thus, the BJP’s tally in the region went up from four in 2007 to 34 in 2017. This time, too, the BJP is leaving nothing to chance. It has worked at the grassroots to strengthen its organisation and held hundreds of meetings with the party workers in the last over 70 days in Purvanchal. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Varanasi thrice from October 25 to December 23 and launched various developmental projects. In addition, Union home minister Amit Shah also visited Varanasi twice since November 12 and held meetings with his party office bearers.It clearly indicates the BJP would like to repeat its performance in eastern UP as the road to power passes through this region, says political analyst Kaushal Kishore Mishra, professor at the department of political science.Will eastern UP be painted saffron again?Mishra says, “The majority of eastern UP voters love all colours. In 2007, they strongly supported blue (the colour of the BSP’s flag) and then they gave a chance to red (the SP has a red-green flag and its workers wear red caps). In 2017, they supported the BJP, which is also called saffron party by its political opponents. As of now, I can tell you that saffron has become quite vibrant.”Veteran socialist Vijay Narayan Singh says Ballia, Ghazipur, and Varanasi gave several socialist leaders like Raj Narain, former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar, SP leader the late Janeshwar Mishra, among others.“The socialist movement flourished in this region, but it has lost sheen at present because the people who claim to be socialists want to live a leisurely and lavish life,” he says.
12-01-2022||Bangalore||Bengaluru reports sharp spike in Covid-19 infections with 15,617 fresh cases; 6 deaths||Bengaluru Urban on Wednesday registered 15,617 fresh cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a spike of 4,817 infections as compared to previous day's 10,800, according to the health department bulletin. With this, the total infections in the district rose to 13,34,957.The district saw six Covid-19 related deaths in the past 24 hours. As many as 874 people recovered from the viral disease in the same time span.Karnataka's overall Covid-19 tally crossed the 30-lakh mark after 21,390 more people tested positive for Covid-19, taking the cumulative infections in the state to 30,99,519. The state had reported 14,473 new infections on Tuesday.With 10 people succumbing to the disease, the death toll reached 38,389.The state has been witnessing a steady surge in cases, possibly driven by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, taking the total number of active cases to 93,099.The number of recoveries soared to 29,68,002 after 1,541 people recuperated from the disease in the past 24 hours.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 10.96 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.04 per cent.Apart from Bengaluru, one Covid-related death each has been reported from Ballari, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi and Mysuru.After Bengaluru, Tumakuru recorded the second highest of fresh cases (594), followed by Mysuru (524), Dakshina Kannada (519), Hassan (409) and Udupi (361).According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 12,44,869, followed by Mysuru 1,78,018 and Tumakuru 1,20,231. Cumulatively, a total of 5,81,69,653 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,95,047 were on Wednesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-reports-sharp-spike-in-covid-19-infections-with-15-617-fresh-cases-6-deaths-101642001280685.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Magh Mela: Six cops fined for violating Covid norms||With the aim of preventing spread of Covid in the Magh Mela area and strict compliance of pandemic protocol, the Magh Mela police have started an intensive checking drive against those not wearing masks in the fair area. The annual Magh Mela is set to start at the banks of Sangam from January 14/15.To start with, Magh Mela police fined six of their own men, on Wednesday.These included five constables and one woman head constable, informed officials. “We want to give a clear message to everyone coming to Magh Mela area that they have to strictly comply with the set norms in view of Covid-19 pandemic and setting an example, we thought of correcting our home first and thus six of our own police personnel were fined for not wearing masks,” said superintendent of police, Magh Mela, Rajiv Narayan Mishra. He said the drive would continue in the mela area in the days to come wherein the quantum of fine would increase each time an individual is fined to start with a fine of ₹100 for the first-time offender. The SP Magh Mela further added that police personnel are repeatedly appealing to seers, devotees and visitors coming to mela area to wear facemask and follow all the set norms laid down under Covid-19 protocols. However, making people aware and request has to go along with a deterrent and fining the offenders is one such step, added Mishra. The six policemen, who were not wearing masks in the mela area, were challaned under section 15(3) of the UP Covid-19 (second amendment) rules and mitigation fee was collected on the spot from them. All the station in-charges have been instructed to check the persons who were not wearing masks in their respective areas and at the important places of the mela area. Magh Mela authorities had earlier announced that not wearing masks in the mela area would invite fine. The authorities have also announced that each Kalpwasi and seer, camping in the mela area should be vaccinated and should possess a negative RT-PCR report with them. K Sandeep Kumar 9415235145||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/magh-mela-six-cops-fined-for-violating-covid-norms-101642005709936.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Chief secretary reviews UP poll preparations, orders intensive checking on borders||Chief secretary DS Mishra on Wednesday directed officials to carry out intensive checking on inter-state and international borders to stop unwanted elements who could attempt to infiltrate into the state with a view to creating trouble during upcoming UP assembly polls.He was holding a meeting with senior administrative officials here to review preparations for the 7-phase assembly elections set to start from February 10 the nominations for which are beginning from January 14. Laying emphasis on the need for timely preparations to hold free, fair and peaceful polls, the CS also told officials to arrange an adequate number of buses for the smooth movement of polling parties and security forces. “Advance arrangements should also be made to ensure uninterrupted power supply during voting and related activities,” he said. Mishra said all polling and security personnel had to be inoculated in advance. He directed officials to prepare a list of such personnel, who needed to be given booster doses, in coordination with the health department. “The election commission’s guidelines regarding vaccination and Covid-19 protocol should be strictly enforced,” he told officials. Earlier, chief election officer Ajay Kumar Shukla briefed the CS about the latest status of poll preparations. Additional chief secretary, home, Avanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad and principal secretary, transport, Rajesh Kumar Singh briefed the CS of poll preparations made by their departments so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/chief-secretary-reviews-up-poll-preparations-orders-intensive-checking-on-borders-101642005289862.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj region: Heart of Uttar Pradesh vital for all parties in poll race||The Bharatiya Janata Party, which won 13 of the 22 assembly seats in the Prayagraj region in 2017 will look to continue its sway this time too. Besides, three seats are with its ally Apna Dal.The region comprising the three districts of Prayagraj, Pratapgarh and Kaushambi is the heart of Uttar Pradesh just as geographically UP is the heart of India. It is also the gateway to the eastern part of the state.The BSP has two, the SP and Congress one each and Independents have two in the region.Among the three districts, Prayagraj is the biggest. It has 12 assembly seats. The city of Prayagraj is on way to getting transformed into to a smart city in the next few years. Located on the banks of the Triveni Sangam, the Ganga Jamuni (composite) culture of this place is much discussed in intellectual circles.Prayagraj, regarded as politically, socially and academically conscious, has given many Prime Ministers, Union ministers, governors, top bureaucrats, historians and judges of international repute and litterateurs to the nation.The 2022 assembly polls are witnessing a key thrust on development, condition of health infrastructure, and women empowerment to name a few, in a marked shift from earlier elections in Uttar Pradesh, where political parties played primarily on caste and community with promises of development thrown in between.Community, caste, price rise, unemployment and crime have not lost their importance in the elections.“For the BJP, the region is significant as three state ministers—Rajendra Pratap “Moti” Singh (Patti in Pratapgarh), Nand Gopal Gupta “Nandi” (Allahabad South in Prayagraj) and Sidharth Nath Singh (Allahabad West in Prayagraj) —will seek re-election from here in 2022 too. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who is currently an MLC, had won Kaushambi’s Sirathu seat in 2012. It was the BJP’s first ever victory there. This time, he will strive to ensure that all three seats of Kaushambi are retained by his party. Currently, BJP has Sheetla Prasad as the sitting MLA from Sirathu, besides Lal Bahadur from Manjhanpur and Sanjay Kumar Gupta from Chail,” said political scientist Prof MP Dube, former vice-chancellor of Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU).If the BJP fails to match or better its tally in the Prayagraj region from the existing 13 seats (16 including three seats of ally Apna Dal), it could be seen as the loss of Keshav’s influence in the region, he maintains.Dube said that it was no mere coincidence that top BJP leaders including PM Narendra Modi, Union road transport minister and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya have inaugurated and laid foundation stone of hundreds of development projects worth over ₹8,700 crore in the region in December and January.The region is no less vital for other parties, says another political commentator Prof Badri Narayan , director of Govind Ballabh Pant Social Science Institute (GBPSSI), Prayagraj.“Out of the 19 seats that BSP won across the state in 2017—two including Pratappur (where its candidate Mohd Mujtaba Siddqui won) and Handia (from where its candidate Hakim Lal Bind won)—fall in this very region. The importance of these two seats for the BSP can be gauged from the fact that in eastern UP, BSP won just 8 out of the 102 seats on offer in 2017,” he said. The region is prestigious for the Congress also as it traditionally was once a party bastion and is the hometown of the Nehru-Gandhi family, he says.“Currently, it has a mere one seat (Rampur Khas in Pratapgarh from where Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Misra is the sitting MLA). This one seat was among just seven that Congress had managed to win in 2017 in UP,” he added.The region also has former UP cabinet minister Raghuraj Pratap Singh’s assembly seat Kunda in Pratapgarh from where he has been winning non-stop from 1993 onwards, including for the sixth time in 2017.As for the issues, Navin C Agarwal, senior chartered accountant of Prayagraj, believes that for development of any economy, inflation and subsequent price rise is a necessity.“This is the reason since 1951, all the budgets presented by Central and state governments have witnessed increase in outlays. To grow the economy, the government has to increase the spending and to garner proportionate revenue to support that spending, price rise is a must,” he says.He particularly appreciates the efforts of the Central government in upgrading technology by which direct account transfer is happening now, removing human interface and weeding out corruption from the system.Referring to the Income Tax Act, he says that with the use of technology, suitable amendments have been made to remove the interface with the department by introducing faceless assessment and faceless first appeal. Further, he suggests that the government take appropriate steps to transfer benefits directly to the farmers, so that the role of middlemen is cut and that the income of the farmers can increase.Silky Biswas, a homemaker, raised concerns over the skyrocketing prices of cooking gas, edible oils and vegetables within the last year and a half. The household income did not see much increase during this period as markets opened intermittently. Steep rise in prices has disturbed the monthly budget of the family, she claims.“As it is, we are fighting the coronavirus and price rise. We have to now cut down on consumption of essentials,” she says.Brijesh Kumar Shukla, a government job aspirant hailing from Pratapgarh, expresses his disappointment with the working of Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC). He also says nothing has changed in the last five years.“In fact, a CBI inquiry was initiated earlier but no concrete report has come out in public domain. UPPSC exams are still not held as per the time published calendar and results too are not declared on time. Due to this delay, the student fraternity loses time, energy and money,” he claims.Another youth Rajesh Kumar Srivastava, who is preparing in Prayagraj for competitive exams, says ,“Kaushambi is an international tourism destination for followers of Jains and Buddhism all over the world. Many youths can get self-employed in the field of tourism, handicrafts but lack of infrastructure development is forcing even educated youth of this region to take up daily wage-earning jobs in big cities to make ends meet.”Saurabh Srivastava, an Allahabad high court lawyer, says a clear picture is yet to emerge on the future over the shifting of the tribunal offices out of Prayagraj.“Earlier, the government wanted to shift them but due to massive agitation withheld it for time being. If in future the government does so, it will hurt the dignity of the city and impact the smooth operational functioning of the court,” he says.Also, Saurabh says he fails to understand as to why during each election season, the leaders talk of establishing a bench in western UP. He is aggrieved at what he calls the failure of the law enforcement institutions to give protection to lawyers who have fallen victim to attacks.
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: SSM declares 10 candidates, Rajewal to fight from Samrala||Chandigarh : The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), a political front of 19 farm organisations, on Wednesday announced a list of 10 candidates for the February 14 Punjab assembly polls. Morcha convener Balbir Singh Rajewal will contest from Samrala. Other candidates are: Prem Singh Bhangu from Ghanour, Harjinder Singh Tanda from Khadoor Sahib, Ravneet Singh Brar from Mohali, Dr Sukhmandeep SIngh Dhillon from Taran Taran, Rajesh Kumar from Kartarpur, Ramandeep Singh from Jaitu, Ajay Kumar from Phillaur, Balraj Singh Thakur from Qadain and Navdeep Sangha from Moga. Bhangu, who is also involved in scrutiny of the candidates for the SSM, said the next list of 25-30 candidates will be announced on Friday or Saturday. Seeks tractor or trailer as a poll symbol The SSM has given three options --- a tractor, tractor-trailer or trailer --- to the Election Commission of India (ECI) for the allotment of election symbol. Bhangu said these symbols are the icons of successful agitation led by farmers for the repeal of three laws. Meanwhile, the Joginder Singh Ugrahan-led BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) on Wednesday decided to launch a campaign after the January 15 meeting of the Samyukt Kisan morcha, to educate the people, particularly the farmers, about the election process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-ssm-declares-10-candidates-rajewal-to-fight-from-samrala-101642003309998.html
12-01-2022||Mumbai||Animals, birds charred to death in fire at pets shop in Kalyan||Several animals and birds kept for sale in a pets shop died after a fire broke out in the shop at Rambaug locality of Kalyan (W) on Wednesday at around 8am.As soon as the fire officials learnt about it, a team reached the spot and initiated fire fighting operations. The shops had parakeets, rabbits, cats and lovebirds among others.“We also managed to rescue some of the birds and animals. However, many were charred in the fire. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained,” said an officer of the fire department, KDMC.In Rambaug, there are several small shops where the birds and animals are kept for sale. Though illegal, the trade has been in operation for many years. Several people visit these shops on a daily basis.The fire officials claimed that the fire might have ignited due to a short circuit. “We suspect there was a short circuit in the shop that led to the fire. No one was injured in the incident,” said the officer.Following the fire incident, the founder of Plants and Animals welfare society (PAWS) has demanded legal action against the shops selling animals and birds without permission.“There is a need to take strict action against such shops. These shops operate without any license and are illegal. They cannot be allowed to operate,” said Nilesh Bhanage, president of PAWS.
12-01-2022||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray asks CIDCO, JNPT to expedite process of transferring mangroves to Forest Dept||Reacting to the environmentalists’ concerns on the delay in various government agencies transferring mangroves to the Forest Department for conservation, Maharashtra Environment Minister, Aaditya Thackeray, has asked CIDCO and JNPT to expedite the process.Thackeray held a review meeting on Tuesday and took stock of the record of transfer of mangroves. He asked the agencies specifically to speed up the process for conserving mangroves as reserve forests under the Indian Forest Act.Thackeray tweeted: “Conducted review meetings with the officials of the Forest Department, JNPT, CIDCO, and Divisional Commissioner for Palghar, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri & Sindhudurg to expedite the pending final notification for the mangroves under the Indian Forest Act.”Welcoming the development, NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar, said the government, and the forest department in particular, must also take over the mangroves under Navi Mumbai SEZ that have been since denotified. The inordinate delay in implementing the three-year-old High Court order to conserve the mangroves is only giving an opportunity to destroy the sea plants for creating dry areas for land-grab, Kumar pointed out in his tweet to Thackeray.JNPT has 900 hectares of mangroves that are supposed to be handed over to the Forest Department. NMSEZ is developing at least 4,000 acres in Dronagiri alone, he said. “We have been complaining to various authorities against the destruction by various project proponents, apart from the debris mafia, but no action has been taken,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.Kharghar-based activist, Naresh Chandra Singh, regretted that the node does not seem to exist on the radar of any government agency as all complaints from the citizen groups have fallen on deaf ears.It is important to keep an eagle’s eye on the mangroves even after the forest department takes over. In the absence of any surveillance, the land grabbers will have a field day, Jyoti Nadkarni, another Kharghar activist, pointed out. As per official records, Maharashtra has a total of 32,000 hectares of mangroves, of which 19,000ha is under government control and 13,000ha privately owned. As much as 16,984.17ha are reserved under Section 4 of the Forest Act and 11,549.33ha under Section 20. Thus, the government says the area of pending takeover is 3,000ha. But Kumar and Pawar say this could be much more than 3,000ha. “Our request to CM has been referred to the Environment and Forest Departments, it is important to protect these sea plants in the interest of Uran,” Kumar said.Similarly, large stretches of mangroves in Kharghar, Ulwe, Nerul, etc are yet to come under the Forest Department’s fold, Singh added.Sanjay Mukherjee, VC-MD of CIDCO, said, “We are committed to the environment. While planning a city, CIDCO has always kept a 40% area for green cover. CIDCO has planted mangroves in over 400ha in Airoli and that’s where the mangroves’ Cell Interpretation Centre and Office is located. “So far, CIDCO has handed over 2000ha of land to the forest department, making it the only government organisation and Public Sector Undertaking to hand over such large pieces of land. Last year, we handed over 280ha of land to the Forest Department. We shall implement the decisions taken in the Minister’s meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-asks-cidco-jnpt-to-expedite-process-of-transferring-mangroves-to-forest-dept-101642001749260.html
12-01-2022||Patna||BJP’s 1st response to ally JDU’s 50-50 formula for Bihar council seats is a ‘No’||PATNA: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is reluctant to accept a new demand from Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) (JDU) to extend the 50-50 agreement reached between the two parties for the 2020 Bihar assembly elections to the Bihar Legislative Council polls expected to be notified soon. There are 24 vacant seats in the legislative council.BJP leaders said the party is not going to accept this demand, and the BJP, as one party leader put it, “has almost rejected it.”Upendra Kushwaha, chairman of JDU’s parliamentary board and former union minister floated the 50-50 demand on Tuesday, insisting that there was no reason to digress from the formula sealed during the assembly elections.“The JDU and its bigger partner in any alliance always shared the seats under the 50:50 ratio formula from the 2015 assembly elections, including in 2019 parliamentary and 2020 assembly elections. So, we expect that same formula will be followed this time as well,” Kushwaha said on Tuesday.As part of the 50-50 deal in 2020, the JD (U) got 122 seats and the BJP 121 as part of the arrangement. The two alliance partners adjusted former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s party Hindustan Awam Morcha (HAM) and the Vikassheel Insaan Party(VIP) from their respective quota of seats.Kushwaha also batted for other alliance partners in Bihar’s ruling coalition and demanded that smaller constituents of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) -VIP and HAM - should also get a slice of the legislative council seats.Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal suggested that a decision on the number of seats to be contested will be taken in Delhi, and indicated why the JDU formula was unlikely to be acceptable.“First and foremost, the BJP central parliamentary committee will take a call on how many seats will be contested by us. Secondly, and most importantly, of the 24 seats falling vacant, 13 were of the BJP,” said Sanjay Jaiswal.Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad was dismissive of JDU leader Kushwaha’s statement. He said Upendra Kushwaha’s statement has no significance. “The top leadership will decide and fix the electoral formula, on how many seats the candidates are to be fielded,” Prasad said.A senior BJP leader familiar with the developments said that the BJP will contest on 13 seats, leaving 11 for the JD (U). “The party is unlikely to adjust other allies HAM-S and the VIP,” the BJP leader added.The HAM-S and the VIP, which have been keeping the NDA government in state on the tenterhooks, have sought two and four council seats each, respectively.“We will re-think our strategy if our demands are not met,” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan.The VIP, which has already upset ally BJP over its announcement to contest the Uttar Pradesh elections, signalled that it didn’t intend to sit tight if the BJP doesn’t accommodate them.“It is up to the BJP to take a call on it. There is no pressure. If we are not adjusted, we might contest on all 24 seats,” said VIP leader and state minister Mukesh Sahni on his party’s demand to be given four council seats. 
12-01-2022||Mumbai||State continues statement of no coercive action against Nitesh Rane||Mumbai The state government on Wednesday continued its statement that no coercive steps would be taken against MLA Nitesh Rane till his anticipatory bail application was decided by the Bombay high court (HC).While arguing for Rane, the HC was informed that the FIR was an act of vendetta for the cat calls made by him against Sena leader and minister Aditya Thackeray outside Vidhan Bhavan on December 23 and to ensure that he did not participate in the elections of a bank.Rane’s counsel also argued that the mere statement of the victim of the attempt to murder case could not be relied upon to implicate Rane in the absence of any incriminating evidence. The court will continue hearing of the ABA on Thursday.When the petition came up for hearing before a single judge bench of HC on Wednesday, advocate Niteen Pradhan for Rane submitted that he had cooperated in the investigation and had attended the police station on December 24 wherein his statement was taken down after four hours of interrogation after which he was allowed to go.On December 18, Santosh Parab, a Shiv Sena functionary from Kankavli in Sindhudurg, was allegedly assaulted in the backdrop of the Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank election scheduled for December 30. Parab is a close associate of chairperson Satish Sawant, who was defeated by Nitesh Rane in the 2019 assembly polls for the Kankavali seat.Parab told the police that while he was on his bike on the Kankavli Nardave road at around 11 am, an Innova car without a number plate hit his vehicle. A person alighted from the car and told Parab that since he (Parab) worked for Satish Sawant (a Sena leader), the assailant would ‘deal with him and stabbed Parab in the chest’. The complaint stated that Parab heard the assailant tell another occupant in the car to inform Nitesh Rane and another accused of the incident before fleeing the spot.Pradhan further submitted that as per the FIR, Parab received one blow and suffered two abrasions on the chest but there was no explanation as to how he received the injury and hence invoking section 307 (attempt to murder) charges against Rane was preposterous. He added that the allegations in the FIR were a conspiracy to ensure that Rane was terrorised and was kept away from the bank elections.After hearing the submissions due to paucity of time the bench posted the further hearing of the application to Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-continues-statement-of-no-coercive-action-against-nitesh-rane-101641999291694.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Cong pushed into political isolation in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW A day after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar spoke about his party’s tie-up with the Samajwadi Party, the latter firmed it up by declaring NCP leader KK Sharma as the alliance’s first candidate for the UP polls, pushing the Congress further towards isolation on the political horizon of Uttar Pradesh. The All-India Trinamool Congress is also going to contest UP polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party. The Congress adopted ‘ekla chalo’ strategy in 2022 UP assembly elections following the failure of alliance experiments with the BSP in 1996 and the Samajwadi Party in 2017 Assembly elections. Not able to woo major sections of castes/communities or strengthen its organizational base, the party is being pushed towards political isolation, which is likely to lead to straight contests between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party. “The Congress’ move of ‘ekla chalo’ may work for it in the long run as it will help in building the organizational structure at the grassroots level. Other like-minded parties are apparently isolating the Congress as they are working with a strategy of forming a non-BJP and non-Congress alliance for 2024 Lok Sabha elections. So, all these parties, be it the NCP or the TMC, have to keep the Congress out,” said a senior Congress leader. Political observers said the opposition needs to put up a show of unity to strongly fight the BJP in 2022 UP polls. “If the opposition fails to make any impact in these elections, its dream of giving a strong alternative to the BJP in 2024 will have no meaning. The onus to check division of non-BJP votes lies with the Congress too just like the other like-minded parties,” they said. “The Congress, by not joining the alliance, is acting against its own political interest. It will be in the interest of the party to come out of its isolation and be a part of an all-opposition alliance to give a fight to the BJP. I am sure the Congress will work on this and join the alliance sooner or later,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University. A considerable section of Congress workers, who are not happy with the way things are going in the party, have begun looking for other options instead of waiting for Congress’ long-term strategy to succeed. “The Congress is nowhere to be seen in UP. It is neglecting its own leaders including the old guards. The party is being pushed into political isolation due to the policies being followed by those who are running the show. The party has failed to get support of any sections of society,” said former Congress MLC Siraj Mehandi, who joined the NCP in Mumbai on Tuesday. “I was among the old guards expelled from the Congress for no reason. I waited for nearly one and a half years, and when the party failed to revoke my expulsion, I decided to move on,” he said. But Mehandi is not alone. A number of Congress leaders have switched over to other like-minded parties in recent years/months and are now providing them a strong organizational support. Such disgruntled leaders, be the younger ones or the elders, are set to get rewarded with tickets from other parties like the NCP and the TMC in 2022 UP assembly polls. 
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cong should declare CM face to help it reap poll gains: Channi||Chandigarh: With polls in Punjab a month away, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi feels that the Congress should declare its chief ministerial candidate, pointing out that doing so in the past has favoured the party reap electoral gains.Channi’s statement has come at a time when opposition parties have targeted the Congress, saying it has many chief ministerial aspirants, including its state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu and party leader Sunil Jakhar.AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his party’s chief ministerial face for the Punjab Assembly polls will be announced next week. It is likely that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) may declare its MP Bhagwant Mann as the chiefministerial candidate .Replying to a question on the chief ministerial candidate for the February 14 polls, Channi said the decision has to be taken by the party.Asked should the Congress declare its candidate for 2022 Punjab assembly election because going by the past trend sometimes the party makes such announcement and sometimes not and last time they had declared Amarinder Singh as CM candidate, Channi replied, “Last time, when they had declared Capt (as CM’s face), we won and previous time the (CM) candidate was not declared we lost and before that when they gave (CM candidate) we won and when they did not declare candidate we lost” “This time, they should give (declare the CM candidate). (Navjot) Sidhu is also saying that they (Congress) should declare,” Channi said in an interview to a news channel.To another question during his interview, Channi claimed that “it will be a one-sided sweep” by the Congress. “We will win the election with an overwhelming majority,” he said. To a question on some survey which claim he was ahead of others in popularity ratings, Channi said then it means more seats will be impacted in Congress’ favour.When asked if the AAP declares its chief ministerial candidate and names party MP Bhagwant Mann then the popularity of the parliamentarian may soar, Channi said then the same logic will work for him as well.At the same time, Channi said neither Mann nor he have been declared as chief ministerial candidates by their respective parties.Asked if his party should declare him as the chief ministerial candidate, Channi replied, “I have never thought about such things. Last time when Partap Singh Bajwa was the state unit chief, I was standing with him against Capt (Amarinder). But going by the voice of people at that time, I told Rahul Gandhi that Capt should be declared candidate and he should be made CM as people are in his favour. They (party) conducted a survey and people wanted him (Amarinder). This time whom people like they will tell and party will go by that”.Replying to a question if people like him, Channi said he loves the people of Punjab and they too love him. “But whom they want to see as CM, they will tell in survey,” he said.The Congress is yet to announce its CM’s face for the next month’s polls. If Congress retains power in Punjab, where it faces infighting, Charanjit Singh Channi, appointed the CM after the ouster of Amarinder Singh, is also being seen as a strong contender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-should-declare-cm-face-to-help-it-reap-poll-gains-channi-101641999288844.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||With 27,561 new cases, Delhi sees rise in daily Covid-19 tally||Delhi's daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally continued an upward trend on Wednesday after as many as 27,561 cases were recorded in the past 24 hours, according to the health department's bulletin, which added that the case positivity rate in the national capital is currently at 26.22 per cent. This is the second-highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic and the highest since April 20, when the city saw 28,395 infections.As per the Delhi health bulletin, as many as 14,957 Covid-19 patients had also recovered during this while or were discharged from the hospital after treatment. In the meantime, 40 deaths were recorded, the bulletin added.The deaths recorded are the highest since June 10 last year, when the national capital recorded 44 fatalities. Of the 133 Covid deaths recorded in the first 12 days of January, most were comorbid patients.Details of hospitalised patientsTotal patients admitted in hospitals (including suspected Covid-19 patients) - 2,363Total Covid-19 suspect patient admitted in hospitals - 99Total Covid-19 positive patients admitted in hospitals - 2,264Covid-19 positive patients admitted in ICU - 618Covid-19 positive patients on oxygen support (including patients on the ventilator) - 91Covid-19 positive patients from Dehi - 1,987Covid-19 positive patients from outside Delhi - 277Keeping in view the situation, the government on Tuesday issued an advisory asking all hospitals to ensure that patients with comorbidities are duly attended by specialists.The city currently has 87,445 active Covid cases of which 56,991 are in home isolation.Delhi reported 23 deaths due to Covid on Tuesday and 17 fatalities each on Sunday and Monday. It saw 54 fatalities in the last five months -- nine in December, seven in November, four in October, five in September, and 29 in August.In July, Covid had claimed 76 lives in the national capital. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-27-561-new-cases-delhi-sees-rise-in-daily-covid-19-tally-101641997304812.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Chief secretary conducts video conference hearing in PCBs ₹459 crore GST case||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) chief executive officer (CEO) attended an hour-long briefing over video conference on Wednesday, in the ₹459 crore Goods and Service Tax (GST) case. Senior officials of the state government under chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarti were present.PCB CEO Amit Kumar said “ We have given our representation to the chief secretary and now the matter is with the state government. We have pointed out that the precarious financial condition of the board for the past many years has hit all the development projects. For developments to take place, LBT funds which are due will help us tide over the worst financial crisis of the board . Currently the board is starved of funds and citizen work is getting affected due to the financial crisis.”After hearing counsel for parties in the case for a considerable length of time , the court had granted the reliefs prayed for by the petitioners and the PCB has been given an opportunity to make representation within a period of two weeks to the chief secretary. The state of Maharashtra has been directed to dispose of the representation within two months after giving an opportunity to the petitioners of being heard. Prior to 2013, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had been collecting octroi and PCB was getting a share from PMC .Subsequently, the state government abolished octroi with effect from April 1, 2013. Further as per notification in 2013, the PMC started collecting Local Body Tax (LBT) instead of octroi within its jurisdiction. There is no revenue sharing agreement between PMC and the PCB from April 1, 2013.Under section 71 of the Cantonments Act,2006, the Ministry of Defence (MOD) authorised the board to impose LBT through a resolution dated June 4, 2015 and the board was able to generate revenue to the tune of ₹88 crore per annum. On April 12, 2017,Goods and Service Tax (GST) was enacted by the central government and implemented with effect from July 1, 2017.Due to the annual revenue loss to the tune of ₹90 crore, a self sufficient Cantonment Board has become a deficit Cantonment Board and is presently in such a precarious financial condition that the board is not able to meet its mandatory expenses on account of salary, pension, the development works and maintenance of civic amenities has also been adversely affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chief-secretary-conducts-video-conference-hearing-in-pcbs-459-crore-lbt-tax-case-101641998151960.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Civic commissioner orders third- party inspection of projects||Pune Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has instructed all departments to do a third-party inspection of all projects executed in the last, and the ongoing financial year. Kumar issued a circular on Wednesday for all department heads and 15 ward offices, calling for a third -party inspection. The commissioner states in the circular: “PMC appointed two agencies, College of Engineering Pune (COEP) and Engineers India Limited (EIL) for third-party inspections”. The circular states that it is now mandatory to do a third-party inspection as per norms and tender specifications. Sewage works for 182km starting in 11 merged villages The Pune Municipal Corporation has begun sewage works in the recently merged 11 villages . Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “As promised, PMC is starting the sewage works in 11 villages where 182km of sewage lines would get laid. PMC also planned water supply works in the future. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, PMC is holding a small function at Narhe to mark the starting of this work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-commissioner-orders-third-party-inspection-of-projects-101641996528638.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Panchkula records all-time high of 734 cases||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, Panchkula on Wednesday recorded 734 fresh infections, the district’s highest single-day tally since the pandemic started in March 2020. At 30%, the daily positivity rate also continued to remain alarmingly high, indicating three in every 10 people being tested were infected.Panchkula’s last highest record was 654 cases on May 5, 2021, following which the daily count had continued to recede, until cases started spiking in December last year. The latest infections pushed the active cases to 2,343, of which only 43 patients (1.8%) are hospitalised and 2,300 are in home isolation.A total of seven health workers were also among those testing positive on Wednesday, taking their count to 374.The overall case tally has reached 34,185. Among them, 31,460 patients have recovered, but 382 have died, including one in January. The cases were reported from across the sectors and adjoining villages. Chief medical officer Dr Mukta Kumar said, “The virus is highly contagious, but there is no need to panic as hospitalisation is quite low. A lot of patients are asymptomatic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-panchkula-records-all-time-high-of-734-cases-101641996468508.html
12-01-2022||Mumbai||HC calls for audit report of committee set up for publishing Dr B R Ambedkar’s works||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state government to file its response to the suo moto (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) initiated by HC which had taken cognisance of the stalled project of publishing the writings and speeches of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. The HC also asked the state to prepare an audit report of the working of the committee after it was informed that there was no information on how the committee was functioning after the demise of the committee’s secretary Prof Avinash Dolas.On Wednesday, the division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice Anil Kilor, which was hearing the suo motu PIL, was informed by court-appointed amicus curaie advocate Swaraj Jadhav that the petition had been filed and apart from the state, a government-appointed committee, reference of other agencies involved in publishing the works of Dr Ambedkar across the world had also been included in the petition.Following a news report of November 24 last year, which had stated that though the state government had issued directions to print nine lakh copies of the volumes of Dr Ambedkar’s speech and writings and printing paper worth ₹5.45 crore was purchased by the state, in the last four years, only 33,000 copies were printed and the paper purchased for the project was lying unused in the godowns.While ordering the initiation of the suo motu PIL the bench had noted, “The news item reflects a sorry state of affairs... The publication is absolutely necessary and desirable for present and future generations. It is useful to members of the legal fraternity as well as to general members. So, we feel that there is a need for this court to look into the issue of halting the project... Considering the nature of the grievance raised in the news item, we are treating it as a matter for public interest litigation.”According to the petition filed by advocate Jadhav, directions were sought to the authorities to publish and print writings of Dr Ambedkar in sufficient quantity proportionate to demand in the market and there is a steady supply of the same. The petition also sought directions to the committee to acquire articles, interviews and other published or unpublished material from independent sources so that same can be made available to the public at large and a direction to Principal Secretary, Department of Higher and Technical Education to monitor the work of the committee.After being apprised of the filing of the petition, the bench asked the state government represented by the government pleader not to treat the petition as adversarial litigation but to consider it as a necessity and also asked it to file its reply and prepare an audit report of the functioning of the committee and posted further hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-calls-for-audit-report-of-committee-set-up-for-publishing-dr-b-r-ambedkar-s-works-101641995867987.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Sunil Mehta of Mehta Publications passes away||PUNE Sunil Mehta, the managing director of Mehta Publishing House and a former executive of the Marathi Publishers’ Association, passed away on Wednesday, aged 56, due to a brief illness, family members said. Mehta was undergoing treatment at a private hospital for the last 10 days. He is survived by his father, wife, sister and two children. Hailed as a prominent personality in the world of Marathi publishing, Mehta, gave the industry a new impetus by aligning SOPs on par with the international publishing world. It was in 1976, that his father Anil Mehta established Mehta Publishing House, which has an active backlist of over 4,500 titles. Mehta Publishing House is Kknown for its strong fiction and narrative nonfiction list. It was Sunil Mehta who not only gave a new lease of life to veteran authors but was instrumental in bringing to Marathi the works of many international celebrities like Jeffrey Archer, Michael Creighton, Frederick Forsyth, Robin Cook, Alistair McLean, John Grisham, Ian Fleming, Dan Brown, Deborah Ellis, Lee Child and Jhumpa Lahiri, apart from Taslima Nasreen, Sudha Murthy, Arun Shourie, Khushwant Singh, and Chetan Bhagat. Having started with the publishing of only Marathi titles, Sunil Mehta then began publishing Marathi translations of books from all genres. He also brought the works of writers like SL Bhairappa, Shivram Karantha, Gulzar, Arundhati Roy, and Osho, to Marathi readers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sunil-mehta-of-mehta-publications-passes-away-101641995748225.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Now, treated water use mandatory for construction||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday issued a circular making it mandatory for all construction sites to use the treated water for construction activity in the city instead of using underground or potable water.The builders in the city have welcomed the usage of treated water generated through sewage treatment plants, however, they have pointed out some practical issues.Suhas Merchant, former president, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) said, “The municipal corporation’s intention is good, but the civic body needs to address a few problems. Practical and logistic issues like tanker availability, water quality, transport cost and storage at site among others need to be addressed.”Water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “In any new scheme, the initial phases have some practical issues. While making it mandatory, the PMCs approach would be positive and the civic body will address the practical problems faced by builders.”Pawaskar added, “Currently the builders are hiring borewell water which is paid for by them. We are giving them treated water free of cost, but they are not ready to pay transport charges.The civic body has five to six times more capacity of treated water than the demand for construction activity. In future, when this becomes a routine, the PMC will ask tanker owners to give different colours to treated water tankers. Pune would be first city in the country which would be using treated water for construction activity.”BOXIrrigation department not lifting treated water from Mundhwa JackwellThe PMC erected Mundhwa Jackwell so that the irrigation department can lift water from here and use it for agricultural purposes. As per the agreement, PMC would give 6.5 TMC treated water per annum to irrigation department and they would give more water from Khadakwasla dam. But for last many years, the irrigation department has not been lifting this water for agriculture purpose. PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “Irrigation department is lifting almost fifty percentage water per annum. The civic body gives them water as per their demand, but it is true that they are not making demand for hundred percentage capacity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/now-treated-water-use-mandatory-for-construction-101641995333144.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Over 13K fresh cases push active count to 57,355 in UP||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh reported 13,681 fresh Covid cases, including the maximum – 2,818 – in Lucknow on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases in the state to 57,355, similar to the number in the fourth week of May, 2021. On May 27 2021, there were 59,270 active cases in UP. Three deaths, one each from Kanpur, Hardoi and Sultanpur, were also reported. In all, 22,940 fatalities had been reported in the state, according to the state health department. “The daily positivity rate is rising and it was 5.71% in the past 24 hours. It is significant to say that all must follow Covid protocol,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference. A total 2,39,771 Covid samples were tested in the past 24 hours and so far 95298148 samples had been tested. In the past 24 hours, 700 patients recovered while 1690226 had recovered so far, as per data. Prasad said, “Though active cases are rising considerably, only 617 among 57,355 patients required hospital admission. But even then precaution is of utmost significance.” He said the first dose Covid vaccine coverage in UP was 90.71%, but 1.35 crore were yet to take their first dose. “I appeal to all eligible to take their Covid vaccine dose,” added Prasad. During the day, Gautam Buddha Nagar reported 1,992 fresh cases, Ghaziabad 1,526, Meerut 1,250, Varanasi 490 and Agra 652, according to the health department. “According to the data, UP has administered 1,93,467 precautionary doses of Covid vaccine till now,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The recovery rate in UP was 95.5%. Apart from 90.71% first dose coverage, 54.90% second dose coverage had also been achieved among the eligible adult population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-13k-fresh-cases-push-active-count-to-57-355-in-up-101641993227638.html
12-01-2022||Other||AAP to announce CM face for Punjab next week: Kejriwal||Chandigarh : Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his party will announce its chief ministerial face for the February 14 elections in Punjab next week. Kejriwal said this on reaching the Chandigarh airport to launch his party’s 10-point agenda and door-to-door campaign in the poll-bound state. He also targeted the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government over the law and order in the state, stating that the security of Prime Minister and common man will be ensured if his party is voted to power in Punjab. The Delhi chief minister is on his first visit to Punjab since the announcement of the poll schedule by the Election Commission. AAP state unit president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann is being seen as the favourite to become the chief ministerial face of the party. The AAP had contested the 2017 assembly elections without a CM face and this was seen by many party leaders as one of the primary reasons for its performance falling short of expectations. The party has named its candidates for 109 of the 117 assembly seats in the state. In 2017, it won 20 seats to become the principal opposition party in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-to-announce-cm-face-for-punjab-next-week-kejriwal-101641992514745.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fancy numbers: Get registered for RLA auction in Chandigarh||The registration and licensing authority (RLA) is all set to conduct the auction of fancy numbers in its new series CH01CH, for which the registration process has already started.Registrations will continue till 5pm on January 21, and the bidding process will begin on January 22 and conclude at 5pm on January 24.An RTA official said that along with the new series, the department is also going to offer leftover fancy numbers of all the old series.Last time, the department had got a good response during the auction of fancy numbers of CH01CG series, with a total revenue of ₹1.43 crore. In this series, 0001 fetched the highest bid of ₹11.20 lakhThe leftover numbers to be put up for auction are in the series CH01-CG, CF, CE, CD, CC, CB, CA, BZ, BY, BX, BW, BV, BU, BT and BS.The owner of the vehicle can register on the national transport website (vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy), and obtain the Unique Acknowledgement Number (UAN). The link is also available on the UT transport department’s website (chdtransport.gov.in). Only those who have purchased the vehicle against a Chandigarh address can participate in the e-auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fancy-numbers-get-registered-for-rla-auction-in-chandigarh-101641991967519.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Three-day Maghi Mela from Jan 13, maintaining Covid protocols a challenge||Faridkot : Despite recent surge in coronavirus cases in Punjab, large gatherings are expected at Muktsar for the historic three-day Maghi Mela beginning Thursday.The biggest challenge for the administration is to maintain Covid protocols during the mela, which starts on the maghi day and continues for another day, as people from Punjab and other states come to Muktsar to take a holy dip in the sarovar of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib. Punjab on Tuesday witnessed another surge in Covid cases registering 4,593 fresh infections and nine deaths. The Punjab government has already imposed night curfew from 10pm to 5am till January 15, besides a number of restrictions. The Maghi Mela is celebrated in the memory of 40 Sikh warriors, who in 1705 fought the Mughals in the battle at Khidrana, later named Muktsar. There will be no political conference at the mela as the Election Commission has banned physical rallies and roadshows of political parties till January 15 due to surge in Covid cases across the country. Deputy commissioner Harpreet Sudan said the district administration has made all arrangements as per the Covid-19 protocols. “We have set up vaccination camps at the venue so the people who are not fully vaccinated can be inoculated. Health teams will conduct random Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) and collect samples for RT-PCR testing. We will ensure not more than 600 persons are allowed to gather at a religious procession,” he added. Senior superintendent of police Sarbjit Singh said: “A special route plan has been prepared to control traffic, besides seven temporary bus stands have been set up for the convenience of devotees. Heavy vehicles will be banned from entering the city on January 14. Seven emergency police assistance centres have also been set up. CCTV cameras and drones will keep a vigil during the fair,” he added. 
12-01-2022||Uttar||OBC leader Dara Singh Chauhan also quits UP cabinet, BJP in damage control mode||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh’s environment minister Dara Singh Chauhan, also an OBC, sent his resignation to the governor on Wednesday, less than 24 hours after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost four legislators including state labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya.Dara Singh Chauhan, like Keshav Prasad Maurya, attributed his decision to what he called was “the government’s neglectful attitude towards the backward classes, the underprivileged, the Dalits, the farmers, and the unemployed youth”.Dara Singh Chauhan and Keshav Prasad Maurya were imported by the BJP from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in the run-up to the 2017 UP polls. His resignation was anticipated as he was spotted at Swami Prasad Maurya’s Gomti Nagar residence in Lucknow on Tuesday.Chauhan resigned shortly after another OBC legislator Avtar Singh Bhadana, who quit the BJP earlier but whose resignation was on hold, joined the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), an ally of UP’s main opposition Samajwadi Party (SP).As on Tuesday, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya immediately tried to reach out to Chauhan, urging him to reconsider his decision. “One feels bad if a family member loses way. I would just request the respected leaders who have resigned to reconsider their decision as they won’t achieve anything by riding a sinking boat. I would appeal to big brother Dara Singhji to reconsider his decision,” tweeted Keshav Prasad Maurya.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, also an OBC face of the BJP in UP, along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma is in Delhi since Tuesday, for the candidate selection meetings for 58 constituencies in 11 districts that will vote on February 10.The resignations of Swami Prasad and Dara Singh from the council of ministers haven’t yet been accepted yet, a development that some BJP leaders see as a glimmer of hope though Swami quickly negated any reconsideration. “I haven’t resigned as a BJP member yet. I will reveal everything on January 14 though one thing is clear that I am not going to the BJP,” Swami said on being asked about his status as BJP leader.The BJP did try to showcase that the party has a counter plan in place, as it quickly got Naresh Saini, the Congress’ OBC lawmaker from Saharanpur in western UP and who hails from the same backward community as Swami Prasad Maurya to join the saffron party along with three-time SP lawmaker Hari Om Yadav and former SP lawmaker Dharampal Singh in Delhi in the presence of Keshav Maurya as well as party’s UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, an OBC.The fast-paced political developments on Tuesday and Wednesday meant that BJP strategists, who apparently had seen Dara Singh Chauhan’s resignation coming and were even trying to persuade him against taking the decision, had more tasks on their hands. The BJP’s damage-control plan was clear - to make up by engineering defections in opposition ranks and reach out to disgruntled party leaders. While a glimpse of the first round of the damage-control exercise was visible with the joining of some OBC lawmakers into the party, it was the latter plan of reaching out to and placating disgruntled leaders that is seen to be much more challenging.“It’s not good optics,” said a party leader while indicating that some “big leaders” would join the BJP too. Swami Prasad also said that after his resignation and with it that of others, BJP leaders have started to give respect to leaders and lawmakers, and added that now several sitting BJP MLAs, who were likely to be axed, might be retained.Several BJP lawmakers - many of them fearing that they may not get the party ticket - have been leaving the party. On Monday, BJP MLA from Bilsi Assembly segment in Budaun Radha Krishna Sharma joined the SP, the second Brahmin MLA of the party after Digvijay Narain Chaubey, MLA from Khalilabad in Sant Kabir Nagar, to join the main opposition party. Earlier, BJP MLA from Bahraich Madhuri Verma, Rakesh Rathore from Sitapur, both OBCs, also joined the SP.While admitting that the high-voltage political drama in Lucknow caught them off guard, some BJP leaders made it clear that Tuesday’s developments were unlikely to alter the party’s “candidate selection” strategy.A BJP leader said the party’s core group that was discussing candidate selection in national Capital Delhi was unlikely to be influenced by these developments.“UP elections are important. Naturally, if some candidates are dropped, it could be because of some specific input that might have emerged through field surveys. While it is true that we don’t want to lose any leader, at the same time why do you think a certain political development that could be big news for the media would force us to compromise on candidate selection. Only the best will be selected. There are hundreds of claimants from each assembly segment and all know that only one eventually will get to contest,” a senior leader said.While UP’s labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya merely cited generic reasons for his quitting the Yogi Adityanath cabinet, a section in the party believes that like in 2016 when he presumably left the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) after failing to secure a ticket for his daughter Sanghmitra (now a BJP MP from Badaun) and son Utkrisht – this time too, he fell out with the party over a ticket for his son.Maurya said that his daughter was free to take her own call after his exit. “It’s for her to decide on what she wants to do. I can’t force my decision on anyone including family,” Swami Prasad said.
12-01-2022||Mumbai||Police register FIR in bogus promotion order||Mumbai The Marine Drive Police registered an FIR against an unidentified person for issuing a fake order, promoting five additional district collectors to Indian Administrative Service (IAS).Joint secretary Dr Madhav Veer has filed the complaint in the case as the fake order was issued in his name. As per the complaint, no such promotion order was issued by the government, the police said. On January 6, a copy of the promotion order was making rounds on social media platforms, especially on WhatsApp groups of government officials.According to this order, Ramdas Khedkar, Personal Secretary to the Revenue Minister, was promoted to the post of Chief Secretary of the revenue department. Besides this, Gadchiroli additional collector Unmesh Mahajan was promoted as Gondia District Collector, Thane Municipal Corporation additional commissioner Sanket Chavan was promoted to additional commissioner (A Grade), Amravati Additional Collector Manisha Waze as Additional Municipal Commissioner and Dhananjay Nikam, Additional Collector of Bhandara, was promoted to District Collector of the district. “Generally orders for promotion or transfer to the Indian Administrative Service are issued by the general administration department. But the January 6 order was issued by the Revenue and Forest Department, hence suspicion were being raised about its authenticity,” said a police officer. A preliminary inquiry found the order to be a fake one. It was found that a bogus order was issued by forging the signature of joint secretary Madhav Veer, the officer added.On Veer’s complaint, the Marine Drive police recently registered a case under sections 420, 464, 465, 466 and 467 of the Penal Code for cheating and forgery. “We are trying to find out who could have benefitted the most from the said bogus order or was it a deliberate attempt to influence any future promotion/transfer. We are roping in cyber officials and are also in process of writing to WhatsApp to get information about the source of the bogus order,” said Vishwanath Kolekar, senior inspector of Marine Drive police station. In a similar incident, an old list of transfers and promotions of senior police officers also went viral on social media platforms on Tuesday. Home department officials said that no such order was issued by the government and it could be mischief done by someone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-register-fir-in-bogus-promotion-order-101641990587369.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Takeaways the only hope now for restaurants to survive the virus||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) decision to have bars and restaurants shut for dine-in and only allowing takeaways has business owners worried. Their revenue was already hit as they were only allowed to operate at 50% capacity till 10pm. And the weekend curfew also had a massive impact on sales. “We have observed a marked slowdown of traffic at our outlets, without a significant increase in deliveries. This may be due to the uncertainty about opening hours, curfew timings, bad weather and a wait-and-see attitude of patrons,” says Laurent Samandari, CEO and co-founder of L’Opéra, who hopes that more clarity will bring some improvement. While Samandari is gearing up the back-end and in-house delivery infrastructure including own vehicles, drivers and website to cope with the necessary demand, others are looking to open more kitchens. Zorawar Kalra, director, Massive Restaurants, says, “There is going to be a very huge surge as is always the case when there is a curfew or a lockdown. We are retro-fitting two kitchens to start delivery. We will be geared up for serious increase in volumes and we are increasing delivery hours till 3am. We are also ramping up new cloud openings.”Another restaurateur, Amit Bagga, co-founder, Daryaganj adds, “We are focussing on deliveries as well since the pandemic started and have 20 percent revenue from deliveries as of now. There is an increased demand for cloud kitchens and we are also planning to do the same to cater to the demand.”A few plan to come up with special delivery menus along with safe packaging. Vikrant Batra, founder, Cafe Delhi Heights, adds, “With restrictions coming back in the industry, we have to up game the delivery side of our business again. In the first lockdown, we created special delivery menus. In second lockdown, we started our bakery brand and now in the third, we are creating a stand alone brand for burgers. There will for sure be great demand in delivery brands owing to the fact that people will avoid going out for dine ins. We also worked on new safe packaging.”However, some players who believe that just allowing takeaways won’t help in surviving in the industry due to rents and salaries and may lead to closure of restaurants. “As the announcement today is aimed at saving lives, it is significant. Dine-in customers are the main source of revenue for us. If the restrictions persist for a long time, there is a possibility that it might lead to the closure of the business. With delivery representing only 30% of our sales, and the platforms charging hefty commissions, it’s not even close to being sustainable to operate exclusively on delivery, as the resulting revenue won’t cover our overheads - salaries, rent, etc,” says Mohit Ahuja, owner, Shakespeare Cafe. Vishal Anand, Founder, Moonshine Food Ventures adds, “Government needs to look at solutions which doesn’t kill businesses yet doesn’t compromise on the safety of people. Delivery can only replace cooking at home and not dine in experience at a Restaurant. For experiential restaurants, delivery can never be mainstream business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/takeaways-the-only-hope-now-for-restaurants-to-survive-the-virus-101641990415403.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||E-passes for essential services valid for entire duration of weekend, night curfew, clarifies DDMA||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) gave a clarification on Wednesday stating that e-passes issued for essential movement or exempted categories will be valid during the entire duration of imposition of weekend and night curfew."As per the previous orders, movement of the individuals for the activities specified as 'Essential goods and Services' or 'Exempted category' as prescribed in DDMA order have been allowed for movement during night curfew and weekend curfew with the possession of e-pass (in soft or hard copy) only," the DDMA said in an official order, according to news agency PTI."In this context, it is clarified that e-pass possessed by a person on or after January 4 ( from the date of issuance of DDMA order) for movement connected to 'Essential goods and services' or 'Exempted category', shall be valid during the entire period of imposition of night curfew and weekend curfew," it added.Also read | Covid: Maharashtra, Delhi, 6 others emerging as states of concern, says CentreThe DDMA, in its latest guidelines, ordered all private offices except those falling under the exempted category to shift to work from home. The dine-in services in all restaurants and bars have also been suspended and only take-away/food delivery services have been permitted.Further, night and weekend curfews are already in place in the to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.A day ago Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had assured the citizens of the national capital of not imposing a lockdown even as Covid-19 cases have been seeing an upward trend over the past few days due to the presence of the highly transmissible Omicron variant.Delhi on Tuesday reported 21,259 fresh Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 25.65 per cent, informed the city's health bulletin. With the addition of 21,259 new cases, the active caseload in the city mounted to 74,881 which is the highest in the past eight months, according to the bulletin.Delhi also reported 23 deaths, taking the total number of fatalities to 25,200 here.So far, a total of 15,90,155 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/epasses-for-essential-services-valid-for-entire-duration-of-weekend-night-curfew-clarifies-ddma-101641988187873.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||BSF recovers 7.5-kg heroin in Ferozepur, Amritsar sectors||A day after recovering 22 kg of heroin in Tarn Taran district, the Border Security Force on Wednesday seized 7.5 kg of heroin along with arms and ammunition from the Pakistan border in three operations in Amritsar and Ferozepur sectors, a BSF official said. Also read: BSF recovers 22kg heroin, weapons along Pakistan border in Tarn TaranThe first incident was reported early in the morning when troops observed suspicious movement ahead of the barbed wire fence in Ferozepur sector. On searching the area, six packets of the contraband, suspected to be heroin wrapped in a yellow packet, along with a pistol, a magazine and 50 rounds were recovered. In another incident, during search in the area under the Ferozepur sector, BSF personnel recovered a 1-kg packet of contraband suspected to be heroin. In the third incident, a pistol, a magazine and five rounds of ammunition were recovered after a search in the Amritsar sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-recovers-7-5-kg-heroin-in-ferozepur-amritsar-sectors-101641986860813.html
12-01-2022||Patna||2 men barge into local BJP leader’s house in Bihar. He is shot 4 times||PATNA: A 52-year-old man, a local leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was shot dead by two men at his house in Bihar’s Siwan district on Wednesday morning. The incident took pace in Sultanpur-Khurd village under Jamho police station of Siwan district. The dead man has been identified as Janardhan Singh. His family said Janardhan Singh, who runs a ration shop, was general secretary of BJP’s Goriyakothi block.Police said the two men are yet to be identified and could be contract killers.According to witnesses, one of the two men went into Janardhan Singh’s house after confirming his address with neighbours and fired multiple shots at Singh who was having his breakfast. Police said Janardhan Singh sustained four bullet injuries, one in his chest and three on his thigh.A few moments later, the assailant ran out of the house to his accomplice who was on a motorcycle.A neighbour recorded their escape on his mobile phone. In the video, an armed man wearing a brown jacket and black trousers comes out from Singh’s house and is fleeing on a motorcycle. Some villagers try to chase him but the pillion rider fires another shot to scare them.Police said Singh was rushed to Sadar hospital where a doctor referred him to the Patna Medical College Hospital about 130km away.Siwan superintendent of police Shailesh Kumar Sinha said Singh succumbed to his injuries on his way to the Patna hospital.The senior police officer the motive behind Singh`s murder could be a property dispute with his neighbour.As the news of Singh’s murder spread, hundreds of people came on the main road and shouted slogans against the government and the police for the rising crimes.“None of the witnesses could recognise any of the two who gunned down PDS dealer. They told the police that the youths fled towards Goriyakothi after gunning down him”, the Siwan SP said. He said additional police forces have been deployed at the spot under the supervision of a deputy superintendent of police-rank officer.
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Five of Patti family killed in car-bus collision in Ferozepur||Five members of farmer’s family from Patti town in Tarn Taran district were killed when their car collided with a bus in Ferozepur district on Wednesday morning. Also read: SC appoints panel headed by ex-judge to probe PM Modi’s security lapsePolice said preliminary investigation revealed the accident took place on the Moga-Amritsar road near Malu Badian village due to fog and speeding of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) bus. A case has been registered against the bus driver, who fled after the accident. The deceased were identified as Ranjit Singh, 47, Pardeep Singh, 42, Arwinder Singh, 32, Amarjit Kaur, 28, and Jashanpreet Singh, 19. Assistant sub-inspector Shamsher Singh said that the victims were related. “Ranjit and Pardeep were brothers, while Amarjit was Arwinder’s wife.” They were on their way from Ludhiana to Patti when the accident occurred at 7.45am. The car was completely damaged and the bodies were pulled out of the wreckage. A case was registered under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Zira Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-of-patti-family-killed-in-car-bus-collision-in-ferozepur-101641986140740.html
12-01-2022||Bangalore||Congress march continues in Karnataka despite surge in Covid cases||BENGALURU: A third complaint was filed against Congress leaders in Karnataka on Wednesday for endangering lives as hundreds of people are participating in their march to Bengaluru despite a surge in Covid-19 cases.The march was started despite restrictions ordered to check the pandemic spread to press for the building of a reservoir on the Cauvery to supply drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas.The three complaints under the Epidemic Diseases Act have been filed by the same person, who identifies himself as Venkatesh, against 64 people including state Congress chief DK Shivakumar and Opposition leader Siddaramaiah.“If you can’t fly, let’s run. If you can’t run, then walk. If you can’t walk, then let’s crawl. But let’s move towards our goal. The fourth day of the Mekedatu Padayatre has begun. With the same vigour, keep strong steps,” Shivakumar said in a tweet.Shivakumar said those participating in the rally should register their names or take pictures with posters or with leaders and certificates of participation will be given later.The Congress remained defiant and has continued with the march ahead of panchayat elections and the 2023 assembly polls. “Let’s see what action is taken. We are also ready to face all the consequences. It is their government and if they take action, we will fight it legally,” Siddaramaiah said. “If they slap FIRs (First Information Reports), will they be able to scare us? We have seen many such FIRs. There is no offence. They have registered an FIR. Where is the offence?”Araga Jnanendra, Karnataka’s home minister, said it seems Congress leaders are only bothered about taking political advantage and not about public health. He added they were not heeding calls to postpone the march to draw political mileage. “The Congress leaders are precipitating the Covid crisis in the state,” Jnanendra said.The march is heading towards Bengaluru, the worst-hit region in Karnataka with nearly 60,000 active cases, even as the government has announced restrictions to check the Covid-19 spread. The test positivity rate in Bengaluru is over 15%. The restrictions include night and weekend curfews as well as on weddings and other events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-march-continues-in-karnataka-despite-surge-in-covid-cases-101641985600492.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: MCPI(U) to back Samyukta Samaj Morcha candidates||The Marxist Communist Party of India (United) will support candidates of the Balbir Singh Rajewal-led Samyukta Samaj Morcha in the February 14 Punjab assembly elections. Also read: Punjab elections: AAP announces 10-point agenda, to focus on jobsThe state committee of the MCPI(United) took the decision at a meeting presided over by secretary Pawan Kumar Kaushal at Krishan Kumar Kaushal Memorial Bhawan in Doraha. The meeting was attended by Prem Singh Bhangu, member, polit bureau, MCPI (U), and member of the parliamentary committee of the Samyukta Samaj Morcha, and Kuldeep Singh, the national general secretary of the MCPI (U). Bhangu said the SSM was formed out of respect for the sentiments of the people and against capitalists and corporate houses. “When it comes to power, the morcha will work for the protection of the interests and rights of peasantry and common people,” he said. Kaushal said this is the first time in Punjab that a viable alternative has been given by the SSM against opportunistic traditional parties. He appealed to all Punjabis to vote for the morcha candidates without any greed. The meeting also expressed concern over the communal remarks made against a particular community by BJP leaders after a lapse in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security during his visit to Ferozepur last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-mcpi-u-to-back-samyukta-samaj-morcha-candidates-101641985420543.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||UP minister Dara Singh Chauhan quits Yogi Adityanath cabinet, Akhilesh ‘welcomes’ him||A day after Uttar Pradesh minister SP Maurya tendered his resignation to join the Samajwadi Party (SP), another sitting state minister, Dara Singh Chauhan, has also resigned from the Yogi Adityanath cabinet in a telling move ahead of the forthcoming UP assembly elections. In his resignation letter, Chauhan mentioned that he was quitting the ministry because of the government's “neglectful attitude” towards the backward classes, the underprivileged, the Dalits, the farmers, and the unemployed youth.“As minister of forest and environment in the Yogi Adityanath ministry, I have wholeheartedly worked throughout my tenure for the betterment of this department,” wrote Dara Singh Chauhan in his resignation letter, accessed by the ANI news agency on Wednesday. “However, I am hurt by the government's neglectful attitude towards the backward classes, the underprivileged, the Dalits, the farmers, and the unemployed youth. At the same time, the matter of reservation of the Dalits and the backward classes is being toyed with; in view of this, I resign from the Uttar Pradesh ministry.”Dara Singh Chauhan's resignation from the Yogi cabinet could give a jolt to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s electioneering prospects ahead of the upcoming assembly polls, especially since the latest development comes barely a day after state minister Swami Prasad Maurya also resigned from the Yogi Adityanath cabinet.Addressing reporters after his resignation, Maurya, too, said that he had quit the Yogi cabinet keeping in mind the government's “attitude” towards Dalits, backward classes, farmers, youth, and traders. He also said that he will join the Samajwadi Party on January 14.In a similar vein, Dara Singh Chauhan told reporters today, “The BJP formed the government with the support of Dalits and backward communities, but did not serve them well, which is why I resigned.”Notably, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet that he welcomed Dara Singh Chauhan to the party.Chauhan, however, said, “The next step would be to hold discussions with my society people and then take a call for future course of action.”‘सामाजिक न्याय’ के संघर्ष के अनवरत सेनानी श्री दारा सिंह चौहान जी का सपा में ससम्मान हार्दिक स्वागत एवं अभिनंदन! सपा व उसके सहयोगी दल एकजुट होकर समता-समानता के आंदोलन को चरम पर ले जाएँगे… भेदभाव मिटाएँगे! ये हमारा समेकित संकल्प है! सबको सम्मान ~ सबको स्थान!#मेला_होबे pic.twitter.com/rGxMYUyvsdElections for the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly will be held in seven phases.The polling will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, and March 3 and 7 in seven phases.The counting of votes will take place on March 10.In the 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly while Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could manage to win only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-minister-dara-singh-chauhan-quits-yogi-adityanath-cabinet-101641982252913.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||1,700 Delhi Police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 since start of 2022||As many as 1,700 out of the total 80,000 personnel of the Delhi Police have tested positive for Covid-19 since the beginning of 2022, a senior police officer told news agency PTI on Wednesday.“A total of 1,700 personnel of the force have tested positive for the infection from January 1 to January 12. All of them are doing fine and are under quarantine. They will be joining duty after recovery," the officer said.On Tuesday, a meeting was held with senior officers of districts and other units, where they were ordered to brief personnel to look after themselves and follow the Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) to stop the surge in cases in the police force.Also Read| ‘Covid-19 cases have stabilised in Delhi, restrictions could be lifted’: JainAccording to the SOPs, which were issued in December last year, an officer of the rank of inspector and above should personally visit the hospitalised personnel or their families regularly."In case of outstation cases, video-conferencing with the ailing or their family members be ensured with regular feedback on the health of the ailing personnel," the SOPs read.All necessary precautions, including wearing masks, sanitising hands, sanitisation of office premises and vehicles and social distancing should be reminded during morning and evening briefings, the SOPs added."We have also told the personnel that social distancing should be maintained while they are in their respective barracks and mess. They have been asked to sanitise their keys after their shift while they handover the vehicles to the next shift in charge," Shalini Singh, Special Commissioner of Police (Welfare), said on Wednesday.Also Read| Delhi brings in new curbs to combat Covid spread. Check what's open, what's shutThe Delhi Police is also organising a special camp to administer booster doses to its personnel at the headquarters in Jai Singh Marg. However, such doses will only be administered to those who have completed nine months after taking their second vaccine dose, Singh added.The national Capital has so far recorded nearly 1.6 million cases due to Covid-19. On Tuesday, the daily tally rose again with 21,259 infections recorded in the last 24 hours.The Delhi government has ruled out the possibility of a lockdown but has introduced more curbs to ward off the spread of Covid-19. According to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), all private offices will be closed except those falling under the exempted category. Dine-in services in all restaurants and bars will be suspended.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1700-delhi-police-personnel-tested-positive-for-covid-19-since-start-of-2022-101641982047912.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: When young Peshwa enjoyed the company of fearsome animals||Sawai Madhavrao was the youngest member to be conferred Peshwa paraphernalia, at the age barely above a month. The trusteeship of running the Maratha affairs fell on the consortium of ministers led by finance minister, Nana Phadnis. Against the backdrop of Narayanrao’s (father of Sawai Madhavrao) murder and looming danger to his safety from enemies of the state and near home, Nana Phadnis was personally devoted to upbringing of the young Peshwa. In order to entertain the young child and divert his attention from personal tragedy, Nana Phadnis introduced him to company of animals at a tender age. This collection of animals was unique of its kind in the Deccan and there was a regular department opened in Poona for its upkeep. Nana Phadnis once ordered an exotic ostrich for Madhavrao’s collection, but it died along the way. Unfamiliar with the nature of unseen bird, Nana Phadnis asks for a drawing of dead bird instead, in order to satisfy his curiosity! In Sai Madhavrao’s times, the Shikarkhana (plot near Sarasbaug) extended to almost 45 acres and occupied land up to present day, Dattawadi. It was not a zoo of captive animals in cages, but more like a sanctuary of animals where it were free to roam, restricted only by ropes and log chains. Peshwa chronicles provide a list of various animals and birds that were part of Sawai Madhavrao’s Shikarkhana — 700-750 rabbits, 200-250 deer, blackbucks, 11 cheetahs, 20 Royal Bengal tigers, lions, rhinoceros, various birds such as peacocks, partridges, mynas, parrots, water hens, ducks, pigeons and cranes were part of the royal collection. Exotic animals such as lynx, double humped Bacterian camel and alpine birds could be found in this eclectic menagerie; it contained finest specimens of brute creatures that existed. Mahadaji Shinde gifted Sawai Madhavrao with rhinoceros procured from north India. Rhinoceros roamed on an open ground named ”Gendemal”. Major Price who visited Pune in 1791 recollects his experience of visiting the Peshwa menagerie in following words: “Next to the lion, and equally as accessible to the fresh air, was, also fastened in the same manner, the finest and most perfect model of a rhinoceros, that I have ever seen, either before or since. For, unlike the shapeless monster that we usually see exhibited, with his body enveloped in loose and flaccid folds of indurated hide, this stupendous animal was filled out to its utmost proportions; and its huge armour-like exterior being stretched almost to bursting, it was as round as a hogshead; and at the same time as lively, I was going to say, as any sucking pig. Indeed, when the keeper, by a slight touch with his wand made him rear up a little on his hind legs, while the alertness surprised me, I could not but compare him to a wine pipe, set a little on one end. “At all events, the ponderous agility of the animal was astonishing. Its small, but prominent eye, appeared sparkling, and full of animation; and the horny mass upon its snout, though it did not yet seem to have attained to its full growth, by its backward turn and hook-like shape, furnished sufficient proof, that when applied by a momentum of such force, its effect must be tremendous; and renders less surprising the accounts we receive of its power to subdue the otherwise surpassing strength of the elephant.” Around 7-8 acres was especially reserved for various deer species and blackbucks near Lotan baug. The antelopes had an ear for music and were trained to dance and swing for purpose of entertainment. Sir Charles Malet recalls event from 1792 where Sawai Madhavrao invited him to witness a special spectacle in deer park. All the dignitaries were conveniently seated on carpets in pitched tents along with young Peshwa. He quotes “Four black buck antelopes, of noble vein and elegant form, made their appearance at some distance, moving gracefully before a party of cavalry, who forming a semi-circle, gently followed their pace, each horseman holding a long pole, with a red cloth at the end. On approaching the tent, a band of music struck up in loud notes, and three of the antelopes entered in a stately manner. Two swings, commonly used by the Indians, being suspended for the purpose, an antelope ascended on each swing, and couched in the most graceful altitude; the third reclined on the carpet in a similar posture.” Malet was astonished to witness the blackbucks danced to musical tunes along with the female dancers and perform the most graceful dance! Sawai Madhavrao, later, informed Malet that training blackbuck to come to this degree of familiarity took seven months without holding them hostage in any way! Sir James Wales was so inspired by the Peshwa menagerie that he ordered his accomplished trainee chitari, Gangaram Tambat to make clay models and paintings of various animals. The base of Parvati hill housed the tigers in an enclosed yard. Two tigers were especially sent by Lord Malet from Calcutta presidency as a gift. One tiger named Shambhu was stark yellow in colour and most favourite. His love for animals is evident from the fact that he refused to lend a blackbuck to Mahadji Shinde for fear of it getting killed. On being assured of its safety and use for breeding more blackbucks, Sawai Madhavrao gifted Mahadji Shinde with a blackbuck male. Sawai Madhavrao was particularly fond of a cheeky macaque called “Kabu” which was notorious for its naughtiness and entertained the inhabitants of Shaniwarwada with its silly monkey play! Sawai Madhavrao was so fond of his animals that he carried a small part of his Shikarkhana during the campaign of Kharda. His love for animals was so well known that bards have imagined various animals and birds crying insolently on hearing the unfortunate death of Sawai Madhavrao, in the Marathi Powadas (heroic eulogised poetry). Upkeep of these animals was an elaborate affair. One finds curious mention of talking mynas and singing parrots trained in speaking Bengali language! They were fed with a luxuriously curated diet of musk mixed with spices such as cardamom, nutmeg, clove and saffron. Bajirao II (son of Raghunathrao Peshwa), too, maintained a Shikarkhana near his Kothrud residence. It mainly consisted of diverse birds such as mynas, pigeons, parrots, ducks, and trained bird of prey such as Peregrine falcons. These were caged and used mainly for entertainment. As the Maratha Empire came to an end in 1818, the hunting and gaming by royals continued but the menageries suffered heavy neglect. It was in 1953, the growing Pune city felt a need of zoo parks which led municipal corporation to establish “Peshwe Park” housing the wild animals and birds, at roughly the same location of Sawai Madhavrao’s Shikarkhana. Today, as most of the animals are shifted to bigger, better Katraj garden, the memories of young animal loving Sawai Madhavrao’s menagerie barely survive in fading existence of Peshwe Park! Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-when-young-peshwa-enjoyed-the-company-of-fearsome-animals-101641984041309.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||SP announces 1st candidate for UP elections. It is from ally Sharad Pawar’s NCP||LUCKNOW: The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Wednesday named Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) KK Sharma as the party’s first candidate for UP assembly elections. The announcement was made on Twitter by the Samajwadi Party after the first joint meeting of the coalition led by the Akhilesh Yadav-led SP.“The NCP leader KK Sharma will contest Bulandshahr’s Anupshar constituency (number 67) as the joint candidate of SP-NCP,” the Samajwadi Party said.“NCP UP chief Umashankar Yadav ji met the SP national president Akhilesh Yadav and discussed elections. The NCP leader KK Sharma will be the joint candidate of SP-NCP for the Anupshahr constituency of Bulandshahr.“There will be a change in 2022,” the SP tweeted, echoing the message that NCP chief Sharad Pawar made in Maharashtra when he spoke about the alliance between the NCP and SP in Uttar Pradesh. The Bharatiya Janata Party will lose the election and there will be a regime change, said Pawar, underlining that parties that share an ideology will align, and try to give an alternative.The announcement came hours after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav held the first joint meeting of the SP’s alliance partners -Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Janwadi Party (Socialist), Mahan Dal, Apna Dal (Krishna Patel), and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) - at the party’s Janeshwar Mishra Trust office in Lucknow. The meeting went on for 3 hours.As he exited the meeting, Mahan Dal chief Keshav Dev Maurya said: “The meeting went on well. It happened in a harmonious atmosphere along with a nice breakfast. The ticket announcements will start soon”.Elections for the 403 UP assembly seats will begin on February 10 and the results will be announced on March 10.Samajwadi Party leaders said the SP was likely to field party candidates in about 350 of the 403 seats, and distribute the rest among the alliance partners. The Jayant Singh Chaudhary-led RLD is likely to get 36 seats, SBSP about 10, PSP-L about 10, and the rest will be distributed among the smaller allies.
12-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan minister asks officials to build 16 medical colleges in time||Medical Education Minister Parsadi Lal Meena Tuesday asked officials to ensure that the 16 under-construction medical colleges in the state are ready within the stipulated time period.They should be completed by 2023 so that there is no shortage of doctors in the state, he told them, directing the respective principals to monitor the work regularly.Meena, in a review meeting of the department, said that the hospitals affiliated to the medical colleges should leave no stone unturned to provide better medical facilities to the common man during the Covid pandemic.It was informed in the meeting that seven colleges were approved in the first phase, one in the second phase.Of them, medical colleges in Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Churu, Pali and Dungarpur have already been started since 2018, while those in Barmer and Sikar also got started in 2019 and 2020 respectively.After all the approved medical colleges are started, 30 out of 33 districts of Rajasthan will have a medical college. Opening of medical colleges in the remaining 3 districts of Jalore, Rajsamand and Pratapgarh is also proposed at the central level, according to a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-minister-asks-officials-to-build-16-medical-colleges-in-time-101641983126790.html
12-01-2022||City||Kerala: CPI(M) holds Thiruvathira celebrations amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Amid a surge in Covid -19 infections in Kerala, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) held Thiruvathira (a Hindu festival) celebrations, at Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday.Several CPI-M leaders were present at the event.CPIM Parassala area secretary said that they had directed the cadres to conduct Thiruvathira in compliance with Covid-19 protocols. However, this event has drawn criticism from quarters of society.Over 550 people participated in the event despite stringent Covid-19 curbs.The event happened at a time when the state government had imposed strict curbs and restricted only 50 people to attend the marriage and funeral ceremonies in Kerala.On Tuesday, Kerala reported 9,066 new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-cpi-m-holds-thiruvathira-celebrations-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101641981119201.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: AAP announces 10-point agenda, to focus on jobs||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday presented the AAP’s Punjab Model, comprising a 10-point agenda that focuses on generating employment.Also read: AAP’s chief ministerial face for Punjab to be announced next week: KejriwalAddressing mediapersons in Mohali, Kejriwal said if voted to power, the AAP would work on a 10-point agenda. “The Punjab Model will make the state developed and prosperous. Youngsters who went to Canada for employment will return in five years.” Besides generating employment, he said, the AAP would create a drug-free and corruption-free state, restore law and order, improve education, health, agriculture and industrial sectors, provide free power to a certain segment and give ₹1,000 a month to each woman above the age of 18. “The Congress ruled the state for 25 years and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for 19 years, but they ruled in partnership and have looted Punjab. They didn’t work for the welfare of the people,” he said. On the allegation of AAP tickets being sold in the run-up to the elections, Kejriwal said that not a single ticket has been sold and if anyone gives him proof, he would take immediate action. He conceded that if farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal of the Samyukta Samaj Morcha (SSM) contests the elections alone, it would “definitely cause some loss to the AAP”. On the law and order in Punjab, he said, it was bad and over the past few months, the state had seen bomb blasts, sacrileges, and even the breach of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security. “We (the AAP) made some mistakes in 2017, but this time we have worked upon them and will bounce back,” he said. Punjab AAP chief Bhagwant Mann and Punjab unit affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha were present during the media interaction. 
12-01-2022||Jaipur||Severe cold conditions in Rajasthan; Fatehpur coldest place in state at 2.5°C||Severe cold conditions gripped parts of Rajasthan on Wednesday, with Fatehpur in Sikar recorded as the coldest place in the state after recording a minimum of 2.5 degrees Celsius.Weather officials said night temperatures dipped at several places in the state.“Fatehpur in Sikar was recorded as the coldest place with a minimum of 2.5 degrees Celsius followed by Churu where the night temperature was 3.4 degrees Celsius Tuesday night,” they said.According to the MeT department, the night temperature was 3.8 degrees Celsius in Karauli, 4.1 degrees in Bhilwara, 4.6 degrees in Chittorgarh and Anta (Baran), 5.1 degrees in Nagaur, 5.5 degrees in Sikar, Vanasthali (Tonk) and Alwar, 5.8 degrees in Dabok, and 5.9 degrees Celsius in Tonk.The state capital Jaipur and Pilani recorded a minimum temperature of 6.5 degrees Celsius.The MeT added that the cold conditions will remain unchanged during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/severe-cold-conditions-in-rajasthan-fatehpur-freezes-at-2-5-degrees-celsius-101641978689519.html
12-01-2022||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 4,719 new Covid-19 cases, Ranchi accounts for highest||Jharkhand reported 4,719 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, 237 more than the previous day, a health bulletin said.The state reported 4,482 cases on Tuesday, it said.Ranchi reported the highest number of new cases at 1,592, followed by East Singhbhum (1,160), Hazaribag (265), Deoghar (232) and Bokaro (189).The death toll rose to 5,176 as four more persons died. All of the deaths were reported from the East Singhbhum district.In the last 24 hours, 1,692 people recovered, taking the total recoveries to 3,52,555, it said.The state's tally of active cases rose to 29,042, it added.Jharkhand has so far reported 3,86,773 Covid-19 cases.The new cases were detected after testing 73,309 samples, recording a positivity rate of 6.43 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-4-719-new-covid-19-cases-ranchi-accounts-for-highest-101641977010691.html
12-01-2022||Bangalore||Third FIR lodged against Shivakumar for Mekedatu padayatra, Cong leader tweets videos implying continued march||A third first information report (FIR) has been lodged against Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar for holding Mekedatu padayatra despite Covid-19 restrictions in the state, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday. Besides him, the case has been filed against 63 others.Shivakumar's brother, Lok Sabha MP DK Suresh is among those who has been booked for the padayatra (foot march). Notably, the 10-day event is aimed at demanding early implementation of the Mekedatu drinking water project across the Cauvery in the state.The first FIR in the case was registered on the first day of the event on Sunday (January 9) after at least 30 were named for flouting the existing Covid-19 restrictions in Karnataka. On Tuesday, which was the third day of the march, another FIR was filed wherein the Karnataka Congress chief and his brother were among those named.Despite being charged with multiple cases, Shivakumar has been continuing with his padayatra as he took to Twitter earlier in the day to share videos from the event.
12-01-2022||Bhopal||MP tribal family murdered: Cong, BJP fight as girl fails to meet Guv||The ruling BJP and the Congress indulged in a war of words on Tuesday in Madhya Pradesh after a leader from the opposition party berated Governor Mangubhai Patel for not meeting a girl who had undertaken a 200-kilometre, 11-day foot march demanding justice for the killings of five of her kin. Mamata Balai (45), her daughters Rupali (21) and Divya (14) as well as relatives Puja (15) and Pawan (14) from Nemawar in Dewas district had gone missing on May 13 last year and were found murdered and buried in a field on June 29, leading to the arrest of six persons later. The Madhya Pradesh government had recently recommended handing over the probe to the CBI. A survivor from the family had undertaken a 'nyay yatra' from Nemawar to Bhopal demanding justice and had reached Raj Bhawan on Tuesday along with senior Congress leaders Digvijaya Singh and Sajjan Singh Verma as well as party workers. Angry that the girl could not meet Patel, Congress leader Verma said, "We were proud that a tribal man was appointed the governor of Madhya Pradesh. What did we know that the governor is afraid of coronavirus, and cannot give justice to his own community? Death is better than such a life." Congress workers present outside Raj Bhawan also shouted slogans against the governor. Hitting back, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted that Congress leaders were violating political decorum. "Congress leaders are not only losing patience but also their conscience. Such petty remarks against a person holding a constitutional post is not only a violation of political decorum, but also an insult to the Indian tradition of wishing the welfare of all. Your remarks are a blow to the heart of the state," Chouhan said in a tweet. MP Home minister Narottam Mishra and state BJP chief VD Sharma also attacked the Congress on the issue. "The indecent and senseless remarks made by Congress leaders Digvijay Singh and Sajjan Singh Verma against Mangubhai Patel ji, holding the highest constitutional post of Madhya Pradesh, is condemnable. The Congress's hatred towards the tribal class is at its peak that they are wishing death for a representative of that community," Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-tribal-family-murdered-cong-bjp-fight-as-girl-fails-to-meet-guv-101641972670649.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Amid third Covid wave, Haryana puts off Khelo India Games again||The 10-day Khelo India Youth Games to start on February 5 in Haryana has been postponed yet again amid the third Covid-19 wave that has already forced the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government to apply brakes on a series of political and administrative programmes. Also read: India’s Omicron tally inches closer to 5,000, Maharashtra and Rajasthan top chartLike in the rest of the country, Haryana has been seeing a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases. On January 11 the state detected 5,746 new cases, including 26 Omicron patients, and the number of active cases rose to 26,813 on Tuesday from 1,417 on December 31. Gurugram has the highest number of 11,955 active cases followed by 4,770 in Faridabad, 1,903 in Panchkula and 1,808 in Ambala. This is for the second time that the games have been postponed. Earlier, the authorities had decided to hold the games in November-December last year, but the event was postponed due to the pandemic. During the sports extravaganza beginning on February 5 various sports activities in the under-18 category were scheduled. Haryana had developed the required infrastructure for hosting the games jointly with the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and the Union ministry of youth affairs and sports. About 25 sports events, including five traditional sports such as Gatka, Kalaripayattu, Thang-ta, Mallakhamba and Yogasana, were planned in these games. “The suitable dates for the games will be finalised in consultation with the stakeholders once the pandemic abates,” a SAI official said. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also announced via his Twitter handle that due to the rising cases of the Omicron variant, the KIYG Haryana-2021 has been postponed. The state government had announced to hold the fourth edition of KIYG-2021 in different parts of the state, including Panchkula, Ambala, and Shahabad. About 8,500 sportspersons were expected to participate in the games. 
12-01-2022||Delhi||‘Covid-19 cases have stabilised in Delhi, restrictions could be lifted’: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday that the number of coronavieus disease (Covid-19) cases has stabilised in the national capital. He also hinted that restrictions clamed in Delhi will be lifted."It seems like Covid cases have stabilised in Delhi, soon we will see a decline," Jain told reporters."If Covid-19 cases come down in 2-3 days, restrictions will be lifted," he further said, adding that Delhi is likely to see around 25,000 cases today.The health minister said that the positivity rate can't determine if Covid-19 cases have peaked or not. "The hospitalisation rate has stabilised and cases have plateaued," said Jain."Covid-19 cases have started coming down in Mumbai, we will soon see the same trend in Delhi," he added.While key data indicators in Mumbai suggest that numbers in the city have already started peaking, Delhi is experiencing what could be the first indication that the rise of cases has slowed down, according to an analysis of the Covid-19 data by Hindustan Times.In Mumbai, the positivity rate has started dropping. Positivity rate (the proportion of daily tests returning positive for Covid-19) is one of the first statistical measures that indicate a reversal in trend. This number has now fallen for five days in a row - the figure was 29.9% last Thursday, 29% on Friday, 28.6% on Saturday, 28.5% on Sunday, 23% on Monday, and touched 18.8% on Tuesday.As expected, this trend was closely followed by a drop in daily infections, which have now fallen for four consecutive days – there were 20,971 cases on Friday, 20,318 on Saturday, 19,474 on Sunday, 13,648 on Monday, and finally 11,647 on Tuesday.In Delhi, while cases and positivity rate have not yet started declining, the rapid rise seen over the past two weeks appears to have slowed , hinting that the peak may be approaching - a factor that has been pointed out by several health experts, both government and independent.Sutra - a mathematical model developed by scientists at IIT-Kanpur and IIT-Hyderabad to assess the peak in Covid-19 cases in India - has predicted that Delhi could see a peak in Covid-19 infections around January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-cases-have-stabilised-in-delhi-restrictions-could-be-lifted-jain-101641967472955.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab drugs case: Majithia joins probe, appears before SIT in Mohali||Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Wednesday appeared before the Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) probing the drugs case in which he was booked on December 20. Also read: If roads can be cleared for Punjab CM, why not..: Majithia on PM security breachMajithia walked into the Crime Branch cell at Mohali as scheduled at 11am and said that he would fully co-operate with the SIT as per directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court. Two-and-a-half hours later, he told reporters that he replied to every question of the SIT. He demanded that the statements of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and state home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa against him be brought on record in the case files. On Monday, the high court bench of justice Lisa Gill granted Majithia interim protection from arrest till the next date of hearing on January 18 and also directed him to join the probe by the SIT on January 12. He has been directed not to leave the country and provide his mobile number to the SIT, which would be available and switched on at all times. He has been asked to share with the SIT, his live location through WhatsApp. The court also said he would not directly or indirectly try to contact any of the witnesses or anyone connected with the case. The court said that he would appear before the SIT as and when required. The court also made it clear that prosecution can press for custodial interrogation, if required. Majithia was booked by police under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, including Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence). On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s anticipatory bail plea. In the high court, Majithia has roped in Supreme Court lawyer Mukul Rohtagi and senior advocate RS Cheema. For Punjab Police, former Union minister P Chidambaram is leading the team of lawyers. 
12-01-2022||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government extends night curfew by one hour||In a bid to control the spread of COVID-19 and its Omicron variant, the Uttarakhand government on Wednesday extended the night curfew by an hour.It will now be applicable from 10 pm to 6 am, instead of 10 pm to 5 am as it was earlier.Moreover, hotels, dhabas, eateries will be allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity.Apart from this, conference halls, spas, gyms in hotels will open with 50 per cent capacity while anganwadi centres, schools and other educational institutions will remain closed till January 16.Meanwhile, Uttarakhand has reported eight cases of Omicron variant of COVID-19, as per the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-government-extends-night-curfew-by-one-hour-101641964624943.html
12-01-2022||Patna||Bihar’s Women Development Corporation plans anti-dowry campaign||PATNA: Bihar’s Women Development Corporation (WDC) is preparing to increase awareness against dowry to convince people to print anti-dowry declarations on wedding cards. It is also considering involving NGOs for the pledge against dowry. In 2020, Bihar was second in the country in terms of dowry deaths with 1,046 cases, according to the National Crime Records Bureau.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has appealed for the pledge against accepting dowry and getting declarations against it printed on the wedding cards. In January 2017, he launched an anti-dowry campaign and a human chain was later formed against the practise.“For anti-dowry declarations, there is a need to make people aware... The WDC is preparing to launch an aggressive awareness drive (for it),” said Ajay Shrivastava, project coordinator, WDC.Meena Tiwari, the National general secretary of the All-India Progressive Women’s Association, welcomed the move. “Every woman appreciated his (Kumar)’s appeal to the people to make an anti-dowry declaration on wedding cards. But the problem is how to get this executed.”Jaimangal Dev, a psychology teacher at Patliputra University, said everybody knows that dowry is illegal. “Even then this evil practice continues. The only way to stop it is to bring attitudinal changes in people.”
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Life in the slow lane||The tree is tall, wide and choked with green leaves. You can spend a long time surveying its immense proportions consisting of dozens of branches. The tree gets even more elaborate because it is casting a shadow equally huge on a building’s long wall that runs along a path. Some leaves tremble with a sudden breeze. So do the shadows of those leaves.But this is just one tree. Babar Road has a multitude of trees with similarly magnificent canopies. The avenue is in Delhi’s heart, but feels far from the metropolis, as if it were the suburb of a suburb. So detached. Full of birds twittering. The muffled roar of passing autos and cars sound like the drone from distant motor boats speeding down a river.Indeed, the road is like a stream coursing through a getaway resort of cosy beauty. And the sidewalk is unimaginably gigantic, almost the width of the road — a rarity in our walk-unfriendly city.This afternoon, the sidewalk is empty, making you feel that the entire stretch was built for your convenience. Large houses stand on both sides — you may see colourful laundry hanging on the roofs. One house has French windows with shutters.The road is punctuated with side lanes, harbouring more of such trees and such residences. Some of the buildings happen to be offices and clinics (one banner reads: “Centre of excellence for stem cell therapy and research”). Some parts of the sidewalk are decorated with well-maintained potted plants.An adjoining U-shaped market is sprinkled with a handful of dhabas serving affordable khana. Even so, the area exudes an unmistakable vibe of privilege. As if no matter what happens everywhere else in smoggy, disparate Delhi, the gentry of tranquil Babar Road will continue to live unaffected in their little haven.Nearby, there are rail tracks. So you frequently hear the sound of rushing trains.Towards the end of the road, the sidewalk skirts past a red building with a most arresting staircase (see photo). The top flight is shorn of walls, and descends like a cascading waterfall. Just this sight alone is enough to make Babar Road worthy of an expedition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-life-in-the-slow-lane-101641947728992.html
12-01-2022||Bhopal||Irked by stray cattle, locals drive hundreds of cows into civic body's compound||Angered by the menace of stray cattle, residents of a town in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind district drove hundreds of cows into the grounds of a local civic body, an official said on Tuesday. Residents and farmers of Akoda town drove about 700 to 800 cows into Akoda Nagar Parishad's compound on Monday and locked them, chief municipal officer (CMO) Rambhan Singh Bhadoria said. Residents have claimed that the stray cattle had been destroying their crops, and were angry that they were not being sent to a gaushala (cow shelter), he said. A cow shelter had already been built, but it has not been handed over to the civic body, he said. The cows were still in the compound and 20 quintals of fodder had been arranged for them, the official said, adding that he will be meeting the district collector on Wednesday to inform him about the problem. Meanwhile, a video of the farmers and residents protesting has also surfaced on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/irked-by-stray-cattle-locals-drive-hundreds-of-cows-into-civic-body-s-compound-101641944710924.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fresh landslide in Ramban blocks Jammu-Srinagar highway||A big landslide on Tuesday blocked the Jammu-Srinagar national highway at Mehar in Ramban district, said officials. SSP (traffic, national highway) Shabir Malik said, “We had created a diversion to clear the traffic, but shooting stones, pebbles, and loose soil got accumulated.” He said a cable bridge in Maitra was later used to let the light vehicles pass. “Big vehicles are still stranded. We are now trying to restore the diversion that was created for the movement of vehicles,” he said. The only all-weather surface link that connects Kashmir with rest of the country remained closed from Friday to Sunday owing to heavy snowfall and multiple landslides in Ramban district even as the road clearance agencies sped up the restoration work amid improvement in weather. Mercury plunges to -10.6°C in GulmargExcept Srinagar, all weather stations in Kashmir recorded sub-zero temperatures on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday with mercury plunging to a lowest of -10.6°C in Gulmarg. Drass in Ladakh experienced bone-chilling temperature of -24.2°C during the night.The J&K and Ladakh centres of IMD said that six out of the seven weather observation stations in Kashmir recorded sub-zero temperatures while Srinagar was slightly above zero.In Pahalgam, mercury settled at -10.4°C while it was 0.2°C in Srinagar and -0.6°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund. The temperature was -1.7°C in Kokernag, -3°C in Kupwara and -0.8°C in Konibal.The day temperatures at all the above stations remained 6 degrees or below except Kupwara, where it was 6.4 degrees.J&K had witnessed widespread rains and snowfall between January 4 and 8, leading to cancellation of hundreds of flights at Srinagar International Airport. In Jammu division, Bhaderwah, Batote and Banihal stations recorded -2.1°C, 0.1°C and 0.2°C, respectively during the night. Many parts of Ladakh had witnessed light snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-landslide-in-ramban-blocks-jammu-srinagar-highway-101641943657988.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Better synergy, intel behind elimination of 13 militants in Kashmir this year: Officials||In the first 10 days of January, Kashmir witnessed eight encounters resulting in the elimination of 13 terrorists, including five foreign militants. The surge in militant killings has been attributed by officers on ground to better synergy, human intelligence, and targeting of the overground workers and ‘particular modules’. Last year, as per J&K Police official figures, 171 militants were killed in encounters and search and cordon operations in Kashmir. Now, January figures take the number of those eliminated in last 13 months to 184. Most of the militants were killed in gunfights in south Kashmir‘s Anantnag, Shopian, Pulwama and Kulgam, the districts which have seen uptick of young boys taking arms, especially after the killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani in 2016. Five years down the line, police officers keeping an eye on the militancy admit that local recruitment has come down owing to police pressure on OGW networks and recruiters. “We can’t deny the fact local boys are picking up guns, but the number has come down as compared to the previous years, especially 2018 and 2019,” said a police officer working in south Kashmir. Alone in Shopian, as per the police data, 33 youths joined militant ranks last year and many among them were killed months or weeks after joining the terror folds. “As many as 30 new recruits were killed within one month of their joining,” Kashmir IGP Vijay Kumar had said on his year-ender press briefing. Among those killed were top commanders of Jaish, Lashkar, Hizbul and The Resistant Front (TRF), besides over 20 foreign militants. Of 128 youths who joined militancy last year, 78 were killed within first year of joining the militancy and 16 were arrested during different operations. A senior police officer, who has served in both south and central Kashmir and actively participated in anti-militancy operations, said there was a proactive action by the government not only against active militants but also on the support network. “The support network usually provides the new recruits. But now, the new recruitment has gone down and that has resulted in a drop in number of local terrorists,” he added. The officer said that elimination of militants in back-to-back encounters has demoralised their supporters on the ground. “The choking of terror-financing channels has led to decrease in recruitment as logistics needed to sustain a certain figure of active terrorists aren’t available,” the officer said. The police data of 2021 revealed that at least 2,000 OGWs were arrested, many of whom, officers say, provided “fruitful information” to the agencies that resulted in successful operations. As per the figures, 192 terror incidents were reported last year as compared to 238 in 2020, which is more than a 20% decline. Even the number of civilians and security personnel killed in 2021 was 34 and 29, respectively, against the previous year’s 37 and 57, respectively. There has also been decline in new recruits joining militancy. Against 167 in 2020, last year saw 128 new recruits, 78 of whom joined Lashkar/TRF. IGP Kumar said there were 168 identified and categorised active militants in the Valley of whom, the locals and foreigners were almost equal in number. “About 85 are locals and 83 are foreigners, besides 25 who are hybrid,” he said, adding that 171 militants were killed in 2021, of whom 152 were locals and 19 foreigners. Hybrid terrorists pose a challenge: PolicePolice officials say that they now face a challenge from ‘hybrid terrorists’, whom they described as people who indulge in terror activities and kill people, but there is no record of theirs in police stations. Even parents and security agencies are unaware of them, they say. Officials privy to the information related to the security grid claim that less number of infiltration attempts on the LoC in earlier months had affected the ground situation. “The focus is to target JeM group, which has always been planning to carry out the bigger attacks. Recently, they attacked a police bus as well. Our primary focus is to eliminate the JeM militants. Through our intelligence-gathering system, we have been able to carry out operations in different areas. Our operations will continue to eliminate all militants, with special focus on JeM,” said a police officer overlooking operations in Srinagar city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/better-synergy-intel-behind-elimination-of-13-militants-in-kashmir-this-year-officials-101641943478099.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Holiday on birth anniversary of Maharaja Hari Singh: J&K govt forms 4-member panel||Amid a popular demand of people from Jammu region to declare public holiday on September 23, the birth anniversary of last Dogra ruler Maharaja Hari Singh, the government has constituted a panel for observance in general under the Negotiable Instrument Act. The four-member committee is headed by principal secretary, GAD, Manoj Kumar Dwivedi. The other three members include administrative secretaries of social welfare and culture department besides the divisional commissioner of Jammu. “The committee may co-opt any other member(s) as and when required,” read Dwivedi’s order. It may be stated here that on Sunday, representatives of Yuva Rajput Sabha had called on Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhawan. The delegation had discussed their long-pending demand of declaration of holiday on the birth anniversary of Maharaja Hari Singh. Sinha had immediately issued directions for constitution of a committee at the government level. The representatives of Yuva Rajput Sabha expressed their gratitude and honoured the LG by tying a traditional Dogra turban, which is a symbol of cultural ethos of the region, as a mark of their respect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/holiday-on-birth-anniversary-of-maharaja-hari-singh-j-k-govt-forms-4-member-panel-101641942697860.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid tally breaches 1,100-mark in J&K; 5 samples test +ve for Omicron||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded two deaths and 1,148 Covid cases, witnessing an increase of 62% than the previous day, an official health bulletin said. In comparison to January 1, when just 169 cases were detected, the surge is about 600%. Kashmir health officials informed that five cases of Omicron variant have been found in the Valley. The patients, whose samples were taken in December, have already recovered, they added. “Of the five, two are locals while three are tourists from outside,” said Dr Talat Jabeen, epidemiologist and state surveillance officer, IDSP. She said of the two locals, one was a man from south Kashmir’s Shopian while another was a woman from north Kashmir’s Baramulla.“Both have recovered. The man had a travel history to Dubai and his contacts are negative, while we are working on the woman’s history,” she added. The Baramulla case was a pregnant woman from the tehsil of Uri.“One case of a pregnant woman has been detected as Omicron whose report after genome sequencing has come today. She has already turned negative as her sample was taken last month,” said chief medical officer of Baramulla, Dr Syed Mirji Indrabi.He said that she had no travel history. “She used to visit the local hospital which is frequented by travellers, particularly security forces,” he said. “We are testing her contacts,” he added. Last month, three Omicron cases were detected in the Jammu division.The union territory is witnessing a steep rise in infections for the past one week.As many as 706 cases were detected on Monday, 687 cases on Sunday, 655 cases on January 8, 542 on January 7, 349 cases on January 6 and 418 cases on January 5.The first four days of January had registered daily cases ranging between 165 and 199 while in December, the union territory had reported 143 average cases daily. This is the first time after June 10 that the UT has witnessed infections above 1,100. Of the total cases on Tuesday, 640 infections and two deaths were reported in Jammu division while Kashmir valley saw 508 cases. Jammu division’s Jammu district reported the highest 301 cases followed by 77 in Udhampur and 71 in Reasi.Kashmir valley saw 256 cases in Srinagar followed by 94 in Baramulla and 59 in Budgam. Jammu district has the highest number of active cases at 1,674 followed by Srinagar and Baramulla districts with 1,140 and 365 such cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 360 with active cases reaching 4,810. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 90,634 vaccine doses were administered in the UT.The number of people who have recovered reached 3,37,150, pushing the recovery rate to 97.29%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have mounted to 3,46,506 and the death toll has reached 4,546. Officials said that 54,679 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.Meanwhile, the authorities of Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura, have cancelled the winter vacation of its faculty members.The Government Medical College, Srinagar, has suspended theory classes of MBBS and BSc courses. However, online teaching and clinical postings will continue as per the roster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-tally-breaches-1-100-mark-in-j-k-5-samples-test-ve-for-omicron-101641942457990.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Avalanche warning sounded in 5 HP districts||The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE), Manali, has issued an avalanche warning at 24 places in five districts of Himachal Pradesh, including Lahaul and Spiti, Kullu, Chamba, Kinnaur and Shimla. In wake of the alert, the respective district administrations have advised people to avoid venturing into avalanche-prone areas. SASE has issued avalanche warning in Solang nullah, south and north portals of Atal Tunnel, Koksar, Batal, Kaza, Tabo, Sumdo, Kalpa, Karchham, Sangla, Chitkul, Narkanda and Theog. Avalanche may also hit Jalori Pass, Nehrukund, Palchan-Kothi, Rohtang Pass, Sissu, Tandi, Keylong, Darcha, and other high-altitude areas. Killar, Barwas, Gahar, Kalawan, Ranikot and Manimahesh routes is also prone to avalanches. Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg said that people should plan their travel only after assessing the weather conditions. Himachal, meanwhile,recorded the coldest night of this season on Tuesday, even as skies cleared after heavy snowfall and rains for over a week. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of tribal Lahaul and Spiti, froze at -15.4 degrees Celsius – a dip of 5 degrees as compared to temperature recorded on Sunday night. Kalpa, a small hill town in the neighbouring Kinnaur, recorded a low of -8°C. The town also got 14 cm of snow. Manali, which experienced 2cm of snow, saw a low of -3.8°C. Three other places, including Kufri (-3.5°C), Dalhousie (-1.4°C) and Bhunter (-0.1°C) recorded sub-zero temperatures. Tea town Palampur recorded a low of 2°C and Dharamshala 4.2°C. Average minimum and maximum temperatures were below normal in past 24 hours. Meanwhile, Sangla in Kinnaur got 7.5cm of snow, Pooh 6cm, Moorang 5.1cm, and Gondhla 4cm. The MeT department has forecast dry weather till January 15. A yellow alert has been sounded for dense fog in the low hills and plains till Thursday, said Shimla MeT centre director Surender Paul. Two persons also died in weather-related incidents on Tuesday495 roads blockedMeanwhile, 495 roads, including three national highways in HP, were still blocked for traffic. Highest 161 roads were closed in Lahaul and Spiti and 133 in Shimla. There was a power blackout in remote areas as 974 transformers were still out of order. As many as 177 water supply schemes have also been hit, 108 of them in Chamba alone. HPSEBL said work was underway on war-footing to restore power supply in the affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/avalanche-warning-sounded-in-5-hp-districts-101641942157748.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Senior citizens with limited mobility to get booster jabs at home: Delhi govt||The Delhi government will administer at home Covid-19 booster shots to senior citizens and the differently abled with limited or restricted mobility, senior officials of the health department said on Tuesday.A senior health official said that if any eligible person above the age of 60 years is either bedridden because of illness or disability they will be administered the third precautionary dose at their homes.“It is unlikely that there will be many such persons who have already completed nine months after their second dose. Any bedridden 60-plus individual who by nature of his/her illness or disability is rendered eligible for the precautionary dose by their doctor shall be administered the dose at home,” the official said, asking not to be named.The official also added that while the Delhi government began at-home vaccinations for senior citizens and the differently abled last year itself, on the directions of the central government, they were unable to extend this service to as many people as they would have liked.In August 2021, the Delhi high court issued notices to the Centre and the Delhi government, based on a petition filed by an 84-year-old senior citizen who informed the court that she was unable to visit a vaccination centre to get her jabs as she was suffering from severe arthritis. The petition also pointed out that several senior and bedridden citizens, who were vulnerable to Covid-19, did not have private transport to reach a vaccination centre or even a family member to help them with the registration process.In September, the Centre issued directives to state governments to make arrangements to vaccinate “those with restricted mobility, who cannot step out of their house to get vaccinated, such as the differently abled, elderly or those with special needs” at their homes.A senior official of the east Delhi district said all district officials have been reaching out to senior citizens who have completed nine months since their second dose to come and get their precautionary shot. For all of those who are eligible under this category, but are unable to reach their nearest vaccination centre, a facility of at-home vaccination has been extended.“Apart from sending text messages to those senior citizens who have completed nine months since their second dose, we are also reaching out to the eligible people on phone and asking them whether they have the means to reach the vaccination centre. The vaccination process is taken care of by trained vaccinators, following the requisite standard operating procedures,” the district official said, asking not to be named.
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Third Covid wave: Only 1.4% patients in Himachal hospitalised so far||Only 1.4% of the active Covid-19 cases in Himachal have needed hospitalisation in the third wave of the pandemic that hit the hill state in December end, health department data reveals. The hospitalisation was more than 20% during the second wave from February to June 2021. The state has recorded nearly 4,500 cases in first 10 days of the January, while the active cases have reached 4,186.Himachal Pradesh has a total of 3,356 beds reserved for Covid patients across 42 dedicate Covid health centres in its 12 districts.Of these, only 59 were occupied as on January 10.There are 2,310 oxygen-supported beds of which 30 were occupied and 2,280 vacant. Of the 284 ICU beds, 28 were occupied and only one standard bed out of 762 was occupied. Given the fact that more than 98% patients are recuperating at home, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has directed the district health authorities to strengthen the home-isolation mechanism. The state government would also provide home-isolation kits to such patients. Further, he has directed to ramp up the transportation system so that home-isolated patients can be shifted to the nearest hospital at earliest if required.Positivity rate shoots above 6%Meanwhile, the positivity rate in the state has gone past 6% as on January 10. Positivity rate was only 1% in the last week of December when the spike began. Over the past one week, there has been an average of 579 cases per day, an increase of 606% from the average two weeks earlier.New hotspots have emerged in all, but one district. While Kangra is the worst-hit district reporting more than 1,200 cases in the New Year, Hamirpur, Solan, Sirmaur, Shimla, Mandi and Bilaspur also have also registered cases in clusters.More curbs likelyMeanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has said that the state may consider imposing more restrictions if the cases continue to rise.“The situation is quite concerning and more curbs would likely be enforced not only in Himachal, but entire country,” said Thakur while interacting with media after inaugurating the new OPD building of IGMC, Shimla.He said currently, the state government has imposed fewer restrictions so the economic activities and development works can go on and people do not face any inconvenience.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called a meeting of all chief ministers on January 13 and the situation will be discussed after which we will decide the further course of action,” he added. For now, we urge people to follow the Covid norms strictly and help prevent the spread, the CM said. HPSSC postpones recruitment exams as Covid cases surge in HimachalIn the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission (HPSSC), Hamirpur, has postponed screening exams and skill tests for recruitment to various posts which were scheduled between January 11 and 24. HPSSC secretary Jitender Kanwar said total of 16 screening exams, evaluation, and skill tests have been postponed till further orders.He said that schedule for these exams will be announced when the situation improves.Hit by third wave of Covid, Himachal Pradesh has reported more than 4,000 cases in just first 10 days of the new year — a 12-fold increase compared to the last week of December when 354 cases were logged in the state.The recent spurt prompted the state government to enforce stringent restrictions, including a ban on social gatherings, five-day a week working and 50% attendance in offices. The curbs will be effective till January 24.All educational institutions, except medical, dental and nursing colleges, in the state have also been closed till January 26. There is also a complete ban on community kitchens in the state. The respective district authorities have also announced curbs according to the situation prevailing in their areas. Some of the districts have announced a complete shutdown on weekends.
12-01-2022||Delhi||AAP accuses BJP-ruled MCDs of issuing showcause notice to traders despite proposed withdrawal of hiked taxes||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), on Tuesday, accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) of issuing show cause notices to traders demanding lakhs of rupees, despite announcing the withdrawal of all hikes in fees proposed in April last year. Refuting the charges, the BJP said that the civic bodies are issuing notices for the recovery of commercial property taxes and the AAP is blowing it out of proportion to create confusion among the voters ahead of the civic polls, which are due in April this year. Senior AAP leader and MLA Atishi said that in the last 15 years, the BJP have onlypracticed corruption. “In April 2021, the three MCDs significantly hiked their tax rates. This included trade licence fees, factory licence fees, health licences, commercial property tax, rented property tax, vacant land tax which were hiked three to six times than normal. AAP raised its voice against this organised loot and ran a signature campaign. In June-July 2021, over five lakh traders from Delhi supported our stand. This resulted in the hike being rolled back on August 26. But, the East MCD has sent notices to several commercial properties, on the basis of the taxes which have been rolled back,” she said. She also said that it’s a mystery that under which law the MCDs are sending such baseless notices when the taxes have been rolled back. Refuting the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that it’s really surprising that AAP is creating an issue by opposing the notices sent for recovery of commercial property tax. “It’s strange that on one hand, the Delhi government is not releasing municipal funds, while AAP leaders often accuse MCDs for not recovering their revenue and on the other, when East MCD is trying to recover its property tax revenue, the same party is objecting to it, alleging corruption,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-bjp-ruled-mcds-of-issuing-showcause-notice-to-traders-despite-proposed-withdrawal-of-hiked-taxes-101641936517904.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court exonerates six men accused of unlawful assembly and arson||A Delhi court on Tuesday gave a clean chit to six persons accused of rioting, unlawful assembly and arson in the Jyoti Nagar area during the northeast Delhi riots in February 2020, saying that there was no worthwhile material to frame charges against any of the accused persons.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat discharged Amir, Saddam, Mohammad Rahis, Amir, Akram and Wasim in the case of ransacking and burning of two tractors belonging to Shahid and Firoz Khan and some others at the parking lot, behind Ambedkar college, Kardam Puri, on February 25, 2020.The court said that the only incriminating material against the six accused persons was the disclosure statements made by them consequent to their arrest, adding that “disclosure statement, by itself, has no value in the eyes of law”.The judge said that there is no witness, whether public or police, who identified the accused persons while committing the offences. He also said that the Special Public Prosecutor for the police has also not put forth in his arguments any incriminating material/evidence against the accused persons.“Based upon the contents of the entire charge-sheet including the annexures, I am of the opinion that there is no worthwhile material at all to frame charges against any of the accused persons in respect of the offences covered in the present case. Thus, all the six accused persons Amir S/o Nafis; Amir S/o Abrar; Saddam; Mohd. Rahis; Akram and Wasim are discharged of all the offences punishable u/s 147 (rioting), 148, 427(damage), 436 (arson) read with Section 149 (unlawful assembly) Indian Penal Code,” the judge said in his six page order.Meanwhile, on December 7, a city court acquitted four men in a riot case, saying it feels “absolutely loath” to place any trust in the testimonies of two prosecution witnesses — a constable and a head constable — on the aspect of identification of rioters.In an order, which was made available late Monday night, additional sessions judge Virender Bhat acquitted Dinesh Yadav, Tinku, Sahil and Sandeep in a case related to robbing, vandalising and setting a house and shop on fire at the Bhagirathi Vihar area during the February 26, 2020, riots in the national capital. The case was registered against them on the basis of two complaints filed by Afzal Saifi and Shoaib.In his complaint, Saifi claimed that a riotous mob barged into his house, vandalised it, robbed articles, and set it on fire. Shoaib approached police with a similar complaint regarding theft at his shop, which was clubbed with Saifi’s complaint.“In view of the nature of evidence led by the prosecution, the identification of the accused as rioters who committed loot and arson in the house of PW­1 (Saifi) becomes intensely doubtful. This court feels absolutely loath to place any trust upon the testimony of PW­8 and PW­12 on the aspect of identification of the accused as rioters,” Bhat stated in his judgment.The judge said that their deposition “needed a detailed scrutiny” as they saw the accused participate in the riotous incidents.The judge said that the manner in which the two star witnesses — constable and a head constable — claimed to have identified the four accused as being amongst the rioters who looted and set Saifi’s house on fire “creates doubt in the mind of court”.“They claim that all the four accused were known to them and hence, they could identify them in the mob. Intriguingly, they did not inform either their senior officers or the IO (investigation officer) of this case about the fact that they knew some of the rioters who were involved in the rioting incidents in Bhagirathi Vihar on February 26 (2020),” the judge added.Communal riots had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-exonerates-six-men-accused-of-unlawful-assembly-and-arson-101641935557174.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Former Congress sarpanch shot dead in Patiala||Former Congress sarpanch Tara Dutt, 38, was shot dead in a broad daylight on Tuesday. The incident happened on Seouna village road on the outskirts of Patiala city when Dutt was visiting his under-construction house. The deceased was close to Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Mohit Aggarwal said the accused, who were known to the deceased, first fired multiple shots at his car.“When Dutt came out of his car, the accused attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and fired another shot from point-blank range,” he said.He was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to his injuries after brief treatment.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against SK Kharoud, Abby, Jatinder Shergill, Jaspreet Singh, Mani Walia and nine other persons.The DSP said teams have been sent to carry raids to arrest the accused. “The assault was carried out due to an old enmity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-congress-sarpanch-shot-dead-in-patiala-101641935076885.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress ex-MLA Arvind Khanna, Gurcharan Singh Tohra’s grandson join BJP||Former Congress MLA and businessman Arvind Khanna joined the BJP along with Kanwar Singh Tohra, the grandson of late Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Gurcharan Singh Tohra, in the national capital on Tuesday. Two-time MLA Khanna had left active politics in 2014. Khanna has personal friendships across the party lines. The Shiromani Akali Dal chief, Sukhbir Singh Badal is one of his close friends. Khanna happens to be the first cousin of Captain Amarinder Singh and he is the son of his paternal aunt. Khanna has been quite popular in Sangrur and Dhuri areas where he used to run an NGO, Umeed, that provided healthcare to people at their doorsteps. Both the leaders joined the party in the presence of Union minister and the party’s election in-charge for Punjab, Gajendra Shekhawat, and party co-in-charge and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. According to senior BJP leaders, the party plans to field Khanna from Ludhiana city though a final decision is yet to be taken. Kanwar Singh Tohra is the younger son of former PWD minister Harmel Singh Tohra. Another leader who joined the BJP is Gurdeep Singh Gosha, the general secretary of SAD. Dharamveer Sareen, a former councillor from Amritsar, also joined the party. Later, more faces joined the BJP at its Punjab headquarters, including former Congress minister and ex-MLA from Jagraon, Isar Singh Meharban, former Punjab University Student Union president Rajwidner Singh Lucky, and Punjab Congress’ intellectual cell head Anish Sidana. Sidana had joined SAD a couple of months ago but left the party a few days after. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s cousin Jaswinder Singh Dhaliwal also joined the BJP.According to senior party leaders, a few more joinings are expected on Friday, including two sitting MLAs from different parties. Meanwhile, the BJP and Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) held second round of discussions for seat-sharing on Monday evening which was also attended by Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa.It is learnt that the seat-sharing is likely to get final shape in coming two to three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-ex-mla-arvind-khanna-gurcharan-singh-tohra-s-grandson-join-bjp-101641935020010.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress, Akali leaders get notice for poll code violation||Congress MLA from Balachaur Darshan Lal Mangupur and the district president of the Shiromani Akali Dal were issued notice by the returning officers in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district on Tuesday for violation of the poll code. They have been instructed to submit the reply within 24 hours to the respective returning officers (ROs). Balachaur RO-cum-sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Deepak Rohella on Tuesday issued notice to local MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur for violation of poll code. In the notice issued, the returning officer said Mangupur had violated the ban orders of the Election Commission of India (ECI) by holding a meeting with sarpanches of 25 villages at Rattowal village of the district on Tuesday and planned party’s activities with them. The pictures of the meeting were also shared by the complainant in which 46 persons were found taking part in the meeting and no one was wearing masks. He said the ECI had prohibited any kind of public meeting, rally or roadshow till January 15. Similarly, Banga RO-cum-sub-divisional magistrate Navneet Kaur Bal issued notice to the SAD district president for violation of poll code by party’s MLA Dr Sukhwinder Kumar Sukhi. In the notice issued, Bal said Sukhi had violated the ban orders of the ECI by holding a public indoor meeting in Ghumman village on January 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-akali-leaders-get-notice-for-poll-code-violation-101641935018387.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP’s Raghav Chadha files criminal defamation against Patiala resident||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha has filed a criminal defamation case against Saurabh Jain from Patiala. In a statement, Chadha’s advocate said that all the allegations made by Jain are false and baseless. It claimed that various elements are trying to hurt Chadha’s reputation. According to the statement, allegations made by Jain about corruption and money being involved for election tickets are false and part of a pre-concerted campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-raghav-chadha-files-criminal-defamation-against-patiala-resident-101641935017025.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: Will contest all 117 seats in Punjab, says Balbir Singh Rajewal||Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal of the Samyukta Samaj Morcha (SSM) said on Tuesday that they would be contesting elections in Punjab on all 117 seats and would soon be announcing their candidates.Rajewal, who opened its office in Phase-7, Mohali, said, “We will soon be releasing our election manifesto and declaring our vision for Punjab. At present, Punjab is passing through a bad phase as unemployment, law and order, mining, liquor smuggling are the main issues and we assure the people that if we come to power, we will sort it out.”He said he would be participating in the meeting of the Kisan Morcha scheduled for January 15.He said whatever allegations the BJP levels, it does not matter and their “real face” had been exposed in front of everyone.He said talks are on with Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni for their tie-up in elections as the people of Punjab want a change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-will-contest-all-117-seats-in-punjab-says-balbir-singh-rajewal-101641934958611.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Seeking sugarcane dues, farmers block Ludhiana-Sangrur road||Sugarcane cultivators blocked the Ludhiana-Sangrur road at Babanpur near Dhuri seeking pending dues of sugarcane against a private mill on Tuesday. Avtar Singh, one of the protesters, said the sugar mill owners were not paying their dues to the tune of ₹18 to ₹20 crore and they will not end the protest till the payment is done. “The civil and the police administration reached the protest site and talks are on,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seeking-sugarcane-dues-farmers-block-ludhiana-sangrur-road-101641934957414.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi reports 23 Covid deaths, highest in 208 days||With Covid-19 cases continuing to surge, the national capital on Tuesday recorded 23 deaths from the disease, the highest toll in 208 days, according to the government’s daily health bulletin. Delhi recorded 21,259 new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, an increase from Monday’s tally of 19,166 new cases. The infection rate -- the number of samples returning positive from among the total tested -- has also spiked to a little above 25%, the data showed. However, it is important to note that on Tuesday, 82,884 tests were conducted across the city as opposed to just 76,670 tests on Monday. The city also recorded 23 deaths by Covid infections, which is the highest toll since June 16, 2021, when the Capital had reported 25 deaths. Experts, however, said because of the highly infectious nature of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, people whose immunity is already compromised by other ailments, including terminal diseases, were also testing positive of Covid-19 in hospitals. “The spike in deaths cannot solely be because of the virus; it is also because of the high transmissibility of this variant among the comorbid and the already compromised sections. Everyone is testing positive, including doctors and caregivers at hospitals, so this is a problem in the quality of care rather than the seriousness of the variant,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital. The test positivity rate on Tuesday touched 25.65%, just marginally up from the 25% reported the previous day. According to government records, this was the highest positivity rate in the city since May 6, when 26.3% of all samples returned positive results. Government data also showed that of the total 14,621 beds available in dedicated Covid hospitals, only 2,209 were occupied as on Tuesday, leaving 12,412 (84.89%) vacant. The numbers are heartening, said experts, as despite the surge in cases, only 2,209 were admitted to hospitals. Of them, 84 required ventilator support and 523 patients were admitted to ICUs (intensive care units), according to the health bulletin. The Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which is fuelling the current wave of infections in the city, while being more transmissible than previous variants, is mostly causing mild infections, thereby lowering hospitalisations, according to trends observed in India and elsewhere, medical experts said. Most patients have only mild symptoms, and are able to recover at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-23-covid-deaths-highest-in-208-days-101641933279334.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi high court slams parallel talks in Metro case||The Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL) for carrying out a “parallel settlement discussions” with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) relating to execution of the more than ₹4,600 crore arbitral award, and said that the former was playing hide and seek with the court.Justice Suresh Kait said DAMEPL, a subsidiary of Reliance Infrastructure, has not approached the court with “clean hands” while asking its counsel not to waste precious judicial time, if the company intended to settle the matter outside the court.“Since the petitioner’s (DAMEPL) counsel is making submission before the court and simultaneously communicating with the judgment debtor (DMRC) to settle the dispute in this manner... In this fashion the decree holder is not coming to court with clean hands. Therefore, re-notify on March 29,” the court said while adjourning DAMEPL’s plea seeking execution of the multi-crore arbitral award it had won against DMRC.The court also observed that DAMEPL was not fair to the court despite having won the arbitral award. The judge noted that pursuant to its December 22, 2021 order, DMRC has filed an affidavit furnishing the details of its bank accounts along with the balance amount.The court was hearing an application by the Reliance Infrastructure’s subsidiary which was filed in the ongoing proceedings before the high court, claiming that DMRC was deliberately trying to delay the execution of the over ₹4,600 crore arbitral award against it.On Tuesday, senior advocate Parag Tripathi, for DMRC, submitted that it was ready to take over the liabilities of Reliance Infrastructure subsidiary to the extent of the award money as it would be in a better position to negotiate with the lender banks, however, the offer was turned down by DAMEPL.He informed the court that on December 30, 2021, DAMEPL had written a letter to DMRC, asking if it was ready to take over its debt which was to be paid by DAMEPL and Reliance Infrastructure to their lenders. DMRC responded to the letter saying that DAMEPL should first disclose the full amount of its liabilities, he submitted.To this, Justice Kait said DAMEPL was taking a different stand in the court while it was writing letters to DMRC to settle the dispute.“If you are settling the dispute outside the court, why are you wasting the court’s time? Don’t communicate with them when the matter is before the court. If you want to, then withdraw the case. I will throw out your case,” the judge said.Appearing for DAMEPL, advocate Prateek Seksaria, argued that the company was exercising its legal right in the court by seeking execution of the decree passed in its favour and claimed that DMRC was not disclosing the whole issue.“DMRC was calling and holding meetings with my lenders on outstanding loans to banks in my absence. You cannot meet my lenders behind my back. If you want to meet them then take over my entire liabilities and have meetings with the lenders. If we arrive at a settlement, we will inform the court. I was against the move because they met my lenders without informing me so I wrote a letter to DMRC,” he contended.The counsel also said that the offer given by DMRC was not acceptable and DAMEPL does not want to settle the dispute in this fashion.The matter will now be heard in March. DAMEPL and DMRC are locking horns in the former’s execution plea for the arbitral award won by it against the corporation.The consortium of Reliance Energy Limited (renamed as Reliance Infrastructure Limited) and M/s Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles, SA terminated the Concession Agreement in October 2012 citing failure of DMRC to cure defects in the structure supporting the Airport Metro Express Line. DMRC invoked the arbitration clause of its contract with the consortium.The concession agreement between the two was signed on August 25, 2008. Under the agreement, DMRC was to carry out the civil works, excluding at the depot, and the balance, including the project system works, were to be executed by DAMEPL, a joint venture of Rinfra and a Spanish construction company -- Construcciones Y Auxiliar De Ferrocarriles -- with a shareholding of 95 and five per cent respectively.In 2017, the Arbitral Tribunal awarded damages to Reliance Infra, an award upheld by a single-judge bench of the Delhi high court in 2018. A division bench of the same court set aside the award in 2019 after which Reliance Infra approached the top court.In September this year, the apex court set aside the division bench’s judgment of January 15, 2019 order and upheld the arbitral award in favour of DAMEPL, saying that there was a disturbing tendency of courts setting aside arbitral awards.In November, the Supreme Court had dismissed DMRC’s plea seeking a review of its judgment which upheld the 2017 arbitration award in favour of DAMEPL, enforceable against it. The apex court on September 9 had upheld the arbitration award enforceable against DMRC.The DMRC had stated that since the corporation was facing a “financial crunch”, undertaking a “sudden liability” would impact public interest and authorities were, therefore, working out a solution. It had also claimed that the amount liable to be paid was approximately ₹5,000 crore which was lesser than DAMEPL’s claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-slams-parallel-talks-in-metro-case-101641933037158.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC tells cops to identify errant officials in national anthem case||The Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up the city police over delay in identifying the police officials who allegedly assaulted five Muslim men and forced them to sing the National Anthem during the north-east Delhi riots in February 2020.Justice Mukta Gupta, hearing a plea by the mother of one of the victims, Faizan, seeking a Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into the death of her son, said why the errant persons have not been apprehended even after two years of the incident.The court also asked the police as to whether it had checked the records of the police officials who were deployed on duty on February 25, 2020 when the incident took place in Bhajanpura. According to the plea by Kismatun, Faizan’s mother, filed through advocate Soutik Banerjee, the police illegally detained her son on February 25, and denied him critical health care, resulting in his death on February 26. She alleged in the petition that her son was mercilessly beaten by the police on February 24, which is evident from a viral video of the incident.When the former investigating officer, who was present in the hearing, said there were thousands of police officials who were deployed during the riots, the court said, “Let’s take the number to be 20,000. Out of this 20,000 force, everyone’s height, weight and structures are different. If you segregate on that basis, there would be around 5000..How much time does it take?The officer said that the video was shot from a distance, and the face of the police personnel has not been identified. He said cyber experts have been contacted to enhance the video quality and identify the errant officials.The investigator also told the court that they have identified a constable, Ravindra, from whose phone the video was obtained. He informed the court that Ravindra has been interrogated several times during which he has denied shooting the video.The investigator, who has now been transferred from the crime branch, said following this, a lie detector test was conducted on the constable, the result of which came out to be “deceptive”. He also said that the video has been sent to the forensic laboratory, and efforts were on to identify the persons. He said that the video has been sent to all the police stations across the city to identify the police officials but no breakthrough has been achieved.When advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for Faizan, told the court that the police have not even preserved the CCTV footage and the records at the Jyoti Nagar police station, the investigator said the CCTV cameras inside the police station were not working since February 24, the date of the incident.The court also said that it wants all the answers in a fresh status report while adding that there can be no log books or records of the relevant time since it was a complete mess during the riots, and which is why it is seeking the scientific results.During the proceedings, advocate Mehmood Pracha, who filed an intervention plea on behalf of one of the victims of the incident, told the court that even after two years, the statement of his client has not been recorded.“You are going to identify the constable. You have victims who are alive. You can’t get the sketches made from them?,” the court said, adding “I hope that you will record the statement of the witnesses”.Special Public Prosecutor Amit Mahajan for the Delhi police told the court that they had recorded the statement of the witnesses and it would be produced before the court on the next date of hearing. He sought more time to file the status report. The court asked the police to file the status report with all the answers under the signature of Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Rajesh Deo, and posted the matter for hearing on February 22.
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 100, Punjab’s oldest ex-MLA Sahi Ram wants electors to choose educated, clean faces||On the eve of his 100th birth anniversary, Sahi Ram Bishnoi, the oldest former MLA of joint Punjab, wants the electors to vote for educated and clean candidates in the forthcoming state elections. Bishnoi was elected from the Abohar assembly segment in 1957, the second state election after the Independence. According to an archive of the Election Commission of India, Bishnoi had defeated Congress’s heavyweight Chandi Ram by 2,646 votes. He was elected on the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the forerunner of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), from the Hindi-speaking belt of the present Punjab. He now identifies himself as a ‘proud sewak’ of Bishnois, and not a Jana Sangh leader. Bishnoi leaders from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan will assemble on Wednesday to celebrate the centenary birthday of their leader by partaking of his favourite ‘gajar ka halwa’. In a video phone interview with this reporter from his village at Sakta Khera in Sirsa district, Bishnoi, a law graduate from Lahore and Shimla, said the deteriorating political morality made him choose social activities over politics. “The younger generation is more mature and aware and they have a duty to elect the upright candidates. Similarly, the conduct of the elected representatives should be pro-people and they should maintain high levels of morality in the public life,” said Sahi Ram, who was assisted for a video call conversation by family friend Puran Bhanerwa, a journalist-based in Dabwali town. Born on January 12, 1922, at Bahawal Nagar in the erstwhile princely state of Bahawalpur (now in Pakistan) Bishnoi completed his studies at the village school before joining DM College in Moga in 1942. “I was a law student in Lahore when the Partition took place in 1947. After large-scale violence, I led a large group of family, relatives and residents of several villages around my native place Kumbhana for a safer place in India. We managed to enter from Rajasthan’s Karanpur with one casualty in communal riots. Later, I assisted the community settling in and around Sirsa,” he recalled. Being the most educated youth, who worked to help the displaced community in reclaiming land and property rights, Bishnois encouraged him to contest from Abohar in 1952. But he lost the first polls. “People contributed more than ₹5,000 for my electioneering to contest against the Congress candidate Chandi Ram. Bishnois wanted to register their electoral annoyance with then Prime Minister Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru for the Partition that led to the displacement of millions,” he said. Bishnoi said former deputy prime minister late Devi Lal, then a Congress activist had advised him to contest on a Jana Sangh ticket in 1957.He recalled how austere the electioneering used to be. “The electioneering used to be funded voluntarily by villagers. No big rallies were held as candidates would address residents of 5-6 villages at one place. In the Vidhan Sabha, too, members from the opposition were courteous to each other,” he recalled while battling fading memory. “I had strong political differences with Devi Lal but he earned respect for being an honest politician. He was 7-8 years elder to me and always guided me on key social and political issues,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-100-punjab-s-oldest-ex-mla-sahi-ram-wants-electors-to-choose-educated-clean-faces-101641932377290.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi cop hits stray dog in viral video, transferred||A video that allegedly portrayed a police officer beating a stray dog with a stick was widely circulated on social media on Monday, following which Delhi Police identified the man and transferred him.On Monday afternoon, one Harish Kumar, who said he was an animal activist, uploaded a video on Twitter, which showed a police officer beating a dog with a stick. Kumar said that the incident happened in lane 44 of Jaffrabad area of northeast Delhi on Monday.HT could not independently confirm the authenticity of the video, but Delhi Police said on Twitter that they had taken cognizance of the video and added they were taking action against the erring police officer.A police officer, requesting anonymity, said that the erring officer is an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Jaffrabad police station. He has been sent to the district lines (punishment posting), pending inquiry. Though police did not issue an official statement, there were reports on social media claiming that the ASI said he attacked the dog because it bit him.On Tuesday morning, other animal activists shared a video of the dog at the Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre. One volunteer at the centre wrote that the dog’s eye was injured. “His leg is injured but not fractured. Tomorrow, an X-ray will be conducted to see if there is hairline fracture. His temperature is normal but he is not eating,” he said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cop-hits-stray-dog-in-viral-video-transferred-101641932137010.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Malvika Sood, Moga MLA get notice for violating poll code, Covid norms||Congress MLA from Moga Dr Harjot Kamal, district BJP president Vinay Sharma and Malvika Sood Sachar, sister of Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who had joined the Congress on Monday, have been served notices for violating model code of conduct and Covid norms by holding gatherings. SDM-cum-returning officer Satwant Singh has asked the said leaders to file their replies within 24 hours. The notices were issued under the provisions of sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, said an official. Around 100-odd people had gathered at Malvika’s house on Monday where Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu were also present, the official said. The Moga MLA reportedly held addressed two back-to-back gatherings at his residence after Malvika was inducted into the Congress, it is learnt. District BJP president Vinay Sharma received the notice for holding a meeting of workers and leaders at Sahidi Park on Sunday. “The notices were issued after the pictures and videos of all three events evidently indicated that there was clear violation of model code of conduct and the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the official said. The SDM said, “The election commission has prohibited political rallies and gatherings till January 15. Therefore, we have followed directions of the election commission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malvika-sood-moga-mla-get-notice-for-violating-poll-code-covid-norms-101641931957151.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP accuses Congress of bungling funds under garb of Punjab Nirman scheme||The Ludhiana unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the Congress of committing fraud in the name of Punjab Nirman scheme, which is aimed at helping the poor and backward to repair their houses.Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, BJP leader Anil Sareen alleged that in North constituency, cheques of the scheme went straight into the pockets of Congress leaders and workers.“Under the scheme, ₹15 crore was allocated to each MLA for distribution among schedule caste, backward class and economically disadvantaged families for repair of their houses. Each family was to be given ₹10,000 to 35,000 under the scheme,” said Sareen.“The list of beneficiaries was prepared by Congress leaders in violation of all guidelines, and funds were given to Congress workers or their relatives. The list was passed by the Ludhiana municipal corporation following which the cheques were distributed,” he added. The BJP leader further claimed that on checking in North constituency, he found that ₹5 crore was disbursed to 2,200 people, without following the set criteria.”“As per the criteria, only one member of a family was eligible to receive the fund. But on close scrutiny, it was found that in some cases, each member of the family was shown as a beneficiary,” alleged Sareen. “It has also come to my notice that some people from Philluar where given cheques, even though it does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Ludhiana municipal corporation. We demand a case against Congress leaders, workers and officials of the municipal corporation who passed the cheques, and a thorough probe in the matter,” said Sareen.Refuting the BJP’s claims, former minister and Congress MLA Rakesh Panday said, “The allegations are baseless. The funds have reached the poor and needy. The BJP leader is making these claims just to remain relevant during the election season as he is eyeing a party ticket.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-accuses-congress-of-bungling-funds-under-garb-of-punjab-nirman-scheme-101641931596901.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Digital services delivery to be 100% by August 2023, says Delhi L-G Anil Baijal||Lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Tuesday said the government would complete 100% delivery of its digital services by August 2023 when Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations would conclude. The L-G made the announcement while reviewing the progress of ongoing programmes and plans under the aegis of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav with senior officials, and directed them to ensure maximum digital engagement of the common people in various programmes. The L-G said he would take this up with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for seamless implementation. Baijal instructed the archives department and the municipal commissioners to identify monuments not already under the ambit of ASI and localities associated with unsung freedom fighters and the freedom struggle in their respective areas, and undertake their upkeep, maintenance and conservation. He also stressed on creating literature, pictographic depiction and setting up statues of the unsung heroes of the struggle for independence. “This would go a long way in remembering and expressing our gratitude towards those who won us our freedom, the L-G said. Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav is an initiative of the Central government to celebrate and commemorate 75 years of independence and the progress the country has made in the last seven decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/digital-services-delivery-to-be-100-by-august-2023-says-delhi-l-g-anil-baijal-101641931537244.html
12-01-2022||Other||Foreign national arrested for making drugs at Karnataka home: Police||Bengaluru: The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru police have arrested a foreign national for allegedly making synthetic drugs at his house using a pressure cooker.In a tweet on Tuesday, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said the accused, identified as one Richards, was arrested from his house in Soladevanahalli police station limits on the outskirts of Bengaluru. The accused came to India on a business visa in 2019, police said, adding that the CCB was on the lookout for an associate of the arrested man. According to police, 900 gm of cocaine, 50 gm of MDMA crystals, 580 gm of sodium hydroxide crystals, worth ₹50 lakh have been recovered from Richards’ possession.“He procured raw material from Mumbai, Delhi and foreign countries. He prepared drugs at home. These drugs were then sent to clients within India and abroad. We are questioning him further to understand how he learnt to make the drugs,” said a senior CCB official, requesting anonymity. On August 17, last year, the CCB had raided a drug manufacturing unit in Bengaluru and four kg of MDMA, a psychoactive drug worth approximately ₹2 crore was seized.As per police data, in 2021, Bengaluru police arrested 5,644 drug peddlers in 4,275 cases and seized around ₹59 crore worth of drugs. This has been the highest narcotics-related arrests and recovery in the city police’s history so far. In comparison, 2,766 cases were registered and 3,673 suspects arrested in 2020. The figure was 768 cases and 1,260 arrested in 2019, police record suggests. According to the data, out of the 4,475 cases registered in 2021, 4,275 were related to the seizure of marijuana, followed by 103 cases of MDMA, 39 of synthetic drugs and other narcotic substances. A total of 3,641.8 kg of drugs over worth ₹59 crore was seized in 2021, against 3,912.81 kg drugs worth over ₹21 crore in 2020 and 1,053.2 kg drugs worth ₹3.4 crore in 2019. While 173 foreigners were arrested in 2021, in 2019, the figure was only 38 and it rose to 84 in 2020. Pant said that during the last two years, there was an emphasis on cracking down on the drug rackets in the city. “All DCPs were asked to give special focus on the drug cases. We were constantly in touch with other departments and central agencies to track interstate peddlers. If you look at the numbers, you will see that we have caught more peddlers selling synthetic drugs. This drive will continue,” said Pant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/foreign-national-arrested-for-making-drugs-at-karnataka-home-police-101641931482901.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid curbs set to dampen Lohri spirits for Ludhiana’s hospitality sector yet again||Hospitality sector does not seem to be out of woods yet as the imposition of night curfew and other Covid restrictions are set to play a spoilsport during Lohri celebrations.The sector rue losses with customers cancelling the scheduled events in banquet halls and palaces in the industrial hub.Night curfew restrictions from 10pm to 5am is said to be the main reason behind event cancellations which were booked till January 13 (Lohri). The members of the hotel and restaurant association said the sector has already been struggling to make ends meet due to lockdown restrictions imposed in the last two years and this has come as another blow to the industry.The owners of banquet halls and palaces said the residents are cancelling the Lohri events, as these events are mostly held at night with residents lighting up bonfire. But due to imposition of night curfew, the units have to be closed by 10pm and it is very difficult to wrap up the celebrations by that time even as the events are allowed with 50 percent gathering.Former Hotel and Restaurant Association president owner of Nagpal Regency, Manjit Singh Nagpal said, “ A few have changed the timings to organise the event during the day. But gatherings have been restricted, which is again a loss for the sector. The owners are struggling to pay bank loan installments, salaries, and power bills, while the customers are asking for refunds of advance payments. The sector is in a very tight situation.”  Paramjeet Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, who had booked a palace at Pakhowal for first Lohri celebration of his grandson on January 7, said, “We were all set for celebrations and invitations were also sent to friends and family but we had to cancel the celebrations at the last moment due to imposition of night curfew. It is not possible to finish the celebrations by 10pm and also fear has been inculcated in the minds of people amid rising cases of virus. The government should atleast inform the public about the restriction in advance so hat everyone could plan accordingly, otherwise it results in losses and harassment.”Citing the rising cases of Covid-19, the sector is further staring at more losses with the wedding season beginning from January 15.President of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Punjab, Amarvir Singh said apart from the losses suffered in context to Lohri celebrations, the sector is staring at losses during the wedding season which starts from January 15. It is suspected that the restrictions will be extended by the administration and the customers have already started calling to postpone the events or restrict the gatherings. “The sector is moving through a rough patch. Even as gatherings are allowed at 50 percent capacity, people are not showing up for holding events,” said Amarvir Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-curbs-set-to-dampen-lohri-spirits-for-ludhiana-s-hospitality-sector-yet-again-101641931481627.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gurcharan Tohra’s grandson Kanwarveer Singh joins BJP||Akali stalwart late Gurcharan Singh Tohra’s grandson Kanwarveer Singh joined the BJP in New Delhi on Tuesday. The Shiromani Akali Dal has fielded no one from the Tohra family for the upcoming state polls. Though Kanwarveer’s mother Kuldeep Kaur and father (former minister) Harmail Singh, both SAD leaders, are yet to clear their stand, the family is toiling hard for a stable political footing. No one from the family has won an election since the 2002 state polls. This is not for the first time that a member of the Tohra family parted ways with the SAD. In 2016, Tohra’s daughter Kuldeep Kaur, her husband Harmel Singh and elder son Harinderpal Singh, had joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Kuldeep Kaur, currently a Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member, had contested on AAP ticket from the Sanour in 2017 but lost to SAD’s Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra by 20,818 votes. Also, she had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 assembly polls as a SAD nominee. The trio rejoined the SAD before the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. For 2022 state polls, the family was expecting ticket from Patiala (Rural) assembly segment but the SAD declared Jaspal Singh Bittu Chatha as its candidate. “It is my personal decision. I am mature enough to decide my political course. I have joined the BJP due to its ideology and decision making,” said Kanwarveer, who got married recently. Meanwhile, his elder brother Harinderpal said his brother informed the family about his decision. “It was a political compulsion for him as Kanwarveer told us that the Akali Dal has not kept its word and ignored the (Tohra) family,” he said. Kanwarveer’s father Harmel Singh and mother Kuldeep Kaur said the family will decide the further course of action after discussion with other members. Harmail won as a SAD candidate from the Dakala constituency (now Sanour) in 1997 and was public works department minister. 
12-01-2022||Noida||Panic in society as two suspects rob mother-daughter at knife point in Gaur City||Noida: A 32-year-old woman and her two-year-old daughter were allegedly held hostage, and robbed at knifepoint by two men in Gaur City in Greater Noida West on Tuesday afternoon, police said.The victim’s husband, 35, said in a complaint that the two suspects entered their flat on the eighth floor of 12th Avenue in Gaur City around 12:30pm on Tuesday, posing as polio vaccinators, when he had gone outside.Yashpal Singh, station house officer (SHO), Bisrakh police station, “According to the complainant, the suspects had identified themselves as polio vaccinators. When the woman told them that her child does not need the polio dose, the suspects asked her for a glass of water. When she went inside to bring water, the suspects held the child at knifepoint and robbed her of her gold jewellery and escaped.”Rakesh Ranjan, president of apartment owners’ association (AOA) of 12th Avenue, said that the woman informed her neighbours and the maintenance office about the incident immediately. “A group of residents gathered outside the housing complex, demanding prompt action against the suspects. Police and the maintenance office staff scanned CCTV footage of lifts and stairs, but could not see suspicious people or suspicious movement there,” Ranjan said.The woman later informed the police that “she got back her valuables, and police are now doubtful about the case”, said officials.SHO Singh said that the police could not trace the suspects from the CCTV footage. “We also scanned CCTV footage from entry and exit gates, but could not see anything suspicious. We are doubtful about the case... The police team left the housing complex in the evening, and around 8pm on Tuesday, the woman called the police on phone, and informed them that she found her stolen jewellery inside a small bag outside her flat,” he added.Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that police are busy in election duties, and “it would be bad if the complaint was false in nature”. “We are investigating the matter to find out who returned the valuables, and action will be taken against the culprits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/panic-in-society-as-two-suspects-rob-mother-daughter-at-knife-point-in-gaur-city-101641931356712.html
12-01-2022||Other||Gang involved in theft of 67 cars busted in Karnataka, 4 arrested: Police||Bengaluru: With the arrest of four persons, the Bengaluru police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a gang of thieves allegedly involved in stealing 67 cars since March last year.According to the police, the accused would approach vehicle owners to hire their cars on rent while pretending to be from a travel agency. While a senior officer said four people have been arrested so far in the case, police have not yet released any details about them as they suspect involvement of more individuals.Police said the main accused in the case is the owner of a travel agency, who took the help of three others for scamming vehicle owners and selling stolen cars. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) North Division, Vinayak Patil, said the thefts began in March last year and the accused would offer up to ₹18,000 for each car as rent, which they paid for the first few months. “Once they convinced enough car owners, they began selling cars with a dealer in Andhra Pradesh and eventually closed their agency in October 2021,” said the officer. The incident came to light in November last year when a case was registered, police said. A special team was formed to investigate the case, which was able to track the suspects and recovered 67 cars, the DCP said. Among the 67 recovered vehicles, there were 12 Toyota Innova Crysta, five Toyota Innova, 10 Toyota Etios, 23 Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire, four Mahindra Verito, one Tata Indigo, nine Hyundai Xcent, one Honda Amaze, one Mahindra Xylo and one Ford Figo. “Documents of all the cars were forged and they were sold in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. There are more cars that are to be recovered and the process is ongoing,” Patil added. There has been a spike in cases of thefts of automobiles in Bengaluru over the last six-eight months. According to the data released by the Bengaluru police, there were 4,126 motor vehicle thefts last year, of which only 915 were traced. The vehicle theft in 2020 was 3,797, of which 1,308 were detected, police data suggests.In November last year, a Bengaluru police constable and his three associates were arrested for stealing two-wheelers in the city. The accused constable has been identified as Honnappa Duradappa Malagi, who is attached with Vidyaranyapura police station. He had recruited the associates for the crime, two of them were minors. The minors were working at a two-wheeler service station in Vidyaranyapura, police said.The two minors allegedly stole vehicles from Nandini Layout, Vijayanagar, Gangamma Circle, Peenya, and other areas. After stealing the vehicles, they rode bikes to Vidyaranyapura’s residence and replaced defective parts. The constable used online advertising platforms to find details of bikes on sale. They then replaced the number plates and sold them in the districts in north Karnataka, police said. A complaint has been filed in this matter on October 29, when a bike was stolen from outside of a businessman’s house in Rajajinagar Industrial Town. Sanjeev M Patil, DCP (west) formed a special team to investigate the matter after which they learnt the role of a constable. 
12-01-2022||Delhi||Ensure extra care to Covid patients with comorbidities: Delhi govt||The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an advisory asking all government and private Covid-19 hospitals to ensure that all patients with co-morbidities are duly attended to by specialists and extra care is ensured in their care.In the advisory, the government said that the Capital has witnessed an uptick in Covid-19 deaths, with over 70 fatalities being reported between the last week of December and January 10. The advisory noted, “...most of the deceased patients suffered from comorbidities such as cancer, heart and liver diseases.“It may be ensured that all Covid-positive patients admitted with various comorbidities or the patients admitted with other serious diseases who turn out to be Covid-positive are duly attended by concerned specialists and due attention is to be given to the patients,” the advisory said.Delhi recorded 21,259 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the active caseload to 74,881. The health bulletin also reported 23 deaths, pushing the Capital’s cumulative toll to 25,200.Data released by the Delhi government on Monday showed that of the patients who died due to Covid-19 in the city between January 5 and 9, 35 out of 46, or 76%, were unvaccinated, and 21, or almost half, were admitted for other reasons before they were detected as infected with coronavirus.In all, 34 of the 46 patients who died had comorbid conditions known to raise the risk of severe Covid-19, and 23 – or 50% -- of all deaths were recorded within a day of the patients being admitted, suggesting their condition was already critical when they received medical attention.The number of deaths classified as Covid fatalities has been rising over the last few days in Delhi. On Sunday, Delhi reported 17 Covid deaths—the highest since June 16. There were 17 deaths on Monday as well. On Tuesday, the count went up to 23.“Medical directors/medical superintendents of all hospitals are directed to issue necessary directions to all concerned to put in place prompt and appropriate systems in their hospital to ensure compliance of timely management of hospital admissions as per protocol, proper treatment protocol, satisfactory levels of patient care and analysis of Covid-19 deaths,” the advisory said.A senior official of the Delhi government’s health department said that while the Omicron variant of coronavirus is largely leading to milder symptoms, that last for a shorter duration than symptoms caused by other variants, senior citizens and patients with comorbid conditions are still at high risk.“We still need more analysis of the reasons behind the spike in deaths due to Covid-19 over the last two-three days, but what we currently know is that these patients belonged to the high-risk category. This is why we have issued these special directions to put special focus on the care of comorbid patients,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Health experts also said that while infection from the Omicron variant might not cause deaths per se, but people older population, with conditions such as diabetes, heart conditions and liver and kidney problems, are more vulnerable to the virus.“The virus has not created comorbidities, but India has a large share of a vulnerable elderly population, and also a generally high anaemic population, along with poor health-seeking behaviour. The combination of the three issues gives us a population that is vulnerable to collapse the moment they are infected. The death rate, vis-a-vis the infections, is still a small share,” said Dr GS Grewal, president of the Delhi Medical Association.
12-01-2022||Other||Only 6% Covid patients hospitalised in Karnataka so far this year: Govt data||Bengaluru: Of the 62,691 Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka between December 31, 2021 and January 11, only 6% required hospitalisation, according to the data released by the Karnataka health department on Tuesday. The other 93% of the Covid-19 patients during this time only required home isolation, it added. The department also said that the number of hospitalisations in the state has come down compared to the first week of December in 2021. According to data, between January 1, 2021 and January 7, 2021, a total of 3,151 cases were reported in Karnataka and during this period, 23% of patients were hospitalised. While only 3% were in Covid Care Centres, 74% were preferred home isolation, the data suggests. Karnataka on Tuesday registered 14,473 new coronavirus cases. As per the bulletin released by the state health department, the active cases in the state stand at 73,260. Bengaluru Urban’s single-day tally stood at 10,800. As many as 5 deaths due to coronavirus were reported in the state on Tuesday, the death toll in the state has risen to 38,379. The state recorded 1,356 discharges from hospitals on Tuesday, taking the total discharges to 29,66,461. So far, Karnataka has seen 30,78,129 positive cases since the start of the pandemic in March 2020. The positivity rate for the day stands at 10.3% while the case fatality rate for the day is 0.03 %. Of the five deaths, three are from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Kolar and Uttara Kannada. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada recorded the second-highest of 583 new cases, Mysuru 562, Tumakuru 332, Mandya 263, Udupi 250, followed by others. 
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid curbs: Ludhiana gym owners seek reopening of gyms at 50% capacity||Gym owners raked state government over the coals for their decision to order a complete shutdown of gyms amid rising cases of Covid-19, and submitted a memorandum with deputy commissioner’s (DC) office on Tuesday seeking reopening of gyms. Giving reference of the relief orders issued by administration in Bathinda and Sri Muktsar Sahib to open gyms at 50 percent capacity, the representatives of the fitness sector under the banner of Gym Ekta Welfare Association, demanded the same.Ruing losses, the owners termed the decision taken by the government ‘unfair’ and ‘irrational’ as all other sectors have been allowed to operate with 50 percent capacity. They said they were not even able to recover from the losses suffered due to lockdown in the past and this decision will further bring many gyms on the verge of closure again. As per the orders issued by the state government on January 4, gyms in the state (except those being used by sports persons participating in international, and national-level contests) will remain closed till January 15. However, bars, cinema halls, malls, restaurants were allowed to operate at 50 percent capacity.General secretary of Punjab Gym Welfare Society Pardeep Appu said, “Surprisingly, the fitness industry is being targeted for improving the health of the residents. How will we be able to pay the rent, power bills and salaries for the staff. If gyms can be opened in Bathinda and Sri Muktsar Sahib, then why not in Ludhiana. We will take all the precautions.”“We are not able to understand why gyms have been closed and no restrictions have been imposed on holding political rallies wherein thousands of people gather. Many gym owners will be forced to shut down their units permanently if no relief is provided. Last year too, a few gym owners were forced to commit suicide due to financial constraints,” saidAppu.The gym owners also announced to launch an agitation if no relief is provided to them in the coming two days. The sector had also launched an agitation last year as the gyms remained closed for around five months due to Covid restrictions imposed by the government. “We have been struggling to make ends meet and if the government does not pay heed to our problem, we will be forced to move on roads. Thousands of families are dependent on the sector and closure of gyms will also lead to unemployment. With the imposition of Model Code of Conduct, DC has the power and we appeal him to save the sector,” said Ramesh Bangar, director of Gym Ekta Welfare Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-curbs-ludhiana-gym-owners-seek-reopening-of-gyms-at-50-capacity-101641930938210.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Dense fog spell delays early flights||Delhi recorded its second “dense fog” spell of the season on Tuesday, with visibility dropping down to about 50 metres at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) 5am onwards, delaying over 50 flights until 9am but not resulting in any cancellations.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said rain over the weekend brought sufficient moisture to Delhi, which may lead to spells of moderate to dense fog in the coming days as well.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said the Palam observatory recorded a visibility of 50 metres between 5am and 7am; it improved marginally to around 100 metres at 8.30am before getting better 9,30am onwards. “This is the first time this winter season that CAT-III procedures for low visibility were initiated at the Delhi airport, for which readings at Palam observatory are considered. In comparison, Safdarjung station reported moderate fog,” he said.Delhi last reported about one hour of dense fog on December 29.IMD classifies fog to be “dense” when visibility drops below 200 metres, while it is classified as “very dense” when it drops below 50 metres. A visibility between 200 and 500 metres is “moderate” while between 500 and 1000 metres is classified as “shallow” fog. Jenamani said there was high probability of Delhi recording dense fog in the next two days.“The entire northern plains are now seeing moderate to dense fog. This is the first prolonged spell for Delhi,” Jenamani said.An airport official said while no cancellations or diversions were reported on account of fog, several flights were delayed in the morning. “Despite low visibility procedures being initiated, operations were still smooth at the airport,” h he said.Delhi has also seen a sharp drop in the minimum temperature over the last 48 hours, with colder winds now blowing towards the Capital from snow-clad mountains, where fresh snowfall was reported over the weekend. On Tuesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature was recorded at 6.5 degrees Celsius – one degree below normal and a drop of nearly 3 degrees from Monday’s minimum of 9.6 degrees.An IMD forecast said the minimum to remain between 6-8 degrees Celsius till the end of this week, while Delhi’s maximum, which was recorded at 18.3 degrees on Tuesday, could hover between 18-20 degrees.Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) spiked in the last 24 hours, deteriorating to the “poor” category with a reading of 224, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. It was 151 (moderate) on Monday.Agencies have forecast that the air quality may worsen in the next three days, on account of low wind speed. “Delhi’s air quality will remain ‘poor’ for the next three days, but from January 15, an improvement is expected due to wind speeds picking up, leading to strong ventilation near the surface,” said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dense-fog-spell-delays-early-flights-101641930368853.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 38-year-old man booked for rape of live-in partner’s minor daughter||A 38-year-old man has been booked for allegedly raping the 10-year-old daughter of his live-in partner.The FIR has been registered on the complaint of the victim’s mother. In her statement to the police, the woman said that her husband had deserted her about six years ago and she has been raising her daughter alone.About two years ago, she came in contact with the accused, who used to work as a driver. After mutual agreement, they got into a live-in relationship.A few months ago, the accused lost his job and started idling away his time at home while the responsibility of running the family fell upon the complainant, who is a labourer. On Monday, when she returned home, her daughter told her that the accused had raped her and threatened her against revealing the incident to anyone. When the woman confronted the accused, he started abusing her and fled the spot. Following this, she lodged a police complaint. Moti Nagar station house officer (SHO) inspector Ravinder Kumar said a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against the accused, who is currently on the run. Police have launched a manhunt for him, the SHO added. Labourer arrested for minor’s rape A day after an FIR was lodged, police on Tuesday arrested a labourer for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl and impregnating her.The accused Nitish Kumar of Rishi Nagar, who is married, was arrested following a tip-off.Was trying to flee citySub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, station house officer (SHO) at PAU police station, said the accused was trying to escape from the city to avoid arrest. ‘The victim is eight months pregnant. She lodged a complaint with police on January 10,” said SHO Rajinderpal.According to the victim, the accused lives near her house. The accused had been exploiting her for over a year and threatening her to not tell anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-38-year-old-man-booked-for-rape-of-live-in-partner-s-minor-daughter-101641930398224.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Pune district sees 6,161 new Covid cases, 6 deaths||Pune: On Tuesday, Pune district reported 6,161 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths. This takes the progressive count to 1.20 million, of which 1.15 million have recovered, 20,212 is the deaths toll and 28,201 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 79,514 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 962 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 375,478. The death toll stands at 7,051 as three more deaths were reported on Tuesday. Pune city reported 3,531 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 549,244. The death toll stands at 9,283 as three more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 1,668 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 279,974 with the death toll at 3,528 as no more deaths were reported on the day. Pune district also saw 79,514 vaccinations on the day as per CoWin dashboard on Tuesday. Of the total of 15.85 million doses that have been administered in the district, 9.12 million are first doses and 6.72 million are second doses. A total of 707 sites saw vaccinations, of which 529 are government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-6-161-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-101641930396831.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Marital rape: All women have the right to say ‘no’||Every woman, married or unmarried, has a right to say “no”, and the fact that a married woman has other civil and criminal remedies does not mean marital rape should not to be taken seriously, the Delhi high court on Tuesday observed.A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar, while hearing a clutch of petitions to criminalise marital rape, questioned how the dignity of a married woman is different from that of an unmarried woman.“Why is it different for a unmarried woman? How does it affects an unmarried woman’s dignity, but not a married woman’s dignity? Whether she is married or not, she has a right to say ‘no’. Have 50 other countries (where marital rape is a criminal offence) got it wrong? I find it difficult to appreciate when you are saying that there are other remedies and hence, there is no violation of Article 21 (right to life and liberty). The question is whether it is an offence or not, and whether this offence is tenable under our Constitution,” justice Shakdher, speaking for the bench, observed.The judge added that the exception in the rape law (Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code) creates a “firewall” from making marital rape an offence, and it has to be tested on the anvil of Article 14 (right to equality) and Article 21 of the Constitution.An exception clause in Section 375 in the IPC decriminalises marital rape, and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape.“A woman remains a woman. You can show us the section, but jurisdiction after jurisdictions, it has been held that merely because you are married, it is not a good enough to say that it is not an offence,” remarked the bench as it questioned the submissions by the Delhi government counsel Nandita Rao.Rao argued that since a married woman has the remedies of lodging a complaint for domestic violence, grievous hurt, or get divorced on the grounds of cruelty, there would be no violation of her rights under Article 21 of the Constitution.On Monday, the bench observed that even though there can be no compromise on the bodily autonomy of a woman, marital rape may not be treated as a prosecutable offence because of the qualitative difference between a marital and non-marital relationship. The court was hearing PILs by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, and two individuals, who have sought removal of the exception to Section 375, saying that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.The central government, in its affidavit filed in 2018, maintained that marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing the husband.Last week, the city government said that courts do not have the power to create a new offence even as it argued that marital rape is treated as a “crime of cruelty” in India.On Tuesday, Rao argued, “There is no dispute that a woman has the right to bodily integrity; she has a right to say no. Just because this is not a criminal offence under Sections 375, does that create a compulsion on a woman to have sex with her husband? The answer is no. She has a remedy to have divorce on the ground of cruelty. This is under Hindu and Muslim law. She also has a right to register a criminal case under Section 498A (cruelty)of IPC. As of today, FIRs have been registered by the spouses under sections 377 (carnal intercourse), 498A and 326 (grievous hurt) of IPC.”To this, the court asked what is the remedy available to a woman in case her husband forces himself on her, despite her refusing to have sexual intercourse. “You are saying that she can go and seek divorce on the ground that she doesn’t want to cohabitate. That is not the point. The point is an offence has taken place. The exception created a firewall. Is that firewall justifiable on the test of Article 14 and 21? It is only that particular narrow aspect that we have look into,” justice Shakdher said.Rao said the existence of the exception to Section 375 does not take away a woman’s right to say “no” in a marriage, and stressed that the sections applied in case of a married woman are different to those applicable in case of an unmarried woman.The court will continue to hear the matter on Wednesday. 
12-01-2022||Noida||Three arrested for involvement in ATM fraud in Noida, sent to judicial custody||Three persons were arrested on Wednesday night for allegedly manipulating an ATM and fraudulently withdrawing ₹6 lakh in Noida. The suspects were identified as Zubair Azad, 21, Rashid, 19, and Kalim,20, all residents of Palwal in Haryana. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Noida, said on January 9, the manager of a public sector bank filed a complaint at the Sector 20 police station that money was fraudulently withdrawn from one of their ATMs. “The manager informed us that some suspects had manipulated the ATM in Noida’s Sector 31 and withdrawn ₹6 lakh in multiple transactions,” he said. A case was registered against unknown persons the same day under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. The police said they launched an investigation into the matter. “We scanned the CCTV footage from the ATM and identified the suspects. The police team was deployed near the same ATM to arrest the suspects in case they returned. On Wednesday, around 11.15pm, the three suspects reached the ATM in a Maruti Swift Dzire and the police arrested them,” he said. The police seized the car, ₹21,000 cash, three mobile phones and two debit cards from them. During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they used to visit the ATM and often withdraw cash. “When the machine dispensed the cash, the suspects would grab the cash and push a few notes back into the machine. Once the notes went inside, the machine’s system showed a failed transaction. In such circumstances, the amount is not deducted from the holders’ account,” police said. These suspects used this trick to manipulate the machine and fraudulently withdraw cash. Two suspects used to enter the ATM kiosk while the third stood guard and alerted them in case anyone was approaching. The suspects have been involved in these fraudulent activities for the past six months, police said. The three men were produced before the court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-arrested-for-involvement-in-atm-fraud-in-noida-sent-to-judicial-custody-101641930216799.html
12-01-2022||Other||Covid-19 curbs will continue till end of January as cases rise: Karnataka CM||Bengaluru: All Covid-19 restrictions in the state will continue till the end of January, said chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday, adding that deputy commissioners have been asked to order the closure of schools and other educational institutes based on the situation of cases in each district.“The meeting discussed the rise in cases among school children. A decision has been taken to authorise the deputy commissioners of respective districts to take a call on closing schools based on the number of cases, reports from the BEOs and health officers,” read a communication from the chief minister’s office (CMO).The decision came following a high-level meeting convened by the chief minister to review the pandemic situation in the state with senior government officials and members of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19. The meeting was held virtually, which the CM attended from a personal residence in RT Nagar, a day after he tested positive for coronavirus.Karnataka on Tuesday registered 14,473 new Covid-19 cases, with Bengaluru accounting for 10,800 new infections, the health department said in its bulletin. The active case tally of Bengaluru has gone past 59,000 while the tally in the state as on Tuesday rose to 73,260, the bulletin added. A total of five deaths related to Covid-19 were reported from across the state on Tuesday, taking the toll to 38,379.The positivity rate in the state stood at 10.30%.Health and family welfare minister Dr K Sudhakar, education minister BC Nagesh, home minister Araga Jnanendra, chief secretary P Ravikumar, TAC chairman Dr Sudarshan along with other members of the panel, and senior government officials participated in the meeting.The daily night curfew and weekend lockdown restrictions imposed earlier in the state were to end on January 19. The education and health departments were directed to jointly conduct general health check-ups of all students in the schools across the state once a fortnight. Talukas as well as district hospitals have been asked to reserve children’s wards and ICUs for the treatment of Covid-infected children.“The district health officers have also been directed to ensure sufficient stocks of the necessary medicines for the treatment of Covid positive children. The meeting directed the Senior Police Officers and Deputy Commissioners to strictly enforce the Covid restrictions in all public places,” read the statement.It was also decided in the meeting that with Makara Sankranti, Vaikunta Ekadashi and other festivals coming up, the revenue and Muzrai departments will issue separate guidelines on the restrictions to be followed during the festivals in order to prevent the surge in Covid-19 cases.Further, the chief minister also announced that strict action will be taken against public gatherings and those found to be violating the Covid-19 restrictions. Police have been directed to monitor public gatherings, especially ahead of the Makara Sankranti.The meeting also decided that 27 new Covid care centres will be started in the city and the daily testing will be increased up to 130,000 within BBMP limits. The meeting directed officials to ensure that large gatherings of crowds were prevented in markets and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-curbs-will-continue-till-end-of-january-as-cases-rise-karnataka-cm-101641930096930.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||No new taxes next fiscal, say Delhi municipal corporations||The standing committees of the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) have made it clear that no new taxes proposed in the budgets by respective civic commissioners will be imposed in the next financial year. Though the BJP justified it as a pro-public move during the times of pandemic, the Opposition AAP took pot shots saying it is the “BJP’s farewell gesture” in the poll year. The municipal corporations are due to go to the polls in April this year. Col (retired) BK Oberoi, the chairman of the standing committee of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), said before giving the final shape to the budget on January 18, they were holding consultations with the ward members and general public. “We can’t burden our residents with new taxes, particularly during the ongoing pandemic. In fact, we are discussing how we can reduce the existing tax rate to give them relief,” he said. According to the SDMC sources, the standing committee is likely to continue with the recommendations of the third municipal valuation committee (MVC), which had asked to implement partial rollback of the property tax hike that was enforced in last financial year. “Besides, the education cess, which is presently being charged on the basis of the ratable value of the property, will now be taken like the income tax. All the recommendations of hike in property tax, made by the SDMC commissioner in his budget speech, are also expected to be rejected. Not only that, the standing committee may also suggest reducing the property tax,” said a senior SDMC official, who asked not to be named. Jogiram Jain, chairman of the standing committee of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, also said that no new tax will be imposed this year. “The fact is that we can’t compensate our dues on the Delhi government, by putting tax burden on our residents. Our main focus will be on generating money from internal resources. No new tax will be levied this year,” he said. Shyam Sunder Agarwal, the mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), said instead of imposing new taxes or recommending hike in the current rates, the EDMC will encourage its residents for one time settlement, with waiver from penalty and interest. “We can’t pressure our residents during the ongoing pandemic situation. The need of the hour is to provide them relief,” he said. The principal opposition Aam Aadmi Party, however, termed the assurances by the three corporations as too little, too late, and it was the last ditch bid by the BJP to hold on to power. AAP leader and party’s MCD in-charge, Durgesh Pathak, also said that the BJP leaders in the fund-starved MCDs are promising moon to the voters. “After five years of failure on all fronts, they want to woo them with false promises. Have they returned the extra education cess charged from the residents? The voters have already made up their minds, and this budget will be the farewell budget of the BJP,” he said.Senior Congress leader and Andrews Ganj councillor, Abhishek Dutt, said the decision of not imposing any new tax will not do any magic to the BJP’s prospects in the municipal elections. “They (the BJP leaders) know that their budget recommendations for the fiscal 2022-23 will prove a mere folly in just two months as the elections will be held in the second month of budget coming into effect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-new-taxes-next-fiscal-say-delhi-municipal-corporations-101641930037979.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rule to associate independent witness in drug seizure cases not absolute: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that in ‘chance recovery’ cases, prosecution cases do not get vitiated merely because of the fact that an independent witness was not present at the time of the seizure. “There is no hard and fast rule that an independent witness is required to be associated in every case. It is a rule of prudence only and not an absolute rule that the recovery must be witnessed by an independent person,” the high court bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill said, dismissing a bunch of bail and suspension of sentence petitions based on argument that police didn’t rope in independent witnesses and a gazetted officer during the seizure. The court further added that in ‘chance recovery’ cases, the contentions of not effecting recovery by a gazetted officer or a magistrate will not hold ground. Such seizures cannot be said to be a case of recovery pursuant to personal search of the accused, it added. In one case, the FIR was registered on seizure from two persons coming on a motorcycle, who upon noticing the police party tried to take a U-turn. In the process, they slipped and a plastic bag kept between them fell off, from which the police recovered drugs. The police in this case had failed to effect seizure in the presence of a gazetted officer and independent witness could also not be associated. In the second case, a person booked in 2016 in a drugs case was awarded 10 years imprisonment and had sought suspension of the sentence. In this case, too, no independent witness joined the probe. “The testimonies of official witnesses, who effected the recovery and conducted investigation in discharge of their official duties, cannot be doubted merely on account of non-joining of independent witness,” the bench recorded. In the third case, registered in SBS Nagar in June 2021, the police had booked a person for possessing drugs. As per the police, he, upon noticing a police party, threw away a packet he was carrying. The packet, when examined, contained drugs. In this case, too, no independent witness was associated with the probe and a gazetted officer also did not conduct the search. The prosecution had claimed that it was a case of “chance recovery” from an envelope thrown by the accused and there is no question of compliance of provisions of Section 50 of the Act or for association of any independent witness. The person was booked in a drugs seizure case earlier too. The court in this too denied bail, observing that he cannot be given relief merely because of the fact that seizure was not made in the presence of a gazetted officer and an independent witness did not join the police. 
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Posing as cops, seven miscreants commit robbery at dera in Ludhiana’s Raqba village||Impersonating police personnel, a gang of seven miscreants targeted a religious dera in Raqba village of Mullanpur Dakha on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday and fled with cash and four mobile phones.The Dakha police have registered an FIR against unidentified persons and started investigation. It is for the second time in 23 days that robbery has been committed at a religious place in Ludhiana. The FIR has been lodged on the statement of Lekh Raj of Mundian Kalan, who is a follower of Dera Bhuri Wale Sant Ashram in Raqba village.Lekh Raj said he was present in the Dera when the accused, wearing police uniforms, barged in after scaling the compound wall.The accused claimed that they are cops and had information about presence of weapons in the dera, so they wanted to carry out a search.Lekh Raj said he found the men suspicious and raised the alarm, following which the latter thrashed him and locked him up in a room.The accused then ransacked other rooms in the dera and took away four mobile phones and some cash. The next morning some devotees freed Lekh Raj following which he informed the police. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hamir Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 458 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint), 380 (burglary), 342 (wrongful confinement), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offense committed in prosecution of common object) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused. The dera followers are still trying to ascertain how much money was lost in the incident. Police are going through closed-circuit television cameras installed in the vicinity to identify the accused. On December 18, 2021, some men posing as cops had targeted a dera in Ranian village of Dehlon and robbed ₹1.65 lakh cash, a mobile phone and two silver bracelets after injuring the dera head and his followers. The Dehlon police had registered an FIR against unidentified accused, but have so far had no headway in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/posing-as-cops-seven-miscreants-commit-robbery-at-dera-in-ludhiana-s-raqba-village-101641929978201.html
12-01-2022||Pune||RAT on Pune ZP staff shows 7% Covid positivity rate||Pune: Of the fully vaccinated 302 district administration employees who underwent a rapid antigen testing, 21 tested positive for the infection. These employees had got vaccinated in the second phase when frontline workers became eligible for vaccination. Fearing that zilla parishad (ZP) employees could also turn out to be super spreaders, the Pune district administration decided to test the workers and ensure early isolation. With 21 employees tested positive for the infection, the positivity rate among the employees who are fully vaccinated came close to 6.9%. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) of Pune zilla parishad, said, “We had recently reported a few positive cases from the office and so we decided to test all employees as they could turn out to be super spreaders. Even during the peak of lockdown, our office was working with 100% capacity to expedite the process of vaccination and surveillance. We could not test all the employees due to their work commitments, however, of the 302 employees that we did test, we could report 21 new Covid cases. These are fully vaccinated employees. Some of them did show symptoms like fatigue, dehydration and also cough with phlegm, however they assumed that it could have been because of change in climate or other reasons. Hence, we will now arrange a booster dose campaign for our employees on Wednesday and Thursday.” As more breakthrough infections continue to be reported, the demand for precautionary doses also goes up. On the second day since the central government announced that the third dose would be administered as a precautionary dose, Pune district saw over 14 thousand doses administered as the third dose to senior citizens with comorbidities, frontline workers and also healthcare workers in the last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/raton-pune-zp-staff-shows-7-covid-positivity-rate-101641929976668.html
12-01-2022||Noida||8 cyber fraudsters held for duping retired NTCP Limited official of ₹1.42 crore||Noida: Police arrested eight people on Tuesday for allegedly impersonating as insurance agents and duping a retired general manager of a leading Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) in Noida of ₹1.42 crore for four years, officials said.The suspects used the money to buy properties in Dehradun and Ghaziabad, and high-end vehicles including a Harley-Davidson motorcycle, according to police. They have cheated nearly 300 people in the past five years, said police. The matter came to light after the victim -- Riyaz Hasan, 60, a resident of Noida Sector 62 -- filed a complaint about the same at the Sector 58 police station on April 13, 2021.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida, said, “Hasan, who voluntarily retired from National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) Limited in 2019, got a lump sum amount as retirement benefits from his company.”Hasan said in the complaint that he got a call from a person, who identified himself as AK Tripathi, a representative of an insurance company, in 2017. “Tripathi allured me to purchase seven insurance policies with high returns... Soon, two other suspects called and convinced me to buy four more policies. So, I bought 11 policies in total between 2017 and 2021,” Hasan said. DCP Rajesh said that the “suspects perceived Hasan as a vulnerable target and started demanding more money”. “The suspects started calling Hasan and demanding ₹100,000 to ₹200,000 installments randomly, saying that the policies would be cancelled if he did not make the payments. Between 2017 and 2021, Hasan transferred ₹14,274,330 to the bank accounts of three of the suspects,” he said. In April 2021, Hasan visited the insurance company’s office in Noida to enquire about his insurance policies, but was informed by the officials that they had no policy in his name. That is when the victim realised that he fell prey to a fraud and filed a complaint, and an FIR was also registered at the Sector 58 police station on April 13 last year. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida, said the three suspects switched off their cellphones and went incommunicado around that time as they sensed something was wrong after the victim stopped giving anymore money.“Initially, it was difficult to trace them, however, we managed to join the dots and zero down the suspects during the investigation for months... We conducted a search at their hideouts in Ghaziabad’s Dasna on Tuesday and arrested all the eight suspects for their involvement in the fraud case,” ADCP Singh said. Police identified the mastermind as Niraj Kumar alias Nikhil Pradhan, 35, a resident of Meerut. He is an MBA. His accomplice Amar Pal alias Ram Pratap alias Atal (an MCA), 30, is a resident of Ghaziabad’s Masuri. Four other suspects -- Vikas Kumar alias AK Tripathi, 28, Sohan alias AK Gupta, 30, Sushil alias Sunil, 26, and Swati Sethia, alias Preeti Tyagi, 35 -- are all residents of Ghaziabad’s Loni. Two other suspects -- Shah Rukh Khan alias Rihan, 29, and Azharuddin alias Shambhu Nath, 30 -- are residents of Bulandshahr. All the eight suspects were arrested from Ghaziabad on Tuesday.“The suspects revealed during interrogation that they previously worked at different insurance companies in Noida, and they used the same data and knowledge to cheat Hasan,” ADCP Singh added. The police have recovered ₹4,755,000, a Harley-Davidson motorcycle, four cars, 16 smartphones, 85 Aadhaar cards, six laptops, and several other documents from the possession of the suspects. The suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday. Police organised a press conference at the ADCP office in Noida Sector 14-A on Tuesday afternoon, where the suspects were also present. The main suspect -- Niraj Kumar -- denied all the charges against him and said, “I have been framed in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/8-cyber-fraudsters-held-for-duping-retired-ntcp-limited-official-of-1-42-crore-101641929857049.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Maurya’s switch to SP charges up political atmosphere in UP||LUCKNOW At 2.15pm on Tuesday, when Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, while sitting at the party’s Janeshwar Mishra Trust premises, tweeted a picture of himself with the BJP government’s minister Swami Prasad Maurya, a group of SP workers at the party’s state headquarters nearby erupted in jubilation after reading the post. One in the group exulted: “BJP khatm” (BJP is wiped out), followed by others who chorused: “BJP khatm”.An hour later, Akhilesh tweeted a message that ended with “BJP khatm”.The crowd at the SP office saw a cold Tuesday turn into a “politically surcharged day” in the state.Earlier in the day, Akhilesh Yadav had been discussing ticket distribution with his uncle and party’s national general secretary Ramgopal Yadav at the party office. After that, he drove alone to the Janeshwar Mishra Trust just about 200 meters away. Maurya joined Akhilesh at the Trust premises, where they stayed together for about 35 minutes after 11am onwards. After Maurya left the place, a picture of the two together -- all smiles -- standing side by side went viral on social media.Maurya had sent his resignation to the Governor through one of the three BJP MLAs who had quit their seats during the day. Subsequently, a celebration of sorts happened outside the SP office, followed by speculations about who all were joining the SP and about some from the SP headed towards the BJP.Around 4pm, when SP founder and chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav drove to the SP office, there were speculations that Shivpal may merge his Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-L (PSP-L) with the SP. However, Shivpal’s camp denied any such development “at this stage”, saying that Shivpal did not meet Ramgopal or Akhilesh since morning. A party source said Mulayam came to the party office in a sequence that was unrelated to Swami Prasad Maurya or related developments. “He just came here the way he came yesterday – to interact with party workers,” added the source.Though Akhilesh’s tweet made it clear that Maurya was in, the SP did not make any official announcement that Maurya or some other MLAs with Maurya had joined the party.“Perhaps on Makar Sankranti, there will be a big press conference by Akhilesh ji where Maurya, along with other MLAs, will join the SP,” a senior party leader said over the phone.Maurya is not the first leader from the rival camps (BJP, Congress, or BSP) shaking hands with Akhilesh. The trend is on since July 2019. But he is the first minister headed towards the SP ahead of the UP Assembly elections.Swami Prasad Maurya shook hands with the SP five years after the “first invitation” by Akhilesh Yadav ahead of the 2017 polls. At a press conference, Akhilesh had openly said that he would like Maurya to join the SP. In August 2016, Maurya had joined the BJP leaving behind the BSP. Akhilesh Yadav, at another press conference, had remarked: “Galat party mein chaley gaye hain (he has gone to the wrong party).”
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Rising Covid-19 cases: Long queues at Lucknow hospitals as people rush to get tested||The number of people scrambling for RT-PCR tests, facing long lines, jostling for space at government hospitals like Shyama Prasad Mukherji, Balrampur, LokBandhu hospitals of Lucknow, keeps growing daily.Around 1.53 lakh tests have been performed in the last one week, said ACMO, Dr Milind Vardhan.“We are testing aggressively and tracing every contact to control the pandemic. On December 1, last year, we were testing around 8,000 people daily in the district but now we are testing between 22 to 24,000 suspected patients and their contacts daily. There has been a three-fold increase in testing to control the spread of the virus.“No other district in the state is testing as many people as Lucknow. The city is followed by Gautam Buddh Nagar which is testing around 11,000 people per day. The figures include the numbers from private labs and other hospitals like SGPGIMS, Lohia Hospital and the airport.“Different departments are coordinating for contact-tracing of patients. This is helping us in maximum use of resources and manpower. Every report is available online in just 24 hours. There is strict monitoring of every report from the higher authorities,” Dr Wardhan said.Meanwhile, in the state around 2.05 lakh tests were performed on Tuesday. According to a senior health official between 1.8 and 2 lakh people are being tested every day. Till now 9,50,58,609 Covid-19 tests have been performed in the state.A private lab official performing Covid-19 tests confirmed that the number of people seeking tests has doubled in the last one month. There are a number of air travellers going abroad or to other cities who want quick reports. They get tested at recognised private labs instead of depending on government labs for results, as delayed reports in the government system is a usual thing, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rising-covid-19-cases-long-queues-at-lucknow-hospitals-as-people-rush-to-get-tested-101641929741124.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two found with 50 spools of banned kite strings, one arrested||A Dhandhra Road resident was arrested on Tuesday for carrying 50 spools of banned plastic kite string in a Toyota Innova car near Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Inter-state Bus Terminal. The police have seized the vehicle, whereas the accomplice managed to escape.The accused Himmat Kumar, 22, of City Enclave of Dhandhra road and his aide Neeraj, had borrowed one of their friends’ car to carry the spools.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Civil Lines) Harish Behl, said ASI Gurcharanjit Singh, incharge at police post Bus Stand, stopped the car for checking. When frisked, the police recovered 50 spools of plastic kite string from the car.The accused told police that someone had handed over the spools to him which he was going to sell further.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Division number 5 police station. ACP Harish said the commissioner of police has already banned the storage and sale of plastic kite string under Section 144 of CrPC, terming it dangerous for humans as well as animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-found-with-50-spools-of-banned-kite-strings-one-arrested-101641929677167.html
12-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: Farmers protest non-procurement of paddy||PRAYAGRAJ: Farmers of Shankargarh, protesting under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) against non-procurement of their produce (paddy), were stopped near the grain procurement centre at Surval Sahni in trans-Yamuna area of the district on Tuesday. They were trying to move towards the Collectorate for a peaceful protest. The farmers led by BKU leader Anuj Singh have been staging protest at the purchase centre for last many days. They claimed that their produce was not being purchased at the centre. On Monday, they also staged a demonstration against the district administration. On Tuesday, farmers on several tractors left the purchase centre at Surval Sahni left for the Collectorate. However, police stopped them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-farmers-protest-non-procurement-of-paddy-101641929616662.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||NHAI puts ₹700-crore greenfield alignment project in Mohali on hold||Finding farmers’ demand for enhanced compensation for land acquisition financially unviable, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has put on hold the ambitious 32-kilometre greenfield project in Mohali.The ₹700-crore road was planned from IT Chowk (PR-7) near the Chandigarh International Airport to the Kurali-Chandigarh road to decongest Chandigarh and Zirakpur by providing an alternative route to traffic coming from Delhi and going to Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.The authority’s decision comes after it had already accorded approval for increasing the compensation for land acquisition in September last year, following protests by land owners, mostly farmers. While earlier NHAI was to pay between ₹24 lakh and ₹4.12 crore per acre, depending on the location, it had agreed to pay between ₹1 crore and ₹1.12 crore per acre to those who were to get ₹24 lakh per acre.It had also released ₹450 crore to acquire 450 acres in 28 villages to construct the 32-km road, but four months later, it now does not find it feasible to proceed with the project.A senior official of NHAI, privy to the developments, said the authority did not find the enhanced compensation workable and had stalled the project for now. Mohali district revenue officer (DRO) Gurdev Singh said they had written a letter to NHAI regarding proceeding with the project, but they had not received any response for the past three months.According to sources, NHAI has already written to authorities concerned for scrapping the project and approval is awaited.NHAI had come up with the greenfield project after scrapping the project to widen the 40-km Kharar-Banur-Tepla road in July 2019, owing to its high cost. Ashoka Buildcon Limited was finalised to carry out the project. A greenfield road is built in an area that has never been developed. In February 2020, member of Parliament Manish Tewari had also taken up the matter of an alternative route with Union minister Nitin Gadkari, following which the Centre in its letter had stated that NHAI was checking the feasibility of a greenfield section.
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Vegetable prices rise by 15-25% after rain||Having stabilised in December, vegetable prices have again started rising at apni mandis in Chandigarh this month, after the last week’s rain spells damaged the crop. Prices of most vegetables have gone up by 15-25%, and are likely to increase further in the coming days. However, tomatoes are available for the same price as last week ( ₹40 per kilogram) while brinjal prices doubled from ₹20 to ₹40.“Winds and heavy rains around this time of the year are unusual and bad for crops. Crops like potatoes, cauliflower, spinach and peas have been affected the most, as they grow at the ground level,” said Satbir Singh, mandi supervisor, Punjab Mandi Board, adding that supply shortage in the coming days is expected to hike the vegetable prices even further. Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, apni mandis have been directed to close by 5pm. Although mandi officials welcomed the administration’s decision to at least allow them to operate, unlike during previous lockdowns, they said it leads to crowding around 4:30pm. Meanwhile, the entry of general public has been stopped at the wholesale market in Sector 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhvegetable-prices-rise-by-15-25-after-rain-101641929567686.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||PGIMER: Own staffers account for 50% admitted Covid patients||Of 144 Covid-19 patients admitted at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) by Monday evening, 76 were institute’s own healthcare workers, the hospital authorities said on Tuesday. For the PGIMER, the high positivity rate among staffers is an added worry as it already suffers from inadequate staff to cater to patient load from across the region. Since December 20, around 827 healthcare workers were found positive for Covid-19 at the institute. As many as 355 of them are doctors, including junior and senior residents and faculty members. On Tuesday alone, 195 staffers, including 65 doctors, tested positive. According to the PGIMER, 95% of them had received both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, and have only mild symptoms.“The healthcare workers, especially doctors and nurses, come in direct contact with hundreds of patients daily. Not only from the Covid-19 ward or emergency ward, but staffers of almost all departments are found infected,” said PGIMER officiating director Dr Surjit Singh.Dr Singh most of the admitted healthcare workers include resident doctors and only a few are faculty members. “They have mild symptoms but are hospitalised because we could not isolate them at the hostel, as it could increase transmissibility of the infection among other resident doctors,” he said.“We are taking all measures to control infection spread in the institute. Walk-in OPDs have already been suspended. All hostel messes have been turned into ‘take away’ eateries. All sport events and tournaments have been cancelled and indoor courts closed,” said the officiating director.82% reserved oxygen beds occupiedMeanwhile, the bed occupancy went up to 180 on Tuesday evening. As present, the PGIMER has reserved 206 oxygenated beds for Covid-19 patients. As many as 169 of them have been occupied while 37 are vacant. Also, of the 24 ventilator beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, 11 are occupied. Dr Surjit Singh said: “The institute has the capacity to admit around 500 Covid-19 patients at a time. We will increase the number of reserved beds, as per the requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-own-staffers-account-for-50-admitted-covid-patients-101641929566370.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh powermen plan strikes against privatisation||The power employees held a protest rally near the main office in Sector 17 on Tuesday, against the Chandigarh administration’s move to privatise the electricity department.The members unanimously decided to observe a one-day strike on February 1 in all the shifts, and two-day strike on February 23-24. In case the administration privatises the department by then, they warned of going on an indefinite strike. Union leaders Dhian Singh, Gopal Datt Joshi, Amrik Sigh Gurmeet Singh and Kashmir Singh condemned the Union government and Chandigarh administration for approval to hand over the department to Eminent Electricity Distribution, a Kolkata-based private company, without any protection of service conditions, pay scales, allowances and other benefits of the employees.The union also decided to submit a hold rallies to the Raj Bhawan and in various sectors, markets and villages to highlight problems faced by employees and public in general in view of the privatisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-powermen-plan-strikes-against-privatisation-101641929565031.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health secretary says no quarantine leave if not Covid positive||In an order issued on Tuesday, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) chief executive officer Yashpal Garg, who is also the UT health secretary, stated that just because a family member is in home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19 cannot be a reason for CHB officials to apply for quarantine leaves.The order states that an official is allowed quarantine leaves only in case they themselves have contracted the virus or their house is declared a micro-containment zone.The order comes even as the health department officials are advising quarantine period of three days and testing on the fourth day for persons whose family member(s) have tested positive. The CHB order does not stipulate any such guideline on quarantine or isolation period.In fact, the CHB order stresses immediate testing. “In such a situation the officer/official should immediately get himself tested for Covid. In case he is found negative, then the officer is required to attend the duties,” the order states.However, later, when asked when should the testing be done in such a case, Garg said, “Preferably on third or fourth day (after the family member tests positive). This gap of 3 or 4 days is an advisory to control the infection spread.”Garg further clarified that it is not mandatory for an official to isolate himself after a family member has tested positive, though it is advisable.What others sayMeanwhile, director, health services, Dr Suman Singh said: “The central government guidelines are silent on the quarantine period for a contact of Covid-19 positive patient. For containing the spread of the highly infectious Omicron variant, we are advising for a three-day quarantine period and testing on the fourth day.”Dr Sanjeev Palta, the nodal officer of ICU management at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, said, “As per new guidelines of the ICMR, asymptomatic family members of a Covid-19 positive person are not to be tested for virus. However, looking at the contagious behaviour of the virus, the family members are advised to stay isolated and not to venture out of the house for at least seven days. The positive patient is to be tested again on the eighth day.”Ashwani Kumar, convener, Joint Action Committee, UT administration and municipal corporation employee union, said: “Earlier, the quarantine leave was being given. It should be given now too. After a family member of an employee tests positive, the employee should go in isolation till being tested themselves to prevent spread of infection among their colleagues or general public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-health-secretary-says-no-quarantine-leave-if-not-covid-positive-101641929563794.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity: Active Covid cases near 10,000; only 1.7% hospitalised||The number of active cases jumped to 9,615 from 8,096 the previous day, as 1,945 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Tuesday. Chandigarh recorded 801 cases, followed by 703 in Mohali and 441 in Panchkula. Three deaths — two in Chandigarh and one in Mohali — were also reported.On Monday, 1,982 cases had surfaced, highest since the second wave, with Chandigarh alone accounting for 967, an all-time high for the UT. The highest single-tally in the tricity stands at 2,612, recorded when the second wave peaked on May 10 last year. The active caseload had peaked at 24,201 on May 12.As on Tuesday evening, Chandigarh has 3,924 active cases, Mohali has 3,788 and Panchkula has 1,903 people infected with the virus.Despite the rising active caseload, the number of hospitalisations remain low at 1.7% in the tricity. Chandigarh leads with 112 locals in government and private hospitals, followed by 46 Panchkula residents hospitalised and just four in Mohali. Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali, said: “Only four people are hospitalised in Mohali. Most patients are coming with mild symptoms — moderate fever, sore throat, headache and fatigue — and are isolated at home.” Bulk of the hospitalisations in Chandigarh are at the PGIMER, where its own infected resident doctors and other staffers are occupying around 50% beds. According to the institute, most have just mild symptoms and are hospitalised owing to lack of isolation facilities at hostels.Fatality rate at 0.08% in JanEven the number of fatalities has remained low, with just nine reported across the tricity this month. Mohali and Chandigarh account for four each, and Panchkula for one. When compared to 10,674 positive cases in this period (January 1-11), the case fatality rate is as low as 0.08%. During the second wave peak in May last year, it stood at 1.7% (46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month).Among the patients who died on Tuesday, there was a 55-year-old woman from Sector 16 and 60-year-old man from Kajheri village in Sector 52, Chandigarh. While the woman was suffering from bronchopneumonia and was fully vaccinated, the man was suffering from asthma and had developed respiratory failure. He was vaccinated with just the first dose. In Mohali, a 63-year-old man admitted to the Sohana hospital succumbed to the virus.Curbs in 14 more areas in UTAmid the rising numbers of cases, the Chandigarh administration on Tuesday declared 14 more micro-containment zones across the city. The new cases were spread across the city. In Panchkula, Sector 15, 20 and 21 have emerged as the main hot spots of the pandemic.In the neighbouring Mohali district, Mohali subdivision accounted for 349 fresh cases, Kharar for 216 and Dera Bassi for 138. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur asked people to visit hospitals only in case of any serious problem, and otherwise contact the health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice. Nodal officer +ve in PanchkulaNearly 30 doctors have contracted the virus in Panchkula district, including 21 doctors from government hospitals. Chief medical officer Dr Mukta Kumar had also tested positive and has completed her isolation period. Now, deputy civil surgeon and nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajiv Narwa has tested positive. Even, deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa has tested positive and is in home isolation.2,355 get booster dose in tricityThe Chandigarh health department administered 1,244 booster doses against Covid-19, while 877 beneficiaries received their third jab in Panchkula. Mohali once again lagged behind with just 234 precaution doses to healthcare and frontline workers besides senior citizens with comorbidities.The total has crossed 4,000 in the tricity, as 1,684 people had received the booster dose during the launch of the nationwide drive on Monday. On Tuesday, 438 senior citizens, 467 healthcare workers and 339 frontline workers were administered the precaution dose in Chandigarh, taking the total to 2,199. In Mohali, the total has reached 361. The civil surgeon said the booster dose is available at all nine health centres in Mohali. In Panchkula, the number stands at 1,479.Meanwhile, with dip in takers for Covid-19 vaccines at private hospitals and nursing homes in Chandigarh, as many as 5,000 doses of Covishield were nearing expiry dates. “To avoid any wastage, it has been decided to replace these vaccines with fresh stock available with the UT administration, and use their doses on priority,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-active-covid-cases-near-10-000-only-1-7-hospitalised-101641929562494.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport: Two months on, air cargo facility awaits customs, security approvals||Even though the Chandigarh International Airport inaugurated air cargo facility in November last year, it is yet to begin operations for the want of approvals from the authorities concerned. Rakesh Dembla, chief executive officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHAIL), said the cargo facility will be the biggest in the north region after Delhi’s. “Everything is finalised and we are just waiting for approvals from the customs and security. We are hopeful of launching the facility soon,” he said.The cargo facility was announced six years after the Chandigarh airport got the international tag. Air cargo or air freight allows speedy transportation of commercial goods through an air carrier. At present, CHAIL only provides a common screening facility for domestic cargo, while the airlines are handling the goods on their own.Constructed at a cost of ₹11.5 crore, the air cargo complex is spread over 14,127 square metres. With five cargo sheds being built, it will handle both domestic and international cargo, including perishable goods. Rates for consignments to be handled by the facility were approved ahead of the inauguration two months back.Yogesh Sagar, president of Mohali Industries Association, said: “We urge the authorities concerned to make the air cargo facility functional soon, as it will bring a boom in the local industry. At present, we have to send our consignments by road to the Delhi airport, where they are lined up for 24 to 48 hours before being loaded onto the aircraft, which takes a week’s time.”It was on September 11, 2015, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the international airport. In February 2021, the Punjab government finally announced the air cargo facility. Presenting the budget, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had said that the facility will give a boost to the industry and provide better access to international and domestic markets.
12-01-2022||Pune||State task force for paediatrics not in favour of schools resuming offline classes||Pune: Even as most teachers and education institutes have expressed that schools should resume offline classes, the state Covid task force members for paediatrics have opposed keeping the offline classes on by schools. As per government orders, schools will remain shut till February 15 while online education continues. However, some schools and teachers feel that in order to overcome the learning loss of students, offline schools should continue while at the same time many parents are unwilling to send their ward to school due to the rising cases of Covid and Omicron variant. Dr Aarti Kinikar, chairperson of the Pune division paediatric Covid task force, said that it is seen that if young kids get infected, they may in turn infect elderly persons in the family. “It is possible that with the rising cases if schools are open, we may see a rising number of children passing on the infections to the elderly in the family. To avoid this, it is crucial to continue with online classes as of now. As the cases subside, the government can take a decision based on the situation about reopening,” said Dr Kinikar. Dr Kinikar noted that many schools across the world are running only online classes. “Many parents are afraid that the learning ability of their child might get affected due to online classes. But it has to be noted that schools in other countries are also online. And the challenges they are facing are similar. But there is no other way to protect the children and the senior citizens in the family,” said Dr Kinikar. Parents from the city also said that sending the young ones to school is not advisable. Sharing her experience, Pragati Kulkarni, whose youngest son is in the primary section, said that it is difficult to keep the kids away from each other at school. “At younger ages, children don’t understand social distancing. With the rising cases, sending younger children to school is dangerous. Even though there is learning loss, their safety is more important. I feel the government should rethink about reopening after February 15 only if cases see a downward curve. Otherwise, as the academic year is almost over, we can wait a few more months before off-line classes are started,” said Kulkarni. Many schools feel that students may lose touch with studies if offline classes do not restart. Maharashtra English School Trustees Association (Mesta), on Tuesday wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray claiming that Covid is not a communicable disease but a conspiracy by big business global giants to keep the world economy in their hands. “And so, schools should be given permission to start offline classes,” said Sanjayrao Tayde Patil, founder chairman, Mesta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-task-force-for-paediatrics-not-in-favour-of-schools-resuming-offline-classes-101641929558275.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||PGIMER director: 32 doctors in race, interviews from Jan 17||The search-cum-selection committee will start interviewing candidates for the post of director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) from January 17, the hospital authorities said on Tuesday.The four-member committee, headed by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, will interview a total of 32 senior doctors from January 17 to 19. As per authorities, around 20 candidates are presently working at the institute while a few doctors from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, are also in the fray. A few senior doctors from other national health institutes have also applied for the post. The Union ministry of health and family welfare had appointed paediatrics department head Dr Surjit Singh as the officiating director of the institute on November 1, 2021, after Dr Jagat Ram retired from the post. Even Dr Singh is aspiring for a regular appointment on the director’s post.“The meeting of search-cum-selection committee has been scheduled to be held on January 17, 18 and 19 from 5pm to 8pm, in New Delhi. In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the candidates can either appear physically or virtually before the committee,” said Kumar Gaurav Dhawan, deputy director (administration), PGIMER.Dhawan said the candidates are required to submit their option (physical or virtual mode) by sending an e-mail to ddapgi@gmail.com by January 14.“After the interviews, the selection committee will send the recommendations to the institute body, and finally, the proposal or panel will be sent to the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) through the Union ministry of health,” Dhawan said, adding that it will take a couple of months for the director’s appointment.Upon Dr Jagat Ram’s retirement, the officiating charge was not given to the most senior professors: Dr GD Puri, dean, academics, and Dr AK Gupta, dean, research and medical superintendent. While Dr Puri is also on the list of 32 doctors to be interviewed, Dr Gupta has retired. Besides Dr Surjit Singh and Dr Puri, some other aspirants from the PGIMER are Dr K Gauba, head of the oral health sciences; Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the microbiology department; Dr Meenu Singh, department of paediatrics; and Dr Anil Bhansali, head of endocrinology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-director-32-doctors-in-race-interviews-from-jan-17-101641929556652.html
12-01-2022||Other||UP polls: Cops watch against misuse of social media space||Ahead of the assembly elections, the police are keeping a close watch on all social media platforms and have warned that objectionable comments or posts which pose threat to peace during elections would invite strict action. After the implementation of the model code of conduct, cops in social media cells and cyber cells in Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi and Fatehpur districts have been asked to keep a strict eye on various social media platforms including facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube and various WhatsApp groups. They have been asked to identify objectionable posts, comments, videos and materials and initiate prompt action against the accused. Cops will also monitor groups and chats on social media sites to ensure that these aren’t used to spread rumours. IG range Rakesh Singh said social media cell and cyber cells in the range are on active mode. “Anyone found making objectionable comments and posts will not be spared and appropriate action will be taken against him. Special teams have been set up to stop spread of rumours and identify derogatory comments on social sites that may harm peaceful polling,” he added. He said the police will ensure that none violates the model code of conduct on social media platforms and added that action under the IT Act and relevant sections of IPC will be taken against the guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-polls-cops-watch-against-misuse-of-social-media-space-101641929498020.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||678 new Covid cases, one death in Ludhiana||As many as 678 cases of Covid-19 were detected in Ludhiana on Tuesday even as a 50-year-old man succumbed to disease.The 50-year-old was a resident of Dhandari and under treatment at a private hospital in the city. Among those who tested positive were three police personnel and a doctor deputed at the police lines. They were identified as assistant commissioner of police (ACP, South) Deep Kamal, sub-inspector Neeraj Chaudhary, who is the SHO of Division Number 5 police station, assistant sub-inspector Kamaljit Singh of traffic wing and Dr Lovepreet Singh. Health officials have started contact tracing of the cops. The contacts showing symptoms of Covid-19 will be isolated. As many as 68 healthcare workers have also caught the infection. With the daily cases remaining above 500 since January 8, the active case count of the district has shot up to 3,572. At present, 3,503 persons are in home isolation while 57 are undergoing treatment at private hospitals and 12 at government hospitals. There is also one patient on ventilator support.The latest death has taken the fatality count to 2,125.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/678-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-ludhiana-101641929496859.html
12-01-2022||Other||Mohali police hold flag march ahead of Punjab assembly elections||Ahead of the Punjab assembly elections scheduled on February 14, Mohali police along with Central Industrial Security Forces (CISF) on Tuesday held a flag march in the city.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said the march aimed to warn anti-social elements against disrupting law and order and build confidence among residents about their security.The march was held in the markets of Phases 3B2, 3B1 and 7. The teams then went across the city in vehicles.Superintendent of police (headquarter) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu and deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Mahesh Inder Singh led the march.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFS25 officials contracted Covid in 24 hours: HCA Punjab and Haryana high court official on Tuesday said that in the past 24 hours, as many as 25 HC officials have tested positive for Covid. A total of 35 officials have been tested positive in the past three days, including registrar general of the HC, Sanjiv Berry, who tested positive on Sunday. From Monday, the court has further curtailed operations and only 50% judges are holding the court. The high court shifted to virtual hearings only on January 5.Car set ablaze in Sector 20 A car parked outside a house in Sector 20 was set ablaze. Owner Vinod Kumar said he heard some noise at night, and saw his vehicle engulfed in flames on coming out. A case of arson has been registered against the unidentified miscreants. Snatcher flees with phone A Nayagaon man lost his mobile phone to a snatcher near Piccadilly Chowk in Chandigarh. Victim Radhey Shyam said he was targeted on late Sunday night. A case has been registered. Five men held for gambling Police have recovered ₹55,230 with the arrest of five men for gambling in different parts of the city. The accused have been identified as Ritik Goyal (21) of Ram Darbar, Waseem (47) and Bhagwan Dass (36) of Manimajra, and Mohd Irshad (40) and Mohd Mehraj (42) of Bapu Dham Colony. They were later released on bail. Man held with illicit liquor Police recovered 36 bottles of illicit liquor with the arrest of a 42-year-old man near the Sports Complex in Sector 56. Identified as Vijay Kumar of Sector 56, the accused was booked under the Excise Act and later released on bail. Karnal man held with opium A Karnal resident was arrested with 500-gram opium. The accused, Ramandeep Singh, 28, was arrested in Sector 29. A drugs case has been registered.Special vaccination drive for Afghan studentsA vaccination drive for Afghan students was carried out on Tuesday at the Sukhna Lake vaccination centre. Farid Mamundzay, ambassador of Afghanistan to India, was the chief guest on the occasion. The drive was held by United Sikhs and Karan Gilhotra Foundation in association with the UT health department and ASR Foundation.CU organises national youth summitChandigarh University (CU), Gharuan, on Tuesday organised its 10th national youth summit “Evoke - 2022” on the eve of National Youth Day. During the conference, personalities from the fields of bureaucracy, media, entertainment, entrepreneurship, sports and social service shared their views. Yogendra Chaudhary, principal secretary of the Haryana government’s department of foreign cooperation was the chief guest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-police-hold-flag-march-ahead-of-punjab-assembly-elections-101641929437126.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Mayawati, SC Mishra to not contest UP polls||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and party national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra will not contest the coming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.With three days left in the notification for the first phase assembly poll in Uttar Pradesh by the Election Commission of India (ECI), Satish Chandra Mishra, in a press statement on Tuesday, made it clear that both the senior leaders - party chief Mayawati and he will not contest the assembly elections.The statement comes when speculation is rife in political circles that chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav might contest the coming assembly elections from the respective strongholds of both the parties.Mishra said the BSP was contesting the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh as well as Uttarakhand on its own strength, while it was contesting the assembly elections in Punjab in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The top leaders of the BSP, including Mayawati, would be busy campaigning and drawing strategy of the party in the three states, he said.Mishra said the BSP would win the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh whereas the BSP- SAD alliance would form the government in Punjab.The BSP is likely to release the list of candidates for the first phase poll with the notification of the election by the ECI on January 14. To finalize the candidates, Mayawati held meetings with the party office -bearers and screened the candidates in Lucknow.Earlier, in a press statement Mayawati said the people had made up their minds to bring the BSP to power despite the report of the survey agencies showing the party out of the race. In 2007 too, they had predicted the defeat of the BSP. Again, the BSP would prove all surveys wrong to form a government in UP with majority, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-sc-mishra-to-not-contest-up-polls-101641929316608.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: DC inspects Sector 26 mandi after restriction imposed on entry||A day after the administration restricted entry into the Sector 26 wholesale grain and vegetable market, UT deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh inspected the mandi along with sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, central)-cum-administrator of the market committee.Despite only vegetable vendors and rehri walas who are fully vaccinated being allowed entry, residents were also seen here. The DC instructed all officials to abide by the orders. He added that activities of wholesale sale/purchase activities should be allowed to continue and entry/exit gates will be regulated by the police and market committee staff.Singh further directed that squatters/vendors be removed from the mandi. Singh also directed that a proposal be chalked out for segregation of garbage generated at the mandi. Chandigarh Renewal Energy and Science & Technology Promotion Society (CREST) officials have been directed to prepare the proposal in consultation with the market committee for garbage disposal as per the swachhata guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dc-inspects-sector-26-mandi-after-restriction-imposed-on-entry-101641929200675.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Pune housing societies implement ad hoc Covid rules, residents voice discontent||Pune: The rising Covid cases across the city have again led to various housing societies implementing ad hoc rules, which do not comply with the government guidelines. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has declared 31 micro-containment zones among which 28 are in housing societies. However, many other housing societies have implemented similar restrictions much to the dismay of several residents. The entry and exit of maids, pets, and medical staff who come to treat patients have been restricted. While the rules have been introduced by some members of the societies themselves, other residents have voiced their indignation. Some residents believe housing societies should follow rules issued by the local government. Shachin Bharadwaj, a resident of Marvel Fria, a housing society in Wagholi said, “The housing society authorities had implemented restrictions long before any government rules were issued in December and now with the rising cases, they have shut all facilities in the society.” While the Maharashtra government has revised its previous circular and relaxed some of the restrictions imposed previously, some housing societies have decided not to change their rules. “The government has allowed gyms to run in 50% capacity, but the management at my housing society has shut the gym down. While I had already paid for these amenities here, now I also have to subscribe to a gym membership elsewhere,” said Shachin, a software engineer. The maids working in different houses within the society have to bear the brunt of these ad hoc rules, as well. Certificate of double vaccination is often not enough and they are asked to produce negative RT-PCR test reports if any family member from the houses the maid works in tests positive for Covid-19. “Only double vaccinated people are permitted within the society and we have closed all facilities like gyms, table tennis court, tennis court, badminton court, and football ground from January 5,” said Rahul Dabhade, chairman of Marvel Fria. The facilities will be reopened on January 16, after the situation is assessed. The housing society authorities believe the ad hoc rules are for residents’ benefit. “We are implementing rules to reduce Covid cases in our society and we have seen a positive result,” said Dabhade. Some disgruntled residents, however, believe the authorities are in no position to decide rules that have not been issued by the government. Another resident from Padmavilas, a housing society in Baner, said, “After going through the same pandemic for one and a half years, people should now be more sensible in fighting against it. Rules by PMC or PCMC must be the only rules applied.” Few others took to Twitter to voice their concern over authorities asking residents to quarantine for more than seven days, despite no government guidelines mentioning it. Pune District Co-Operative Housing Societies and Apartments Federation has opposed the implementation of these ad hoc rules, as well. Suhas Patwardhan, the chairman of Pune District Co-operative Housing Federation said, “I have observed that there are various housing societies who implement their guidelines, but I appeal to them to only follow guidelines issued by the central, state, and local governments.” PMC mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “No housing society is allowed to implement their own rules. We have not come across any such societies till now, but if there are any we will look into the situation and, if needed, appropriate action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-housing-societies-implement-ad-hoc-covid-rules-residents-voice-discontent-101641929197006.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||UP Covid-case tally of last 24 hrs: 11,089||Uttar Pradesh witnessed a major surge in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 11,089 fresh cases reported within 24 hours. The tally of active cases crossed the 40,000 mark to 44,466 among which 43,050 are in home isolation.The state also recorded an increase in Omicron cases which rose to 275. In the last 24 hours, five deaths were reported in the state - one each in Meerut, Moradabad, Kanpur, Gonda and Azamgarh. Among the new cases Gautam Buddh Nagar reported 1,680 Covid-19 cases, Ghaziabad 1,829 Meerut 905, Varanasi 436, Agra 264, Moradabad 424, Kanpur 233, Mathura 319, Prayagraj 321, Gorakhpur 253 and Lucknow 1,444.Among those who tested positive on Tuesday included former union Agriculture minister and BJP UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh. In a tweet he said, “I got my Covid test done after seeing initial symptoms of Covid-19. The report has come positive. I have isolated myself. Symptoms are very early, I feel fine. Those who have come in contact with me in the last few days should get themselves checked.”Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that in the last 24 hours 543 people have recovered. To protect people from infection, the state government has given a thrust to the vaccination drive.On Monday, 19.86 lakh doses were given, while 5 lakh doses were given to individuals in the age group of 15- 18 years and 13.29 lakh doses were given to the people above 18 years, he said.Prasad said that 21.29 crore people have received shots of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine of which 7.99 crore people have received both doses. Individuals in the age group of 15- 18 years who have received their first dose number 29.40 lakh, while the precautionary/booster dose has been given to 59,696 people till Monday.On Monday 2.5 lakh samples were sent to the laboratories for testing while the total tally of samples tested in Uttar Pradesh rose to 9.50 crore, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-covid-case-tally-of-last-24-hrs-11089-101641929078353.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to introduce eco-friendly party boats at Sukhna Lake||:The UT administration will soon introduce battery or solar-powered party boats with terraces at Sukhna Lake. The tenders for the 40-seater boats were recently floated by the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO).Each boat will have a pantry, bio-toilet, proper lighting arrangements for operations in the night, air-conditioning and an open terrace. Since the lake is an eco-sensitive area, the agency providing the boats will have to ensure that there is no pollution and the noise levels are within permissible limits.“Guests will be allowed to organise small parties for one to two hours and a lump sum amount will be fixed as charges. The decoration costs, if any, will be borne by the guests. Bookings will have to be made through officials authorised by CITCO. Eatables will be supplied by CITCO,” said a UT official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhto-introduce-eco-friendly-party-boats-at-sukhna-lake-101641929076752.html
12-01-2022||Other||Nine cops test positive for Covid-19 at Magh Mela in Prayagraj||Nine policemen on Magh Mela duty tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The cops had arrived in the mela area from different parts of the state to perform duty for the fair that is set begin from January 14/15 on Makar Sankranti. “Two policemen tested positive on Tuesday while another seven, including 5 PAC personnel, one police constable and one local intelligence unit personnel had tested positive on Monday,” said Dr Rishi Sahai, Covid-19 nodal officer of Magh Mela-2022. He said that with these two fresh cases on Tuesday, the count of Covid-19 positive cases found in the mela area has gone up to 11 so far against 9540 tests for Coronavirus that have been conducted till date. We are testing all government personnel deputed on duty at the mela area as well as the saints, seers and pilgrims arriving for the annual religious congregation, he added. Dr Sahai said that all the 11 positive persons were kept in isolation away from the mela area and none needed hospitalization. Meanwhile, superintendent of police (Magh Mela) Rajiv Narayan Mishra said all around 5,000 policemen, ranging from constables to ASP, deputed in Magh Mela would be tested. He said that all preventive measures had been initiated and wearing of masks had been made mandatory for all the policemen on Reserve Police Line campus, office, Mela police stations and police outposts. Magh Mela police were also focussing on sanitization of the campus, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-magh-mela-in-prayagraj-101641929016703.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||In eight days, Covid cases go up from six to 108 in Delhi jails||In the last eight days, Covid-19 cases among inmates and jail guards have increased from six to 108 inside Delhi’s three prison complexes -- Tihar, Rohini, and Mandoli.On January 2, Delhi’s Tihar jail reported its first case after almost five months of the prison remaining free of the infection, prison authorities said. Between July 28, 2021, and January 2, 2002, not a single case of infection was reported in the three jails, they added.With the infection spreading quickly inside the three jails, the prison department has now designated all its dispensaries as Covid-19 care centres and restricted the movement of inmates within the jails. There is a small dispensary in each of the 16 sub-jails across Tihar, Rohini, and Mandoli in addition to the two hospitals in jail number 3 (Tihar) and jail number 13 (Mandoli), which have been designated as Covid health centres.“There are medical isolation cells in each jail. All new prisoners are first isolated and monitored for symptoms. They are sent to join other prisoners only if they do not show symptoms for over a week. Currently, we are conducting Rapid Antigen Tests in different jails. Most prisoners are asymptomatic,” said a senior jail officer.About 70-100 new prisoners arrive at the three jails every day. About the same number of prisoners are also released on bail or acquitted in their cases.The prison department has also installed a PSA oxygen plant at the central jail hospital. It is likely to become functional within a week. Authorities felt the prison needed its own oxygen plant during the second wave of the Covid-19 when most prisoners needed to be hospitalised because their oxygen levels dropped.“All elderly prisoners in each sub-jail have been lodged together. A committee of prisoners in each jail monitors their oxygen levels and checks for symptoms,” the senior jail officer added.Of the 108 cases, 66 are those of inmates while 48 jail officers have also tested positive for Covid-19. In the backdrop of the rising infections, the government and prison officers are on alert but are yet to call a high-powered committee meeting to discuss releasing prisoners to ensure social distancing in jail. Ensuring social distancing, which is the key to arresting the spread of Covid-19, is a major problem in Delhi jails because the jails hold nearly twice the number of prisoners against its sanctioned capacity. There are nearly 18,000 prisoners against a sanctioned capacity of 10,024 in the three prisons.A high-powered committee(HPC) comprising representatives of the judiciary, government, prison, and police have in the past released prisoners to ensure social distancing. The HPC has identified 11 categories of undertrial prisoners such as those arrested for non-heinous crimes among other categories.About 8,000 prisoners released by the HPC during the first two waves of Covid-19 infections are already out. Of the 8,000 prisoners, around 2,300 released to decongest the jail in April-May 2020 have not surrendered and have been declared as fugitives. Separately, 5,463 prisoners were released in April- May 2021. These 5,463 have not been asked to surrender because of a Supreme Court order. To be sure, these 5,463 prisoners are not fugitives.Prison officers said they are yet to be informed of the HPC meeting. “If the cases are under control and the positivity rate does not increase rapidly, the HPC meeting may not even take place. Also, only 10 prisoners have been admitted to hospitals outside, so the situation is under control. Most prisoners are also recovering at the jail’s Covid centres,” a second prison officer said.Since the pandemic broke out in March 2020, the three jails have collectively reported over 600 cases among prisoners and jail staff. Six prisoners have also died of the infection. One of the prisoners who died of Covid-19 was former gangster-turned-politician from Bihar Mohammed Shahabuddin.
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU dental institute to provide only emergency services||Panjab University (PU) has decided that only emergency services will be provided at its Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, till further orders.The decision has been taken after a varsity panel made the recommendation in view of the surge in Covid cases. “A negative RAT or RT-PCR report, not more than 72 hours old, is mandatory for any kind of treatment at the hospital,” the university said. This is among a number of measures taken by the varsity to curb the spread of Covid. PU has already decided to run its offices at 50% staff.A special drive to disinfect the campus was also undertaken on Tuesday, which covered the sanitisation of emerging building areas, near the Student Centre, various construction sites of Sectors 14 and the computer centre.PU registrar tests positivePU registrar Vikram Nayyar has tested positive for Covid, a university official confirmed on Tuesday. This comes a day after the V-C Raj Kumar tested positive. Nayyar is in isolation at his residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-dental-institute-to-provide-only-emergency-services-101641928897988.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Raids at Ludhiana Improvement Trust office after complaint of poll code violation||Following a complaint that the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) had allegedly issued work orders of around ₹10 crore after the model code of conduct came into force on January 8, a team from the district administration raided the office on Tuesday.The team is said to have gone through the office records and examined the closed-circuit television camera footage. The team is also said to have acquired footage of the ground-level inspections carried out by the LIT since January 6.As per the complaint received by the office of deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer (DEO) Varinder Sharma, LIT officials were present in the office on January 8 and 9 and they had allegedly approved work orders worth ₹10 crore, by making back date entries. Sharma has summoned the dispatch register of LIT and marked the inquiry to additional deputy commissioner (general) Rahul Chaba in the matter. It is learnt that an initial complaint in the case was made by a resident, Karamjit Dhariwal. However SAD leader and candidate from Ludhiana West Harish Rai Dhanda also filed a complaint in this regard and sought an FIR against LIT chairman.Dhanda said the dispatch clerk resides in Pathankot and was not in the city when the work orders were issued after imposition of poll code. “There were many other discrepancies. Development works were approved from the constituency of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and MLA Sanjay Talwar to benefit them in the upcoming elections. I have sought an FIR against chairman, Ashu, Talwar and all other officials involved in this unlawful activity,” said Dhanda.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam refuted the allegations and said misinformation is being floated by some “persons with vested interests”. He said, “The LIT staff was present in the office on January 8 to complete the formalities for the draw of lots of Atal Apartments scheme, which was scheduled to be held on January 10. After the model code was imposed on January 8, they also had to apprise the applicants about the postponement of the draw. The inquiry officer can check the record and footage, but nothing wrong has been done. As a similar complaint was also submitted with the local bodies department, a reply has also been submitted to the principal secretary of the local bodies department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raids-at-ludhiana-improvement-trust-office-after-complaint-of-poll-code-violation-101641928896701.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Ahead of polls, over 5.8L litres illicit liquor, 11.7k kg drugs seized in UP||Lucknow The state police had initiated multiple precautionary measures to curb sale of illegal liquor and use of firearms during the coming assembly polls, said UP additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar. The ADG said the state police seized over 5.8 lakh litres of illicit liquor and recovered over 7,744 illegal firearms and 11,690.25 kilogrammes of drugs and narcotics substances across the state, during a special drive launched since September 30, 2021. Besides, the police unearthed at least 1451 illicit liquor manufacturing units and 58 illegal firearms manufacturing units, he added. He said as many as 21019 people were arrested in 20262 cases registered in connection with illicit liquor and drug peddling. Similarly, 5441 people were arrested in connection with 5399 cases registered with the recovery of illegal firearms and firearms manufacturing units. Kumar said as a precautionary measure before the polls, the police also got served non-bailable warrants on 56072 people and bound down as many as 7,65,678 people to ensure no law-and-order problem emerged during the assembly elections. He said the state police would further continue this crackdown to ensure free and fair elections. Earlier on Friday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had issued a stern directive to curb the sale of illegal liquor across the state in view of the UP assembly polls. The state government press note stated that the directives were issued to the police and other law enforcement agencies to step up vigilance on state borders and the porous India-Nepal border. The state agencies were asked to maintain coordination with agencies of other states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Jharkhand to curb liquor smuggling in UP from gangs operating from there and to conduct raids to curb sale of illegal liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-polls-over-5-8l-litres-illicit-liquor-11-7k-kg-drugs-seized-in-up-101641928837813.html
12-01-2022||Other||Gurugram resident in dire need of cancer drugs duped of ₹76000||A city resident was allegedly duped of ₹76,000 by a man on the pretext of providing him life-saving injectable medicines required for his mother battling from cancer.On the basis of a complaint lodged by Vikram Saxena, a resident of Ardee City, an FIR was registered against the suspect, Jasbeer Singh, under Section 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 53 police station on Monday evening.According to Saxena, he had taken a loan of ₹2.5 lakh in September last year to purchase seven doses of the cancer injection on the suggestion of a Bhopal-based oncologist treating his 65-year-old mother.“From the loan amount, I transferred ₹76,000 into Jasbeer’s bank account in September last year for supplying two vials of the injection. But he didn’t provide me with the medicines. I asked him to return the money, but he kept making excuses. I had come in Jasbeer’s contact through another cancer patient who had got required drugs from him,” Saxena said.He said that seven doses of the injection were prescribed by the doctor whom they visited in Bhopal last year. “Two doses are yet to be given. I need money to purchase them now,” he said.Jang Bahadur, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 53 police station, said that the suspect was not cooperating with police in the investigation after Saxena filed a complaint against him. “This forced us to register an FIR against Jasbeer. We will take necessary action against the suspect who is at large since the case was registered,” the SHO said.Jasbeer could not be contacted as one of his phone numbers shared with the police was out of service while another was found switched off.Gurugram police spokesperson Subhash Boken said that the case was under investigation. “Necessary action, including arrest, would be taken as per laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-resident-in-dire-need-of-cancer-drugs-duped-of-76000-101641928836606.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Pune Covid jumbo facility gets three-month extension||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday gives three months’ extension for the Covid jumbo hospital facility located at Shivajinagar as the city sees a rise in the virus cases. The PMC standing committee gave its nod to resume operations at the jumbo hospital till March 2022 and appointed agencies to run the facility. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “As experts cited possibility of the third wave, we did not dismantle the jumbo facility. To strengthen the existing health infrastructure, the civic body has marked Rs75 crore budgetary provision to run the jumbo facility.” Rasne said, “Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has put the proposal to run the facility till March 2022. PMC would review and, if needed, will give more extension. The agencies would appoint doctors, medical staff and catering services.” Kumar said, “PMC has appointed agencies as per the rates fixed by Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority. We would continue with the agencies who managed this jumbo facility earlier. “Medbros health agency would provide doctors, medical staff, medicines and catering facility. Deepali design agency would take care of infrastructure and make necessary changes. The food cost for each patient for a day is ₹185,” a civic official said. PMC rates per bed to agency ICU bed - ₹4,385 per day HDU (semi ICU) bed- ₹3,843 per day Oxygen bed - ₹1,404 per day Covid care bed - ₹950 per day||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-covid-jumbo-facility-gets-three-month-extension-101641928779756.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Supplementary chargesheet filed against key person involved in FICN racket||Lucknow The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a supplementary chargesheet against one of the key persons involved in the Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) trafficking racket being operated from Bangladesh, said NIA in a press note on Tuesday. According to the NIA, the supplementary chargesheet was filed against a West Bengal resident, Sohrab Hussain at the NIA special court in Lucknow on Monday, under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 120-B for criminal conspiracy, 489-B for using and circulating fake currency notes, and sections 16 and 18 of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. He was booked in connection with the case in which UP Anti-Terrorism Squad had recovered and seized FICN to the face value of ₹ 1.79 lakh on November 25, 2019.During the probe, it was found that the accused had conspired to smuggle, procure and keep high quality FICN and had further circulated and supplied the notes to various persons in Uttar Pradesh. “The investigation done so far, has revealed that the FICN recovered was being supplied from Malda, West Bengal. Earlier, a charge-sheet was filed on May 21, 2020 against three accused persons and one supplementary charge-sheet was filed against another accused on September 17, 2021,” an NIA official said. He said that the accused Sohrab Hussain, who was charge-sheeted on Monday, was one of the key persons in the conspiracy of FICN trafficking and was in contact with FICN network based in Bangladesh. Further probe in the case was on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-supplementary-chargesheet-filed-against-key-person-involved-in-ficn-racket-101641928778280.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF juniors tennis tournament: Top seed Chirag enters pre-quarters||Top seed Chirag Duhan defeated Deep Munim in straight sets 6-4, 6-1, in the first round to enter boys’ U-18 pre-quarterfinals during the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-2) being held at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10, on Tuesday.Playing in the boys’ U-18 first round matches, Lucas Phanthala of France defeated Ronin Lotlikar 6-4, 6-3 in straight sets. Qualifier Manas Dhamne upset second seed Aman Dahiya in straight sets 6-3, 6-2 to surge ahead. In the girls’ U-18 first round matches, top seed Shruti Ahlawat and M Safi outplayed Honoka Umeda of Japan in an easy match 6-2, 6-3. Second seed M Safi of Iran got the better of Nandini Dixit 6-0, 6-1 in a one-sided match.Results(Main Draw)Boys’ singles: Chirag Duhan (IND) [1] bt Deep Munim (IND) 6-4, 6-1; R Senthil Kumar (IND) bt Kasra Rahmani (IRI) 6-0, 6-3; Singo Masuda (JPN) bt Anirudh Sangra (IND) 6-3, 6-0; Aayush P Bhat (USA) [7] bt T Boosarawongse (THA) 6-1, 6-1; Aryan Shah (IND) bt Amir Milushev (UZB) [3] 6-3, 3-6, 7-6(2); Woohyuk Chang (KOR) bt Sarthak Arora (IND) 6-2, 6-2; Yuvan Nandal (IND) [5] bt Kei Quirijns (SUI) 6-1, 6-2; Monil Lotlikar (IND) (Q) bt R Sadeeshkumar (IND) 7-5, 6-2; Daksh Ashok Agarwal (IND) bt Poonthong Komopisut (THA) 6-4, 6-3; Lucas Phanthala (FRA) bt Ronin Lotlikar (IND) 6-4, 6-3; Rushil Khosla (IND) [6] bt Reiya Hattori (JPN) 6-2, 6-3; Daksh Prasad (IND) bt Jasmeet Duhan (IND) 6-4, 6-3; Manas Dhambe (IND) (Q) bt Aman Dahiya (IND) [2] 6-3, 6-4.Girls’ singles: Shruti Ahlawat (IND) [1] bt Honoka Umeda (JPN) 6-2, 6-3; Jo-Leen Saw (MAS) bt Ruma Gaikaiwari (IND) 5-7, 7-6(5), 6-2; Hannah Nagpal (IND) bt Pushti Laddha (IND) 6-1, 6-4; Lanlana Tararudee (THA) [5] bt Niyati Kukreti (IND) (Q) 6-1, 7-6(3); Charmi Gopinath (IND) bt Suhani Gaur (IND) 6-3, 6-1; Vaishnavi Adkar (IND) [7] bt Renne Singla (IND) (Q) 6-2, 6-1; Vlada Mincheva (RUS) [6] bt Madhurima Sawant (IND) 6-0, 6-2; Tejasvi Dabas (IND) bt Sania Deshpande (USA) 6-2, 6-2; Suhihta Maruri (IND) [4] bt Darja Suvirojonkova (SRB) 6-4, 6-2; S Sirimalla (IND) [8] bt Janani Ramesh (IND) (Q) 6-1, 3-6, 6-3; S Verma (IND) bt Sharvani Shrestha (NEP) 3-6, 6-3, 6-2; Kristi Boro (IND) bt Rutuja Chaphalkar (USA) 6-2, 6-4; M Safi (IRI) [2] bt Nandini Dixit (IND) 6-0, 6-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-juniors-tennis-tournament-top-seed-chirag-enters-prequarters-101641928776662.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj: People rush for vaccines, over 3.85 lakh inoculated in first 10 days of 2022||Rising number of Covid-19 cases in Prayagraj has resulted in a rise in a rush at the vaccination centres with people turning up in large numbers to get jabs and keep themselves safe from the coronavirus. District medical and health department officials said that the first 10 days of 2022 have witnessed more than 3.85 lakh corona vaccines doses being administered while 928 people have been found infected during this period—with a maximum of 220 fresh cases being found just on Monday (January 10). As of January 10 evening, the count of active Covid cases stood at 920. Officials shared that that district started witnessing the emergence of fresh cases regularly from December 29, 2021. On December 29, six infected were found in the district while vaccination was administered to 29,500 individuals. On December 30, seven infected emerged while corona vaccines were administered to 32,154 persons. On December 31, 28,536 vaccines were administered, while five people were found to have been infected with the virus. On January 1 and 2, 2022, also the district saw 20 and 19 individuals respectively being found infected by the coronavirus. On January 1, vaccine doses were given to 14,305 persons while no vaccination was done on January 2 owing it to be a Sunday. On January 3, 36,188 people got vaccinated while 14 were found infected. The number of people who got infected on January 4 and 5 remained at 31 and 136 respectively, while 38,767 and 59,567 respectively were administered the vaccine doses. On January 6, 70 people contracted the virus while 51,418 people got their vaccination doses. On January 7 and 8, 47,787 and 66,365 vaccine doses respectively were administered, while on these two days 118 and 163 persons respectively were found infected with the virus. On January 10 also, the district witnessed 220 new cases while the count of vaccinations administered touched 71,402—again the highest count for the day in the state. “The enthusiasm for vaccination has been such that during the period from December 29, 2021, to January 8, 2022, the district administered 4,08,738 vaccine doses (3,85799 doses between January 1 and January 10, 2022) resulting in Prayagraj topping the state in terms of daily vaccination administered five times. On December 30, the maximum number of vaccines were administered in Prayagraj. After this, on January 3 to 6 and on January 8 and 10, the district again topped in vaccination in the state,” informed CMO-Prayagraj Dr Nanak Saran. He considers vaccination to be the most important tool in the fight against corona. “By vaccination, we can prevent corona from becoming dangerous,” he stressed. 
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||No major impact of doctors’ strike in Haryana, govt makes alternate arrangements||Government doctors’ strike in Haryana failed to make a major impact on the health services in government-run hospitals as the doctors went on mass casual leave to protest for their demands.As per reports from district-level civil hospitals, doctors had announced that the emergency and Covid services will remain unaffected but the outpatient departments (OPDs) remained operational normally as health authorities made alternate arrangements by involving retired and contractual doctors of the National Health Mission.In the morning, patients across state were seen struggling at hospitals. They had to wait for hours in long queues. But later, the district administrations intervened and doctors reached hospitals.Had to implement ESMA: Vij“A group of doctors announced to go on strike when the whole country is fighting Covid. The strike will adversely affect the fight against the contagion. We had accepted their demands and forwarded them to the chief minister and other departments immediately,” said Haryana health minister Anil Vij.“After meeting with the chief minister on Monday, the demands were fulfilled and were given in-principle approval. The doctors still insisted to go on strike. I think there is someone who wants to disrupt the fight against Covid which is why we had to implement ESMA,” Vij added.‘Patients did not suffer’Protesting under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA), the doctors alleged that the Haryana government has ignored their demands and backtracked on promises made by Haryana health minister Anil Vij.Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Sharma said there was no impact on OPD and emergency services as alternate arrangements were made to ensure that patients do not face any problem due to the strike. As per officials, over 900 patients were examined at the OPD in the Karnal civil hospital.“For 14 years, I have been the only radiologist in Karnal. I even have to visit nearby districts. Incentives and specialist cadre will help increase the strength of radiologists in state,” Dr Sarita said.“We don’t want to cause any harm to the patients but we are left with no other way to get the government to address our issues,” a protesting doctor said at Karnal civil hospital.In Kaithal, doctors marked leave but remained on duty to ensure that the people did not face any problems. Kaithal deputy commissioner Pradeep Dahiya said health services remained normal and there was no impact of the strike in district.In Kurukshetra, deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said OPD services at government hospitals by and large remained smooth except for a few places where alternate arrangements were made.Rohtak civil surgeon Dr JS Punia said 20 of the hospital’s 42 doctors worked and attended OPD services. “I had directed the doctors and other staff to ensure no patient goes home without treatment. I personally monitored the situation,” Dr Punia added.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya also assured that patients did not suffer due to the strike.Doctors to go on strike from Jan 14On imposition of ESMA in state, HCMSA president Dr Jasbir Singh Parmar said they will go ahead with the strike called on January 14 when there will be a complete shutdown of all services including emergency, Covid and postmortem till the demands are met.“Our strike remained successful throughout the state except for a few places. We have already decided in our previous meetings that the strike called on Friday will take place whatever be the consequences,” he said.HCMSA general secretary Dr Rajesh Sheokhand said if the three key demands are accepted, it will benefit the aspiring doctors in state and improve the ailing health system of Haryana for the benefit of the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-major-impact-of-doctors-strike-in-haryana-govt-makes-alternate-arrangements-101641928664747.html
12-01-2022||Other||Sanskrit Vidya Dharma Vigyan students demand BA, MA degrees, stage protest||The students of Sanskrit Vidya Dharma Vigyan (SVDV) Faculty, Banaras Hindu University (BHU), staged a demonstration on Tuesday demanding that Shastri and Acharya degrees be changed to graduate (Bachelor of Arts) and postgraduate (Master of Arts) respectively. They submitted a memorandum of their demands to dean Faculty of SVDV Prof Kamlesh Jha. Adhokshaj Pandey, a research scholar at SVDV said that the degree of Shastri and Acharya given by the Faculty of SVDV, BHU is not being validated in competitive examinations which are conducted across the country. “Due to this our future hangs in balance,” he said. “We demand Shastri Acharya degrees should be changed to BA and MA respectively. After making the change a letter in this regard must be sent to the UGC, higher education department, Indian Army and the organizations which conduct the competitive examinations,” said Pandey who was among the students who participated in the demonstration. “For the last many years, degrees of Shastri and Acharya are not being considered for the post of Dharmashiksh (religious teacher) in the army and this is not appropriate. We demand that the Shastri degree and Acharya degrees be changed to graduate and postgraduate degrees respectively. If BHU administration doesn’t listen to our demands, all the students of SVDV will stage a big demonstration,” said Shashikant Mishra, a research scholar. He said that several students like Shubham Tiwari, Satendra Mishra, Prem Prakash, Omkar Shastri, Alok, Sishu, Dileep, Ranjit Prasant were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sanskrit-vidya-dharma-vigyan-students-demand-ba-ma-degrees-stage-protest-101641928661111.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana doctors’ strike gets mixed response in Panchkula, Ambala||The call for strike by government doctors under the banner of Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMS) witnessed a mixed response in Panchkula and Ambala, as OPD services remained operational at the civil hospitals. Panchkula chief medical officer Dr Mukta Kumar said: “A few doctors went on strike, but OPD services continued as doctors on contract attended to the patients. Even some regular doctors were on duty but did not mark their attendance.”At the Ambala civil hospital, too, doctors were seen working throughout the day. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh, who reached the hospital early morning to ensure smooth working, said: “All patients coming to the hospitals in Ambala were attended at the OPDs, though a few doctors were on casual leave and 25 are in isolation after testing positive for Covid-19.”At the sub-divisional hospital in Ambala Cantt, the assembly constituency of health minister Anil Vij, a few doctors protested in the morning, but attended to the patients thereafter, an official of the health department said.Doctors have been demanding the creation of a special cadre for specialist doctors in Haryana, restoration of 40% reservation policy and end to the process of direct recruitment of senior medical officers.Even as the government has enforced the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) in the state, banning health workers from resorting to such measures for six months, one of the protesting doctors at the Panchkula civil hospital warned of escalating the protest.The doctor, who did not wish to be named, said: “Our demands have not been met by the government for over two years now, forcing us to protest. Today, only OPD services were impacted, but if the government fails to listen to us within two days, we will go on a complete strike from January 14. Even emergency services will be impacted.”Even State Haryana Civil Medical Surgeons president Dr Jasbir Parmar confirmed they have decided to go ahead with the strike starting January 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-doctors-strike-gets-mixed-response-in-panchkula-ambala-101641928658207.html
12-01-2022||Other||HC restrains TN from prosecuting Isha Foundation in environment case||The Madras High Court on Tuesday offered a brief relief for Isha Foundation founded by Jaggi Vasudev by restraining the Tamil Nadu government from taking action against it. The charge against the foundation is that it had constructed buildings in Velliangiri hills in Coimbatore district without obtaining environmental clearance between 2006 and 2014. The first bench of acting chief justice MN Bhandari and Justice PD Audikesavulu passed the interim order on a writ petition by the foundation. The petition prays for an interim stay on a show cause notice issued by the Coimbatore district environmental engineer in November 2021 and to declare an Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification of 2014 as illegal. The court on Tuesday granted the respondents in the case which includes departments of union and state governments two weeks’ time to file a counter to the writ petition and to seek instructions in the matter. “In the meanwhile, the respondents will not proceed further in reference to the show cause notice for prosecution, without permission of this Court,” the order of the bench read. The court posted the matter to February 1. According to the affidavit filed for the foundation by its authorised signatory CR Dinesh Raja, this is a volunteer-run registered public charitable trust founded in 1992. And from 1994, Isha Yoga Centre was established and buildings were built near Coimbatore. This was spread over 48.3 hectares which included educational institutions affiliated to the ICSE board spread over 1,25,849 square meters out of which 28,279 sq km was constructed even before the EIA 2006 notification came into effect. The foundation argues that the 2014 EIA notification is an extension of a similar notification of 2006 notification and therefore the exemption provided under 2014 for educational institutions must apply from 2006 onwards. The petition had stated that the balance of convenience is in their favour. “The petitioner has made out a prima facie case for grant of interim orders,” the writ said. “I submit that severe prejudice, hardship and loss of reputation would be caused to the Petitioner if the notice is not stayed. On the other hand, no prejudice would be caused to the Respondents if the interim order is granted.”The case hearing comes in the backdrop of a war of words between after the DMK formed the government in May and the state’s finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan had then called Vasudev a publicity hound for his ‘Free temples’ campaign which is backed by the BJP. The foundation had responded that the minister was trivialising the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-restrains-tn-from-prosecuting-isha-foundation-in-environment-case-101641928537841.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panjab University filed 66% more patents in 2019-20||Panjab University (PU) recorded a 66% increase in patents filed in 2019-20, compared to 2018-19. The varsity also recorded a 100% increase in the patents granted. The details were shared by PU on Tuesday, after the ministry of commerce and industry recently released the “Intellectual Property India, 2019-20 Report”.In December, the varsity ranked first for innovation among government and aided (state-run and deemed) universities in the Atal Rankings of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA). Rupinder Tewari, IPR chair professor at PU, said that patents are one of the important components of innovation index. “The surge in patent filing has been seen in the northern region, which is mainly attributed to enhanced awareness about IP among educationists and scientists of the region,” he said.He also said that digitisation of the data in IPO and increased hiring of patent examiners by the government are the major reasons for the enhanced number of patents being granted annually.According to the report, out of total 56,267 applications filed, the number of applications filed by the Indian applicants was 20,843, which is a 22.6% increase over the last year’s figure of 17,005. The top applicants for patents from the Scientific Research and Development Organizations are Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) followed by Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR). The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) also figure among the top ten applicants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-filed-66-more-patents-in-201920-101641928536588.html
12-01-2022||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: Political parties yet to finalise candidates for all 3 seats||With very few days to go for nominations to begin for the first of the seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly election, most major political parties are yet to announce their respective candidates for all three assembly seats -- Noida, Dadri and Jewar -- in Gautam Budh Nagar district.Under phase 1 of the election, candidates are to begin filing their nominations on January 14. The last date to file nominations is January 21; nominations will be scrutinised on January 24, and the last date of withdrawal of nominations is January 27. The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7.According to representatives of major political parties such as the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Samajwadi Party (SP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and the Congress, they have almost finalised candidates’ names and will announce them soon. The BSP has fielded candidates in Dadri (farmer leader Manvir Bhati) and Jewar (former journalist Narendra Dedha) assemblies but has not named anyone from Noida yet.“Political parties are unable to announce the names of their candidates because they fear internal fighting. We are the first party to name candidates from Dadri and Jewar, and our party will field a candidate from Noida on January 15, as well as other seats in the state,” said Lakhmi Singh, president of BSP in Gautam Budh Nagar.Congress leaders said they will announce the party’s candidates from all Gautam Budh Nagar seats on January 13, a day before the filing of the nominations.“The top leadership has finalised the list for three seats. The names will be announced on January 13 if all goes according to plan,” said a Congress worker, requesting anonymity.The SP’s national spokesperson Rajkumar Bhati said, “Our party will announce the names of candidates from all seats in a couple of days as the top leaders are working on the list.”The BJP, which won all three seats in the district in the 2017 assembly election, is yet to announce its candidates as well, and has not clarified whether the ruling MLAs will be asked to file their nominations again.“Ours is a disciplined party, where a hardworking ordinary party worker gets the opportunity to fight the election and then serve the general public. Thus, the central leadership will decide the candidates and soon announce their names,” said Chandra Mohan, BJP spokesperson for UP.The Election Commission of India (ECI) on January 8 announced that no political rallies, roadshows, or street corner meetings will be allowed in Uttar Pradesh till January 15.On Tuesday, Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh and district magistrate Suhas LY inspected polling booths in the district as per the directions of the election commission.“We have directed the staff that it is their duty to make sure all Covid-19 protocols are followed during the polling process. We have made instructions to prepare all arrangements required for a peaceful and fair election,” said Alok Singh CP, Gautam Budh Nagar.
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow logs 1,444 new Covid-19 cases||The state capital returned 1,444 cases of Coronavirus, while 71 patients recovered from the infection on Tuesday. Currently, there are 6,070 active Covid-19 cases in the city.Aliganj reported 237 new fresh cases, Chinhat 214, Old Lucknow 146, Sarojini Nagar 127, Alambagh 125, Indira Nagar123, Silver Jubilee 120, NK Road 80, Red Cross 74 and Aishbagh 32, besides other localities.Meanwhile, the administration of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences has issued necessary instructions and guidelines to restrict the entry into various areas of the hospital. According to a press release from the PGI director, the SGPGIMS staff (regular and contractual) will enter their respective offices after showing their I-card at the security check / entry points, after sanitising hands and wearing a mask.The press release reads that patients admitted will have to show their gate pass and a valid negative RT-PCR/Truenet report done within 72 hours from an ICMR-accredited lab. The patient or his/her attendants will not be allowed into the teaching block and administrative block. Representatives of pharmaceutical companies or any other commercial organisation will not be allowed to access the offices.Professor RK Dhiman, director, SGPGIMS, said, “Covid-19 appropriate behaviour will be mandatorily followed by all staff, patients and their attendants. Instructions for online registration for new patients have already been issued which will be implemented from January 13. E-consultation for follow-up patients is preferred and e-OPD services will be put in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-logs-1-444-new-covid-19-cases-101641928479703.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Pune’s Covid positivity rate goes above 20%, CFR at 0.01% and less||Pune: Although the Covid cases are rising, pushing the city’s Covid-19 positivity rate at more than 20%, the case fatalities remain at 0.01% and less since the past one week as the reported fatalities remain in single digits. The number of new Covid cases in the city have risen by 10 times in the past one week as the count from 400 as of January 1 reaches close to 3,460 as of Tuesday (January 11). However, with the rate of hospitalisation rising slowly but steadily, it is believed that the bed count could also rise in the coming days. Although the rise in hospitalisations is not as drastic as the number of new cases, the number has witnessed a slight rise in admissions in the past one week. Since the past one week, as the number of new Covid cases are rising dramatically, the number of reported deaths due to the virus is still in single digits which has kept the case fatality rate of the city at 0.01%, and less. The number of patients who were critical or were on oxygen in the past 11 days since the beginning of the month has gone from 157 to 184. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief health officer at PMC, said, “As of Tuesday, Pune city has reported about 3,459 new Covid-19 cases of the close to 15,000 samples that have been tested in the last 24 hours. This means that the positivity rate in the city has gone up to 23%, however, we have reported only one death in the past 24 hours which means that the case fatality rate (CFR) due to Covid has been around 0.0% in the past one week. As of Tuesday, we have over 19,452 active cases in the city of which only 4.89% are admitted in hospitals in comparison with the total active cases.” As per the civic body, out of the over 19,000 active cases, 146 are on oxygen treatment, 16 are on non-invasive ventilators and 22 are on invasive ventilators. As of January 1, when the city had about 2,070 active cases, out of this, 92 were critical patients and 65 were on oxygen support. At the beginning of the month, the positivity rate of the city was around 5.2% and the CFR was 0.01%. A steady rise in the number of patients hospitalised could add load on the already exhausted health infrastructure, said Dr Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-covid-positivity-rate-goes-above-20-cfr-at-0-01-and-less-101641928476597.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar teachers booked, removed from protest site for flouting Covid norms||Hours after scores of protesting physical training instructors (PTI) and drawing teachers reached the residence of Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal in Yamunanagar’s Jagadhri on Tuesday, police removed them from the protest site and clamped an FIR against them allegedly for flouting Covid norms.As per information, the teachers, who were agitating at the grain market, reached the residence of the minister at Shivpuri Colony at around 6:15am as part of their ‘prabhat pheri’ programme demanding reinstatement of 1,983 PTIs and 816 drawing teachers.The PTIs have been protesting against the state government for almost a year now. As per reports, the Supreme Court in 2020 upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana high court quashing their appointment in schools.One of the protesting teachers said, “We had gone to remind the minister that we have given an ultimatum to the government to reinstate us as per their poll promise, or face a fierce agitation as the farmers did.”Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) termed it a security breach that allowed the protesters to reach near his residence, some even tried to sneak in.“The minister has cleared earlier that the court has cancelled their appointment, the government cannot do anything,” a statement read.Later in the evening, the protesters were removed from the agitation site in the presence of superintendent of police (SP) Kamaldeep Goyal and sub-divisional magistrate (Jagadhri) Sushil Kumar, after a warning to disperse. Police detained over a thousand teachers in buses and dislodged the arrangements on ground.The SP said, “They were detained at the site and later released for flouting the government’s ban on protests, rallies, etc in view of rise in Covid cases.”“In the morning incident, we have lodged an FIR at Jagadhri City police station against 17 named teachers and around 250 unknown ones for flouting the Covid norms,” Goyal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-teachers-booked-removed-from-protest-site-for-flouting-covid-norms-101641928418171.html
12-01-2022||Other||Andhra withdraws night curfew for Sankranti festival, cockfights||Hours after announcing the imposition of night curfew in Andhra Pradesh in a bid to contain the spread of Omicron variant of coronavirus, the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government on Tuesday deferred its implementation by a week because of forthcoming Sankranti festival.The decision to impose night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am was taken at a review meeting conducted by the chief minister on Monday. Besides, the government also ordered that cinema theatres should have only 50 per cent occupancy with alternate seating arrangement and that there should not be more than 200 persons in outdoor public gatherings and 100 persons indoor, apart from other regular restrictions like compulsory wearing of masks and maintenance of physical distancing.Accordingly, a government order was issued by Anil Kumar Singhal, principal secretary, medical and health department, on Tuesday morning. However, within hours, the state government withdrew the order stating that it required some modifications and a fresh order would be issued later.Speaking to reporters, health minister Alla Nani said the government had decided to defer the night curfew plan in the wake of Sankranti festival. He said the night curfew would cause a lot of inconvenience to the people travelling to and from their native places in the state for Sankranti festival.“A large number of people would be travelling to their native villages for the festival and returning to their places of work after the festival is over. Imposition of night curfew would affect their travel plans. Hence, we have decided to defer the decision to January 18. It will be in force till January 31,” Nani said.In the last 24 hours, Andhra Pradesh reported as many as 1,831 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of active Covid-19 cases to 7,195.
12-01-2022||Other||2 held in Gurugram for smuggling livestock from Jodhpur to Delhi||Police arrested two persons on Monday for allegedly smuggling livestock in a truck from Rajasthan’s Jodhpur to Delhi. Police said they intercepted the truck near the Kherki Daula toll plaza in Gurugram around 2am on Monday and rescued 154 sheep and 100 goats stuffed inside. The suspects were identified as truck driver Zolakh Khan (36) and co-driver Immamuddin (34), both residents of Jodhpur, police said, adding that no valid documents were produced by the arrested persons to prove that they were legally transporting the livestock. Police said they acted on a tip-off and erected a check post near the toll plaza for vehicle checking. Police said that Zolakh was driving the truck at high speed and did not stop at the check post even after being signalled to stop.A case was registered at Kherki Daula police station against the duo under sections 279 (rash driving) and 336 (punishment for rash or negligent act endangering human life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 11 (treating animals cruelly) of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.Gurugram police spokesperson Subhash Boken said that these livestock are generally taken to Ghazipur mandi in Delhi where they are sold to slaughter houses. “Besides Jodhpur, such livestock are also smuggled from Jaipur, Sikar, Nagaur and other neighbouring areas in Rajasthan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-held-in-gurugram-for-smuggling-livestock-from-jodhpur-to-delhi-101641928359689.html
12-01-2022||Other||100% increase in Covid cases in one week in Kerala: Health Minister||Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in Kerala and in the past week, there is a 100% hike in cases, state health minister Veena George said in the state capital on Tuesday. She urged the people to rise up to the occasion and avoid unnecessary journeys.“In last one week, there is 100 per cent hike in cases. And majority of the affected are in 20-40 age group. We feel Christmas and New Year celebrations led to the big spike. It is a critical phase and we can’t lower our guard now,” the minister said, adding that there was no emergency and overcrowding in hospitals and less than 6 per cent of the affected need hospitalisation.“Majority of the cases are Delta variant. Experts say Omicron is at least three times infectious than Delta. So we have to be really careful. We can avoid unnecessary travels at this juncture and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in letter and spirit,” she said.She said last week daily cases were below 4,000 and they now crossed 9,000. “We are prepared with enough oxygen storage and hospitals beds. But we all want this situation should be averted,” she said.When newsmen asked about the ongoing district meetings of the ruling CPI(M) that attracted huge gathering, the minister said Covid rules were applicable to all. The opposition Congress and BJP said the government deliberately avoided a weekend shutdown in view of the ongoing party meetings which they alleged will turn a super spreader.Meanwhile, the state reported 9,066 cases on Tuesday with a test positivity rate of 14.18 per cent after 63,898 samples were tested. This is highest TPR in three months and experts warned about an impending third wave. Death rate also crossed 50,000 in the state (50,053) according to the data released by the health department. Out of this, 20,000 were left out deaths included after the verdict of the Supreme Court (unreported cases between 2020 March and July 2021).Out of 9,066 fresh cases, Thiruvananthapuram topped with 2,200 followed by Ernakulam 1,478 and Thrissur 941 cases. The minister said 345 Omicron cases were reported in the state and 99 per cent of the population got first dose of vaccine and 82 per cent got both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100-increase-in-covid-cases-in-one-week-in-kerala-health-minister-101641928358045.html
12-01-2022||Other||City records below normal temperatures for 7th day on the trot||MUMBAI: A day after the city witnessed its coldest day of the winter so far, both day and night temperatures rose on Tuesday, settling at 27.3 and 15.6 degree Celsius, respectively, (up from 13.2 and 25.1 degree Celsius the day before). Still, the daytime maximum was four degree Celsius below normal while the nighttime minimum was two degree below normal.The uptick in mercury notwithstanding, the weather remained cool, as it has for the past week. Data from the India Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory showed that Mumbai has recorded temperatures consistently below normal since January 6, including maximum and minimum temperatures.“This drop was brought on by a bout of unseasonal rain last week, caused by two consecutive western disturbances drawing moisture from the Arabian Sea and depositing it over parts of Konkan and madhya Maharashtra as they passed through Rajasthan in the north. The increase in temperature on Tuesday is because of this system’s diminished influence, but both maximum and minimum readings will remain below normal till at least January 14, after which conditions will get warmer,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.The official pointed out that the direction of the wind over Mumbai and adjoining areas has been from the north-west over the past two days and this is cooler than easterly or westerly winds. With the directions expected to change later this week, the city will start receiving warmer air, and the onset of warmer conditions may be felt sharply after Friday, the official explained.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, temperatures will rise to a maximum of as much as 31 degree Celsius by January 17, and a minimum of as low as 18 degree Celsius, because mainly, clear skies are expected to prevail. Recent weather patterns have been favourable for the city’s air except for Tuesday’s air quality index (AQI) reading which settled at a ‘satisfactory’ 79, down from the ‘moderate’ 177 a day before.“This could be due to the sudden increase in temperatures. As the air warmed, it would have risen higher in the atmosphere away from the earth’s surface, carrying pollution with it. Wind velocity has also been favourable at about 10kmph, which would have helped to disperse aerosol pollutants on Tuesday,” said Gufran Beig, project director at SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-records-below-normal-temperatures-for-7th-day-on-the-trot-101641928356587.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: Chandigarh man duped of ₹23 lakh||A resident of Sector 40 was duped of ₹23 lakh by an immigration consultant on the pretext of sending him to Canada on work permit. A cheating case has been registered against Gurpreet Singh Randhawa, the owner of Blue Sapphire Consultants in Sector 34.In his complaint, Saksham Garcha told the police that he had paid ₹23 lakh for the visa in February last year . But, the firm failed to provide the visa and didn’t return the money either. Unregistered firm booked in Manimajra Police have registered a case against an immigration consultant in Gobindpura, Manimajra, for operating without registration. There are three consultants operating in Manimajra and the other two were found to be registered. A case under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code was registered against the firm at Manimajra police station for violating the orders issued by the district magistrate, directing all the immigration firms operating in Chandigarh to share their antecedents with Chandigarh police. As part of a driver, Chandigarh Police have so far had booked about 70 immigration consultants across the city who had not got themselves registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immigration-fraud-chandigarh-man-duped-of-23-lakh-101641928176529.html
12-01-2022||Other||TN health minister rules out total lockdown in state||Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian has ruled out chances of the state imposing a complete lockdown once the harvest festival of Pongal is over.“There is no need for it at all. The chief minister does not want the livelihood of people to be affected due to a lockdown. At the same time, he is concerned that everyone must be 100% safe which is why we have been bringing in restrictions gradually,” Subramanian told reporters in Chennai. “If people follow these existing restrictions properly that will be enough for now and we will not have to go in for further restrictions and lockdowns.”With this statement, the minister has put an end to rumours that a full lockdown was imminent after Pongal which will be celebrated from January 14 to 18.So far, the restrictions imposed by the state government include a night curfew between 10pm and 5am, 50% capacity in theatres, restaurants, fitness centres. A total lockdown on Sundays except for essential services is in place.Walkers are allowed in beaches but places of worship will be shut January 14 and January 18 to prevent crowding during the Pongal festivities. On Monday, the Tamil Nadu government extended all these curbs to be followed until January 31. The government order also instructed that special inter-district buses for Pongal to run at 75% of seating capacity.This comes at a time when Omicron is moving fast in Chennai. The test positivity rate in the city has surged from 3.3% on January 1 to 17.4% as on January 9 which is exactly twice the state average which increased from 1.4 to 8.7% during the same period. Officials have attributed the exponential rise in cases to the Omicron variant.Tamil Nadu reported 13,990 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths on Monday with a total of 185 patients who are infected with the Omicron variant out of which 179 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-health-minister-rules-out-total-lockdown-in-state-101641928118973.html
12-01-2022||Noida||Samosas to BMWs: Ghaziabad rolls out rate list of items used in election campaigns||While political parties are busy fine tuning the list of candidates for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, to be held in seven phases starting February 10, the Ghaziabad district election officer on Tuesday rolled out a rate card, fixing the price of different items used in election campaigning by candidates. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has already enhanced the expenditure limit of candidates in assembly elections from ₹28 lakh to ₹40 lakh and the rate card will help officials keep a tab on each candidate’s spending. According to the rates rolled out on Tuesday, a samosa or bread pakora will cost a candidate ₹10 while his expenditure account will be debited with ₹750 in case he distributes a kilogram of kaju barfi (a sweet made of cashews) during campaigning. A cup of tea or coffee will be charged ₹10, according to the rate list. The item listed ranges from loudspeakers to different categories of tents and publicity related items such as generator sets, beds, chairs and publicity material such as banners and posters. “The list will be given to candidates and the rates have been finalised for each and every item that could be used during campaigning. We have kept the rates on par with those announced during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Rates of some items, though, have been changed,” said RK Singh, district election officer. In case any candidate uses high-end cars such as Mercedes, Toyota Fortuner, BMW or Audi, their per day cost will be range from ₹8,000-12000 for up to 200km, plus extra charges for every kilometre over the limit. As per the latest rate list, caps used during campaigns are priced at ₹ 60 a dozen and different types of garlands are in the range of ₹10 to ₹350; a chair on rent is priced at ₹10. Likewise, a set of microphones used for public address has a rate ranging from ₹600-750 while usage of tractor will cost the candidate ₹1,300 per day and an auto ₹1,400 per day for travel up to 100km. Depending upon the items used during campaigning, candidates will be required to maintain an expense sheet as per the list provided by the election officer. They will also have to open a new bank account and make payments for different expenditures from that account only. “The candidates will be required to note down details of expenditure and the same should be submitted before the expenditure committee. Apart from submission by the candidate, our surveillance teams will also assess the items used by the candidate during campaigning. These teams will also maintain records for every candidate and expenditure will be cross verified. In case the details of expenditure are not submitted by the candidate, (s)he may be declared incompetent for future elections,” said Ritu Suhas, additional district magistrate. As per norms, every candidate has to submit the final details within 30 days of the declaration of results. The teams that will be keeping a watch on the expenditure will include flying squads, static teams, video surveillance teams, accounts teams and an expenditure observer. The flying squad teams generally follow the candidates on the campaign trail and also make visits to rally venues and camp offices set up by candidates in order to assess the expenditure they incur.
12-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Shopkeeper held for selling SIM cards to fraudsters||The chief minister’s flying squad on Monday night raided a shop in Sector 51 and arrested a 38-year-old man for allegedly selling SIM cards to many miscreants without asking for their identity proofs. Police said the suspect sold over 5,000 SIM cards in the past two years to several gangs involved in cyber frauds in states such as Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan. According to police, the suspect, Ravinder Singh alias Sameer who was residing in a rented room in Wazirabad village since 2005, had been running a mobile phone shop opposite a private hospital for the past four years. As many as 66 SIM cards (14 of them were activated), 20 mobile phones, one motorcycle and ₹18,500 from Sameer’s possession, police said, adding that his two associates are at large. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) with the CM’s flying squad, said that they acted on a tip-off and formed teams for conducting an investigation. “Our teams visited the shop several times in plain clothes posing as customers. Sameer was often found talking to unidentified men that he had activated SIMs and asking them to send someone new to pick up the packet,” he said. Yadav said people from Nuh (Haryana), Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Bihar bought SIM cards through him for anything between ₹600 and ₹1,000. Police said they scanned his mobile phones and found that he was in touch with people who had earlier been arrested and booked for cyber fraud cases and were currently on bail. Harish Budhiraja, an inspector with the CM flying squad, said that the suspect had two close aides identified as Zamir of Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh and Lalit of Gurugram. “The close aides used to deliver SIM cards to at least six language interpreters attached to a private hospital who used to sell each of these SIM cards for more than ₹3,000 to foreign nationals who visited Gurugram for their treatment. More than 300 SIM cards were sold to them illegally in the past two months,” he said. Budhiraja said that the Sameer’s aides used to arrange documents of people visiting photocopy shops or banks, and activate SIM cards using them without the knowledge of the persons. “We have also found messages on Sameer’s phone where people had demanded more than 20 activated SIM cards in different states for committing crimes. Most SIM cards were sold to people in Nuh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh,” he said. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the three suspects at Sector 53 police station on Monday night.Police said online frauds are mostly operated from Nuh and Bharatpur in Rajasthan, and they are suspecting that despite knowing that people were using these SIM cards for an illegal purpose, he used to sell to them. Yadav said Sameer also used to courier activated SIM cards to other states and receive online payments for the same. “His online transactions amounted to more than ₹60,000 a month. We are yet to identify the dealer who used to give the suspects the activated SIM cards. Once verified, he will also be arrested,” he said. 
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi cops hunt for phone snatching suspect in ‘green jacket’, arrest him after 5 days||For five days (from January 2 to January 7), police in north Delhi kept a lookout for a specific suspect --a well-built young man who wore a black cap and a green jacket, based on the statements of two men who had their phones snatched. “After looking at the CCTV camera footage of both incidents, we came to the conclusion that the same person was involved in both cases,” said Sagar Singh Kalsi, deputy commissioner of police (crime).After watching footage from at least 100 CCTV cameras in parts of north Delhi, especially Civil Lines and Tis Hazari court area, the police finally arrested the man, 27-year-old Faraz Rehman on January 7, who was still wearing the green jacket. Rehman told the police he considered the green jacket his lucky charm.DCP Kalsi said, “He thought he would not be arrested for the crimes if he wore the green jacket. We recovered eight stolen phones from his possession. After stealing a phone, he would visit nearby railway stations and bus terminals to sell it. He would claim to be in financial trouble and tell his buyers that he had to sell the phone quickly.” Narrating the sequence of the incidents that led to his arrest, police said, that on January 2, an ambulance driver filed a complaint about a man on a scooter who snatched his phone near the Bhairon Baba Mandir in Civil lines. While police were probing this case, another snatching was reported on January 4. This time, a daily wager said that around 9.30am, when he was crossing St Stephens Road, a biker snatched his cell phone.“We formed a special team and started looking at CCTV cameras. After looking at footage from over 100 cameras, the trail of the suspect ended at Jama Masjid. We did not give up. The police team came to the conclusion that the same person was involved in both the snatching cases...Finally on January 7, we received a tip about the suspect. Around 10pm on January 7, we arrested him from Tikona park, Mori gate,” said DCP Kalsi.Snatching is one of the most common crimes across the city. At the Delhi police control, every hour, officials manning the 112 helpline receive at least six calls from citizens who are victims of Delhi’s infamous snatchers. In 2019, the police control room received 56,937 distress calls complaining of snatching; in 2020, the number was 24,756||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cops-hunt-for-phone-snatching-suspect-in-green-jacket-arrest-him-after-5-days-101641928057874.html
12-01-2022||Other||No action against actor Dileep till Jan 14 in new case: Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday restrained a special investigation team (SIT) from taking any action against actor Dileep and five others in a new case for allegedly threatening police officers probing the 2017 sexual assault of an actress till January 14 when anticipatory bail pleas will be heard in detail.The actor and other moved the HC on Monday after the SIT filed a new case against them alleging a plot to kill police officers who investigated the case. Hearing the plea Justice P Gopinath ordered that no action will be taken against the accused till the court heard their bail pleas in detail.During the brief hearing the actor’s counsel Philip T Varghese contended that the new case was filed at the behest of the main investigating officer in the actor assault case as the officer did not want to be examined during trial. Deposition of Deputy Superintendent Bajiu Paulose was scheduled next week and the new FIR was intended to delay the case, he said adding the new FIR registered after a director came out with an imaginary story.But the prosecution opposed the bail pleas strongly saying custody interrogation was necessary in view of the latest disclosure by director Balachandra Kumar. It said allegations against the actor and others were serious and they were planning to target officials who investigated the case.The sensational case took a new turn after Kumar’s interview to a Malayalam TV channel in December last year in which he claimed that Dileep was in possession of tapes of the assault and he saw main accused Pulsar Suni at his house. He also released some audio tapes. In one of the tapes, one person allegedly identified as Anoop, Dileep’s brother, can be beard talking about a conspiracy to kill investigating officer Baiju Paulose. The conservation allegedly took place in November 2017 at the actor’s house in Aluva in Ernakulam district, the SIT said in its FIR.The accused were charged under Indian penal code sections 116 (abetment of offence), 118 (concealing design to commit an offence), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Crime branch Additional Director of Police S Sreejith is supervising the investigation. After Kumar’s revelations, the Kerala government approached the Supreme Court last week with a plea to extend the trial for six more months.New allegations against Dileep and prosecution’s demand for a fresh probe surfaced at a time when the trial court’s six-month extension given by the Supreme Court is set to expire on February 16. The case relates to an incident in 2017 in which a woman actor was waylaid, kidnapped and sexually assaulted by a gang in Kochi while she was returning home after a shooting assignment. Six months after the incident, Dileep was arrested and made an accused in the case. Prosecution alleged that the attack was planned at the behest of Dileep to settle an old score with the woman actor.After fresh disclosure the victim sent a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking speedy justice to her. She also posted a touching note in social media describing the ordeal she had undergone in last four years. “This is not been an easy journey. The journey from being a victim to becoming a survivor. For five years now, my name and identity have been suppressed under the weight of the assault inflicted on me...” said the emotional post adding she is not alone in the fight for justice. Many actors and actresses have pledged support to her after the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-action-against-actor-dileep-till-jan-14-in-new-case-kerala-hc-101641928056540.html
12-01-2022||Pune||Covid curbs keep Pune-Mumbai expressway drive safer in ’21||Pune: The number of accidents and fatalities thereof, on the Pune-Mumbai expressway have reduced in 2021 as compared to 2019 and 2020. Because of Covid-19 lockdowns, in 2020 the vehicular movement on the e-way drastically reduced. As a result, there were fewer accidents and deaths. As per information released by the state highway police, a total of 182 accidents and 75 deaths happened in 2021 on the Pune-Mumbai expressway. While in 2019, 306 accidents and 92 deaths took place in 2020, accidents were down to 160 and fatalities were 66 as only essential services’ vehicles were allowed to run on the expressway for most of the year. Over the last couple of years, several precautionary measures to reduce accidents were taken by the Highway Safety Patrol. Preetam Yavalkar, deputy superintendent of police, Highway Safety Patrol, Pune, said, “Despite the Covid pandemic and with the guidance of our senior officials various steps were taken to reduce accidents and deaths on the e-way. As compared to 2019, both accidents and deaths have reduced. Continuous action is being taken on speeding vehicles, and the MSRDC carried out several infrastructures works to improve highway safety. So, we mainly focused on our speed gun and seat- belt action on the e-way to curb accidents. Also, the response time of our team increased during this period, so we tried to reach accident spots as fast as possible.” Vipul Alekar, a regular traveller on the expressway said, “Now I feel safe while traveling by the expressway, as there is more vigilance and highway police are taking safety measures round the clock. There is still need to improve many things, but people should also realise their own safety do not speed in cars to extreme levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-curbs-keep-pune-mumbai-expressway-drive-safer-in-21-101641927999959.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||JNU’s academic council to discuss common university admission test||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Academic Council (AC) will discuss a proposal to implement the Common University Entrance Test (CUET) from the academic session 2022-2023 on Wednesday even as over 100 faculty members want the matter to be deliberated upon further before it is taken up by the AC. The implementation of CUET was placed on the meeting agenda as an additional item and shared with faculty members on Monday. CUET, which is envisaged in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, was scheduled to start in the 2021-22 academic session, but was put on hold in view of the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter dated November 26 and addressed to the vice-chancellors of all 45 central universities, including JNU, Delhi University (DU), Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI), University Grants Commission (UGC) said CUET will be conducted from the academic session 2022-23. Currently, JNU holds its own entrance examination, which is conducted by the National Testing Agency.The additional agenda item shared by the university on Monday comprised two letters, one sent by the UGC earlier and another letter from the Education Ministry to the NTA outlining directions for implementation of CUET from 2022-23. “In view of the letters mentioned above it is submitted that Jawaharlal Nehru University Entrance Examination 2022-2023 for all programmes will be conducted as per the directions of MoE/UGC, as already passed in the 157th Academic Council meeting,” the item stated. Ahead of the meeting, 111 faculty members from the university issued a statement on Tuesday and sought that the agenda item on CUET be referred for further discussion since it required extensive deliberation. “The Additional Agenda with regards to the conduct of next year’s JNUEE was circulated to members of the Academic Council only on 10 January 2022. Since this is a matter that requires extensive deliberation given the interdisciplinary nature of JNU’s programmes of study, we request the Academic Council to refer the agenda item for discussion at the School (BOS) and Centre(Faculty Committee) level,” said the signatories. In a Facebook post, JNU professor Ayesha Kidwai, one of the signatories, said that while the meeting was scheduled for Wednesday, the agenda item had been circulated on Monday evening in a last-minute exercise. “A matter that should have been widely discussed at the Schools and Centres before making it to the AC will now, thanks to this last-minute introduction, is all set to be passed by it without any discussion whatsoever,” wrote Kidwai. She added that the university offered a number of interdisciplinary programmes that were unique, due to which a common entrance test for other central universities would not be fit as an entrance mechanism for JNU. “How are the requirements of these programmes to be met in the entrance test, which must test candidates for their knowledge in not one but several fields?” said Kidwai. Last month too, a section of JNU teachers wrote to the executive council of the university raising concerns against the university’s purported plans of implementing the common university entrance test. Moushumi Basu, associate professor at the School of International Studies and JNUTA secretary, said that a free and fair discussion on important academic matters, such as the CUET proposal, was not taking place. JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Aishe Ghosh said that the vice-chancellor was making an attempt to bulldoze through a decision-making process during the pandemic. “The JNU vice-chancellor has yet again chosen the period of the pandemic to put an additional agenda to the Academic Council meeting for passing CUCET, without any deliberation and discussion with the student community,” said Ghosh. She added that JNUSU representatives had not been invited to the AC meeting and the move was aimed at changing the nature of JNU as a public university. JNU V-C Jagadesh Kumar and rector I Chintamani Mahapatra did not respond to calls and text messages seeking a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnus-academic-council-to-discuss-common-university-admission-test-101641927876808.html
12-01-2022||Mumbai||BJP leader accuses mayor of fraudulently awarding BMC contract to own firm||Mumbai Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Tuesday alleged that Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar bagged the contract of Worli Covid-19 centre from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), for the firm owned by her and her relatives, by using her political position. He alleged that the contract was given without floating a tender or following the set of norms and has demanded a forensic audit of the allotment. The BJP leader also accused Shiv Sena leader and standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav of indulging in money laundering with the help of a shell company. While Pednekar denied the allegations, Jadhav was not available for his comments. While addressing the media, Somaiya said that the BMC, headed by Pednekar, gave the contract to her own company in August 2020. “The company, founded just four years ago, had the turnover of just ₹1.5 crore to ₹1.88 crore initial four years until 2020-21, but it shot up to over ₹15 crore after the contract was allotted to Kris Corporation Services Ltd, owned by Pednekar with two other relatives. It was given without floating tenders or the pre-qualification bidding. How can the Mayor allot a contract to her own company,” he questioned.Somaiya said that the BMC should clarify how many contracts were given to the company owned by the mayor. “A high-level forensic audit needs to be conducted in the entire allotment. The BMC commissioner should tell the people of Mumbai about the procedure followed while allocating the contract. The commissioner has also directed offices concerned to not give out the documents related to the contract under RTI,” he alleged. Somaiya said that he was soon going to reveal the facts related to a contract given to a very close aid of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He said that it would lead to a major embarrassment to the CM.Countering the allegations, Pednekar said that Somaiya has been levelling baseless allegations without any proof. “Somaiya has been entrusted by his party to make allegations against opponents. He has been doing it for years, without proving any of them. Even people have realised it. If he has any proof against me of any misdeeds, he is free to prove that it was done by manipulating the set system. The allegations are nothing but an attempt to defame us ahead of the civic polls. We will keep working in the interest of the people of Mumbai,” she said.Somaiya also accused Yashawant Jadhav of indulging in hawala transactions to transfer the unaccounted money through a shell company. “The unaccounted money worth ₹15 crore was given by Jadhav to a person who transferred it in the accounts of Jadhav and his relatives. The transfer was done by parking the money in a shell company by purchasing its shares at an inflated price,” he said.Somaiya has demanded an inquiry into the transaction by the enforcement directorate and income tax.Jadhav did not respond to the calls and messages sent by HT for his quote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-leader-accuses-mayor-of-fraudulently-awarding-bmc-contract-to-own-firm-101641927818098.html
12-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad gets second highest single-day spike during pandemic with 1679 cases; seven hospitals identified for Covid care||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad recorded its second highest single-day spike since the start of the pandemic in 2020 by reporting 1,679 infections on Tuesday, according to records released by the district control room.Officials of the district health department said that the state government, meanwhile, has allowed several hospitals and medical colleges in the district to be notified as Covid care facilities, following a notice of three days. According to the official records, Ghaziabad recorded its highest single-day spike of 1,788 cases on April 30 last year, during the peak of the second wave of Covid. “We are taking several measures to track and treat Covid patients, and we have also ramped up the daily testing in the district with 7,400 tests being done per day (as set by the state government). This will be further increased to 10,000 tests per day. Since the district has a large population base, the number of cases is also high at present,” said RK Singh, district magistrate. The district on Tuesday achieved a high rate of daily sample positivity at 14.82%, as the same for January so far stood at 8.33%. It is higher than the positivity rate of 7.41% recorded in May last year, and 9.12% in April 2021.Positivity rate refers to the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to those who have been tested for it.The 1,679 cases reported on Tuesday turned positive out of the total 8,969 samples tested the same day.With the fresh spike, the active Covid cases in the district have gone up to 6,125, with 6,228 of the total 62,142 infections reported in January 2022 alone.The district has conducted 59,681 tests in the past one week, recording 5,823 positive cases with a sample positivity of 9.75%, said the officials.Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday released a list of hospitals that are being taken over as dedicated L1, L2 and L3 Covid facilities across the state. Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer, said, “The list includes two medical colleges, one district hospital and four community health centres, which will be notified as L1, L2 or L3 facilities upon a notice of three days. Till these hospitals get notified, they will admit regular patients as well... In wake of the rising Covid cases, we have already put 58 hospitals, including private hospitals, on standby, and they have a total of 3,459 Covid beds -- 796 ICU beds, 228 ventilator beds and 105 beds equipped with oxygen concentrators -- altogether.” The list of hospitals to be notified includes Santosh Medical College (L3), Rama Medical College at Pilkhuwa (L2), Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital (L2) and four CHCs of Loni, Muradnagar, Modinagar and Dasna (all in the L1 category). These facilities have a total of 1,064 beds, which could be used for Covid patients in case of emergency.The Uttar Pradesh government has also kept other hospitals in the state in the “to be notified” zone, and together these account for 42,383 beds. The L1 facilities are for patients having mild symptoms, L2 for patients with moderate symptoms, and L3 for tertiary care. The government has also authorised the district magistrate and the chief medical officer to notify private hospitals to be turned into Covid care facilities.
12-01-2022||Other||Four killed, one injured in Nuh as mound of soil caves in||Four persons, including two women and two girls, were killed as a mound of soil caved in on them at Kangarka village, Tauru, in Nuh district on Monday evening. Another girl, who was injured at the site, was reported stable on Tuesday, officials from the district administration said.On Tuesday, Nuh deputy commissioner Shakti Singh sought a detailed report from mining officials about the incident. “As soon as we received the information, a team of officials from district administration and police was sent to the spot. The four bodies were recovered by the villagers. Another injured girl’s condition was stable on Tuesday,” said Singh, who also visited the bereaved families. Singh said that after the incident he sent a team of mining officers to the village to check if there were more such areas where the villagers dug mud to use for their personal use. “I have asked them to meet the village sarpanch and to ask the villagers not to send minors to the site during rains as such incidents might occur again,” he said. Varun Singla, superintendent of police, Nuh, said that the last rites were conducted after the post mortem on Tuesday. “The victims had started digging at the base of the mound, which caused the entire heap to collapse on them in the wake of recent downpour in the village. It was an accident and the family members refused to file any complaint. We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and have recorded statements of the family members,” he said. On Monday around 5pm, two women and three girls, all members of an extended family, had left home to collect dry soil from an earth mound for household use. Within half an hour, one of the villagers passing by heard their cries and raised an alarm following which other villagers rushed to the spot and managed to extricate five of them, but four died on the spot, police said. The deceased have been identified as Wakeela (19), Janista (18), Taslima (10) and Gulafsha (9). Nine-year-old Sofiya, who suffered injuries, recorded her statement on Tuesday, said police. Abdul Sattar, sarpanch of the village, said that the five victims had gone together to get soil for their houses from the mound which was around 15 feet high. “Due to rain, the area had become wet that led to the accident,” he said. He further added that they were digging from the bottom without realising that it could fall on them. Within minutes the mound collapsed on them, he said. Sher Mohammad, father of the deceased girl, said that they were in shock. “We wish we had not sent them alone,” he said. The district administration is preparing data on similar accidents in the district and have decided to call a meeting this week of all sarpanchs to apprise them of the situation and not to allow minors to visit any spots to get soil. Hameed , father of Gulafsha and a security guard working in Bhiwadi, said that he received a call from one of the relatives that his daughter has been buried under soil. “ I boarded a cab for my village which is 16km from Nuh. My daughter had gone to the site with her cousins for the first time and was excited to get soil to help her mother make an oven,” he said.Faisal, one of the relatives of the deceased, said that there was a wedding in the village on Monday, and when the girls did not return in half an hour, the family thought they had gone to see the wedding function. “Had the family known that mound has caved in, they would have gone there in search of them and the girls would have survived. The victims couldn’t get timely help due to which four of them died on the spot,” he said.
12-01-2022||Other||Positivity rate down in state for 2nd day||Mumbai: Maharashtra recorded a decline in the daily test positivity rate for the second day in a row, even as the caseload saw a marginal increase with 34,424 new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday compared to 33,470 cases recorded the previous day. By comparison, the number of tests conducted on Tuesday were 210,043 compared to 173,806 tests conducted on Monday. In effect, the test positivity rate — the number of positive cases per 100 tests conducted — on Tuesday was 16.38%, down by a little over three percentage points from Monday. Tuesday’s TPR is also the lowest in the past six days. Last Thursday, the TPR was as high as 21.27%, when the state recorded 36,265 fresh cases with 170,429 tests conducted. Mumbai, which accounts for a majority of the cases in the state also saw a decline in fresh cases reported for the fourth consecutive day on Tuesday, with 11,647 Covid-19 cases reported. The state’s case count now stands at 221,477, while Mumbai’s active cases stand at 100,523, down by 3,339 from Monday.Indeed, in the last five days, cases reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have been declining. On January 7, Mumbai and MMR contributed 81.2% of the state’s total cases. The share dropped to 64.38% on Tuesday. Mumbai alone contributed to 51.24% of the total cases reported in Maharashtra on January 7. On Tuesday, its share was 33.83% of the state’s caseload. Health department officials however, are circumspect about calling this a dip in the wave for Mumbai and MMR, as this could also be a result of an increased reliance on home test kits, as a result of which the state cannot track the number of positive cases unless the person self reports. Whether it is a trend or lower reporting due to home test kits is still unclear. However, if one looks at Mumbai’s test positivity rate it is a positive sign as it has dropped from 30% to 18%,” a health department official, who did not wish to be named, said. He said that these are early days in the third wave. “We could see a similar surge in other centres in the coming days.”Pune (6,161), Nashik (1,414) and Nagpur (806) districts have also been reporting higher numbers. Health minister Rajesh Tope said that the expert pointed out that the third wave could peak by January end. However, these are estimates, he added. “The third wave has started and it has to be seen when it will peak. In the second wave, the peak was 65,000 [cases in a day] and then it started declining. It is difficult to estimate when this wave will peak, but experts opine that it could peak around January end,” said Tope.The minister added that the overall situation is better in the state compared to the second wave. He said that the oxygen requirement had not increased, while the hospital bed occupancy also remained low. “Today our oxygen requirement is about 250 tonnes daily. This includes both, Covid and non-Covid. If we segregate, the non-Covid demand, the need for oxygen has not risen a great deal. The bed occupancy has not shot up at a concerning level,” said Tope. He further added, “Out of the active cases, only 2% are on oxygen support and 1% is in ICU in the state. The numbers are not such that would burden the medical infrastructure.”
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh rape case: Three home guards awarded for their role in arresting accused||The three Home Guard volunteers who helped apprehend the autorickshaw driver who raped a 35-year-old Kolkata woman in Sector 17 a day prior, received a cash award of ₹5,000 from the Chandigarh Police on Tuesday.The victim had been raped and dropped in Sector 17 by the accused, Jai Dev, 27, of Darua. She had boarded the autorickshaw from railway station to the Sector 17 bus stand and was raped in a secluded area.The volunteers, Vijay Rana, Kuldeep Verma and Ashwani, who were posted at the mini civil secretariat, Haryana, had found her and called the police.She confided in them that she was raped by Jai Dev and told them the direction in which he had driven off.“The volunteers, after taking details from the victim, went out to apprehend the accused who was still plying close to the bus stand. They apprehended him and, in the meantime, police arrived and arrested him based on the identification of the victim,” shared a senior police officer.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal took to Twitter and shared “Rewarded the Haryana Home Guard volunteers who rescued the victim of unfortunate rape incident in Sector 17 and helped in apprehending the culprit due to their alertness and sincerity.”Autorickshaw drivers told to get registeredPolice teams held a verification drive on Tuesday and asked all autorickshaw drivers to get registered. There are about 400 autorickshaws that ply from Sector 17 to bus stand. The police will also increase patrolling and check the autorickshaws, especially at night.Meanwhile, Anil Kumar of tricity autorickshaw union, said they have asked the drivers to paste stickers with complete details of driver as well as the vehicle on the windscreen of their three-wheelers. “This will help in verification of the drivers and ensure that even new drivers are verified,” said Kumar.
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi traders seek exemptions from WFH for small businesses||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Tuesday urged lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is also the chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), to reconsider the authority’s order directing private offices in the Capital to shut and shift to work-from-home mode. CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal, in a letter to the DDMA, said there are more than three lakh private offices in Delhi where lakhs of people are employed. The DDMA decision to shut these offices will adversely affect traders as well as employees, it said. Khandelwal suggested that private offices having more than 10 employees be asked to shift to work from home while offices having fewer than 10 employees are exempted from the rule. There are a large number of offices run by small businessmen and professionals that employ a very limited number of people -- usually less than 10 -- and such offices should be exempted from this directive, Khandelwal appealed. “Traders fully agree with the government’s concern regarding the increase in Covid infections and all business associations of Delhi want to cooperate with the government in its fight against Covid. It would be better if the government holds discussions with traders before imposing restrictions so that a balanced approach towards Covid management and livelihood protection can be taken,” said Khandelwal. CAIT has also sought an appointment with L-G to discuss the issue. Brijesh Goyal, chairman, Chamber of Trade and Industry, said while large corporates can shift to work from home without any inconvenience or disruption, small traders find the shift quite difficult. “Many small traders are not digitally equipped for work from home. In many offices, employees still have to refer to physical files and records while preparing bills, work orders, etc. We will write to the DDMA seeking exemption for small traders,” said Goyal. Spokesperson of an automobile major said offices of the company located in Delhi were already working at 50% capacity, in compliance of the DDMA order. “As per the latest DDMA order, all employees are to be told to shift to work from home. For us, the health and well being of the employees is the priority,” the spokesperson, who did not want to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deli-traders-seek-exemptions-from-wfh-for-small-businesses-101641927222475.html
12-01-2022||Mumbai||Number of discharged patients rises in the state with revised policy||Mumbai: The revised policy concerning discharge of Covid-19 patients has led to over 48,000 patients, including over 42,000 from Mumbai alone, being discharged from Covid hospitals and health care facilities across Maharashtra since Monday.The Centre issued the guidelines on January 9, days after it revised its guidelines regarding home isolation. According to the new discharge policy, Covid-19 facilities and hospitals may discharge patients seven days after testing positive provided they have had no fever for three consecutive days. There is no requirement to repeat the test before discharge. According to the new guidelines, moderate patients too can be discharged after seven days of a positive report, if their oxygen saturation is above 93% for three consecutive days and they have not needed any oxygen support during this period. The discharge criteria for severe patients should depend on the clinical recovery and discretion of the treating doctors, according to the revised guidelines. The basis of the guidelines seems to be to ensure that hospital beds are not taken up by non-serious patients.Experts said that since little is known about how infectious a person is even if they don’t exhibit symptoms such as a fever for three consecutive days after seven days of treatment, people must continue to wear masks when they step out.On Monday, 29,671 patients, including 27,214 from Mumbai were discharged from public and private in the state. On Tuesday, 18,967 patients, including 14,980 in Mumbai, were discharged. In all, 48, 638 patients — 42,194 from Mumbai alone — have been discharged in the state over the past two days.State Covid task force member Shashank Joshi said that the new policy was similar to the guidelines of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the American nodal public health agency. “Once patients turn asymptomatic, they should strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour and use double masking. For instance, a healthcare worker who has recovered from a recent infection can resume work with proper masking. If patients follow strict masking protocol after turning asymptomatic, they can simply resume their activities and not worry about passing on the infection to others,” said Dr Joshi.Doctors said that little is known about how long a person can be infectious, however, when patients don’t have symptoms, they don’t expectorate the virus as much as compared to a symptomatic person. “Before this policy came in, we were discharging patients only after their repeat tests came negative,” said Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of the jumbo Covid-19 facility at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the NESCO jumbo Covid-19 facility in Goregaon said that the new policy will open up beds sooner. “Previously, we used to take the samples of admitted patients on the fourth day. If they tested negative, we discharged them immediately and if they tested positive, we kept them under treatment for longer. Now, we can send them home after being symptom-free for three days.” According to Andrade, the new policy will reduce the burden on testing machinery as patients no longer have to undergo repeat tests before discharge. The policy signals the changing course of the pandemic where experts are saying that the focus no longer should be on every positive case, but rather on hospitalisations and people in need of prolonged oxygen support. The current occupancy rate of oxygen beds in Mumbai is 26% — a week ago, it was 13%.On the ground, the decision to discharge a patient has depended on the doctor treating them. However, the policy will largely be applicable to government Covid facilities that stick to rules mandated on paper. “When to discharge a patient is a decision that has to be made on clinical judgement,” said Dr N Santhanam, chief executive officer of Breach Candy Hospital. “It good to have a policy but ultimately, we have gone by the clinician’s decision always when it comes to discharge,” he said. Joshi added that the nature of the Omicron wave is such that 80% of the people are going to be asymptomatic with invisible infections. “The 20% patients with symptoms should be our focus, and we have to red-flag those patients who might progress to severe disease,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/number-of-discharged-patients-rises-in-the-state-with-revised-policy-101641927221193.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Self-test kits could lead to unreported cases, warn officials||A surge in the demand for Covid-19 self-testing kits has raised concerns about underreporting of cases even as health officials termed these kits “a boon” as they have taken a significant load off the traditional Covid-19 testing infrastructure amid the fifth wave of the pandemic in the city. On the other hand, they also said the actual number of active cases in Delhi is likely to be higher than what is being reported in the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin.“The self-test kits are being widely used now, which is a good thing as people start solating themselves almost immediately without infecting more people. One does not even have to step out for the test. Those who test positive on these kits are mostly consulting private practitioners and family doctors over phone for treatment since the Omicron variant is presenting only mild symptoms. So, this time we are seeing more self restraint among people compared to the previous waves,” said a senior health official, on condition of anonymity. Chemist associations in the city said the demand for self-test kits has increased in the past one week due to a spike in Covid cases. The self-test kits, chemists say, cost around ₹250-275 and are easy to use. The associations are also taking measures to ensure that there is no shortage of essential medicines required for the treatment of Covid.Sandeep Nangia, president of Retail Distribution Chemist Alliance in Delhi, said, “Around 5,000 plus self-test kits are being sold daily. The demand has increased in the past one week. Till end-December, we hardly got any request for these kits.”He said the demand is more from upscale and middle-class neighbourhoods. “In south Delhi, we are providing around 3,000 kits daily,” said Nangia, who is also the organising secretary of All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists.But on the flip side, it has also led to a section of Covid-19 positive cases being counted in the government records, at least four chief district medical officers (CDMOs) that HT spoke to said on Tuesday. “In my district, so far, I have not yet received input of even one person who tested positive on the at-home kit. So, such people are getting treated on their own. In fact, in some cases these days, when we visit close contacts of someone who tested positive through RT-PCR testing, they say they’ll get tested on their own at home. Many such families have bought these kits in bulk to keep testing themselves in case symptoms develop,” said a CDMO on condition of anonymity. All four CDMOs and other state healthcare workers said only those who are being tested through RT-PCR and rapid antigen modes are being entered into the government records. “RT-PCR is being recorded 100% in Delhi, even if it is being at a private facility. Even cases turning positive in rapid antigen tests are fully recorded by the administration because these tests are conducted only by government entities through camps and other such set-ups. But, there’s no administrative SOP for recording cases that test positive on at-home tests. That is also because it is almost impossible to track every such person unless they are responsible enough to inform the administration on their own,” a second CDMO said, asking not to be named. According to the advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), each of the at-home testing kit has a unique QR code to ensure traceability and genuineness. A user is instructed to log into the app of the respective brand, such as Mylab CoviSelf, CoviFind, etc., through their mobile phones. The user then has to click a picture of the test strip after completing the test with the same phone on which the app was downloaded. Data in the app will be centrally captured in a secure server which is connected with the ICMR Covid-19 testing portal, where all data will be eventually stored,” the advisory said.Delhi on Tuesday reported 21,259 fresh Covid-19 cases and 23 deaths, as the positivity rate -- rate of samples that return positive from among the total tested -- also climbed to 25.65%. With the fresh cases and fatalities, the cumulative number of infections has risen to 1,590,155 and the death toll to 25,200. A total of 19,166 cases and 17 deaths were recorded in the national capital on Monday.“Till 10 days ago, we used to keep just five to seven kits in stock. But now we are selling 50-60 kits daily. These kits are much cheaper than the RT-PCR test and very easy to use,” said Robin Sharma, who has a chemist store in Dwarka and is the president of the Dwarka Traders Association.In Bhagirath Palace, Delhi’s biggest wholesale market for medicines, traders said more and more chemists inquiring about these kits. Ashish Grover, secretary of Delhi Drugs Traders Association, Bhagirath Palace, said, “We are now getting a lot of enquiries about the availability of these kits. The sales have also started, but there is no significant jump as such so far.”Dr Nikhil Modi, Consultant Pulmonology/ Respiratory Medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said for admissions RT-PCR tests are mandatory. “But, getting an RT-PCR test is gradually taking longer due to high demand, most doctors are now recommending at-home tests to patients who complain of mild symptoms. It’s an effective tool for quick detection and isolation. But for admissions, RT-PCR is mandatory. most doctors are now the number of. In the hospitals, so far the situation is pretty manageable. But, it is not the case that admissions are not happening. The numbers (admissions) are slowly surging because the daily cases are also increasing. But, they are all mostly the ones who are sick or have severe disease. Fortunately, we have not had any deaths in our hospital so far in this wave. There is no Long Covid in the Omicron variant. People are recovering even in three days this time,” he said.
12-01-2022||Noida||CMO, 100+ doctors infected in Noida; state to add hospitals for Covid treatment||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Gautam Budh Nagar, the chief medical officer (CMO) of the district, an additional CMO and several health department staff are among the latest to test positive for the viral infection, the district administration said on Tuesday. Health-care workers in various hospitals are also testing positive for the disease in increased numbers, leading to manpower shortages at various levels, officials said. Apart from nurses and support staff, doctors too are testing Covid-19 positive and are in isolation. “The CMO and an ACMO have tested positive, but they are continuing to work from home isolation. Several healthcare workers are testing positive, but we have the necessary backup to handle patients. The good news is that most of the doctors who have tested positive are doing fine and are in home isolation,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.At least 45 doctors in Sharda, 30 in Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and five in Noda District hospital have tested positive for Covid. Several other private hospitals also have doctors and nursing staff who have tested positive. “We have made alternative arrangements at the hospital to fill in for the doctors who are out of action. The flu clinic and RT-PCR testing has been shifted out to screen all patients coming to the hospital as we have noticed that many try to hide symptoms. Initially, 32 doctors and 48 support staff are being put on Covid duty and the shift will be changed after a few days. Most of our 1,200 beds have oxygen supply,” said Ajit Kumar, director (PR), Sharda hospital. At GIMS, medical students have also tested Covid positive and are helping out inside the Covid wards. “Our staff who tested positive are making the rounds of Covid wards. We have several first year MBBS students who tested positive and had to attend an examination today while one of our Covid-positive doctors was an invigilator for the exam,” said brigadier (retired) Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida. Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday released a list of hospitals that are being taken over as dedicated L1, L2 and L3 Covid facilities across the state. In Gautam Budh Nagar, 1,960 beds at nine hospitals have been reserved for Covid and in Ghaziabad 1,064 beds at eight hospitals have been reserved for these patients. Sharda Hospital is the only L3 facility in Gautam Budh Nagar -- to treat critical Covid cases -- with 800 beds while Santosh medical college is the only L3 facility in Ghaziabad where 400 beds have been reserved for Covid cases. In Gautam Budh Nagar 450 beds at GIMS, 240 beds at Noida Covid Hospital, 150 beds at the Child PGI and 200 beds at the ESIC hospital have been reserved as L2 facilities (centres for mildly critical cases). Additionally, 30 beds each at Community Health Centres (CHCs) in Bhangel, Bisrakh, Dadri and Jewar have been reserved as L1 facilities (to handle the mild cases). In Ghaziabad, the L2 infrastructure includes 352 beds at Rama Medical College, 82 beds at ESIC hospital and 110 beds at DCH Sanjaynagar. Additionally, 30 beds each at CHCs in Loni, Muradnagar, Dasna and Modinagar have been reserved as L1 facilities. Apart from these, various private hospitals have also been allowed to start Covid treatment facilities if they have the relevant infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cmo-100-doctors-infected-in-noida-state-to-add-hospitals-for-covid-treatment-101641926676506.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||In a first, Delhi civic body to lease out heritage properties for commercial use||To protect heritage buildings and properties in its jurisdiction, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday decided to grant licences to interested parties to use these buildings for commercial activities for a period of 20 years, with the stipulation that the licensee bear the entire expenditure on account of renovation, modifications, maintenance and upkeep of the property for the duration of the licence period, officials in the know of the matter said. This is the first time that the SDMC is exploring the possibility of auctioning these heritage properties and buildings -- some of which are as old as 400 years -- to private parties for upkeep and maintenance. SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said there are a number of heritage buildings and properties in his jurisdiction and some of them date back centuries. “With the passage of time, these structures have weakened and they require immediate repairs and maintenance. These properties cannot be demolished and can only be conserved and restored and periodically maintained,” he said. He further said the corporation will not incur any expenditure on this account. “On the other hand, the SDMC will generate revenue from the grant of licence to use these heritage properties. The license will be granted for running retail shops, pharmaceuticals, commercial offices, clinics, banks, ATMs, guest houses, coaching centres, restaurants or any other permitted establishments,” he said. He further said before taking the heritage property on lease, the licensee will have to submit the necessary drawings and design modifications to be made, along with a structural stability certificate, from a registered architect. “Initially, we are auctioning the 100-year-old house tax office building in Mehrauli, for upkeep and maintenance. The licensee will also have to submit these documents to the civic body’s heritage conservation committee for approval,” he said. When contacted, a senior official of the heritage conservation committee said the SDMC has a total of 475 heritage properties under its control, of which some are as old as 400 years. “Some important sites include the 250-year-old Hauz e Shamsi (water reservoir), 100-year-old house tax building, 150-year-old St Thomas Church and 350-year-old malaria office near Lodi mosque in Mehrauli. Besides these, the Dilli Darwaja of Najafgarh, Purana Darwaja of Badarpur, Shroff hospital and Zeenat-ul Masjid in Daryaganj and the Hauz Khas pond in the Deer Park are more than 100 years old,” he said, asking not to be named.According to the SDMC sources, the first property to be leased out on Tuesday was a 282.4 square metre plot in Mehrauli, on which stands the 100-year-old house tax building. The earnest money deposit (EMD), which is the minimum financial guarantee by the bidder, was set at ₹5 lakh for this property. The name of the highest bidder has not yet been disclosed by the SDMC.The main opposition party in the three civic bodies, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAM), has condemned the SDMC’s decision to lease out heritage properties. Senior AAP leader and party’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said after selling off valuable properties, the civic body is now leasing out heritage properties, which are the pride of residents. “The BJP-ruled MCDs have no other business but to sell or lease out valuable assets. By allowing this auctioning, they are playing with the pride of Delhi residents and we will now see restaurants and guest houses in these historic places,” he said. The south corporation’s plan has also elicited mixed reactions from Delhi historians and activists. Heritage activist Sohail Hashmi said with this move, the every essence of heritage buildings will disappear. “Imagine if a restaurant runs out of the century-old house tax building. Who will know that the building is a heritage property? It is always better that the civic body ask corporate houses for funds from their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative for repair and maintenance of heritage sites. And, which archaeologist have they consulted in this connection? This is just a money minting exercise,” he said. However, Swapna Liddle, another city historian, welcomed the move. “I don’t find anything wrong in leasing out these properties to private players, provided they don’t play with the heritage status of these properties,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-delhi-civic-body-to-lease-out-heritage-properties-for-commercial-use-101641926377297.html
12-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Wait for Covid-19 test reports gets longer as cases rise||As the Covid-19 cases continue to increase in Gurugram, residents complain that they are having to wait for up to 48 hours for getting their test results. Officials from the district health department said that with increased testing, there is a slight delay in giving out the results due to logistical issues.It usually takes around 9-12 hours to declare results of an RT-PCR test for Covid-19.According to the data from the district health department, in the past 24 hours, 11,444 tests -- 9,131 RT-PCR tests and 2,313 rapid antigen tests -- were conducted. As of Tuesday, results of 5,645 samples were awaited, the data shows. Naresh Kumar, a resident of Sector 17, said, “My cousin and I gave our samples for testing last Sunday (January 2), and we received the reports after 48 hours. This was when the city was reporting less than 1,000 cases a day.” In the district, 12 private labs are authorised to conduct Covid-19 tests. In government set-ups, the polyclinic in Sector 31 conducts Covid-19 testing from 8am to 8pm, while 24-hour testing facility is available at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10. Besides, separate testing camps are also set up in different localities by the health department. Sanjay Kaushal, another resident who had given his sample at a government testing centre, took to social media on Tuesday and said, “I gave my samples for testing at a centre in Chauma on January 9, but till date the report is not available. I tried contacting the hospital also, but there is no response.” Rahul, a resident of Sohna Road, also shared similar ordeal who had given his sample on Sunday morning at a private hospital and said that he got his test results after almost 48 hours. During the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April-May last year, a similar situation was faced when sample collection slots were available for 48 hours later from the time of booking and results were being declared after 72 hours. On Tuesday, Gurugram reported 2,385 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally of active cases to 11,955 in the district, according to the data. The test positivity rate on Tuesday was 20%, said officials from the district health department. As cases continue to rise, daily testing has also been increased in the district. In the last week of December, about 5,000 samples daily were being sent for testing. On January 1, total 5,962 samples were tested, and the daily testing figures now increased to over 11,000 on Tuesday. The health officials said that results are being released at the earliest, but with increased testing, there is a slight delay due to logistical issues. “When the positivity rate is less, pool testing is done and if the pool tests negative, then all samples are declared negative. But as the positivity rate increases, pooling is not done and samples are checked individually, due to which it takes time. But still most results are being declared within 24 hours. We also have to keep in mind that at all centres, samples are collected throughout the day and sent for testing in one go,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. A senior official from a private lab in the city said, “The wait time for Covid-19 reports has increased to 48 hours since last week as the number of home sample collections has increased.” Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the district also saw seven fresh cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the tally of Omicron cases to 64, of which one is active case. The district also recorded 590 recoveries on Tuesday. Besides, the Gurugram administration has added one more residential area to containment zone list. The district now has 26 containment zones. On Tuesday, a total of 32,208 doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered, including 16,539 first doses, 12,804 second doses and 2,865 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.55 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now. On Tuesday, 7,265 children in the 15-18 age group were vaccinated in the district. The district administration on Tuesday also issued an order stating that all current restrictions under the pandemic alert will continue till 5am on January 19. In the district, government and private offices, except for emergency/essential services, have been advised to function with 50% attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-wait-for-covid-19-test-reports-gets-longer-as-cases-rise-101641926256406.html
12-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt to administer booster shots at home to those with limited mobility||The Delhi government will administer at home the Covid-19 booster shot to senior citizens and the differently abled with limited or restricted mobility, senior officials of the health department said on Tuesday. A senior health official said that if any eligible person above the age of 60 years, is either bedridden because of illness or disability, they will be administered the third precautionary dose at their homes. “It is unlikely that there will be many such persons who have already completed nine months after their second dose. Any bedridden 60-plus individual who by nature of his/her illness or disability is rendered eligible for the precautionary dose by their doctor shall be administered the dose at home,” the official said, asking not to be named. The official also added that while the Delhi government began at-home vaccinations for senior citizens and the differently abled last year itself, on the directions of the central government, they were unable to extend this service to as many people as they would have liked. In August 2021, the Delhi high court issued notices to the Centre and the Delhi government, based on a petition filed by an 84-year-old senior citizen who informed the court that she was unable to visit a vaccination centre to get her jabs as she was suffering from severe arthritis. The petition also pointed out that several senior and bedridden citizens, who were vulnerable to Covid-19, did not have private transport to reach a vaccination centre or even a family member to help them with the registration process. In September, the Centre issued directives to state governments to make arrangements to vaccinate “those with restricted mobility, who cannot step out of their house to get vaccinated, such as the differently abled, elderly or those with special needs” at their homes. A senior official of the east Delhi district said all district officials have been reaching out to senior citizens who have completed nine months since their second dose to come and get their precautionary shot. For all of those who are eligible under this category, but are unable to reach their nearest vaccination centre, a facility of at-home vaccination has been extended. “Apart from sending text messages to those senior citizens who have completed nine months since their second dose, we are also reaching out to the eligible people on phone and asking them whether they have the means to reach the vaccination centre. The vaccination process is taken care of by trained vaccinators, following the requisite standard operating procedures,” the district official said, asking not to be named. Delhi started vaccinating senior citizens, healthcare and frontline workers with a third precautionary dose from January 10 and they are being administered the same vaccine as their first and second dose. On Day One of the drive on Monday, 18,835 precautionary doses were administered in Delhi, according to the Co-WIN data, of which 8,040 were given to senior citizens. On Tuesday, 22,265 precautionary doses were administered, with 6,083 beneficiaries being above the age of 60 years, the government data showed. 
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gurpreet Gogi joins AAP, blames Bharat Bhushan Ashu for Congress ‘losing ground’ in Ludhiana||Terming cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu as “Ravana” and a “corrupt leader”, senior congress leader and chairman of Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC) Gurpreet Gogi joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in presence of AAP state president Bhagwant Mann in Chandigarh on Tuesday.After his joining, rumours are rife that the former district president of Congress and four-time councillor Gogi will be announced as AAP candidate against Ashu in Ludhiana west constituency. Gogi has been at loggerheads with Ashu since he (Gogi) was allegedly sidelined in the race for mayor in 2018 and Balkar Sandhu was elected the mayor with Ashu’s support.Councillor (ward number 76) Gogi alleged Ashu has belittled Congress workers and even misbehaved with the voters. “Ashu is the reason the Congress has lost its ground in the city. He is also allegedly involved in multiple scams,” said Gogi. “I have been associated with Congress since 1996 and been forced to leave the party only due to Ashu’s misconduct. I have joined AAP to bring change and work for the betterment of the people,” said Gogi.When asked if he will contest against minister Ashu, Gogi stated the decision has to be taken by the party high command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurpreet-gogi-joins-aap-blames-bharat-bhushan-ashu-for-congress-losing-ground-in-ludhiana-101641925836377.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana imposes ESMA for six months||The Haryana government on Tuesday invoked the Essential Services Maintenance Act, prohibiting any strike by doctors or other categories of the health department employees in the next six months.The state government decided to clamp down as the doctors, under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA), went ahead with their strike call on Tuesday. The protesting doctors are seeking incentives for specialised doctors and that 40% in-service candidates should be given benefits in postgraduate services. They are also opposing the government’s decision to directly recruit senior medical officers (SMOs).The state government’s order also stops other categories of employees of the health department such as those engaged on contract, daily wagers, honorarium basis staff, etc working in various entities including the National Health Mission, the Food and Drug Administration, AYUSH, etc from going on strike.“Haryana is satisfied that an emergent public health situation has arisen due to surge in Covid cases and any strike by employees of the health department at this time will gravely affect the health essential services required to safeguard the life of the community,” chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal said in his order.“ESMA has been implemented in Haryana, now health workers will not be able to go on strike for six months. This step has been taken after a group of doctors went on strike to obstruct the prevention of Covid,” Haryana health minister Anil Vij tweeted.Nod for specialist-cadre postMeanwhile, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given in-principle approval to create specialist-cadre post for MD/MS doctors. The doctors will not be given any administrative work. The government will create a special sub-cadre for specialists, who will be designated as consultant or senior consultants.Earlier, the doctors with MBBS degree alone or MD/MS used to be in the same cadre. “With the creation of the specialist-cadre post, these doctors will be able to focus on their work which will protect their interest,” the spokesperson said.The specialist-cadre doctors will now be posted in big and renowned hospitals rather than in primary health centres (PHCs).“The chief minister said doctors have a pivotal role to play in the society, especially in the present crisis situation and the government is committed towards their welfare,” the spokesperson said, adding that with this, a long standing demand of the doctors has been fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-imposes-esma-for-six-months-101641915035089.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Takeaways, direct orders the only hope for restaurants!||The restaurants and bars in Lucknow are already operating with 50% capacity. The 10 pm curfew already in place and with dine-ins being restricted in Delhi, food joints back here see the writing on the wall. They feel direct orders to restaurants and takeaways will be the best way to survive in the current pandemic wave scenario. “Dine-in footfall has decreased and deliveries are more in focus so we are reassessing our staff by diverting them towards home deliveries and encouraging takeaways. It’s a win-win situation for all as we can utilize our staff and customers to get better rates on direct orders as the high commission taken by aggregators is saved,” says Jatin Ahuja of Royal Café group adding they are contemplating discounts on direct order. During his visit to Lucknow, MasterChef Sanjeev Kapoor said, “Now buyers are supporting small food businesses that are struggling due to the pandemic and are ordering from them directly so they can save on the food aggregator’s commissions. In current scenario, this is a need of the business.” Chef Bhasker Mishra saw this scenario coming and has been working on this aggressively. “We know if dine-in is closed in Delhi so eventually it will here too. We have strengthened our direct delivery system at Sassy Canteen and as a result two-third of our delivery is direct to us which saves customer extra rates that restaurants inflate for commission and they get customized service,” he says. Rishi Mishra of cloud kitchen Vito’s Pizzeria informs that they have launched an app to encourage direct orders. “Customers can scan and order directly so we can offer customized services and best possible deliver. Plus, they are getting 25% discount and we too are happy as we don’t have to pay commission.” In the given situation food joints are banking on their loyal customer base to order to them directly to help them sustain and tide through these recurring waves, adds Chef Himani Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/takeaways-direct-orders-the-only-hope-for-restaurants-101641908556012.html
12-01-2022||Lucknow||Magh Mela: 28 more cops test positive for Covid||As many as 28 more policemen on duty for the soon-to-start annual religious fair of “Magh Mela-2022” tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. They had arrived in the Mela area from different parts of the state to join their duty for the fair set to kick-start on Makar Sankranti i.e. on the intervening night of January 14 and 15. With this, the total count of Coronavirus positive cases found in the Magh mela area has risen from 11 to 39, the mela officials said. “28 policemen, including 24 PAC personnel, tested positive for Covid-19 in the mela area, on Wednesday. They have all been sent to the designated Level-1 isolation centre set up at CHC, Kotwa, away from the mela area,” informed Dr Rishi Sahai, Covid-19 nodal officer for the Magh Mela-2022.Earlier, two policemen had tested positive on January 11, while another seven including seven PAC personnel, one police constable and one local intelligence unit personnel had tested positive on January 10,” informed Dr Sahai.Mela officials said that all government personnel deputed on duty at the mela area as well as the saints, seers and pilgrims arriving for the annual religious congregation are being tested as per the set protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/magh-mela-19-more-cops-test-positive-for-covid-101642006129987.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||At home in the house with the yellow roses||How strange this life is; forever coming up with unexpected situations and springing surprises! Howsoever good a planner, one may be, life is bound to lead you up an unknown path, sooner or later. Let us settle for the fact that a human being’s range has limitations. Disarmed, one pronounces, “I salute you, dear life; you are the supreme.” About three decades ago when we got our house constructed, we never imagined that we will ever think of shifting from this place. But then things came to such a pass that going somewhere else at the earliest became our priority. I was so much attached to the plants, bushes and flowers in my garden. The ones that were planted in pots were brought to the new house. Among them there were the bottle brush, the jasmine, the yellow rose bush and the seasonal flower-laden plants of phlox, marigold, chrysanthemums and dog flowers. All these filled the new house with their exquisite fragrance besides giving it a heavenly look. They played a momentous role in making the shifting relatively easier. I had reminded myself about change, being the law of nature as well. And compromising with the changed circumstances happily, too has its own significance. I started counting the plus points of the new place beforehand so much so that when we really shifted, I felt so much at home already. But I missed my small tree-like hibiscus bush, which had been with us for about three decades. I had penned so many writings while sitting under this bush. It had even suggested quite a few innovative themes and always made me feel as if it knew me better than even myself. Basically, it seemed to talk to me! I owe so much to the hibiscus that I will never be able to thank it enough. Even the daily visitors like birds, butterflies and bees shared a sublime association with me. I am compelled to presume that they too must be missing me, just as they dominate all my thoughts and conversations. After a couple of days, one of the neighbours, looking depressed, observed, “It’s more than a year since we came here, but still, I don’t feel at home.” Another resident asked me, “Aren’t you missing your earlier place?” “To tell you the fact, I love my new home.” My words, uttered in a convincing manner brought an amicable smile on the neighbour’s face. Then one morning the gate bell rang. It was the newspaper boy. “Aunty, is yours the house with yellow roses?” Surprised I said, “Yes!” “Okay, then please check the newspapers in your balcony.” Upon being told that they were there, he said, “Fine; now onwards, I’ll deliver your papers there only.” The boy departed soon, but not before giving me a new high. After all our present home had already earned a name for itself: The house with yellow roses! parambirkaur@gmail.com The writer is a Ludhiana-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-home-in-the-house-with-the-yellow-roses-101641988547402.html
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Former Dharamshala mayor booked for cheating||Himachal Pradesh state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau on Tuesday booked former Dharamshala mayor Devinder Singh Jaggi for cheating and criminal conspiracy.Jaggi is a state secretary of the Congress and also a sitting councillor of MC.The bureau has also booked Mahesh Dutt Sharma, the then executive officer of Dharamshala MC, for cheating, criminal conspiracy and under the Prevention of Corruption Act for causing wrongful loss to the exchequer.Additional SP (vigilance) Balbir Singh Jaswal said that the councillors of Dharamshala MC had lodged a complaint alleging that Jaggi had taken a building of the civic body on lease for ₹20,111 per month, whereas he was receiving rent in lakhs. Jaswal said that on inquiry, it was found that the building in question was initially constructed as a rest house for employees. In 2005, this under-construction building was leased out to Jaggi without mentioning the security amount and rent in the tender notice, he added. In the initial resolution passed by the House, a security amounting ₹30 lakh was fixed besides a monthly rent of ₹30, 000 with the lease period of 25 years. It was revealed that then executive officer bent rules for the auction of this building to ‘benefit’ Jaggi. Jaswal said after the building was handed over to Jaggi, the then executive officer without prior approval of the house authorised him to mortgage the building with any bank for loan purpose up to the lease period and also issued a NOC for the same.“Up to March 2019, Jaggi had collected over ₹ 1.6 crore as rent by mortgaging and subletting the building while he himself paid only ₹18.38 lakh to the civic body,” said the vigilance officer.After approval from vigilance headquarters, a case under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC has been registered against Jaggi and Mahesh Dutt Sharma. Also, Sharma has been booked under section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Meanwhile, Jaggi said that the case was politically motivated and he had all documents to prove his innocence. He said even a court had ruled in his favour in a case related to the same building in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-former-dharamshala-mayor-booked-for-cheating-101641942277883.html
12-01-2022||Other||Congress’s 10-day padyatra: Second FIR against DK Shivakumar, 39 others for Covid norms violation||Bengaluru: As the Karnataka Congress continued its ‘padayatra’ (march) demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project across the Cauvery river, for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, police registered second FIR against state party chief DK Shivakumar and several other leaders for violating Covid-19 curbs.According to the police, around 40 people, including Shivakumar and Congress MP D K Suresh, have been named in the FIR. “The FIR has been filed at Sathanur police station of Ramanagara district on Monday for violating Covid-19 norms,” said a police officer.On Sunday, the first FIR was registered against 30 people for violating Covid-19 norms in the 10-day Congress’s padayatra, demanding for implementation of Mekedatu project, to which neighbouring Tamil Nadu is opposed to. The padyatra covered a distance of about 14.3 km from Kanakapura to Chikkenahalli, with participation of hundreds of Congress workers and supporters. The padayatra spanning a distance of nearly 139 km is scheduled to conclude at Basavanagudi in Bengaluru on January 19.On Tuesday, a video of senior Congress leader Shivakumar sneezing several times while walking without a mask was posted by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on its official Twitter handle, with a caption saying “visible symptoms of Covid-19”. It also termed the Shivaumar’s action as a “super spreader” and said the march was “politically motivated” and not being done for the welfare of the state.HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, meanwhile, slammed Shivakumar, who reportedly refused to take a Covid-19 test after the padayatra. A video of Shivakumar refusing to give his sample to a health official, who came to collect it on Sunday night, was also circulated on social media. The official who visited Shivakumar has reportedly tested positive for Covid-19. Soon after, Shivakumar accused the government of trying to “infect” him with Covid-19 by exposing him to an official who tested positive for coronavirus.“Additional District Commissioner who came to test me last night has tested COVID-19 positive. He was sent to make sure that I get infected and test positive. The Government wants to make me a primary contact of the COVID positive person and that is why the official had been sent,” Shivakumar alleged on Monday.“This may not be the idea of Chief Minister. But the Health Minister (K. Sudhakar) is capable of doing it,” he further alleged.Shivakumar’s brother and Bengaluru Rural MP D K Suresh, former Ministers Krishna Byre Gowda, H Anjaneya, and party leaders like- Narayanaswamy, Motamma, P T Parameshwara Naik, Dhruvanarayana, are among those mentioned in the second FIR.They have been booked for violation of guidelines, gathering in huge numbers, without wearing masks and maintaining social distance, under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act and sections of IPC, the FIR said.The Karnataka government has imposed a curfew on weekends and restricted public gatherings amid surge in cases of Covid-19. It has also imposed a night curfew and prohibited all rallies and protests.The Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum drinking water project, to be constructed across the Cauvery river basin, has been at the centre of controversy between the states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Earlier too on July 12, 2021, Bommai had said that the Centre will have to give clearance to the project as per law and there is no reason the state government will stop the project. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congresss-10-day-padyatra-second-fir-against-dk-shivakumar-39-others-for-covid-norms-violation-101641930636841.html
12-01-2022||Noida||Two labourers die after wall of under-construction building collapses in Noida||Two labourers were killed and as many injured after a basement wall of an under-construction building in Noida Sector 26 collapsed on them on Tuesday afternoon.The victims were identified as Bharat Patel (50), a native of Chhattisgarh, and Pushpa Bai (35), a native of Bihar, police said. The two injured -- Maya (30), a resident of Bihar, and Rameshwari (31), a native of Chhattisgarh -- are undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital and are stable now. Manoj Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 20 police station, said that the property owner works as an assistant commissioner of police in Delhi (details not provided). “He hired a contractor, Mustakim (40), for the construction of the building in Sector 26 last week. Mustakim engaged the four labourers for the construction work, and they were developing the basement wall, which suddenly collapsed on them at 12:30pm on Tuesday. They were taken to a nearby private hospital, where the two of them were declared dead,” Kumar said. The contractor managed to escape after the incident, said Kumar, adding that the police have not received any complaint in the matter yet. “The bodies were sent for post mortem and the reports are awaited. We will register a case against the contractor for death due to negligence after a complaint is filed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-labourers-die-after-wall-of-under-construction-building-collapses-in-noida-101641929136764.html
12-01-2022||Mumbai||Malegaon 2008 blast case: Accused moves plea for in-camera trial||Mumbai Lt Col Prasad Purohit, an accused in the 2008 Malegaon bomb blast case, filed a plea urging the Special NIA Court to carry the trial in camera on Tuesday.Purohit claimed that the media was allowed by the court to cover the trial with certain restrictions. However, there has been a violation of the conditions of the court order.Purohit, who is accused of floating Abhinav Bharat, a right-wing group allegedly part of the blast conspiracy, moved the plea before special NIA judge Prashant R Sitre through his counsel Viral Babar.Referring to an order dated October 1, 2019, passed by the special court, Purohit has said that the said order clearly specified the terms of references and restrictions imposed on media while reporting about this particular case.“Since the above-mentioned order has been passed by this court the said order has been completely violated, the permission given to the media in the restricted form may be please withdrawn completely and no presence of media allowed in the courtroom during the proceedings. It is requested that in the interest of justice and conduct of fair trial the case should remain confined to the courtroom and should not be allowed to be highjacked by opinion-makers and anti-national opportunists,” said the plea.Purohit has pointed out that the court had restrained media from conducting interviews, debates, interactions or discussions of any kind on the subject matter, to print / publish /display the same in any whatsoever manner till the end of the trial.In case of breach of condition as noted above or if any committed, legal action will be taken in accordance with provisions of law.Special NIA Judge Sitre has called for replies of all the parties concerned.Sameer Kulkarni, another accused in the blasts case, has opposed the application and informed the court that a similar application by NIA for in-camera trial has been rejected by the court. The truth case should come out before the public, he insisted.The investigating agency had moved a similar application for in-camera trial, which was opposed by journalists, and the Special NIA Court has later rejected it.The prosecution has till now examined 222 witnesses in the case out of which 16 have turned hostile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malegaon-2008-blast-case-accused-moves-plea-for-in-camera-trial-101641928059460.html
