13-01-2022||Pune||Maha education board firm on offline exams this year||Pune: While the state board has scheduled offline exams in March and April this year, teachers and principals from various schools have noted that some topics excluded from the syllabus are crucial for students. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will conduct offline exams for class 12 and class 10. Last year, 25 per cent of syllabus was slashed for all standards after the Covid outbreak. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district principals’ association, said that basics of subjects taught in class 9 and class 11 are not part of class 10 and class 12 reduced syllabus respectively. “So, teachers of class 10 and class 12 have to teach the basic subjects of class 9 and class 11 to the students,” said Gaikwad. Sharad Gosavi, chairman, MSBSHSE, said that the decision to reduce syllabus is taken by the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). “We have reduced the syllabus to help students. Many students have lost the habit of writing after classes resumed post Covid lockdowns. Hence, we have given students half and an hour more in offline examination scheduled from March. We are firm on the decision of taking offline exam as online format is not feasible in Maharashtra due to the varied geography of the state and the fact that not all students can have access to mobile or laptop to appear for the test,” said Gosavi. He urged students of 15-18 age group to get vaccinated at the earliest. “Vaccination of students will ensure that they are safe. All teaching and non-teaching staff are already getting fully vaccinated,” said Gosavi. Though the state board officials have decided to conduct examination offline, the final decision will be taken by the state government depending on the prevailing Covid situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-education-board-firm-on-offline-exams-this-year-101642098481525.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 9,642 new Covid cases, 21 deaths||Pune: As per the authorities, Pune district reported 9,642 fresh Covid positive cases and 21 deaths related to the infection in a 24-hour period ending on Thursday. No new cases of Omicron were reported. Of these, one death was reported from Pune rural, one death was reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and 19 deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 559,790 Covid cases and 9,303 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 284,133 cases so far and a total of 3,529 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 378,676 total cases so far and 7,053 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,222,599 Covid cases. Of this, 1,164,363 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 20,235 deaths in the district. At present, there are 38,001 active cases in Pune district. Over 65,439 beneficiaries were inoculated on Thursday. Over 28,057 beneficiaries received the precautionary dose so far in Pune district.As per the state health department, 34,658 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,683,769. The recovery rate in the state is 96.39%. Across Maharashtra, 46,406 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 36 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2%. Currently 1,795,631 people are in home quarantine and 9,124 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-9-642-new-covid-cases-21-deaths-101642098181047.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Count OTC self-kit Covid test customers: FDA to Pune chemists||Pune: A day after the state public health department directed civic bodies about using self-testing kits by people, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued notification asking chemists and pharmacists in Pune to keep a record of customers who buy these kits. FDA joint commissioner (Pune division), SB Patil, issued a notification on Thursday asking retail as well as wholesale chemists and pharmacists in Pune to keep a record of customers who buy the home test kits. “It is important to keep all details such as name, phone number, address of the customer who buys a kit and also the particulars of the kit. All such records will be checked by the drug inspectors,” the FDA notification said Earlier on Wednesday, the Maharashtra health department expressed concern about the large number of non-reporting of coronavirus positive cases diagnosed using self-testing kits by people and wrote to the district and civic officials to monitor the sale of such kits and ensure that patients report about their infection to the authorities Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of the state public health department, gave these directions to all the municipal and divisional commissioners, district collectors and chief executive officers of zilla parishads (ZPs) in a letter written on Wednesday. In the letter, Vyas also asked FDA to sensitise chemists and pharmacists so that they can educate customers buying the Covid-19 self-testing kits to report about their infection to the authorities. “It is expected that all Covid positive tests conducted through rapid antigen test kits or home test kits are reported to the authorities. But it seems that there is a large number of coronavirus positive cases diagnosed through these kits that have not been reported to the authorities and such persons appear to be in home isolation,” he said in the letter. People should report positive test results found using the home kits to the district or civic authorities so that their health can be monitored, he added. The letter said that as per the genome sequencing results, about 70 per cent of the cases are of Delta strain. “Rapid antigen tests generally do not distinguish between the Delta and Omicron variants. So, it may so happen that many of these home isolated Covid patients may need hospital care (particularly those with Delta strain and comorbidities) and suddenly there may be a stress on our health infrastructure,” Dr Vyas said in the letter. He asked officials to take help of FDA and monitor the sale of such self-testing kits to know the geographical areas where these kits are being used on a large scale. “Chemists can also be educated so that they can inform the people purchasing such kits to report about the positive test results to authorities,” the letter added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/count-otc-self-kit-covid-test-customers-fda-to-pune-chemists-101642097944838.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: Saini becomes third minister to resign in three days||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued to suffer setbacks ahead of the Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly polls with Dharam Singh Saini becoming the third minister belonging to the Other Backward Castes (OBCs) to resign from the council of ministers in as many days. The development came even as the ruling party’s top leaders in Delhi mulled over names for the assembly seats that will go to polls in the first phase on February 10. Eleven lawmakers, including three OBC ministers, have resigned from the BJP since the schedule for the UP assembly polls was announced on January 8. The trend of resignations, primarily of OBC lawmakers from across the state, gained strength after labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya quit the Uttar Pradesh cabinet on January 11. The next day, environment minister Dara Singh Chauhan also resigned.Ayush minister Dharam Singh Saini, a Swami Prasad Maurya loyalist and lawmaker from Nakur assembly seat in Saharanpur in western UP, was also spotted at the main opposition Samajwadi Party office, a stone’s throw away from Swami Prasad Maurya’s Kalidas Marg residence, currently the hub of all rebel activity in the BJP. Like Swami Prasad Maurya and Dara Singh Chauhan, Saini, too, sent his resignation to governor Anandiben Patel. “I came to meet Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on his invitation and assurance that backwards and dalits would get justice in the Samajwadi Party. I told him that I will consult Swami Prasad ji and will soon take a collective decision,” Saini said. After initially reaching out to them, the BJP has begun to hit out at the rebels. While UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh described the resignations as a case of “vinash kaley viprit buddhi (pride comes before the fall)”, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, an OBC leader himself, was more direct. “Those who failed to get a ticket of the double engine BJP train are now being given ticket in black for the rickety van by Tipu Sultan,” the UP BJP chief tweeted. Along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Swatantra Dev and party’s OBC face in UP, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya are in Delhi to mull over the names of candidates. The BJP, along with its pre-poll allies Apna Dal (Sonelal) and Nishad Party, could hold a joint press conference to declare the names of over 150 candidates on Friday, the day when Swami Prasad Maurya is expected to declare his next political strategy.In Delhi, Keshav Prasad Mauarya said the BJP’s central election committee discussed the names of candidates for 172 seats and exuded confidence of the party winning the UP assembly elections. But the rebels appeared unfazed, with Swami Prasad Maurya terming the RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh) and the BJP as “saanp’ and naag (snakes)”, while warning of more defections. “Dekhte jaiye (keep watching),” said Dara Singh Chauhan, who in 2017 had won the Madhuban in east UP for the first time for the BJP. He was earlier with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).“At least 100 lawmakers would quit,” said Mukesh Verma, the BJP lawmaker from Shikohabad assembly constituency of Firozabad as he along with Bidhuna MLA Vinay Shakya joined the growing list of rebels on Thursday.While quitting the party, Mukesh Verma expressed solidarity with Swami Prasad Maurya. Mentioning the neglect of backwards, Dalits and minorities as the reason for his resignation from the BJP, Verma said he would follow Maurya to decide his future course of action.“Swami Prasad Maurya is our leader and we will decide the future course of action under his leadership,” Mukesh Verma said.Shikohabad in Firozabad district of western Uttar Pradesh goes to polls on February 10 in the first phase of the seven-round state assembly elections.Mukesh Verma had joined the BJP in 2017 and won as the party candidate. In 2012, he had contested as the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate and was the runner-up. For his part, Dara Singh Chauhan, who had quit the cabinet on Wednesday, refuted the BJP charge that only those who were sure of missing out on the BJP ticket are looking elsewhere.“I never have begged for a ticket. In fact, I never wanted to contest but was made to,” he said, adding that he won the Madhuban seat for the first time for the BJP in 2017 UP polls.Apart from them, yet another BJP lawmaker Bala Krishna Awasthi from Dhaurahara, a Brahmin dominated assembly constituency in Lakhimpur Kheri district, was also spotted at the Samajwadi Party office.Later on Thursday evening, Awasthi, speaking to the media in Lucknow, made it clear about his leaving the BJP and joining the Samajwadi Party.Awasthi mentioned neglect of his community, party workers and farmers, dominance of bureaucracy at the cost of elected MLA as the reasons for him switching sides. At the same time, he heaped praise on the SP chief.Awasthi’s eldest son Rajiv Awasthi, speaking over the phone, said his father would contest from Dhaurahra. Bala Prasad Awasthi’s move comes when the BJP is out to placate Brahmins, the key upper caste group for whom the party had recently set up a committee to connect with the community. Amid the exodus, came a few denials too. Three BJP lawmakers and a minister have denied the buzz about them joining the rebel ranks with two of them even registering a police complaint against the “canard” of them leaving the party. They include BJP MLA from Bhadohi Ravindra Tripathi and Bareilly lawmaker from Bithri Chainpur Rajesh Mishra. Both of them have approached the police seeking action against those spreading rumours about their quitting the party. A third, UP’s cooperatives minister Mukut Bihari Verma also denied rumours about him being on the list of rebels.“I am a die-hard RSS man who joined the BJP as part of the Sangh’s advice and will remain in the party till I live,” he said. Political experts cautioned against reading too much into the pre-poll desertions. “These aren’t good optics, but how these play out in the election campaign is yet to be seen. Perception wise, it could be comforting for the opposition, though,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political observer.On Wednesday, the BJP inducted Naresh Saini, the Congress’s OBC lawmaker from Saharanpur in western UP, who hails from the same community as Swami Prasad Maurya, three-time SP MLA Hari Om Yadav, and former SP lawmaker Dharampal Singh into the party.The BJP lawmakers who have quit since model code came into effect on January 8 are: Dharam Singh Saini (OBC, minister) , Dara Singh Chauhan (OBC, minister), Swami Prasad Maurya (OBC, minister), Roshan Lal Verma (OBC), Bhagwati Sagar (OBC), Brijendra Prajapati (OBC), Vinay Shakya (OBC), Mukesh Verma (OBC), Avtar Singh Bhadana (OBC), Radha Krishna Sharma (Brahmin) and Bala Prasad Awasthi (Brahmin).(With inputs from Hemendra Chaturvedi in Agra and Deo Kant Pandey in Lakhimpur Kheri)
13-01-2022||Other||Former Patiala mayor joins AAP||Patiala In a setback to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), former Patiala mayor Ajitpal Singh Kohli quit the party and joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday. Kohli was inducted into the party by AAP’s state unit president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann at a programme held in Chandigarh. Mann said that with the joining of Kohli and his family, AAP would gain more strength. Kohli, while expressing gratitude to Mann, said that his father Surjit Singh Kohli and grandfather Sardara Singh Kohli had served the Panth and Punjab in the SAD. Kohli’s father was council president from Patiala city and his grandfather was a minister in the Akali regime. Lashing out at the SAD, Kohli said the party was no longer the same. “The Akali leaders have no road map or policy for the youth of Punjab,” he said, calling (AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister) Arvind Kejriwal a role model. Significantly, the AAP is yet to announce its candidate for the Patiala urban segment. “Though our party has declared candidates from 109 segments of 117, it has adopted a wait-and-watch policy for Patiala urban seat. Both Congress and former Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress are yet to declare their candidates,” a senior AAP leader add.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-patiala-mayor-joins-aap-101642096983478.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Four held for murdering Delhi woman with a pair of scissors||Delhi Police arrested four men on Thursday for murdering a woman in northeast Delhi’s Karawal Nagar on January 10. Police said the four men, identified by their first names--Aman, Akash, Manish and Vaibhav--stabbed the 52-year-old woman with a pair of scissors. Police said that Aman, who ran a garment business with the woman, believed she had cash at her house and thus planned the murder. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) SK Sain, said two of the men -- Aman and Akash – were involved in a similar murder, wherein a woman was stabbed with a pair of scissors in Loni, Ghaziabad, last year. DCP Sain said, “On Monday around 6.30pm, we received a PCR call about a woman’s murder in Karawal Nagar. A police team reached the spot in Johripur, Karawal Nagar and found a blood-soaked body of a woman inside the house. We then registered a case and started a probe.” Police said that the woman’s family said her jewellery was missing from the house. “After speaking to the family members and locals we discovered Aman’s involvement. Aman works as a contractor of readymade school clothes and runs a factory in Balram Nagar, Loni, UP. He was known to the woman’s family through their business. We conducted raids Aman’s residence and factory but he was not there. On the basis of technical surveillance, the names of three men who were constantly in touch with Aman surfaced. All the three persons were also on the run from their houses. We then deployed sources to track them,” DCP Sain added. Police said that on Wednesday evening, they received a tip about Aman and one of his associate’s presence near the Old Delhi railway station, after which they arrested them. The two men then revealed the hideouts of their other two associates, who were also arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-held-for-murdering-delhi-woman-with-a-pair-of-scissors-101642096681112.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Trust launches YouTube channel, releases short movie on Ram temple construction||Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust launched its YouTube channel on the occasion of Lohri on Thursday and released a five-minute 3D movie on the ongoing construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. In the short movie, the Trust has shared all details related with construction work starting with the Larsen and Toubro, the company carrying out construction work of the temple, Tata Consulting Engineer, the project management consultant, besides talking about temple’s architect CB Sompura. Within two hours of the launching the video, it registered more than 5,000 views. Through 3D presentation, the Trust has tried to show the existing makeshift temple at the Ram Janmabhoomi, how the construction work of Ram Mandir began besides various stages of the construction work right from the laying of foundation to the present stage. The five-minute movie also presents before viewers how construction work will proceed ahead and how the temple will look like after completion of every stage of construction. The movie also has brief pointers in English language about each stage of the construction work. “Through the YouTube channel, we have tried to show the ongoing construction work of Ram Mandir with the help of a 3D movie,” said Champat Rai, general secretary, Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. “The movie also shows complete construction work till end when temple will be ready by December 2023,” Rai added. This 3D movie was prepared last year. The Trust had shown the video to President Ram Nath Kovind during his visit to Ayodhya on August 29, 2021. Trust members had also shown the movie to Union home minister Amit Shah during his visit to Ayodhya on December 31 last year. At the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi on December 13 last year, this video was also shown to chief ministers of several states who had attended the event. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had presided over “Bhoomi Pujan” ceremony of the Ram temple on August 5, 2020, in Ayodhya. At present, Ram temple’s plinth is being laid after completion of foundation work. Ram Mandir Construction Committee headed by former bureaucrat Nripendra Misra is looking after the construction work. This committee convenes meeting every month in Ayodhya in which members of the Trust and engineers take part. It these meetings, future plans are discussed and progress of the construction work is reviewed among other issues.
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Allahabad HC junks MP Atul Rai’s plea seeking quashing of FIR||The Allahabad high court has dismissed a petition filed by BSP MP from Ghosi Atul Rai seeking quashing of the First Information Report (FIR) registered against him under the Gangsters Act at Lanka police station of Varanasi on October 23, 2021. The bench comprising Justice Sunita Agarwal and Justice Sadhna Rani refused to quash the FIR.As per the petitioner, earlier he had filed a contempt petition against some police officers and therefore, the investigating officer was bent upon keeping the petitioner behind bars and the current FIR was an act of revenge on the part of the investigating officer and the FIR was registered when petitioner was in jail and could not have been involved in any criminal activity. Rai has been in jail since June 2019 for allegedly raping a woman in his home in Varanasi in 2018. The woman and her male friend had later set themselves ablaze outside the Supreme Court on August 16, 2021. The woman’s male friend died on August 21 while she succumbed to burns on August 24..The court after hearing concerned parties while dismissing the petition observed, “As regards the contention of learned counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner being in jail and his bail application having been refused, he could not have been booked under the Gangster Act. We do not find any substance in the said submission and suffice it to say that the first information report cannot be quashed on this ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-junks-mp-atul-rai-s-plea-seeking-quashing-of-fir-101642096082755.html
13-01-2022||Other||Bomb-like device causes panic in Prayagraj’s Meja||A suspicious bomb-like device found at the Meja Road Railway underpass caused panic on Thursday night. Commuters spotted the suspicious object and alerted the Meja police. SHO of the Meja police station, Tushar Dutt Tyagi, reached the spot and informed senior officials. SP, trans-Yamuna, Saurabh Dixit, immediately alerted railway officials following which trains on the route were delayed. SP Saurabh Dixit said a suspicious object with a timer-like device fitted into it was spotted at the Meja Road Railway underpass. The area was cordoned off and traffic on the route was diverted. “The bomb disposal squad was called to the spot for dismantling the device and check if it contained any explosive substance,” he added.Investigations are being carried out to trace the person who placed the suspicious object, the official added.A similar device was found in the Naini area on Saturday. The BDS team dismantled the device but no explosive was found in it. The culprit had used disposable water bottles and even installed a timer connected by inserting an electric wire in it. The bottles were pasted with red tape giving it an overall appearance of a real bomb.Two years back, a series of such incidents took place in the trans-Yamuna area. Bomb like devices fitted with clock etc were found at Meja Railway Station, Meja flyover, Koraon, Naini and even inside a train. Although no untoward incident took place they caused panic among locals. Despite all efforts, the police had failed to trace the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bomblike-device-causes-panic-in-prayagraj-s-meja-101642096081210.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Minor girl, kidnapped last year, rescued in Delhi||A 15-year-old girl, who lived on a footpath in southeast Delhi’s Nehru Place and was abducted in August last year was rescued from a house in Kalkaji earlier this week, Delhi Police said on Thursday. Police said the girl was lured by her kidnapper, 28-year-old Ranjan Kumari, with new clothes. The woman took the girl to her house and got her married to her brother, a drug addict. Police arrested the woman, her brother, another person Dileep in connection with the kidnapping. Police said Dileep is Kumari’s partner. DCP (southeast) Esha Goel said the teenager was confined inside the house and not allowed to speak to anyone. “The girl, who is originally from Rajasthan is a nomad and was living on a footpath at the time of her abduction. Her family had filed a complaint on August 8, 2021 . Police had then checked CCTV footage of the area but the trail ended in Sangam Vihar..”Police said that on January 10, the parents of the minor girl visited the police station and said that their daughter managed to call them on a cellphone. “Our officers analysed the location, which was found to be in C block of Tigri Extension. After door-to-door verification, we rescued her,” said DCP Goel. During interrogation, police said, Kumari said she had seen the girl on a footpath and knew that the child could be lured easily. “She took the child with her and her partner on the pretext of giving her new clothes. They took her in an autorickshaw to Tigri and got her married to Kumari’s brother. Her brother is a drug addict. She was not allowed to go outside or call anyone. On January 1, when nobody was at home, she managed to find a phone and call her family members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minor-girl-kidnapped-last-year-rescued-in-delhi-101642096022355.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly elections: SP, RLD alliance declares first list of 29 candidates||The Samajwadi Party (SP) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) alliance on Thursday announced its first list of 29 candidates for the Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly elections. All these 29 constituencies are in western UP. The list has 19 RLD and 10 SP candidates. Nine of the candidates are Muslims.The SP and RLD combine has fielded one sitting MLA each of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). BSP MLA Aslam Chaudhary will contest his Dhaulana seat on the SP ticket while BJP MLA from Meerapur Avtar Singh Bhadana, a Gurjar leader, will contest the Jewar seat on the RLD symbol. Bhadana joined the RLD on Wednesday.The RLD is contesting the Shamli, Purkazi, Khatauli, Nehtor, Baghpat, Loni, Modinagar, Hapur, Jewar, Bulandshahr, Syana, Khair, Sadabad, Chata, Govardhan, Baldev, Agra Dehat, Fatehpur Sikri and Khairagarh seats. The SP has fielded candidates for the Kairana, Charthawal, Kithore, Meerut, Sahibabad, Dhalauna, Kol, Aligarh, Agra Cantt and Bah seats.An RLD spokesperson said, “This first list of candidates represents all communities —Jat, Gurjar, Muslims, backwards, Dalits, Brahmins, Kshatriyas and women. Also, RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary has made an appeal to the leaders and workers of both the parties to work dedicatedly for the victory of these candidates declared by the alliance. The appeal is to even those leaders who were ticket aspirants, but could not be given tickets.”The RLD has fielded former four-time Congress MLA Gajraj Singh for the Hapur assembly seat. He joined the RLD, quitting the Congress hours before the SP-RLD alliance announced the list.Sitting SP MLAs Naheed Hasan and Rafiq Ansari will contest their respective Kairana and Meerut seats.The SP candidates are: Naheed Hasan (Kairana), Pankaj Malik (Charthawal), Shahid Manzoor (Kithore), Rafiq Ansari (Meerut), Amarpal Sharma (Sahibabad), Aslam Chaudhary (Dhaulana), Salman Saeed (Kol), Zafar Alam (Aligarh), Kunwar Singh Vakil (Agra Cantt), Madhusudan Sharma (Bah), The RLD candidates are: Prasann Chaudhary (Shamli), Anil Kumar (Purkazi), Rajpal Singh Saini (Khatauli), Munsi Ram (Nehtor), Ahmed Hamid (Baghpat), Madan Bhaiya (Loni), Suresh Sharma (Modinagar), Gajraj Singh (Hapur), Avtar Singh Bhadana (Jewar), Haji Yunus (Bulandshahr), Dilnawaaz Khan (Syana), Bhagwati Prasad Suryavanshi (Khair), Pradeep Chaudhary Guddu (Sadabad), Tejpal Singh (Chaata), Preetam Singh (Govardhan), Babita Devi (Baldev), Mahesh Kumar Jatav (Agra Dehat), Brijesh Chahar (Fatehpur Sikri) and Rautan Singh (Khairagarh).
13-01-2022||Pune||Maval, Junnar, report most number of children with malnutrition||PUNE Out of the 2.82 lakh kids who have been screened for various diseases and malnourishment in the district’s villages, only 5,180 reported the listed diseases and only 2,040 reported to be malnourished. The talukas with higher number of malnourished children are, Maval, Junnar, Urulikanchan, Manchar and Khed. In addition to malnourishment the kids were also checked for various diseases as per the Central government guidelines. The Zilla Parishad has screened through active medical checkup all the kids aged between 0-6 years of age in the district in the month of December. As per the latest medical check up taken up by the Pune Zilla Parishad, The district has about 2,040 kids who are reported to be malnourished, out of which 1,656 are Moderate Acute malnourished and 384 are Severe Acute malnourished. The highest number of the malnourished kids were reported from Maval which is 205, Junnar has 202, Urulikanchan has 147, Khed has 134, Haveli and Baramati have 114 . Some of the primary diseases for which the kids were screened were skin disease, birth defects, auditory defects, deficiencies, childhood disease and opthalmalogical diseases. Zilla Parishad, CEO, Ayush Prasad said, “The Pune ZP has brought out a detailed screening system based on the WHO development program. The screening took place in the last 40 days and among children aged between 0 to 6 years.These children would now be treated either through changes in the diet, medications or surgical intervention as required and advised by the doctors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maval-junnar-report-most-number-of-children-with-malnutrition-101642095784218.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Unadvised Giloy consumption harmful: KGMU doc||Consuming Giloy without medical guidance can harm vital organs such as the liver, a retrospective multi-centre study has found. The study spanned 13 Indian centres at nine locations, including the King George’s Medical University.The study was published in the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease, said Dr Ajay Kumar Patwa, additional professor, gastroenterology unit, department of medicine, KGMU, who was part of the study.“We found that unadvised Giloy consumption was the main cause of these liver issues as there was no other factor such as alcohol consumption, diabetes, thyroid, hypertension,” said Dr Patwa, in a press statement.The study was conducted between April 2020 and July 2021. In all, 49 patients were included, where 22 had a previous history of liver ailment and 21 did not. Giloy or Tinospora cordifolia is a herbal drug commonly used in Ayurveda and is promoted as an immunity booster.Clinical findings revealed that they were suffering from acute hepatitis, acute worsening of chronic liver disease, or acute liver failure. “Most of these patients had consumed the herbal drug without prescription for an average 46 days,” he said.“We advise that it is a potent drug that should be prescribed by a qualified ayurvedic practitioner and consumed under medical guidance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unadvised-giloy-consumption-harmful-kgmu-doc-101642095782750.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Phase 1 of UP polls: Nomination process for 58 seats begins today||LUCKNOW Filing of nominations for the first phase UP elections for 58 seats in 11 districts will commence on Friday under strict Covid guidelines. The Election Commission of India (ECI) will issue notification for the first phase of assembly elections and the filing of nomination papers will start on Friday, said Ajay Kumar Shukla, UP chief electoral officer. At the time of filing of papers, only two persons will be permitted to accompany the candidate to the returning officer’s room. Candidates can submit their nominations online through the Suvidha App and submit the copy of the application regarding online submission to the returning officer. Due to the implementation of Covid protocol by the ECI, no candidate will be allowed to take out procession at the time of filing nomination papers. Only two vehicles can be used by the candidate at the time of nomination, he said. The Election Commission is committed for holding free, fair, inclusive, peaceful and Covid-safe polling in the state. Out of the 58 assembly seats going to polls in the first phase, nine seats are reserved for scheduled castes. The elections for 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly will be held in seven phases. The ECI has fixed the polling time from 7am to 6pm, said Shukla. The last date for filing nominations is January 21. The scrutiny of nominations will be done on January 24 while the last date for withdrawal of papers is January 27, he added. BOXFirst phase: Feb 10 No of districts: 11 No of constituencies: 58 Districts: Shamli, Muzzafarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura, Agra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/phase-1-of-up-polls-nomination-process-for-58-seats-begins-today-101642095781002.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Cong, RLD leaders join BSP; fielded from Charthawal, Gangoh seats||Two Muslim leaders Noman Masood and Salman Saeed have joined the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). While Masood, the brother of former Congress leader Imran Masood, left the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Salman Saeed quit the Congress. Welcoming the duo to the party fold in a series of tweets, BSP chief Mayawati on Thursday announced that Noman Masood will be the party candidate from Gangoh assembly constituency in Saharanpur district while Salman Saeed will be fielded from Charthawal assembly seat of Muzaffarnagar district. “Salman Saeed, son of former UP home minister, Sayeduzzaman, a native of Muzaffarnagar district, met the BSP chief late night on January 12. “He informed that he has left the Congress and wished to join the Bahujan Samaj Party,” she said.“Noman Masood, nephew of former Union minister Rashid Masood and brother of Imran Masood, a native of Saharanpur district also joined the Bahujan Samaj Party yesterday (January 12), leaving Rashtriya Lok Dal,” the BSP chief said.“The BSP has decided to field Kunwar Dilshad Ali from Meerut South assembly seat, Amit Sharma from Meerut Cantt seat, KP Mawai from Kithore assembly seat and Nanhe Khan from Siwalkhas assembly seat in Meerut district,” a BSP leader said. The BSP is likely to release the list of the candidates for the first phase poll as the Election Commission of India issues notification for the first phase of polls in 58 assembly segments covering 11 districts in western UP on Friday (January 14). To finalise the candidates, Mayawati held meetings with party office bearers in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-cong-rld-leaders-join-bsp-fielded-from-charthawal-gangoh-seats-101642095601397.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Winter chill rises in UP, sends mercury south||The minimum temperature in the state capital dropped to the 7-degree Celsius mark on Thursday following the recent winter rain. The minimum temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 7.5 degrees Celsius, falling three degrees in the last two days.“The recent snowfall in the Himalayas and the cold Westerly Winds moving from west to east are the primary reason for the marked drop in temperatures across UP. The minimum temperature is expected drop further in the coming days by around two degrees,” said JP Gupta, director, Uttar Pradesh MeT department.According to the forecast issued by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature across UP is expected to drop by two degrees by the next week. Lucknow, as per the forecast, will experience minimum temperature of around 6.5 degrees Celsius on Friday. The drop in temperature will be accompanied by cold breeze and heavy fog in the morning.“A low-pressure atmospheric zone has developed over central and west UP which is responsible for the drop in temperatures. The low-pressure zone will subside gradually over the next week,” said Gupta. Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions suggesting them to make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold.The minimum temperature in other cities of UP also plummeted on Thursday. While Meerut recorded a minimum temperature of 4.2 degrees Celsius, mercury dropped to 5.5 and 7.9 degrees Celsius in Muzaffarnagar and Agra, respectively. Kanpur recorded a minimum temperature of 8.1 degrees Celsius while it was 9.8 degrees Celsius in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/winter-chill-rises-in-up-sends-mercury-south-101642095480795.html
13-01-2022||Other||Rupnagar AAP candidate gets notice for gathering crowd||Rupnagar Returning officer (RO) Gurwinder Singh Johal on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to Rupnagar AAP candidate Dinesh Chadha for gathering people without any prior permission and violating the ECI’s Covid guidelines. The RO said the Facebook page of Dinesh Chadha showed that he had violated Covid Revised Broad Guidelines, 2022, which the ECI has issued. “Chadha gathered a large group of people at Lalpura village (Nurpurbedi). Besides this, more people than the number fixed by the EC had gathered by him at Shri Baba Balak Nath Mandir, Ghanauli. Such a gathering by an AAP candidate without any prior permission is an open violation of the Code of Conduct,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rupnagar-aap-candidate-gets-notice-for-gathering-crowd-101642095360853.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||IIIT-Allahabad director resigns, to be new VC of Andhra deemed univ||Computer scientist prof P Nagabhushan has tendered his resignation from the post of director of the prestigious Indian Institute of Information Technology-Allahabad (IIIT-A). He will soon be taking over as the new vice chancellor of Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology and Research (deemed university), located near Guntur in Andhra Pradesh.“I have sent my resignation letter to the union ministry for education and requested to be relieved of my responsibilities at IIIT-A by February 18,” prof Nagabhushan said. “After an enriching and fulfilling tenure at IIIT-A, I am looking forward to now serving Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology and Research (deemed university) as its new VC,” he added.“Having received a proposal from the institutions in this regard, I have accepted the offer,” he said. Prof Nagabhushan’s resignation comes when he still has over four months of his term as IIIT-A director left. He had taken over as the third regular director of IIIT-A on May 19, 2017 for the period of five years. This is not the first time that an IIIT-A director has tendered resignation before the end of term of office. Founder director of IIIT-Allahabad Prof MD Tiwari had stepped down from the post after remaining at the helm for 14 years in 2014 that saw IIT-Kanpur’s prof Somnath Biswas taking charge as the new regular director of the institute in May 2014. Prof Biswas had, however, resigned from the post in July 2016.Senior faculty member of the institute Prof GC Nandi served as the officiating director of the institute from January 2014 to April 2014 and then from July 2016 to May 2017. Having command of English, Kannada and Telugu languages besides Hindi, Prof P Nagabhushan did his MTech from Birla Institute of Technology Ranchi in 1983. After this, he became a lecturer in SJ Engineering College, Mysore, where he went on to become a professor (1994-96). He obtained his doctorate degree in 1988.Prof P Nagabhushan has many achievements in the field of computer science to his credit. In 1999, he served as an invited professor, LISECEREMADE, University of Dauphine in Paris, France. He was also an exchange professor, department of computer science, Saginaw Valley State University at Michigan, USA. In 1994, he was a visiting scientist on Indo-French Research assignment in France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iiitallahabad-director-resigns-to-be-new-vc-of-andhra-deemed-univ-101642095121023.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP tasks UP unit chief, deputy CM to undertake firefighting operation||LUCKNOW The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in UP, jolted by exodus, fielded its state unit chief Swatantra Dev, an OBC leader, to highlight various initiatives undertaken by the party for the poor and the backwards and counter the narrative about the BJP government not doing anything for the backwards. Swatantra Dev is a Kurmi, the second biggest OBC sub-caste after Yadavs. Kurmis and Mauryas, the other OBC subcaste to which deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya belongs to, are the dominant non-Yadav OBC castes. This is the reason why the party has tasked both these leaders to undertake a firefighting operation essentially aimed at checking further dissension within the ruling party. While Maurya has been appealing to the rebels to reconsider their decision, the UP BJP chief listed various initiatives of the party. “The UP government has done a lot for all sections of society and so the BJP will emerge victorious in the polls,” said Maurya.“From giving constitutional status to the backward classes commission to including 27 OBCs in the union government and 23 in the UP government, providing scholarships of ₹762.49 crore to 37.74 lakh students, double rations, e-shram card, power connections, Ujjawala gas connections, free health insurance cover, toilets, Kisan Samman Nidhi – the total number of initiatives that the BJP government took for the backwards are many and their impact is huge. Yet, the opposition has hatched a conspiracy to defame the government and the people will give a befitting reply,” said the UP BJP chief. “During the first and second wave of Covid too, the Narendra Modi government at the centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in UP always worked hard to help the poorest of the poor. When the opposition leaders were in quarantine, the BJP governments and its cadres were out to help the poor who stand firmly with the BJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-tasks-up-unit-chief-deputy-cm-to-undertake-firefighting-operation-101642095060734.html
13-01-2022||Other||Nawanshahr MLA gets two notices for poll code violation||SBS Nagar Returning officer-cum-sub divisional magistrate, Nawanshahr, Baljinder Singh Dhillon, has sent two notices to Congress Nawanshahr MLA, Angad Singh, for alleged violation of the model code of conduct on Thursday. The incidents happended on Tuesday. The first notice seeks his reply on the distribution of tables and chairs at government primary school in Langdoa village of the district; a flying squad team reached he spot and found three vehicles and a Toyota Innova car. The notice adds that people present on the spot told the team that the furniture was being distributed by Angad’s workers and the photo of Angad was noticed on the Innova during videography. In the second notice, based a complaint registered on the C-Vigil app on January 12 (Wednesday), two vehicles loaded with gym equipment, electricity poles, 150 LED lights and 150 solar lights was moving in the area with Angad’s photo, pasted on electricity poles. On Tuesday, AAP candidate, Lalit Mohan Pathak and Bahujan Samaj party and Shiromani Akali Dal candidate, Nachhtar Pal, also raised the matter with the district administration and demanded fair probe and action.MLA SUBMITS REPLIES TO ROOn the notices, Angad said he had submitted his reply before the returning officer, Nawanshahr. “According to the election commission’s rule, ongoing development work can’t be stopped. I had only sent tables and chairs for underprivileged at the Government Primary School in Langoa village, so that they are not forced to sit on the floor in this harsh winter,” he told HT. He claimed that the SAD and the AAP leaders, in their frustration, were lodging false complaints against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nawanshahr-mla-gets-two-notices-for-poll-code-violation-101642095000740.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Gang of poser policemen who stole jewellery busted||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have recovered 125 grams of stolen gold from members of a gang who posed as policemen and robbed elderly pedestrians, according to Anand Bhoite, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The arrested have been identified as Haider Tehjeeb Sayyed, 55; Yunus Sabur Sayyed, 46 both residents of Patil Nagar in Kalyan, Thane, and Gazi Rafik Jafri, 35, a resident of Mangalnagar slum in Kalyan, Thane. The police have identified a fourth member of the gang who is yet to be arrested.The gang landed on police radar when two consecutive cases occurred in Wakad and Nigdi on January 4 when elderly people were targeted by the poser policemen. The accused would approach the victims and tell them that the area they are walking in is not safe for them to be wearing valuable jewellery. They would then advice the victim to keep the jewellery in their bags and steal it by sleight of hand.The police then formed three teams under senior police inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police station. The teams began sifting through all CCTV footage of multiple similar cases. The modus operandi of these cases was known to the police to be signature of the gang.“To gain information about the gangs functioning in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune, the teams went to colonies in Patil Estate and Loni Kalbhor areas and found that the crimes were being committed by a Kalyan-based gang and not the ones in Pune,” read a statement by the police.After zeroing in on the names of the possible accused, the police tracked all their mobile phones and found them to be sitting behind a hotel in Baneli area of Thane. While two of them were caught, one tried to flee and hide in a dirt pit but was eventually found and arrested, according to the police.The men were in police custody till Wednesday and were found involved in seven other cases including one from Manpada police station in Thane.However, even as these men were in police custody, two cases were reported from Pune rural police jurisdiction of the exact same modus operandi. While one case was registered in Shirur police station for theft in Vadgaon Rasai village on January 10, the other was registered at Shikrapur police station for an incident in Talegaon Dhamdhere on January 11. In the Shirur case, the victim is a 71-year-old man while the Shikrapur case has a 55-year-old victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gang-of-poser-policemen-who-stole-jewellery-busted-101642094880916.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||HC allows bail plea of man named in 49 narcotics cases||The Allahabad high court has allowed another bail application of a man, who was made accused in 49 narcotics cases in the last 23 years but was either acquitted later or his name was expunged from the case.Justice Krishan Pahal allowed the bail application filed by one Gaurav alias Gaura of Muzaffarnagar.According to the applicant, the police of Khatauli police station of Muzaffarnagar were registering false and frivolous cases against him after his father, on April 26, 2002, filed a complaint against some police officials.According to the applicant, he was falsely implicated in the present case and from his possession, 102.66-gram Alprazolam was not recovered as alleged in the FIR.Further, there was no chemical analysis report to prove that the recovered contraband is the Alprazolam powder or something else. The recovery was a sham.Additional advocate general representing state government, during the course of hearing, admitted that an investigation into the allegations levelled by the father of the applicant was also taken up by the CBCID against the police officials.The court without going into the merit of the case observed, “The object of grant of bail to an accused of an offence is neither punitive nor preventive in nature. The courts owe more than verbal respect to the principle that punishment begins after convictions and that every man is deemed to be innocent until duly tried and found guilty.”“From the earlier times, it was appreciated that detention in custody pending completion of trial could be a cause of great hardship. Apart from the question of prevention being the object of a refusal of bail, one must not lose sight of the fact that any imprisonment before conviction has a substantial punitive content, and it would be improper for any court to refuse bail as mark of disapproval of former conduct whether the accused has been convicted for it or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-allows-bail-plea-of-man-named-in-49-narcotics-cases-101642094100642.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Swami Prasad Maurya, loyalists meet Akhilesh||A day before announcing his next political move, former Uttar Pradesh labour and employment minister Swami Prasad Maurya, along with his loyalists, met Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav at the SP state unit office in Lucknow on Thursday evening.After the hour-long meeting with Akhilesh Yadav, Swami Prasad Maurya said the ministers, MLAs and leaders who had resigned from the BJP and were loyal to him were introduced to the SP chief.A discussion was held on the strategy, campaign and fielding of candidates, Swami Prasad Maurya added.“We took a vow to defeat the BJP in the assembly elections. A joint declaration with the SP will be made on January 14 (Friday). There is a tsunami against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and it will be brought (down) to the 47-seat tally that it won in the 2012 assembly elections,” he said. Before the interaction with Akhilesh Yadav, Swami Prasad Maurya held a meeting at his official residence with his loyalists, including his ministers, MLAs and leaders loyal to him who have quit the BJP.The majority of these loyalists resigned from the BJP after Maurya quit the state cabinet on Tuesday (January 11). They include Ayush minister Dharam Singh Saini, MLAs Roshan Lal Verma, Brijesh Kumar Prajapati, Vinay Shakya, Mukesh Verma, Bala Prasad Awasthi and Bhagwati Prasad Sagar. They arrived at Maurya’s residence to express their allegiance. Later, they left with Swami Prasad Maurya to meet Akhilesh Yadav. Most of the ministers and MLAs who resigned from the BJP were with Swami Prasad Maurya in the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). After Maurya quit the BSP in June 2016 a few months before the 2017 assembly elections to join the BJP, his loyalist also switched sides and a majority of them contested the 2017 assembly elections on the BJP ticket. As the Modi wave swept Uttar Pradesh, they won their seats in 2017.Before leaving his official bungalow to meet the SP chief, Swami Prasad Maurya termed the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) and the BJP as snakes which are swallowing the rights of the backward community.“I will have to become a mongoose to fight the BJP as well as to protect the rights of the weaker sections,” he said. “I thank all the self-respecting ministers and MLAs who have resigned from the BJP that had neglected the backward and dalit community. All are coming under one umbrella (indicating Samajwadi Party) to restore the dignity and welfare of the backward and Dalit community,” Swami Prasad Maurya said.“My decision has triggered an earthquake in the BJP, there will a big tremor in the saffron brigade on Friday (January 14) with my announcement. I pleaded with the BJP leaders for the welfare of the dalits and backwards but they couldn’t care less. Now, the BJP leaders are using all the tricks to stop the MLAs from deserting the party, but the resignation of the ministers and MLAs from the BJP will continue even after January 14,” Swami Prasad Maurya said.“Uttar Pradesh is not a grazing ground for the BJP. The people have decided to give them a farewell in the assembly elections,” Swami Prasad Maurya said. Dara Singh Chauhan, who resigned from the cabinet on Wednesday, met Akhilesh Yadav again on Thursday. Chauhan had joined the BJP in February 2015 over a year before Swami Prasad Maurya switched sides from the BSP to the BJP in June 2016.“Swami Prasad Maurya is a senior OBC leader. We are unitedly fighting for social justice and welfare of the backward community. We decided to bid adieu to the BJP as its policies were anti-backward and dalit,” he said. Chauhan is an influential OBC leader of east UP with a hold on the Lonia-Chauhan community in Mau, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Ghazipur, Varanasi, Ballia, Jaunpur and Ambedkar Nagar districts.Chauhan met his supporters, who had arrived from east UP at his official bungalow in Lucknow’s Raj Bhavan colony.“I, along with Swami Prasad Maurya, will make a final announcement on January 14,” he said. 
13-01-2022||Other||2.5kg RDX, five explosives recovered from Gurdaspur||SBS Nagar Days after busting of a terror module that had the backing of International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar police have recovered 2.5-kg RDX, one detonator, codex wire (hollow wire packed with explosives), five fuses of explosives, along with wires and 12 cartridges of AK 47 assault rifle from Gurdaspur.Punjab director general of police Viresh Kumar Bhawra said that the recovery was made on the disclosure statement of accused Amandeep Kumar, alias Mantri, of Lakhanpal village in Gurdaspur. He is the prime accused in two recent incidents of grenade attacks in Pathankot, the DGP added.Amandeep was among the six operatives of ISYF that the SBS Nagar police had busted on Monday; he has confessed to have carried out two grenade attacks in Pathankot, including at the Pathankot Army camp in November last year.SBS Nagar SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said following Amandeep’s disclosure, teams had been sent to Gurdaspur district and the explosive material, which according to Amandeep was to be used in assembling of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), recovered. The team comprised SP (investigation), Sarbjit Singh Bahia, deputy SP (investigation) Harjit Singh and in-charge of crime investigation agency, Dalbir Singh Sidhu. Police said the self-proclaimed chief of ISYF (Rode) Lakhbir Singh Rode, presently in Pakistan, had provided the explosives to Amandeep through his associate and handler of this terror module, Sukhpreet Singh, alias Sukh, of Kharal village in Dinanagar.Police said Rode’s name has also cropped up in operationalising a series of terror modules through his network in Punjab, and other countries, since June 2021. “A large number of militant hardware that includes RDX, tiffin IEDs, associated explosive material for assembling IEDs, hand grenades, fire arms and also narcotics have been pushed by him across the international border, mainly via drones and using his network of cross-border smugglers,” a press note from the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25kg-rdx-five-explosives-recovered-from-gurdaspur-101642093800899.html
13-01-2022||Kolkata||West Bengal logs over 23,000 Covid-19 cases, Kolkata's daily tally dips slightly||West Bengal on Thursday reported as many as 23,467 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the state tally to 18,41,052, according to the state bulletin data. Of the over 23,000 new infections, Kolkata accounted for 6,768.Notably, Bengal's capital city witnessed a marginal dip in the daily case count after 292 fewer infections were logged on Thursday. On the preceding day, Kolkata reported as many as 7,060 new coronavirus cases, the health bulletin data showed.Meanwhile, fresh fatalities in the eastern state continued to maintain its upward swing after 26 people succumbed to Covid-19. On Wednesday and Tuesday, a total of 23 and 19 people died of the disease, respectively.What offers a ray of hope is the massive number of new recoveries in Bengal. As many as 8,139 people recuperated in the state on Thursday, up from 8,117 the day before. With this, the total number of patients who recovered from the virus has surged to 16,89,514.Also Read | ‘Be ready for other Covid variants after Omicron': 3 things PM Modi emphasisedThe continual spike in cases is driven by the emergence of Omicron variant, which has been categorised as the ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization (WHO). Till now, Bengal has detected 294 cases of the new strain of Covid-19, of which, 10 have recovered. This means the state has as many as 194 active Omicron cases. It is also one of the top 10 worst-affected states in the country by the new Covid-19 variant.The Union health ministry on Wednesday said that a total of eight states, including Delhi, Maharashtra and West Bengal, are emerging as the states of concern due to the rapid increase in Covid-19 cases.West Bengal has the second-most active caseload in India with as many as 1,31,553 people suffering from Covid-19, behind only Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-logs-over-23-000-covid-19-cases-kolkata-s-daily-tally-dips-slightly-101642091670619.html
13-01-2022||Other||Parties don’t go virtual route; take to door-to-door campaign||Patiala With the Election Commission of India (ECI) imposing a ban on holding public rallies and road shows till January 15, in view of the third wave of the Corona pandemic, political parties are resorting to traditional door-to-door campaigning.“It is impossible to have contactless meetings with people through virtual modes. Neither candidates nor people are able to adapt to such methods,” said Patiala rural’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Balbir Singh.Candidates and parties across the political spectrum second this opinion, adding virtual campaigning sessions are no match to the physical contact and bond that one forms with the voter. Balbir claimed that only political outfits like the BJP, which have proper logistics and a well-equipped IT cell could afford to go virtual.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate from Samana Surjit Singh Rakhra said it had become difficult for candidates to reach out to people at such crucial time. “The matter is being discussed at senior leadership level and the SAD is going to send a representation to the ECI, seeking relaxations in the campaigning process,” he said.Rakhra added that people in rural constituency cannot be reached through smartphones and online meetings. “These restrictions can be best implemented in metropolitan cities only. People in Punjab’s village have no internet data for their kids to attend online classes, and we are expecting them to attend online political rallies,” he said.AAP candidate from Amloh in Fatehgarh Sahib Gurinder Singh Garry Biring said it would take a month to arrange all logistics and permissions for online meetings, even if they start preparing for it, immediately. “We have a built team of volunteers, who are perfect in door-to-door campaigning,” he said.SAD candidate from Nabha, Kabir Dass, added that door-to-door campaigns and small group meetings in open spaces are effective. “Earlier, door-to-door contacts were carried out in last phase of campaigning. This time, however, it has been given prime importance,” he said.
13-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: Nomination process to begin in Agra, Mathura, Aligarh on Friday||With the nomination process for the first phase of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections to begin from Friday, the district administration and police reviewed the arrangements. Districts of Agra, Aligarh and Mathura are to go to the polls in the first phase of the UP assembly elections on February 10. As per schedule, the nominations are to be filed till January 21 and scrutiny on January 24. District magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh, said all COVID protocols should be followed during the nomination process. SSP Agra SK Singh reviewed the arrangements made at the Collectorate compound.The district magistrate of Mathura, Navneet Chahal and SSP Mathura Dr Gaurav Grover also assessed the preparations for the nomination process. On Thursday, the district magistrate for Aligarh Selva Kumari J and SSP Aligarh Kalanidhi Naithani held a meeting and warned political parties of action if COVID protocols are not followed during the nomination process. Only two persons will be allowed to accompany the candidate during the nomination process.The vehicles coming with the candidates for the nomination process will be stopped 100m away from the venue. The candidates will have to produce a negative COVID report when coming to file a nomination, and no armed guard can accompany the candidate in the room. The Election Commission of India declared the schedule for UP state assembly elections-2022 last Saturday. Nine assembly seats of Agra district, seven assembly seats of Aligarh and five assembly seats of Mathura are to go for polls on February 10 in the first phase. According to the schedule released by the Election Commission of India, January 27 will be the last date for the withdrawal of names in the districts of Agra, Mathura and Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-polls-nomination-process-to-begin-in-agra-mathura-aligarh-on-friday-101642093260913.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid: 3-day mega vaccination drive in Varanasi for teens from Jan 14||All government and non-government schools of the district affiliated to UP Board, CBSE Board or ICSE Board, degree colleges, universities, Sanskrit schools, coaching institutes, madrasas, ITIs, polytechnics and other educational institutions, in which children between 15 to 18 years of age are studying will remain open for vaccination from January 14 to January 16, said District Magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma.Concerned staff will also be present, he added.He said that it’s to ensure vaccination of all the children by January 16. He said that the students born between January 1, 2004, and January 1, 2007, will compulsorily come to the school during this period. Students, who have been vaccinated against Covid, will bring a vaccination certificate or any other proof. The unvaccinated students will get inoculated on the campus or at a nearby vaccination centre as decided by the concerned educational institute.It will be the responsibility of principals, managers and registrars of educational institutes to make the arrangements for the vaccination drive.The order has been issued under the National Disaster Management Act-2005, and action will be taken under relevant sections of the act if any laxity is found in compliance with the order, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid3day-mega-vaccination-drive-in-varanasi-for-teens-from-jan-14-101642092905075.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||3 Children below one year among 97 Covid fatalities in Delhi in 4 days||Sunil Kumar (name changed) and his wife can't stop grieving the loss of their one-month-old girl to Covid.The baby is among 97 people who lost the battle to coronavirus in the last four days. Of them, seven were aged below 18, including three who had not even turned a year old.One of the babies was aged three months and the other seven months."We don't know how our little one contracted the infection. Neither me nor my wife had Covid," Kumar told PTI over phone.The names of the parents have been changed to protect the privacy of the families.Kumar is a resident of Wazirabad and had taken his daughter to Sant Parmanand Hospital for a check-up where she tested positive on January 7 and was admitted to LNJP Hospital the next day. She passed away on January 9."When she was born, doctors had told us that dirty water had gone inside her mouth. There was also pus and bleeding in her umbilical area but that was cured. The doctors told that her immunity was low which is why got Covid-19," he said.Kumar said that she was their first born."My wife is inconsolable. Maybe it was not in our baby's fate to live long," he said with a heavy voice.The seven-month-old boy was suffering from Thalassemia and was admitted to Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya on January 6 since he was unwell.On January 7, his father got himself tested after the hospital authorities told him that he couldn't enter the facility without a Covid negative report. "I tested positive on January 7. The same day my son also came out positive. I am an e-rickshaw driver and I would get myself tested every fortnight for the infection," the man said.His son was born during the second wave of coronavirus when the national capital was under a lockdown, recalled his father. According to the hospital diagnosis, the little one had Covid with severe anemia along with congestive heart failure and bilateral pneumonia. He passed away on January 11.The parents of the three-month-old boy had gone to GB Pant Hospital for his check-up on January 7 but decided to first go to LNJP since he was breathing fast.The little one was suffering from atrial septal defect or in simple terms, had a hole in heart. "Friday is the OPD day in GB Pant Hospital and we brought him. But since he was breathing fast, first we went to LNJP where he was seen by a pediatrician. We were given a list of infections and asked to return after consulting the doctor at GB Pant," his father, who works in a restaurant, said.At GB Pant, they were supposed to get a date for his operation but the doctor said that surgeries were not being conducted due to coronavirus."We requested the doctor to consider our case and he asked us to return on January 11 with the cardiac echo report," he said.Thereafter, the family went to LNJP,  where he was tested for coronavirus, but his report came negative."He was admitted and on January 10, we were told at 7 pm that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and his condition is critical. Within a couple of hours, he was no more," recalled his father. He alleged that his son was not given proper treatment and was not tended properly."My wife told them that he has fever on January 10 morning and they didn''t give him any medication. I haven''t even seen his Covid report. How can I believe he had tested positive?" he said.Delhi reported 40 fatalities on January 12 and 23 on January 11 and 17 each on January 9 and January 10.Of the 97 patients who succumbed to infection, 70 were unvaccinated, while 19 had taken the first jab and eight were fully vaccinated. Among those who died, seven were below 18, 37 in the 41-60 age group, 18 aged between 19 to 40 and 27 between 61 to 80. Eight of them were aged above 80.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-children-below-one-year-among-97-covid-fatalities-in-delhi-in-4-days-101642092050393.html
13-01-2022||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Woman set ablaze on ‘witchcraft’ suspicions, six held||A tribal woman was beaten up and set on fire by neighbours in a village in Jharkhand’s Simdega district on Wednesday night, police said, adding that six persons have been arrested and the woman is being treated at a hospital in state capital Ranchi.The woman, identified as Jhario Devi, 60, who had received around 30 per cent burns before she was rescued by other villagers, has been referred from Simdega district hospital to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi, police said. “The incident happened in Kurpaani village under Tethaitangar police station limits between 9-10 pm on Wednesday. Police rushed to the spot after getting information, but by then her relatives and villagers had already taken her to Simdega district hospital. Doctors said she had around 30 percent burns. She has been referred to RIMS for better treatment,” said Shams Tabrez, superintendent of police, Simdega. The SP said police have arrested all six named accused in the case, based on complaint filed by the victim and her son. As per the complaint, officials said, Jhirio, along with her husband, had gone to the house of a person named Florence Dungung for religious rites following the death of the latter’s wife.“It is alleged that Florence accused the victim of practising witchcraft and held her responsible for his wife’s death. He and a few others present there started beating her. Then they set her on fire after pouring kerosene oil on her. Hearing the commotion, other villagers rushed, rescued the woman and rushed her to hospital,” an official of Tethaitangar police station said. This is the second incident of its kind in the district this month. On January 4, a man, Sanju Pradhan, died after being beaten up and set ablaze by a mob in a village under Kolebira police station limits, allegedly for illegally felling trees. Nine of the 13 named accused in the case have been arrested. On December 21 last year, the Jharkhand assembly had passed a law against lynching, but it is yet to be notified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-woman-set-ablaze-on-witchcraft-suspicions-six-held-101642092482383.html
13-01-2022||Patna||BSEB will conduct board exams on time: Education minister||PATNA: Dismissing uncertainty over holding the state board exams amid rising Covid-19 cases, state education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary on Thursday clarified that the exams will be conducted as per schedule.Addressing the media, Chaudhary said that there is no plan so far to postpone the state board exams and teachers’ recruitment process.“After analysing the current Covid-19 situation, we don’t intend to postpone the state board exams for Class 10 and 12. Besides, the third phase of counselling for teachers’ recruitment scheduled from January 17 will also take place,” he said.The minister said the possibility of change in both programmes may arise only if the Covid-19 situation in the state gets grim.The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has scheduled Class 12 exams from February 1 to 14 and Class 10 exams from February 17 to 24.BSEB is already conducting practical exams for students of Class 12 from January 10 to 20.“The board is taking precautionary measures to conduct exams safely. A large number of students appearing are likely to be vaccinated before the commencement of the board exams. We have asked schools and colleges to keep track of the vaccination status of examinees. Besides, we are planning to increase the number of exam centres and invigilators to conduct the exams maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols”, said an official of BSEB.Students, however, have raised concern over writing the board exam amid a surge in Covid-19 cases.Deepak Kumar, a Class 12 student, said, “Even the chief minister Nitish Kumar has been tested Covid-19 positive along with other ministers. How can the government assure us the safety of our health? The board is risking the health of lakhs of students by conducting the exam amid rising Covid-19 cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bseb-will-conduct-board-exams-on-time-education-minister-101642092480510.html
13-01-2022||Patna||Row over Ashoka: Bihar BJP chief files case against writer, claims he is not a party member||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bihar Thursday lodged an FIR (first information report) against Daya Prakash Sinha, a Padma Shree awardee and Sahitya Akademi award winning writer, who claims to be a BJP functionary and is at the centre of a raging row after allegedly showing legendary ancient king “Ashoka the Great” in a poor light in a book written by him. Earlier, BJP’s ally Janata Dal (United) had demanded that Sinha be stripped of his awards. BJP’s state unit president and Lok Sabha MP Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, who lodged an FIR at Kotwali police station in Patna, said Sinha was not a member of his party.In his book, Sinha, a retired bureaucrat, had compared Ashoka with Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, suggesting that both were “cruel” as rulers and had committed “sins”. He reiterated the point in some interviews later.In his complaint, Jaiswal said Sinha has got himself described on Wikipedia page as currently serving as the national convener of the BJP cultural wing. “This fact is wholly incorrect. He is in no manner connected with the BJP,” Jaiswal said in his complaint. He also accused Sinha of spreading hatred among different communities through his interviews.Meanwhile, JD (U), which first raised the matter, on Thursday found support from former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, who said the ancient king was being denigrated because of the “backward” origin of the Maurya dynasty he belonged to.“Asoka is being maligned because he belonged to a backward class. People with a feudal mindset cannot tolerate the rise to power of Dalits, tribals and OBCs,” Manjhi tweeted and urged President Ram Nath Kovind to “withdraw the Padma Shri” given Sinha. Asoka was the grandson of Maurya dynasty founder Chandragupta Maurya, who was born in a family of shepherds and usurped power by overthrowing the discredited but powerful Nanda dynasty. The capital of Maurya dynasty was Patliputra, which is today’s Patna.Sinha has been chosen for the Sahitya Akademi Award this year for a play based on the life of Ashoka, who is said to have shunned violence after a victorious battle against Kalinga which filled him with remorse for the large-scale bloodshed.
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Woman gunned down over property dispute in Prayagraj||A 38-year-old woman was gunned down allegedly after a dispute over vacating a rented house at Bhola-Ka-Purwa locality under Dhumnaganj police station on Thursday, police said. According to reports, hailing from Ismailpur village in Soraon area, Ramnarayan Verma lived in a house in Bhola-Ka-Purwa area on rent for the past two years with his wife Sangeeta, 38 and three children. Ramnarayan is an e-rickshaw driver. Ramnarayan told police that his landlord’s brother Abhimanyu Shukla was in a dispute with his brothers over the ownership of the house and was pressuring him to vacate the premises. Ramnarayan had promised Abhimanyu that he was searching for another house and will vacate it within a few days. Ramnarayan further claimed that despite the promise, Abhimanyu reached there on Thursday and opened fire on his wife Sangeeta while he was not at home. Ramnarayan rushed back to house on receiving information and took his wife to SRN hospital where she was declared brought dead. Sangeeta received multiple bullet injuries in the firing which resulted in her immediate death, he alleged. Circle officer Santosh Kumar Singh said body of the victim has been sent for autopsy and a hunt has been launched for the accused after registering a named FIR. Exact reasons behind the incident could be ascertained once the accused is nabbed, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-gunned-down-over-property-dispute-in-prayagraj-101642092360982.html
13-01-2022||Bangalore||Karnataka logs 25,005 new Covid-19 cases with over 18,000 from Bengaluru Urban, active caseload above 100,000||The daily Covid-19 tally in Karnataka remained above the 20,000-mark for the second straight day on Thursday after 25,005 people tested positive in the last 24 hours. With this, the total confirmed infections in the state reached 3,124,524. On Wednesday, the state saw 21,390 infections.Also, as many as eight people lost their lives to the disease on the day, taking the death toll to 38,397, a bulletin from the state health department showed.Meanwhile, the active caseload crossed the 100,000-mark and was recorded at 115,733, an increase of 22,634 cases from the 93,099 reported on the previous day.The daily test positivity rate in the state stood at 12.39% and in Bengaluru the positivity rate was at 20%, state health minister Sudhakar said in a tweet. Bengaluru Urban, with 90,893 infections, also accounted for the maximum number of active cases in the state.Also read | Apartments with over 3 Covid cases to be marked ‘containment zones’ for 7 days: Bengaluru civic bodyAccording to data shared by Sudhakar, hospitalisation rates were lower during the current wave of infections than during the second wave. Between January 1 and 11, hospitalisation was 6% while 1% were admitted in Covid Care Centres and 93% were confined to home isolation, the data shared by the minister showed.“Hospitalisation rate in the 3rd wave is lower than 2nd wave as of now. That is no reason for complacency, please follow COVID appropriate behaviour and stay safe,” he tweeted.The state has so far reported 479 cases of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant and no new cases pertaining to the strain were reported in the last 24 hours.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and Sudhakar attended a review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday evening. The PM was briefed of the Covid-19 situation in the state and the state’s preparedness.“Attended the #Covid19 review virtual meeting chaired by our PM @Narendramodi ji today and briefed him about the current situation in Karnataka, the preparedness of our healthcare infrastructure system to tackle the rising numbers of Omicron cases, the status of our vaccination campaign & measures taken for home isolation” Bommai said.So far, 91,031,507 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state, the data from the Co-WIN dashboard at 9.55pm showed. This included the 214,621 ‘precautionary’ third doses that are administered only to healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens above 60 years of age with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-logs-25-005-new-covid-19-cases-with-over-18-000-from-bengaluru-urban-active-caseload-above-100000-101642091742434.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||PAPs to stop Navi Mumbai International Airport project work on Jan 24||Residents of Raigad, Thane, Mumbai and Palghar district have resolved to stop the proposed Navi Mumbai International Airport project work on January 24. The PAPs have reiterated their demand to name the proposed airport after DB Patil and also demanded that the promises made with regard to the rehabilitation of the airport affected PAPs of 27 villages be met immediately.The decision was announced at the Nirdhar Parishad organised in Koli Kopar area of Panvel on the occasion of 97th birth anniversary of PAP leader, DB Patil, on Thursday.The Nirdhar Parishad meet was attended by RPI leader Ramdas Athawale among other local leaders. Athawale said, “DB Patil dedicated his life to PAP’s cause and hence his name is best suited to the airport being constructed here. My party fully supports the demand. CM Uddhav Thackeray should take a decision on this. NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Congress should convince him.”Prashant Thakur, Panvel MLA, said, “The PAP demands continue to be neglected by this State Government. It has not yet accepted our demand for naming it the DB Patil airport. The airport PAPs too are awaiting rehabilitation. This is our final warning to the State Government and CIDCO to pay heed to our demand. We will not be left with any option but to intensify our agitation by stopping the airport project.”Rupesh Dhumal, a PAP leader, added that they are ready for any sacrifice and history has shown that they do not hold back.CIDCO officials did not reply to call or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/paps-to-stop-navi-mumbai-international-airport-project-work-on-jan-24-101642089900446.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||2 killed as unidentified vehicle rams into auto rickshaw on Expressway||Two persons were killed on Wednesday after an unidentified vehicle rammed onto an auto rickshaw on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The auto rickshaw driver and a passenger were killed in the accident. With the Expressway being a No Entry for two-wheelers and three-wheelers, Khandeshwar police have registered cases against the deceased auto rickshaw driver, who broke the rule and entered the road.One of the deceased was identified as Appu Shekhappa Alur (53) of Sambhaji Nagar, Vile Parle, Mumbai. However, the second victim of the accident has not been identified yet.“The rickshaw was hit by an unidentified vehicle on the Mumbai Lane at a distance of about 1.5 km from Kalamboli Circle. Both died on the spot. Upon receiving information, we immediately rushed to the spot and sent the bodies to the sub-district hospital in Panvel,” a police officer from Khandeshwar police station said.The police are investigating the CCTV footage to understand from where the auto rickshaw has been hired to find the identification of the passenger who died in the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-killed-as-unidentified-vehicle-rams-into-auto-rickshaw-on-expressway-101642088821826.html
13-01-2022||Dehradun||Accused No 1 in Haridwar hate speech case arrested, others sent notice||HARIDWAR/DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand police on Thursday evening arrested former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman Wasim Rizvi alias Jitendra Narayan Tyagi in connection with three-day-long Dharam Sansad held in Haridwar on December 17-19, police said.This is the first arrest in the hate speech case registered last month and comes a day after the Supreme Court sought a response from the state government on the action taken over the hate speeches made at the Dharam Sansad.Tyagi has been arrested from the Narsain area on the border between Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, station house officer Haridwar police station Rakendra Kathait said.“Tyagi had been booked under IPC Section 153 A (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred) at Haridwar police station last month on a complaint by a Jwalapur resident on charges of promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion during the Dharam Sansad”, he said.Kathait said three cases have been filed against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, who he described as a repeat offender to explain the arrest.“The other accused have been served notices. The requisite legal process is on,” said senior superintendent of police, Haridwar Yogendra Singh Rawat.Swami Yati Narsinghanand, who was also accompanying Jitendra Narayan Tyagi (Rizvi) when he was arrested, described the police action as a step that will lead seers to seriously consider the possibility of a hidden agenda to weaken the Sanatan Dharma.The special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the hate speech case has recorded statements of two of the five accused named in the case. “The SIT in its ongoing investigation of the case has so far questioned two of the five named accused- Jitendra Narayan Tyagi formerly Waseem Rizwi and Annapurna Maa,” a member of the special team said.“Their statements were recorded on Wednesday. Apart from this, the SIT also recorded the statements of 12 more people as witnesses in the case including the complainants of the case. Police will soon question the other three remaining accused,” said the officer.Superintendent of police Dehradun (rural) Kamlesh Upadhyay who is heading the SIT said, “Police are taking all necessary actions in its probe as per law. Under that, it has recorded statements of two named accused and some witnesses. No arrest has been made so far.”In its case registered on December 23 after the videos of speeches made at the Dharma Sansad emerged, the initial first information report (FIR) only listed one accused, Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, formerly Wasim Rizvi, by name. Later, four more names, Annapurna Maa alias Pooja Shakun Pandey, Dharamdas Maharaj, a general secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha, event organiser Yati Narsinghanand and Sagar Sindhu Maharaj, were added.Another case was also registered in the same incident against Tyagi at Jwalapur police station of Haridwar which was later transferred to Haridwar Kotwali police station where the initial case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/accused-no-1-in-haridwar-hate-speech-case-arrested-others-sent-notice-101642088100028.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Paintings along 90 Feet Road wall to give Thakurli new look||The wall along the 90 Feet Road in Thakurli will wear a new look in the coming days with eye-catching colourful paintings as the artists from the city are busy painting it wall with different pictures, messages and themes.With the initiative of the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), local builders and artists, the work of painting this wall began on January 5.A total of 10 artists who passed out of JJ Arts, Mumbai, have been painting the wall and aim to finish it by January 20.“This particular road has a long wall. If painted, the wall will completely change the look of the road. The painting is being done in different themes including Indian festival, achievements of the country. Another group is also doing paintings based on sports,” said Amol Bochare, one of the artists.The wall has been painted with different festivals of the country. Some paintings depict the renowned places of the city like Durgadi Fort and railway stations. A painting of Indian social worker, Padma Shri Sindhutai Sapkal stands out among all other paintings as a tribute to her contribution to the society.“The paintings have completely changed the look of the entire 90 Feet Road. The idea of painting the entire wall is appreciated by most of the residents. People do visit this road for jogging and hanging out with friends. With the paintings, it completely gives a different feeling now,” said Bharat Naik, a 46-year-old resident of the 90 Feet Road, Thakurli.
13-01-2022||Pune||Garage owner in police custody for sexually assaulting minor boys||PUNE An auto garage owner has been remanded to police custody for sexually assaulting three minor boys over the past few months in Kothrud.The man has been identified as Vinayak Wagh, 45, a resident of Kothrud area. He was produced in the court of Judge S Ponkshe. “He was produced in court and remanded to four days in police custody,” said Public prosecutor Shubhangi Deshmukh.Among the victims, the eldest is 12 years-old, one is 10 while the youngest is 8 years-old, according to the police.“Due to schools being shut and online classes from home, the parents wanted the children to learn some skills at the garage owned by Wagh. Hence, the children would visit him as their parents would go to work. Two of them are siblings while the third one is a relative,” said Mahendra Jagtap, senior police inspector of Kothrud police station.They have all said that the man sexually assaulted them at least once in the past year-and-a-half that they had been visiting him, according to the police. The boys decided to tell their father after the man repeated the assault.A case was registered on Wednesday and the man was arrested.A case under Sections 377 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4 and 6 of Protection of children from sexual offence (POCSO) Act has been registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/garage-owner-in-police-custody-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-boys-101642087740208.html
13-01-2022||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports 9,881 cases, seven deaths||Rajasthan recorded 9,881 fresh cases of Covid-19 and seven deaths due to it on Thursday.According to the Health Department, the state currently has 45,565 active cases and 2,757 people recovered from the infection on Thursday.Of the 9,881 new cases reported till Thursday evening, 2,785 are in Jaipur, 777 in Jodhpur, 765 in Kota, 767 in Alwar, 678 in Bikaner, 598 in Udaipur, 435 in Bharatpur, 317 in Pali, 364 in Bharatpur, 335 in Barmer, and 275 in Ajmer district.Of the seven deaths, two each are from Sikar and Jaipur and one each from Barmer, Jhunjhunu and Nagaur.A total of 8,988 people have died due to the coronavirus infection in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/covid19-rajasthan-reports-9-881-cases-seven-deaths-101642087285070.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid surge affects travel behaviour in Lucknow||LUCKNOW The Covid surge has affected rail, bus and flight operations from the state capital and also reduced the number of driving licence (DL) applicants visiting RTO offices. On Wednesday, 11 seats in first AC, 12 in second AC, and 94 in third AC went vacant due to cancellations in Lucknow Mail, which is one of the most sought- after trains for people going to Delhi.The frequency of the first corporate train of India – Tejas – has been reduced from six to four times a week as it was not getting enough passengers. Regional manager IRCTC Ajit Kumar said, “Due to Covid surge, the number of passengers has reduced and that’s why the frequency of Tejas has been reduced to four times a week.” The Railways has also suspended Bharat Darshan train.The passenger count in roadways buses too has been affected. The AC coaches for Delhi have been suspended due to less passenger load while AC buses for Chandigarh and Dehradun got only five passengers on Wednesday. Now, the officials are thinking about suspending services on these sectors.President of Travel Agents Association, India (UP and Uttarakhand chapter) and MD of Sheeraz Tours, SMA Sheeraz said, “Around 60-70% international bookings are being canceled, while 50% flight bookings for Goa and Port Blair have been cancelled by passengers voluntarily. Only VIPs are flying from Lucknow to Delhi or Mumbai due to elections.”Like other sectors, the Covid surge has reduced the number of driving licence (DL) applicants visiting RTO offices. Despite booking appointments online, only 50% of DL seekers are turning up at the RTO offices in Transport Nagar and Dewa road, said officials.Around 80-90 applicants are coming daily against the quota of 150 for permanent licence, 150-200 for learner’s license against the quota of 450 per day, while 75 to 90 people are reaching the office for licence renewal against the quota of 180 per day, they said.“People may be afraid of contracting Covid infection at crowded places, but we have brought in the system of appointment to reduce the crowd,” said Rampher Dwivedi, RTO. 
13-01-2022||Indore||Cheetah rehabilitation programme in MP delayed due to Covi-19 pandemic: Minister||Madhya Pradesh Minister Vijay Shah on Thursday said the scheme to rehabilitate cheetah, the fastest mammal on land, in Kuno National Park of Sheopur district has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister was speaking to reporters here after inaugurating a forest development office. “The scheme to rehabilitate cheetahs by translocating them from Africa got delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the estimated ₹75 crore needed for the programme has already been arranged through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds of private companies,” Shah said. A cheetah was last spotted in the country in Chhattisgarh in 1947 and by 1952, there were none left in the country. The minister further said the newly-inaugurated forest development office will carry out plantation work in the Malwa-Nimar region. "Of the total saplings planted by the forest department, we give the guarantee of turning 80 per cent of them into trees. We take money from private companies to carry out plantation work in places where forests have been wiped out and in return, these companies get carbon credit,” Shah said. The forest development corporation was in talks with companies in Andaman Nicobar Island, Goa and other seaside states to rope them in for plantation schemes, he said, adding that the department also wishes to approach foreign firms for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/cheetah-rehabilitation-programme-in-mp-delayed-due-to-covi-19-pandemic-minister-101642086296895.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Pune Metro installs Marathi signboards at stations||PUNE The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) has started to install station name boards in Marathi after state notification to put up signboards in the Marathi (Devnagari script) at all shops and other establishments.As the commercial metro operations in Pune is slated to roll out soon, Maha-Metro has started installing signboards in the surrounding areas in Marathi and English languages.At Garware college and civil court stations, some residents demanded proper translation in Marathi and use ‘Mahavidyalaya’ instead of college and ‘ Zila Nyayalaya’ instead of civil court.The Maharashtra Government on Wednesday decided to make it mandatory for shops with fewer than ten employees to use Marathi signboards.The Maharashtra Shops and Establishments (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act will be amended for this, Industries Minister Subhash Desai had said.The decision was taken at the weekly cabinet meeting, Desai has said who also holds the Marathi language portfolio.Meanwhile, to get better connectivity and promote green travel Maha-Metro has started a public bike-sharing system near stations. Residents can hire a bike to travel in nearby areas. Also, instead of using private vehicles, they can use cycles and park near metro stations.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-installs-marathi-signboards-at-stations-101642086601128.html
13-01-2022||Pune||MSEDCL recovers ₹2.07 cr in fines from 1,445 violators in Pune region||PUNE The Pune division of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) in a major crackdown ordered against the power thefts, have recovered ₹2.07 crore in fines from 1,445 violators on Thursday. This was the fourth day of the drive.The order of taking strict action against power thefts was undertaken at the instance of State Director Ankush Nale. In Pune district alone, fines estimated to be worth ₹1.62 crore were recovered after raids were conducted at 551 spots in the district.The MSEDCL office stated that the hundreds of team members fanned across different districts under the jurisdiction of Pune region. The spots located in Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur and Pune districts were raided by the technical and legal teams of the MSEDCL. The raids were aimed at reducing the financial losses of the government body and also to send a strong message to the violators that they are being prosecuted by the government for causing loss to the government by indulging in power thefts, it stated.The public relations office of the MSEDCL maintained that domestic, industrial, agricultural and commercial power thieves were detected by the flying squads during the operation. Later FIRs under sections 135 and 138 of the Indian Electricity Act 2003 were lodged against the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-recovers-2-07-cr-in-fines-from-1-445-violators-in-pune-region-101642086599847.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||28% beds occupied in Navi Mumbai as most Covid positive patients in home isolation||The active cases in Navi Mumbai, though, are as high as 17,544, the total number of beds occupied is still 28% as most of those tested positive are in home isolation.With 21% bed occupancy reported last week, only 7% increase in the admission has been reported in a week. While Covid Care Centre (CCC) facilities have 14% occupancy, Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) have 45% occupancy and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) have 38% occupancy.“There are around 61 facilities in Navi Mumbai for Covid including both private and corporation’s but the primary five of them being used by us are at CIDCO Exhibition Centre, Radha Swami Satsang Hall, Export House, Mayuresh Building and GD Pol,” Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.During the second wave, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has been insisting on getting admitted to its facilities as soon as possible to avoid any further complications. But this time, with 90% of the population being double vaccinated, the focus is to get them home isolated and get only 60 years and above patients, and patients with very severe comorbidities to get admitted.“Looking at the trend of cases and the severity, the state government as well as the city task force are of the opinion to not get the patients admitted to the facility unnecessarily. During the second wave, we insisted that everyone above the age of 50 years irrespective of the severity get admitted as the spread was such that suddenly the oxygen level of the patient used to drop. During this time, even the isolation period and admission period is of seven days since the maximum number of patients is asymptomatic or with mild infection,” Bangar said.Patients with severe comorbidities like cancer, uncontrolled diabetes and severe kidney ailments are the only ones being insisted to get admitted. The oxygen demand, too, is around 2-3 tons per day while it was 18-20 tons during the peak of the second wave. In December 2021, the requirement was 1.5 tons to 2 tons. “There is no shortage of oxygen and there is hardly any increase in the demand as well,” Babasaheb Rajale, oxygen nodal officer, said.Of the 17 CCCs, eight have no admission. Of the nine DCHCs, two centres do not have patients in the isolation ward, five centres do not have any patient in need of oxygen, only two facilities have ICU patients admitted and none have any patient in the ventilator. Meanwhile, of the 35 DCHs, 11 facilities do not have any patient in the isolation ward, 16 facilities have no patient who requires oxygen support, 15 facilities have no patients in the ICU ward and around 20 patients in a total of eight facilities require ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/28-beds-occupied-in-navi-mumbai-as-most-covid-positive-patients-in-home-isolation-101642086243665.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Yogi’s candidature: RSS starts preparations in Ayodhya before formal announcement by BJP||LUCKNOW The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) and top brass of the saffron brigade in Ayodhya on Thursday started preparations for chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s candidature from the temple town, even before a formal announcement in this regard by the state unit of the BJP.Adityanath is all set to contest his first assembly poll from Ayodhya (Sadar) Assembly constituency. Before assuming office of UP CM after the BJP’s victory in 2017 Assembly polls, he had represented Gorakhpur parliamentary constituency five times in a row from 1998. To discuss elections, VHP general secretary Champat Rai organised a ‘prabudh varg’ (intellectual class) meeting at the RSS office in Ayodhya where senior RSS leaders, those associated with its other frontal organisations and local BJP leaders were also present. Rai emphasized on increasing poll percentage, especially in posh localities of the Ayodhya (Sadar) assembly constituency where voters are reluctant to exercise their right to vote. RSS leaders also expressed anguish over poor turnout of voters in these posh localities. It was decided that polling stations and booths having record of poor turnout will be identified. It was also decided that responsibilities will be fixed for BJP workers to reach out to all such voters and make sure they exercise their right to vote. The RSS top brass will go all out to make sure that Adityanath emerges victorious by a huge margin. Ved Prakash Gupta is the sitting BJP MLA from Ayodhya (Sadar) Assembly seat. Expressing his pleasure over the CM’s candidature from Ayodhya, Gupta stated that it was a matter of pride for Ayodhya to have the chief minister as a poll candidate. “The formal announcement of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s candidature from Ayodhya is now just a formality. His candidature will ensure overall development of Ayodhya and its adjoining districts,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya. Elated by the news of the CM’s candidature from Ayodhya, Ramesh Das, head priest of Hanuman Garhi temple, distributed sweets at his residence (math) on Thursday. 
13-01-2022||Delhi||With 28,867 fresh cases, Delhi sees highest ever single-day spike in Covid tally||Delhi on Thursday reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases after as many 28,867 people tested positive for the disease, according to health bulletin data. This was the biggest surge since April 20 last year, according to news agency PTI. Today's numbers are a surge of 1,306 cases from Wednesday when 27,561 fresh Covid-19 infections were logged in the national capital. The cumulative tally of Delhi now stands at 16,46,583, the health bulletin data revealed.Fresh deaths due to Covid-19, however, saw a drop from Wednesday's 40 to 31 on Thursday, taking the overall death toll to 25,271. New recoveries also maintained its upward swing with 22,121 people recuperating from the disease as opposed to 14,957 on the preceding day. With this, the total number of recovered patients in the national capital has risen to 15,27,152.The case positivity rate of Delhi, however, continues to raise concerns with the increasing number of single-day Covid-19 infections. On Thursday, the case positivity rose to 29.21 per cent from Wednesday's 26.22 per cent, according to health bulletin data.Also Read | ‘Be ready for other Covid variants after Omicron': 3 things PM Modi emphasisedThe number of patients in hospitals in the national capital has further climbed to 2,369 and so did the containment zones, which is inching closer to 24,000 (23,997 to be exact).Delhi is currently under night as well as weekend curfew, while educational institutions, gyms and restaurants have been shut.Amidst the continuing surge in Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally, health minister Satyendar Jain said that the situation in the city has “seems [to] have stabilised.” He added that soon there will be a dip in the infection rates.“The hospitalisation rate has stabilised and cases have plateaued,” Jain said, adding that if Covid-19 cases decline in the next few days, current restrictions across the national capital will be lifted.The rise in Covid-19 cases is primarily being driven by its Omicron variant. Delhi has so far confirmed 549 cases of the new strain, of which, 57 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-maintains-upward-trend-in-daily-covid-19-tally-with-28-867-fresh-cases-101642083044955.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||UP elections: In SP’s list of 29 candidates from western UP, 19 are from ally RLD’s party||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party (SP) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) alliance have announced a list of 29 candidates for the forthcoming UP Assembly elections. The 29 constituencies for which the SP-RLD announced candidates are all western UP seats going to polls in the first two phases on February 10 and 14.The RLD will contest 19 of the 29 seats while the SP has fielded candidates on 10.The RLD will contest Shamli, Purkazi, Khatauli, Nehtor, Baghpat, Loni, Modinagar, Hapur, Jewar, Bulandshahr, Syana, Khair, Sadabad, Chata, Govardhan, Baldev, Agra Dehat, Fatehpur Sikri, and Khairagarh.The SP, on the other hand, will field candidates in Kairana, Charthawal, Kithore, Meerut, Sahibabad, Dhalauna, Kol, Aligarh, Agra Cantt, and Bah.The RLD and the SP have been constant companions since the 2017 UP assembly elections and contested all the assembly and Lok Sabha bypolls together since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upelectionsin-sp-s-list-of-29-candidates-from-western-up-19-are-from-ally-rld-s-party-101642085459717.html
13-01-2022||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister tests positive for Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishvas Kailash Sarang on Thursday tested Covid-19 positive and is currently under home isolation on the doctor's advice.Taking to Twitter, State Medical Education Minister said, "After observing initial symptoms of Covid-19, I have got my Covid test done today which has resulted positive.""I have isolated myself on doctor's advice," Sarang further said.The minister urged the people who came in his contact during the last two days, to isolate themselves and get tested if they observe Covid-19 symptoms."All those who came in my contact in the past two days, are requested to isolate themselves. And get tested yourselves if you observe Covid-19 symptoms," Sarang further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-medical-education-minister-tests-positive-for-covid19-101642084556599.html
13-01-2022||Pune||CSIR-NCL signs licensing agreement with SKYi Innovations LLP||PUNE The CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune and SKYi Innovations LLP, Pune, signed a know-how licencing agreement for the ‘Process for the synthesis of hyperbranched polymers’ in Pune on Thursday. It is a solvent-free eco-friendly process and involves a metal-free catalyst. The technology is the outcome of research work done by Dr Ashootosh Ambade, principal scientist from the polymer science and engineering division of NCL. “The hyperbranched polymers have different applications. The synthesis process uses commercially available raw materials and generates the hyperbranched polymer in a single reaction step,” said Dr Ambade. “The CSIR-NCL know-how will be used to synthesise hyperbranched (HB) polymer for application as additives for improvement in properties of engineering plastics such as polyamides, polyesters, and other polymers like bioplastics. These polymers can be used in structural applications. The process will help SKYi Innovations to start indigenous production of HB polymer as a part of its ‘Make in India’ efforts since this product is currently imported,” he added. SKYi Innovations is one of the leading manufacturers of long fibre thermoplastics (LFT) globally, with a production facility in India. They have developed different products such as thermoplastics UD tapes for engineering applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/csirncl-signs-licensing-agreement-with-skyi-innovations-llp-101642084739723.html
13-01-2022||Noida||Covid-19: Noida's active case count surpasses 10K||With 1,626 new infections, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, crossed the 10,000-mark on Thursday, official data showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar's active case tally now stands at 10,717, the highest for any district in Uttar Pradesh, the data issued by the state health department for a 24-hour period showed.Meanwhile, neighbouring Ghaziabad district recorded 1,678 new cases, which pushed its active case count to 9,179, according to the official figures.During the 24-hour period, 207 Covid-19 patients recovered in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 163 in Ghaziabad, the data showed.So far Gautam Buddh Nagar has recorded 468 deaths and Ghaziabad 461 deaths related to the Covid-19 pandemic which started in 2020.Uttar Pradesh on Thursday logged 14,765 new cases of Covid-19 which pushed its active tally of infections to 71,022, the data showed.Six more deaths were recorded in the state on Thursday, with the total number of fatalities due to the pandemic surging to 22,946, it showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-noida-s-active-case-count-surpasses-10k-101642084148489.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane traffic police take action against fancy number plates, over-seating in autos||In a special 10-day long drive initiated against those using fancy number plates and those allowing more than the permitted seating in auto rickshaws and other vehicles, the Thane traffic police have sent challans to the violators across Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath.Challans were sent to a total of 641 vehicle owners for using fancy number plates and a fine worth ₹3.54 lakh has been imposed. Similarly, challans were sent to 1,788 violators for allowing more than the permitted seating and fine worth ₹11.81 lakh has been levied.“During the pandemic period, to maintain social distance, three passengers are allowed inside the auto rickshaw. However, there are many who allow four or five passengers. Such auto rickshaws will be fined. Through e-challan, we are aiming to curb most of the violations in the city,” said Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner traffic police, Thane. The drive against fancy number plates and over-seating would continue in the coming days, claimed Patil.At the same time, the department would also take action against those not wearing helmets on two-wheelers and seatbelts in four-wheelers.
13-01-2022||Pune||No progress in river rejuvenation project , only letters exchanged||PUNE There has been no progress made in the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) river rejuvenation project despite a review meeting been taken by union jalshakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat along with Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica).Letters have been exchanged between Jica and PMC for last one month for technical scrutinyJagdish Khanore, in charge of Jica project from PMC said, “After the review meeting, we sent responses to the queries asked by the central government. They reviewed it and again raised some small doubts which we answered this week. We are waiting for their clearance. After getting clearance we would open the financial bid document and would submit again to Jica and central government for clearance. After getting a nod from central government for the bid document, PMC would put forth a proposal in front of the standing committee for approval. Once the standing approves it, PMC would issue the work order for the bidder.”As per the project deadline, it was expected that the river rejuvenation project would be complete before January 31, 2022. However even as the deadline is approaching closer, the project has not even started.Though Shekhawat instructed the PMC to issue the work order for river rejuvenation project within the deadline, it is looking difficult as the bid is only at technical evaluation level, civic officials said, adding that an extension has been sought from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-progress-in-river-rejuvenation-project-only-letters-exchanged-101642084259401.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||No action against Ashish Shelar for now: State to HC||Mumbai The state government on Thursday assured the Bombay high court (HC) that it will not take any action pursuant to the First Information Report (FIR) registered against BJP MLA Ashish Shelar and would not file the chargesheet till the next hearing. Shelar has filed a petition seeking quashing of the FIR registered against him for allegedly making objectionable comments on Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar in light of a gas cylinder blast at Worli in a press conference on December 4. The court while issuing notice to the police and Pednekar made an oral suggestion that as both Pednekar and Shelar held responsible public offices, they should settle the issue amicably.The division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice Anil Kilor while hearing the petition of Shelar was informed by advocate Rizwan Merchant that his client was a sitting MLA representing Bandra (West) constituency and was actively involved in public life. Merchant submitted that if any action was initiated against Shelar pursuant to the report he would be subjected to serious prejudice and hence sought interim reliefs.In December 2021, while interacting with the media, in reference to the Worli gas cylinder blast, Shelar had slammed the mayor for her alleged delayed response in reaching out to the victims. He had asked if Pednekar had been sleeping for 72 hours. The mention of the word “sleeping” had invited sharp rebuke from ruling parties. Thereafter on December 8, Pednekar had filed a complaint against Shelar at the Marine Drive police station. Shelar was booked under sections 354 (A) (4) (sexual harassment) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code.While seeking interim reliefs on Thursday, Merchant said that his client had merely held a press conference pertaining to the unfortunate incident at Worli and said that it was unfortunate that his statement was misled to lodge an FIR. After hearing the submissions, the bench orally suggested, “Considering the factual scenario, the petitioner is MLA, the respondent is also holding a responsible position in these trying Covid times. She is also the first citizen of the city of Mumbai... Why do you not solve it amicably, it will not send a good picture (in public). Such incidents do occur in public life. Responsible persons are also expected to have a choice of words.”Thereafter, additional public prosecutor J P Yagnik for the state on instructions gave an assurance to the court that no steps would be taken pertaining to the FIR including the filing of the chargesheet after which the bench issued notice to the respondents and posted further hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-action-against-ashish-shelar-for-now-state-to-hc-101642083839476.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Disturbed water supply in peths, Shivajinagar from January 16 to 21||PUNE Water supply in all peth areas, Shivajingar and Deccan areas will be affected from January 16 to 21, read a statement from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s water department.The PMC has planned to connect a new water pipeline to Parvati water tank during that period.PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “PMC has decided to carry out the water pipeline work from January 16 to 21. A new water pipeline will be connected to Parvati water tanks. The work will be carried out from 10 pm to 3.30 am.”As the civic body is carrying out the works during the night, the central part of the city will get a disturbed water supply and water will be supplied at a low pressure for that period, said officials,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/disturbed-water-supply-in-peths-shivajinagar-from-january-16-to-21-101642082339408.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||College teachers question mandatory 50% attendance as many test positive for Covid-19||MUMBAI Despite undergraduate and postgraduate degree colleges having been conducting online classes for more than a week now, more and more lectures are getting cancelled because more and more teachers are being diagnosed with Covid-19. As a result over the past one week, an increasing number of teachers have been questioning the need for 50% physical attendance for higher education institutional staff only to eventually conduct lectures online. However, there is no consolidated data on the number of teachers who have tested positive and are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19.The vice-principal of a south Mumbai college said, “Even though only 50% staff is present in college every day, we have to travel by local transport daily and that is proving to be a big problem. Several teaching and non-teaching staff members across colleges have reported ill and a growing number are testing positive for Covid.”Owing to a surge in Covid cases, the Maharashtra government on January 5 decided to shut down offline classes in state colleges and universities till February 15. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said that examinations scheduled till February 15 will either be postponed or conducted online, except for three universities — Gondwana, Jalgaon and Nanded — where power supply is an issue. The state government also decided to allow only 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to attend colleges and universities on a rotational basis. The announcement was followed by a government resolution (GR) on January 7 as well as an official notification from the Mumbai University addressed to all affiliated colleges to clarify rules and regulations.On January 8, the state disaster management department released standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by different sectors including schools and colleges, which mentioned that schools and colleges have to remain shut except for Classes 10 and 12 and other administrative activities.A senior professor at a suburban college said, “The Mumbai University is only following what the government notification of January 7 says, and insisting on 50% attendance of teaching and non-teaching staff whereas they have completely ignored the January 8 notification. This is putting the lives of several teachers and their families at risk as they are forced to travel by local transport.” He added that in his department alone, four out of seven teachers are currently down with Covid. “Instead of aiding the education sector, such harsh rules are leaving colleges with weaker manpower to run regular classes at present,” he said, adding that he and his colleagues have reached out to university authorities for urgent intervention in this matter but to no avail. While several teachers’ unions have received a series of complaints from teachers across the state, most of whom are facing the same dilemma, no official letter has reached the state government or universities as yet.“The situation is getting worse with every passing day as more and more teachers and college staff are testing positive, and we hope that the government is taking stock of the situation and should announce stricter rules soon,” said a member of the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU).However, officials at the University of Mumbai said that colleges’ rules and regulations in both the January 7 and 8 notifications are similar. “The physical office has been kept running to ensure regular college and administrative work goes smoothly even though lectures are getting conducted online. If classes can be conducted online, the college can take a call and decide whether teachers need to be present on campus or not,” said an official from the MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/college-teachers-question-mandatory-50-attendance-as-many-test-positive-for-covid19-101642081501252.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai crime branch arrests 2 more for providing raw materials for drugs sold in New Year parties||Navi Mumbai Crime Branch Unit 3 has arrested two more people from Mumbai for providing raw materials for production of drugs meant to be sold to organisers of New Year parties.The accused, identified as Jagjeet Prasad Prajapati (35), who provided raw material, and Hamza Bittu (36), who looked after the sales, were arrested from Mumbai by the police this week.Meanwhile, another accused, identified as Kiran Rajguru, was arrested by Chakan police in another offence and would be soon transferred to Navi Mumbai police.Last week, the crime branch police arrested a man, who is the husband of a lady sarpanch attached to Peasants and Workers Party (PWP). The accused, identified as Dheeraj Mhatre (35), also a party worker himself, had provided the land to the accused for setting up a unit to manufacture the drug and also with the electricity connection to the land. With the arrest of Mhatre, police say there are people trying to give it a political angle to the whole case.“We have been randomly contacted by people who suggest that we arrest other people from the PWP. Some also name sons of renowned party workers as the accused without any basis. We ask them to provide some proof since none of the arrested accused would have named them. But the people contacting us themselves would not have any proof,” a police officer privy to the investigations said.On December 31, the Crime Branch Unit 3, Anti-Narcotics Cell and Human Trafficking Cell jointly set a trap and arrested Kalim Rafiq Khamkar (39) from Nere village of Panvel. He had come to supply drugs for parties being organised at farm houses. Following his arrest, Zaki Afroz Pittu (33) and Subhash Raghupati Patil (40) were also arrested. The trio was trying to sell MD (methaqualone powder) weighing 2.5kg worth ₹2.53Cr, which was seized by the police. The factory was started in Poynad by the accused for making MD powder. It was raided and sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-2-more-for-providing-raw-materials-for-drugs-sold-in-new-year-parties-101642081439372.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Two traffic cops arrested for demanding monthly bribe||Mumbai The Anti-Corruption Bureau has arrested a police inspector and a police constable posted at Azad Maidan traffic division for allegedly demanding and accepting a monthly bribe of ₹3,000 from a tourist bus owner.The two police personnel had demanded a monthly bribe of ₹3,000 from the complainant, who has a tours and travels business, to not penalise him for illegal parking of his two buses in the area.According to the ACB officials, police inspector Sheetal Malte, 39, and constable Tushar Chavan, 35, were trapped on Wednesday night. The complainant’s two passenger buses are in daily pick-up and drop service to transport MMRDA employees from Chembur to Cuffe Parade and vice versa. The traffic police since the past two weeks have been penalising the drivers of these two buses for parking the vehicles in no parking zones. To sort out the matter, the complainant on Tuesday went to the traffic division office of Azad Maidan and spoke to Chavan who further instructed him to go and meet his superior, the ACB said.“When he went to meet police inspector Malte in her cabin, she demanded ₹4,000 per month for allowing him to park his two buses in a no-parking area in her jurisdiction,” said an ACB official. As the complainant did not want to pay the bribe, he lodged a complaint with the ACB. After verification of the complainant’s allegations, ACB officials decided to lay a trap. Meanwhile, Malte and Chavan contacted the complainant again and told him that they have reduced the amount from ₹4,000 to ₹3,000 and asked him to meet at the Azad Maidan traffic division office. “The ACB officials caught Chavan red-handed while accepting the bribe of ₹3,000 and as he was accepting the money on his superior’s instruction, Malte was arrested too,” said an ACB officer. Subsequent searches at Malte’s office at Azad Maidan traffic division led to the recovery of ten envelopes that contained cash of ₹4,81,500, the ACB said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-traffic-cops-arrested-for-demanding-monthly-bribe-101642078558289.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Bed occupancy rate rises in Thane by nearly 8% in one week as Covid cases increase||With the increasing number of Covid cases in Thane city, the bed occupancy city has increased from 13.88% on January 6 to 21.47% on January 12.Out of the 20,703 active cases, only 968 are admitted while 19,735 people are in home isolation. The civic officials have claimed that more than 50% of those admitted, especially on oxygen and ICU beds, have not taken a single dose of Covid vaccination so far while the remaining are senior citizens or those with comorbidities.Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has two Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) in the city – Parking Plaza and Voltas Company – with a capacity of 3,697 beds. Around 19% of these beds are occupied at present.At the four Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC), there are 810 beds, of which 32.6% are occupied, 15.9% of the ICU beds are filled, 12.8% ventilator beds and 6.3% oxygen beds are also occupied.The need for hospitalisation is less in the third wave compared to the first and second waves as most of the vaccinated population have mild symptoms and can be home isolated. However, as per the health department, most of those admitted in the ICU or on oxygen support are not vaccinated.An officer said, “As per the recent bed status, it is seen that there is a rise in admission of mild cases at the Covid Care Centres. A hike of 17% is seen in these admissions. Comparatively, there is a 3% increase in oxygen beds, 5.4% in DCHs, 7.2% in ventilator beds and 8.2% in ICU beds.”He added, “Fifty per cent of the total patients admitted in ICU have not taken a single dose while few have taken one dose. We also have two young patients in their late teens and early 20s who are not vaccinated and currently admitted to ICU. The other patients who have taken both the doses and are still in ICU are either senior citizens or those with heavy comorbidities. We appeal to the residents to get vaccinated, so as to avoid complications.”TMC has vaccinated around 25.36 lakh beneficiaries till date, out of which 14.40 lakh have taken the first dose and 10.95 lakh, the second. Over two lakh people still have not taken a single vaccine dose in the city.Dr. Santosh Kadam, president, IMA, Thane, said, “Most of the vaccinated people including doctors and medical professionals have tested positive in the third wave. However, the only relief is that the infection is mild and chances of complications are less. There are negligible patients who are fully vaccinated and critical in Thane as of now. Most of them in ICU or on ventilator support are those who are not vaccinated.”Meanwhile, TMC has intensified the drive against those not wearing masks at public places including near Thane railway station. The civic employees are also announcing on loudspeakers in market areas reminding people to wear masks. In the last five days, the corporation has fined 150 people in this market for not wearing masks and collected a fine of ₹75,000 from them. An officer from Naupada Kopri ward said, “We have also sealed five shops for violating the Covid protocols and a fine of ₹5,000 was collected from each shop and they were allowed to open.”
13-01-2022||Mumbai||HC to pronounce order on Nitesh Rane’s bail application on Monday||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday concluded the hearing of the anticipatory bail application (ABA) of MLA Nitesh Rane, who was booked in an attempt to murder case at Sindhudurg in December 2021. The court will pronounce its order on Monday.Opposing the application, the state government said that there was no political vendetta involved and it had evidence of a conspiracy wherein Rane’s involvement came to light after the arrest of another accused. Hence, the application should be rejected. After hearing all sides, the HC directed that the interim arrangement would continue till Monday.While hearing the arguments, the single-judge bench of the HC was informed by special public prosecutor Sudeep Pasbola that Rane’s claim that the FIR was an act of vendetta due to the catcalls incident of December 23 outside Vidhan Bhavan was not valid as the attempt to murder incident happened on December 18 and Rane was issued notice on December 21.Pasbola further submitted that the attempt to murder case is not the first and there are six such cases involving Rane as he is an influential person in the area. He said that the police had strong technical evidence to show the contact between the accused. He added that during interrogation Sachin Satpute, an arrested accused in the case said that Rane had contacted him through another accused. On being asked about the assailants and the Innova vehicle used by them, Pasbola informed the bench that though the entire conspiracy was in and around Kankavli, the assailants were hired in Pune along with the vehicle and brought to Kankavli and the police had the evidence to prove it. Pasbola stated that such a modus operandi was adopted by Rane in other instances too. In light of these submissions, Pasbola said that Rane’s custodial investigation was necessary to establish that it was a criminal conspiracy and who paid the money and if they have hired hitmen.Responding to the arguments by the state, senior advocate Niteen Pradhan for Rane said that the premise of the FIR and conspiracy for the alleged contract killing in light of the bank elections was nothing but a figment of imagination. He said that the claim of the police that the arrested accused had revealed that conspiracy was hatched in August was far-fetched as the date of the elections was not announced till then.He further added that as the bank election was hotly contested and Shiv Sena leader Satish Sawant was its chairman and his party was in power in the state. Due to political rivalry between Sena and BJP, many persons from outside came to Kankavli, but it did not mean that they were there as part of some conspiracy. In light of these submissions, he reiterated that Rane’s application should be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-to-pronounce-order-on-nitesh-rane-s-bail-application-on-monday-101642078439723.html
13-01-2022||Pune||15 vehicles gutted in fire at housing society parking lot in Pune||PUNE Fifteen vehicles were gutted in a fire at the parking lot of a residential building in the Shivane area of Pune in the early hours of Thursday. No casualties were reported in the fire and the local police have launched a probe into the sequence of events leading to the fire.As per the information given by the fire brigade officials, the gutted vehicles included 13 two-wheeler vehicles and two auto-rickshaws.“Nobody was injured in the incident. The incident happened around 5am in Shivkamal Prestige building near Shinde bridge in Shivane,” said a fire official from Sinhgad road fire station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/15-vehicles-gutted-in-fire-at-housing-society-parking-lot-in-pune-101642078382304.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||UP Police expose another criminal conspiracy for party ticket||LUCKNOW The UP Police claimed to have exposed a criminal conspiracy of a woman politician from Sultanpur, who was eyeing a ticket from Congress party from an assembly constituency of Sultanpur district. Cops said she was trying to gain sympathy to make her claim stronger for the party ticket. Reeta Yadav, 35, and her two accomplices – Mustakeem Ahmad and Dharmendra Yadav – were arrested on Thursday for scripting a false story on an attack on her near the Lucknow-Varanasi overbridge under Lambhua police station limits on January 3 evening, said CO of Lambhua police circle Satish Chandra Shukla, in a video byte shared on twitter. In a press note, the Sultanpur police stated that the woman had lodged an FIR under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) against two unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants for opening fire on her. Reeta Yadav had sustained bullet injury on the left leg and was under treatment at a local hospital. Police investigation, however, revealed that the “attack story” was self-scripted by the woman politician with the help of her driver Mustakeem, Dharmendra Yadav and two others, including one former village pradhan Madhav Yadav and Suraj Yadav, stated the press note.Subsequently, the police arrested three people, including the woman, and recovered an illegal firearm from Dharmendra Yadav that was used in causing bullet wound to her while efforts were on for the arrest of the other two accused in the case. A similar crime committed to procure ticket for Samajwadi Party was exposed after the arrest of former Samajwadi Party (SP) MP from Balrampur Rizwan Zaheer, 57, his daughter Zeba Zaheer, son-in-law Rameez and three others on Monday for the allegedly murder of local SP leader Feroz Khan alias Pappu, 46. The police claimed that the trio hatched the murder conspiracy as Zeba was aiming for the SP ticket from Tulsipur Assembly constituency and Pappu was main the obstruction in it as he was also eyeing the same party ticket from the constituency. Pappu was the former chairman of Tulsipur Nagar Panchayat, a position currently held by his wife, Kahkasha Feroz. He was murdered by two masked assailants near his house in Balrampur district late January 4 night. The assailants had first attacked Khan with a blunt object on the head before slitting his throat, barely 20 metres from his house on Jarava road, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-police-expose-another-criminal-conspiracy-for-party-ticket-101642078139308.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Man falls into 70 feet gorge at Vetal tekdi, rescued by fire brigade||PUNE A 24-year-old man who was trying to save a cat fell into a 70-80 feet deep gorge at Vetal tekdi on Thursday at around 7 am, according to the relatives who were present with him when the incident took place.The injured man has been identified as Ramchandra Ubhe, 24, a resident of Mhatobanagar area of Kothrud who had gone to the tekdi with two cousins, according to fire brigade officials.“He fell into a 70-80 feet deep gorge and got stuck on the trees just above the water. There was no way of reaching him besides from inside the water. So the fire officers waded through the waters and rescued him. He has suffered injuries on his right leg and head,” said Rajesh Jagtap, fire officer of Erandwane fire station.The man was rushed to a private hospital for treatment. Earlier incidentA similar incident took place on January 4, 2021, wherein a 16-year-old boy had fallen off the edge of the hillock visited by multiple people for morning walks. He had suffered multiple injuries including a fractured right leg. Off the edge of the hillock is a defunct stone quarry which has been abandoned for multiple years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-falls-into-70-feet-gorge-at-vetal-tekdi-rescued-by-fire-brigade-101642077719460.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Shocked and angered’, says Sikh cabbie attacked in US||New York: An Indian-origin Sikh taxi driver, whose turban was knocked off and told “turbaned people, go back to your country” by an unidentified man in the US, says he is “shocked and angered” to be assaulted and that no one should experience such hate.In a statement on January 3, community-based civil and human rights organisation The Sikh Coalition said that New York City resident Singh was physically attacked and berated near his cab at JFK International Airport.Singh had parked his cab at the Terminal 4 taxi stand when another driver blocked his vehicle. When Singh picked up a customer, he stepped out of his car to ask the other driver to move. The other driver attempted to hit Singh with his own car door; he then began repeatedly punching Singh in the head, chest, and arms, knocking off his turban, it said in a statement.The other driver called Singh “turbaned people” and shouted at him to “go back to your country,” according to the statement.“I was shocked and angered to be assaulted for doing nothing but minding my own business. While working, no one should experience such hate. I am hopeful that the police can identify, arrest, and charge the person who attacked me so that I can move forward,” the Sikh taxi driver, identified only as Mr Singh out of respect for his request for privacy, has told The Sikh Coalition.Singh filed a report with the Port Authority Police Department (PAPD) immediately after the incident. The Sikh Coalition said it is currently working to ensure that the report “paints an accurate picture of the attack given the language barrier during the initial conversations.” The organisation’s staff accompanied Singh to a meeting with a detective to provide language assistance and legal support.“We have every expectation that bias will be considered as a factor in this outrageous attack, given the evidence of what the other driver said and did to Mr Singh,” said Amrith Kaur Aakre, Sikh Coalition legal director.According to the most recent FBI data, Sikhs remain in the top three most frequently targeted groups for religiously-motivated hate crimes and bias incidents nationwide.In the Sikh Coalition’s experience, taxi and rideshare drivers in particular are at a heightened risk of these kinds of violent attacks, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shocked-and-angered-says-sikh-cabbie-attacked-in-us-101642077600549.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Organisers cancel Sawai Gandharv Mahotsav in Pune||PUNE: In view of the uncertainty arising out due to restrictions imposed by the administration following spike in Covid cases, the organisers of Sawai Gandharv Bhimsen Mahotsav have decided to cancel the next edition of the annual festival scheduled to begin next month. The Sawai Gandharv Bhimsen Mahotsav organised by the Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal was to take place between February 2 and February 6, 2022 in Pune. Shrinivas Joshi, executive president, Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal, said, “There was no option left but to cancel the event.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/organisers-cancel-sawai-gandharv-mahotsav-in-pune-101642077598915.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Not just Panje, there are no wetlands in entire Uran Taluka: Uran tehsildar||Even as environmentalists have been raising issues of mangroves destruction and debris dumping at Panje in Uran, which they call a wetland, Uran tehsildar Bhausaheb Andhare has vehemently denied the allegations and stated that not just Panje but the entire Uran Taluka has no wetlands.CIDCO has leased around 3,000 acres of land in Dronagiri node to Navi Mumbai SEZ in 2006-07 that includes 523 acres of land near village Panje, Funde and Dongri and 377 acres of land in Bokadvira commonly termed as “Panje Wetland” by NGOs.Panje land is the largest parcel of land leased to NMSEZ. This is one of the premium lands available with NMSEZ having a waterfront as well as the view of Mumbai skyline. Panje would be accessible from Gateway of India in about 30 minutes by speed boat once the facilities are created.There have been several complaints lately by the greens claiming violation of norms at Panje and attempts to destroy what they call the wetland.Refuting the claims, Andhare said, “Not a single area in the entire Uran Taluka has been notified as a wetland till date. No area of NMSEZ figures in the wetland list as well.“There were salt pans and paddy fields here in Uran previously. Raigad Collector has given an affidavit in the High Court giving a list of wetlands in Raigad District. There is no mention of any such wetland in Uran taluka. CIDCO, too, has repeatedly stated that Panje land is not a wetland.”Andhare claimed that flap gates have been installed in the area to ensure free flow of tidal water from the creek. Water comes in during high tide and then recedes. It has nothing to do with the presence of any wetland.According to Andhare, “The issue here is of the fishing community that wants water flow and also local villagers who want a cricket ground which often results in differences.”Commenting on the complaints by the greens, Andhare said, “Allegations should be based on facts. How can they term the area as wetland when there is no notification to the effect? Every time there is a complaint or allegation, I personally check on them. Blaming the authorities and hyping things will not help. We should all act responsibly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-just-panje-there-are-no-wetlands-in-entire-uran-taluka-uran-tehsildar-101642076459340.html
13-01-2022||Dehradun||FIR against BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj for birthday event in Rishikesh||HARIDWAR: A first information report (FIR) has been filed against Unnao parliamentarian Sakshi Maharaj, 66, for allegedly violating Covid-19 restrictions during a function organised in Rishikesh to celebrate his birthday in violation of Covid-19 guidelines.More than 100 people were present at the event held at Shri Bhagwan Bhawan ashram in Rishikesh, many of them without face masks and in violation of social distancing norms, officials said.Rishikesh city police station chief Ravi Saini said the case was registered against Sakshi Maharaj, ashram manager Mahesh Mishra, Amitesh Singh and 47 other people for violation of Covid guidelines under relevant sections of Disaster Management Act and Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).The FIR was filed on the directions of Rishikesh assembly returning officer Apurva Pandey. “We are further seeking details, video footage to identify the (other) people present at the function,” Ravi Saini said.After the cake cutting event at the ashram, Sakshi Maharaj spoke against the action being taken against seers who addressed last month’s Dharma Sansad.“Sanatan Dharma preaches communal and global harmony which seers adhere to. If some seer expresses concern over Sanatan Dharma being targeted, then it doesn’t mean they are against a certain religion or community,” Sakshi Maharaj said.He has not commented about the FIR filed against him and others for the birthday event.Shri Parshuram Akhada convenor Pandit Adheer Kaushik said the practice of filing cases against seers in recent times was a deliberate attempt to malign the image of seers and weaken the Sanatan Dharma. Referring to the case filed for the police for Sakhi Maharaj’s birthday celebrations, Kaushik insisted that it was a spiritual event and not a political gathering.“The election code of conduct is in effect but Sakshi Maharaj was observing his birthday function at an ashram and it was in no way a political event…. We warn that saints will take the agitational route if similar action is taken against seers,” Kaushik said.Uttarakhand Congress vice president Dhirendra Pratap said everyone including politicians should take utmost care to ensure that the model code of conduct is adhered to and comply with Covid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/fir-against-bjp-mp-sakshi-maharaj-for-birthday-event-in-rishikesh-101642074300009.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Taste of Life: He was the solo toast to Poona brewing trial plan...||“Who, counting from his tale, Liv’d threescore years and ten, Such virtue was in ale, Ale was his meat, ale was his drink, Ale did his heart revive; And if he could have drunk his ale, He still had been alive.” wrote “Old John Randal” of Great Wolford. The men of The East India Company sought the golden sands of the East to repair their broken fortunes; to bury in oblivion a sullied name or to wring, with lawless hand, from the weak and unsuspecting, wealth which they had not the courage or capacity to obtain by honest industry at home. They cheated, they gambled, and they drank. While in those early days India was a sunny land for shady people, there were honest men among the English who desired peaceful trading. They quickly realized that the merchants, soldiers, and officers would find it very difficult to stay away from intoxicating drinks. And hence brewing of liquor on the native land was largely discouraged. The East India Company, eighteenth century onwards, started importing large consignments of malt liquor for their troops, and at very great loss to themselves, as large quantities were often landed from ships in bad condition. In the nineteenth century, after the British had settled themselves in India, a few realised that brewing beer in India would be much economical. The best English beer, Allsopp’s and Bass’s, was in 1850 selling at ₹6 per dozen, bottled in London, and the price per barrel ranged from ₹75 to ₹80. One of the first to lead the petition to let natives and Europeans make malt liquor in India was William Walker, who using the nom de plume Tom Cringle, wrote a letter in a Bombay newspaper, in November 1857, with an elaborate scheme to make beer and ale in Poona. This letter made “John Barleycorn”, a personification of barley and of the alcoholic beverages made from it: beer and whiskey, a popular name and inspired others to make a similar petition. “John Barleycorn is enthroned in our hearts: why not build him a place at Poona, and enthrone him there?..”, Cringle wrote. The East India Company had on one or two occasions made offers of assistance to European residents of Poona to establish a brewery there. One individual did make an attempt in 1838. The court had sent him out a ton and a half of hops free of the British and Indian duties and freight, besides pecuniary assistance; but the brewer knew nothing of “malting”. He got the temperatures all wrong, and the kiln overheated. Cringle thought that brewing could be successfully carried out in India only in vaulted chambers underground. There was a low hill composed of soft decomposed trap, and moorum, or indurated clay, with a scarped face, nearly abutting on the north side of Sir Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy’s river-bund in Poona. In this hill, underground chambers could be made and arched with bricks made from the river clay in the vicinity. He opined that to people in England these underground vaults might be considered as involving great expense, but from the cheapness and abundance of labour, together with materials equally cheap and plentiful, that would not prove so, as the railway works then in progress would have ceased to monopolize labour and to enhance the price of building materials.“If our future brewer is satisfied with the site I have chosen for him, he will have directly in front of, and close to him, soft river – water, which, if it should not possess that full “body” which report says is so essential to the London brewers, let him not despair, as we have plenty of materials and a fitting temperature to give it any “body” required”, he wrote. Cringle believed that in those underground vaults proposed, an equable temperature might be secured for three or four months of the year, either by the natural temperature of the vaults or aided by artificial means well known to all residents in warm climates. The ventilation shaft would carry off all close or heated air caused by the several brewing processes, and through which air would be replaced from outside, admitted through wet “tatties” or not, as required. Unlike the climate of England which was very humid, especially in most brewing localities, the climate of Poona was particularly dry, which would prove highly suited to the brewing processes and could be carried out during the six months from September to the following February. Cringle’s letter tells us that he was well conversant with the climate, geographical conditions of Poona, and the “art” of brewing. He wrote about couching floors, steeping, and kilns in great detail. The barley required for brewing could be imported from Bassara in Iraq, or from Bhawalpore in Sindh; but better barley was grown in Khandesh, at 150 miles from Poona, and the same variety was also grown near Poona, he wrote. Hops pressed into cakes in England could be sent out in tin-lined cases to prevent any losses of aroma. He suggested that hops could be grown in some of “Deccan hill-stations like Sighur” (Sinhgad). Cringle recommended that a small but efficient brewing apparatus, malt in tin-lined casks, after being well dried before packing, be brought from England to Poona to conduct initial trials. When “trial brewing” of beer was ripening, the brewer might then employ himself in trying experiments in “malting” barley grown in Khandesh and Poona. The first brewing trial might be made in “a thick-walled old native palace, situated on the bank of the river at Poona”, he suggested. When Cringle wrote this letter, the Bombay – Poona railroad was nearing completion. Poona was soon going to be in railway communication over the great arterial lines of India. Hence, if a good brewery on a large scale should become practicable, the carriage for distributing ales in covered vans would be equal to anything of the sort in England, Cringle wrote. He ended his letter by making a passionate appeal to European and native men to brew malt liquor in Poona. The letter served as a blueprint for the first brewery in Poona. It is a fine example of how European civilians sometimes took an active interest in industrial reforms in India, albeit for their own benefit. But John Barleycorn could not get a permanent residence in Poona until a few years later. That story is for some other time. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-he-was-the-solo-toast-to-poona-brewing-trial-plan-101642073578603.html
13-01-2022||Bangalore||Apartments with over 3 Covid cases to be marked ‘containment zones’ for 7 days: Bengaluru civic body||Karnataka has been witnessing a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 infections with the most number of cases being reported in the Bengaluru Urban district. Amid this surge, the Bengaluru civic body – Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) – has issued a host of new advisories to resident welfare associations (RWA), apartment complexes and housing societies in the city.The BBMP said that an apartment complex will be declared as a “containment zone” (CZ) for a period of at least seven days if more than three Covid-19 cases were reported within it.“If more than 3 cases are reported within the apartment complex, or 100 Mts perimeter or the floor above and below or the complete block or in case of smaller apartments complete apartment complex shall be declared as a "Containment Zone" for a minimum of 07 days,” the civic body said.Also read | Karnataka: Experts link Covid spike to political activitiesWithin the apartments, the Bengaluru administration said, individual houses in a floor will be considered a CZ if one case is reported from each floor, the complete floor will be considered a CZ if three cases were reported in the floor and a complete block or a tower will be marked CZ if it has ten Covid cases either across floors or in a single floor.The complete apartment complex will be called CZ if 50 cases are reported in apartments with 50 to 100 households or if 100 cases are reported in those with more than 100 houses, the advisory further said.All residents within the area will be tested and detailed contact tracing and surveillance activities will be done, if an apartment is declared CZ.“Testing of all population within the containment zone is advisable, mandatory if symptomatic,” the BBMP said. “Testing of all Primary Contacts and Secondary Contacts is advisable, and mandatory if symptomatic. All contacts shall remain under quarantine till the test results are declared. All contacts within the CZ shall remain quarantined for the period of CZ notification,” it added.Further, the civic body said that the RWAs or the housing societies should ensure that those advised home quarantine should adhere to it.All vendor and emergency services shall be used following Covid norms and the administrative bodies have been asked to ensure all residents and others who visit the buildings are fully vaccinated. They have also been asked to spread awareness about vaccinations and control the usage of common facilities within buildings such as walkways and parks and avoid the usage of gyms, sports facilities, swimming pools. Regular sanitisation and checking of temperature for visitors have also been advised.On Wednesday, the state saw 21,390 new Covid-19 cases, of which, 15,617 were reported from Bengaluru Urban district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/apartments-with-over-3-covid-cases-to-be-marked-containment-zones-for-7-days-bengaluru-civic-body-101642071841414.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||In wake of increasing Omicron, Covid cases, Thane Municipal Corporation appeals to housing societies||With the increase in the number of Omicron cases in Thane city and the overall rise in the number of Covid cases, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has appealed to the residential societies to come forward and inform if any of their members has had a recent travel history.The health department has claimed that there is hardly any response to the helpline numbers and email address set up to inform about such travellers a month ago. As per the health department data, 2,367 travellers remained untraced till date.The civic body has assigned a helpline number and email ID asking the societies in the first week of December to call or mail them in case there were international travellers in their societies. The corporation claimed that the mobile number has not received a single call while hardly a handful of e-mails were sent.Till January 7 this year, 9,852 international travellers coming into the city were registered with the TMC, out of which 7,485 were traced while 2,367 were not yet traced. The RT-PCR of 5,423 travellers was conducted, out of which the results of 1,105 are still pending and 75 tested positive. Forty eight of these tested positive with the Omicron variant till now while the report of the remaining samples is still awaited.A civic official requesting anonymity said, “We have not received a single call from any of the residential societies informing about any international passenger. In fact, we have sent over 4,000 emails to those who had left their email ID at the airport and could not be traced due to incorrect addresses. Merely 40-50 people have replied. Most people give their international numbers at the airport, due to which we cannot call them on their local numbers, so email is the only option.”He added that some of them stay in the city for two to three days and have already left by the time the officials get a list from the airport. The civic body has appealed to the societies to be more vigilant to curb the spread.
13-01-2022||Kolkata||Sunderbans losing dense mangrove cover, reveals key government report||KOLKATA: The Sunderbans, which is the world’s largest mangrove delta and home to the Royal Bengal Tiger, is gradually losing its very dense mangrove cover, data released by the Forest Survey of India (FSI) on Thursday revealed. Experts said rising salinity levels and the increasing number of cyclones in recent times are together taking a toll on the mangrove forest. It comes as a concern because the mangrove cover acts a barrier against cyclones while protecting West Bengal’s capital city of Kolkata from directly bearing the brunt of storms that originate in the Bay of Bengal. The State of Forest Report 2021 revealed that the very dense mangrove cover in the Sunderbans shrank by two square kilometres – from 996 sq km to 994 sq km - between 2019 and 2021. The delta had a dense mangrove cover of 999 sq km in 2017, which declined by 3 sq km in 2019. “We have to check exactly where the very dense forest cover has gone down. Progressive salinisation is one of the reasons behind the decline in the mangroves’ density. Also, the very severe cyclone Amphan, which hit the delta in 2020, has definitely taken a toll,” said Debal Roy, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. The southern Bengal delta was hit by two very severe cyclones – Amphan in May 2020 and Yaas in May 2021 – which took a toll on the vegetation. Nearly one-third of the delta was severely damaged during Amphan. The FSI’s report also says that the total mangrove cover, which includes very dense mangrove, moderately dense mangrove and open mangrove, increased from 2,112 sq km to 2,114 sq km in 2021. But this rise has been driven only by an increase in the open mangrove cover, which primarily includes plantation. The moderately dense mangrove cover remained unchanged during the last couple of years. “The rising salinity level in the delta is taking a toll on several mangrove species such as Sonneratia apetala, Nypa fruticans and Bruguiera gymnorhiza, among others,” said Abhijit Mitra, former head of the marine science department at Calcutta University. “Their growth is becoming stunted as they can’t withstand salinity above 20 psu (practical salinity unit). The average salinity of sea water in Bay of Bengal is 33 psu, which is equal to 33 grams of salt in one litre of water. Due to reduced sweet water flow and intrusion of salt water from the sea, these trees are either dying or suffering from stunted growth.” Also Read: Around 8,000 trees to be axed for construction of Greenfield Shamli-Ambala highwayThe Sunderbans forest sprawls over 10,000 sq km covering India and neighbouring Bangladesh, of which 40% lies in India and is home to many rare and threatened wildlife species such as the Royal Bengal Tiger and the estuarine crocodile. In India, it is confined to the southern tip of West Bengal and spreads over two districts – South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas. Experts say the Sunderbans have been shrinking over the past few years and warn that if the trend continues, it could have a disastrous impact on Kolkata as well as on the livelihood of villagers in and around the delta. The very dense mangrove, which acts as the barrier against cyclones and storms, shrank from 1,038 sq km in 2011 to 999 sq km in 2017. In the last four years, it dropped further to 994 sq km. “The Sunderbans’ thick mangrove acts as a bio-shield and saves Kolkata from the direct onslaught of cyclones that originate in the Bay of Bengal. The mangrove also acts as spawning ground for several fish and other aquatic animals such as crabs and prawns on which the locals depend for their livelihood,” Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies in Jadavpur University, had said in an earlier interview. Amphan hit the Sunderban on May 20, 2020 with a wind speed of up to 185kmph. By the time it crossed the mangroves and reached Kolkata, its wind speed was came down to around 130kmph. The state government planted around 50 million mangrove saplings after southern Bengal took a hit from Amphan. In May 2021, after cyclone Yaas struck the state, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said another 150 million saplings would be planted in Bengal’s three coastal districts. In India, West Bengal has the largest mangrove cover, followed by Gujarat, and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 
13-01-2022||Bangalore||Congress suspends Mekedatu padayatra after Karnataka order, calls it a sacrifice||BENGALURU: The Karnataka Congress on Thursday decided to temporarily call off the 100km padayatra for Mekedatu, terming it a ‘sacrifice’ in the interest of the state and its people.“Today, we are sacrificing this protest,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) said on Thursday in Ramanagara, about 50 km from Bengaluru. Shivakumar said that this was just a temporary break and not a permanent one, emphasising that the protest will resume from the same place. He did not specify when.The decision comes a day after the Basavaraj Bommai-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government finally decided to prohibit participation in the padayatra against the backdrop of a steep rise in Covid-19 infections across the state. The Karnataka high court too had come down heavily on the government for its inaction and the Congress for its defiance of restrictions imposed by the state government in view of the pandemic.Also Read: Rajya Sabha LoP Mallikarjun Kharge tests Covid +ve; was part of Mekedatu marchSenior Congress leaders held a meeting in Ramanagara district on Thursday after the government’s late evening order in which several leaders expressed concerns over continuing the march.Hundreds and thousands of Congress workers and others have been taking part in the 10-day padayatra, which started on January 9, to put pressure on the BJP government to initiate works on the contentious balancing reservoir across Cauvery river at Mekedatu in Ramanagara district, about 100 km from Bengaluru.The government also has had to face criticism for its reluctance to act against the yatra for the project, reportedly because it did not want to give the Congress a handle, though it hadn’t hesitated to impose severe restrictions on other residents of the state.By Thursday morning, according to data compiled by the union health ministry, Karnataka has 93,128 active Covid cases.At least three complaints have been filed against senior Congress leaders and others since the march began.“The Congress is not responsible for the rapid spread of Covid-19 in the third wave. It is the BJP,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition said on Thursday.He added that neither the chief minister nor any of the others in the BJP were concerned about the health of people when they held events or large gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-suspends-mekedatu-padayatra-after-karnataka-order-calls-it-a-sacrifice-101642064577387.html
13-01-2022||Gurugram||6,883 new Covid cases in Haryana, active cases cross 31,000||Chandigarh, Jan 12 (PTI) Haryana logged 6,883 fresh Covid-19 cases and three related deaths on Wednesday, according to the health department's daily bulletin.The count of active cases has surpassed 31,000 in the state.With a fatality each reported from Gurugram, Ambala and Bhiwani districts, the death toll from the pandemic rose to 10,083 in the state.The new cases raised the infection tally to 8,12,516.The worst-hit Gurugram district reported 2,704 fresh cases on Wednesday, while Faridabad (1,037), Karnal (372), Sonipat (252), Panchkula (734),  Ambala (444), Rohtak (133), Hisar (154), Panipat (223), Yamunanagar (112) and Jhajjar (141) districts also registered a spike in Covid cases.The state also reported seven new cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus, taking the tally of such infections to 169, out of which 10 are active while the rest have been discharged, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state jumped to 31,150 over Tuesday's 26,813, while the count of recoveries now stands at 7,71,260.Haryana has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 94.92 per cent, the bulletin said.The state has witnessed a surge in Covid cases during the past over a fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/6883-new-covid-cases-in-haryana-active-cases-cross-31000-101642062255233.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||UP elections: Congress fields Unnao rape survivor’s mother as candidate||NEW DELHI: Asha Singh, the mother of the 2017 Unnao rape victim, is among the candidates who will contest for Congress in the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. The party on Thursday rolled out its first list of 125 candidates for the polls, which includes as many as 50 women contestants.While announcing Asha Singh’s candidature, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, “Against the government which oppressed them and harassed them in various ways, may she take that power into her own hands and fight for her rights.”Assembly elections in the crucial state that is ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be held in seven phases from February 10 to March 7, it was announced during the weekend.Shortly after Priyanka Gandhi made the announcement on Thursday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “In Unnao, whose daughter was wronged by the BJP, now she will become the face of justice... she will fight, she will win!” The gang-rape of a 17-year-old girl in UP’s Unnao made headlines and sparked protests around the country five year ago. The long-drawn case saw the victim attempting suicide outside CM Yogi Adityanath’s residence. Much later, former BJP member Kuldeep Singh Sengar was convicted for the rape and sent to life imprisonment. He was also found guilty in the death of the rape victim’s father in judicial custody.Other Congress candidates for the coming polls announced on Thursday include Ramraj Gond, who once led the Gond tribals’ legal battle in Sonbhadra, and Congress leader Sadaf Jafar, who was arrested during protests in UP over the CAA-NRC controversy. Also Read: BJP core committee holds marathon meeting. Here’s what was discussedThe Congress has also given a ticket to Poonam Pandey, who was once allegedly beaten by police while seeking to meet Adityanath last year.Priyanka Gandhi said, “Our list is sending a message that if you have been oppressed, then you have the power in you to fight it. In Uttar Pradesh, the Congress will give you this power and will support you in every way so that you can fight your battles, come to politics, take the power and protect your rights.”She pointed out that 40% of the first-list candidates are women and 40% are youth. “With this historic initiative, we hope to bring in a new kind of politics in the state,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-elections-congress-fields-unnao-rape-survivor-s-mother-as-candidate-101642062597589.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19 cases in Delhi rising, but hospitalisations stable: Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that Covid-19 cases in the national capital are seeing an increase but added that related hospitalisations remained stable for the last four days.“Hospital admissions have stabilised over the last four days. Cases are increasing but the hospital admission rate has not increased in the same proportion. The hospital admission rate when 27,000 cases are being reported is the same as the time when 10,000 cases were logged. Bed occupancy rate stands at 15%,” Jain said while speaking to reporters.He added that a stable hospitalisation rate indicates that the wave has plateaued in Delhi and pointed out that daily infections might see a decline soon.Jain said that around 27,500 cases will be recorded on Thursday. With regard to deaths due to Covid-19, the Delhi health minister told reporters that most of the fatalities were among patients with comorbid conditions.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 27,561 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike since April 20 last year, taking the cumulative tally to more than 1.6 million. Nearly 15,000 patients recuperated and 40 more died on Wednesday. The active cases in Delhi stand at 87,445.Satyendar Jain on Thursday also reiterated the Delhi government's stand that no lockdown will be imposed as of now. A day earlier, he said that if daily cases come down in the next few days, the existing restrictions could be lifted.Authorities have administered 188,395 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries on Wednesday and the total vaccination figure is nearing 28 million. Nearly 50,000 children between the ages of 15-17 were vaccinated in the last 24 hours while the precautionary dose was received to 22,579 beneficiaries, according to the health department's bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-cases-in-delhi-rising-but-hospitalisations-stable-satyendar-jain-101642059453521.html
13-01-2022||Bangalore||Day after Karnataka govt ban, Congress postpones its Mekedatu padayatra||The Karnataka Congress on Thursday decided to postpone its 10-day Mekedatu padayatra (foot march), a day after the state government, pulled up by the high court, ordered an immediate ban on the opposition party's protest march which was taking place despite a massive surge in the state's daily Covid-19 cases.Also Read | Cong’s Mekedatu march banned, orders Karnataka govt after high court rebuke COVID-19: Karnataka Congress decides to postpone Mekedatu Padayatra https://t.co/a3Ki3f2xcxThe decision was taken after party leaders participating in the march, including Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar and former chief minister Siddaramaiah, held a meeting in Ramanagara to discuss the future course of the agitation, said news agency ANI.Earlier, the fifth day of the Congress' padayatra began with Shivakumar, who is spearheading the protest, tweeting, “Day 5 of #Mekedatu Padyatra begins- with prayers and seeking blessings to win this historic fight. #NammaNeeruNammaHakku (our water, our right).” ಮೇಕೆದಾಟುಪಾದಯಾತ್ರೆಯ ಐದನೇ ದಿನವನ್ನು ದೇವರ ಆಶೀರ್ವಾದ ಪಡೆದು ಆರಂಭಿಸಿದೆ. ಈ ಹೋರಾಟದಲ್ಲಿ ಜಯ ಪ್ರಾಪ್ತಿ ಮಾಡುವಂತೆ ಭಗವಂತನಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಾರ್ಥಿಸಿದೆ.Day 5 of #Mekedatu Padyatra begins- with prayers and seeking blessings to win this historic fight. #NammaNeeruNammaHakku pic.twitter.com/ss32OU1NxKThe party launched the protest on January 9 in Ramanagara, even as the state witnessed a rise in its fresh Covid-19 infections. Shivakumar himself came under fire from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for not wearing mask, as well as for refusing to undergo testing for the virus.Also Read | BJP shares video of Shivakumar 'coughing' during Mekedatu protest, calls Congress 'superspreader'The local police have registered at least three FIRs against the politician and several Congress leaders, as well as others, for allegedly violating coronavirus-related protocols.Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Bengaluru's civic body, cancelled permission for an event which was scheduled to take place in the state capital on January 19 to mark the end of the Mekedatu padayatra, reported ANI. COVID-19: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) cancels permission given to Congress for a programme that was to be held in Bengaluru, Karnataka to end the Mekedatu Padayatra on January 19On Wednesday, Karnataka logged 21,390 new cases of the viral illness, while 10 more patients succumbed due to it, a health department bulletin showed. There were 874 recoveries as well, as per the bulletin. With this, the cumulative infection tally stands at 3,099,519 including 38,389 deaths.Also Read | Bengaluru logs sharp spike in Covid infections with 15,617 fresh cases; 6 deathsBengaluru alone accounted for 15,617 fresh infections and six-related fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/day-after-karnataka-govt-ban-congress-begins-day-5-of-mekedatu-padayatra-101642052466500.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Eight flights from Chandigarh airport cancelled||Eight flights have been cancelled from Chandigarh International Airport on Thursday due to operational reasons and bad weather. Also read: India Covid-19 cases: Daily tally nears 250,000; active caseload tops 1 millionAirport spokesperson KP Singh said that Vistara Airlines cancelled four of its flights and Go First called off three citing operational reasons, while an Indigo flight was cancelled due to bad weather. The Vistara flight from Mumbai that was to arrive at Chandigarh airport at 6am was cancelled, while another from Bengaluru that was scheduled to arrive at Chandigarh at 11.30am, the one from Hyderabad to arrive at 1.30pm and the flight from Delhi that was to reach Chandigarh at 6.15am on Thursday stand cancelled. The cancelled Go First flights are the Delhi-Chandigarh flight that was to arrive at 10.55am and the one that was to depart for Ahmedabad at 12.35pm. The flight from Ahmedabad that was to arrive at Chandigarh at 6.45pm and was to depart for Delhi at 8.45pm has also been cancelled. Another Go First flight from Srinagar that was to arrive at Chandigarh airport at 3.45pm and depart again for Srinagar at 4.50pm on Thursday has been cancelled. Indigo Airlines cancelled its Bengaluru flight from Chandigarh, which was to depart at 7pm, due to bad weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eight-flights-from-chandigarh-airport-cancelled-101642052276103.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Social media propels help for kin of late delivery executive||From businessmen to architects to filmmakers — social media has been abuzz with tweets by people from all walks of life offering monetary help to the family of late Delhi-based delivery executive Salil Tripathi. He was allegedly run over by a speeding vehicle while delivering food last week. The tragic story of Tripathi, who went from being a restaurant’s manager to a food delivery executive due to the Covid crisis also gained the sympathy of filmmaker Manish Mundra. And entrepreneur Tehseen Poonawala tweeted about helping with his son’s school fees. Mundra, who enquired about Tripathi’s family on Twitter, ended up donating ₹4 lakh and inspired many others to follow suit. “When I read the story, It just touched me. I felt bad about the state of things. My intention was not to start a social media campaign but a lot of people got inspired by my tweet and started contributing. Whenever I contribute, I tell the word that this is being done so that more people get motivated and inspired. A lot of people got inspired and started contributing in one way or the other. I was so elated to see that,” says Mundra. On hearing about the incident on news, Delhi-based architect Seetu Mahajan Kohli reached out to the family to extend help. She says: “His family told me how because of this job change, he had to remove his son from his old school. That broke my heart. We’ll get him back into his earlier school. A lot of people are coming forward to help. The wife needs a job as well. We will do whatever needs to be done to stabilise the family,” she says. For Jaipur resident Dr Manita V, who also contributed to the cause, seeing numerous tweets for help is “empowering”. “I saw tweets offering help to the family. It was really inspiring. People had to face a lot of issues during the lockdown. There are some stories that really stay with you and compel you to do something. I used go out and help people, especially in slum areas. But due to Covid-19, I’m unable to. So helping online is a good alternative,” she says. Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
13-01-2022||Kolkata||HC to hear PIL on conduct of civic polls in Bengal as Covid cases rise sharply||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court is expected to hear a public interest litigation (PIL) later on Thursday seeking postponement of elections to four civic bodies in West Bengal amid a steady rise in Covid-19 cases. Daily Covd-19 cases shot up to 22,155 on Wednesday with Kolkata recording the maximum number of infections among all the districts. More than 7,000 fresh cases were detected in the Bengal capital. The division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava had on Tuesday asked Bengal’s state election commission (SEC) to brief the court on the latest pandemic situation and numbers. The bench had asked the Mamata Banerjee-led government to inform the court about the positivity rate and the situation of containment zones in the four municipalities where elections are scheduled to be held on January 22, apart from the percentage of the population affected in those areas. Figures released by the state government on Wednesday revealed that while 897 containment zones and micro-containment zones have been earmarked across the state, Bengal’s overall positivity rate was 30.8%. The state’s poll panel had earlier said that elections in four municipalities - Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri and Chandannagar - would be held as scheduled on January 22 and counting would take place on January 25. But with Covid-19 cases rising alarmingly, a PIL was filed by an individual Bimal Bhattacharya, who argued that considering the escalating Covid-19 situation, the civic polls should be postponed. The poll panel has issued some fresh guidelines, which need to be followed during campaigns and on the polling day, to check the spread of the coronavirus. Political meetings can be attended by no more than 250 people at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/hc-to-hear-pil-on-conduct-of-civic-polls-in-bengal-as-covid-cases-rise-sharply-101642048555679.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: To tackle dengue, MCDs explore an unlikely ally - bacteria||The key to fighting outbreaks of dengue – an annual public health problem for Delhi – may lie in a bacterium found in large swathes of the world’s insect population.With Delhi emerging from its second-worst dengue outbreak last year, the city’s municipal corporations are now planning to carry out a pilot project to deploy Walbochia bacteria to reduce the transmissibility of vector-borne diseases. Dismayed by the public health response to the outbreak, the Delhi high court last month ordered the constitution of a task force headed by commissioners of the city’s three civic bodies to take steps to prevent the Capital from “being infested by mosquitoes”. A senior public health official, who is part of deliberations in the task force, said the local bodies are now planning to deploy Wolbachia bacteria to reduce the spread of dengue during the next annual cycle. Wolbachia is a common bacterium that infects insect species, and in turn, in the case of mosquitoes, prevents them from being infected by (and hence spreading) dengue infections.“The studies on reducing the transmissibility of dengue and chikungunya from aedes aegypti mosquitoes by using the Wolbachia bacteria have shown positive results in countries like Indonesia and Brazil. Similar projects are being carried out in Puducherry’s Vector Control Research Centre (VCRC) from where we plan to seek help. In this method, the mosquitoes are infected by naturally occurring Wolbachia bacteria which results in reduction of dengue virus transmissibility,” the official said, asking not to be named.Delhi recorded 9,613 dengue cases and 23 fatalities due to the infection last year, the latest data from the three municipal corporations shows. The caseload and death toll in 2021 was the highest in the city since the 2015 outbreak that left nearly 16,000 infected and killed at least 60.Multiple research projects have shown that mosquitoes infected by the Wolbachia bacterium don’t transmit dengue, since the replication of the virus is halted. “If a sufficiently large population of mosquitoes is multiplied in the environment, dengue transmission in a given area can possibly be halted. Studies in Indonesia have indicated a 77% drop in cases,” the official quoted above added. The Wolbachia bacterium has been found to occur naturally in 60% of the world’s insect species. While the dengue-causing aedes aegypti mosquito is not one of these species, scientists have, over the years, been able to transfer it into the breed by injecting it into mosquito eggs. A 2020 study published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal titled “Wolbachia, a bacterium fighting on our side” said risk have concluded that the bacteria is safe and does not cause any documented harm to human beings. The World Mosquito Program is overseeing disease control efforts using Wolbachia.The Lancet review states that the results have been encouraging. “In Vinh Luong in Vietnam where the releases were completed in 2018 over an area of 2.2 square kilometres, there has been a reduction in dengue incidence of 86%, compared to a neighbouring city with no release of mosquitoes. In Yogyakarta in Indonesia--the site of the first randomised controlled trial involving wolbachia-- a pilot study found that dengue incidence dropped by 76% in the areas where the infected mosquitoes were released,” the study highlights.The approach has been developed by Monash University in Australia while field trials have been carried out in multiple cities. Dr. C. Sadanandane, a consultant at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - Vector Control Research Centre in Puducherry said local strains have been developed by the centre’s researchers from the original strain from Australia. The next, he said, will be field trials to check its efficacy. “We will be able to know the efficacy of the method locally only after the field trials in India. We received the strain from Monash University, from which our own local strain has been developed. We are looking after the colony of Wolbachia laden mosquitoes and it may take some more time to carry out field trials,” he added. In 2017, ICMR signed an agreement with Monash University to work on this method in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhito-tackle-dengue-mcds-explore-an-unlikely-ally-bacteria-101642033477428.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Daily tally over 27k as tests ramped up; Covid death toll rises by 40||Delhi recorded over 27,000 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, its second highest daily case spike of the pandemic, showed state government data, as testing jumped to an eight-month high, with the test positivity rate rising by a little above 0.5 percentage point.Additionally, hospitalisation numbers remain a fraction of the city’s total caseload, with fewer than 2,400 beds occupied across the national capital.Delhi added 27,561 Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths on Wednesday. The city’s daily case count has only ever been higher on April 20 last year, when Delhi added 28,395 infections -- the record single-day jump in the city’s infection tally, which came amid the brutal fourth surge of infections.The fatalities on Wednesday were the most in a day since June 10 last year, when Delhi recorded 44 deaths, and took the city’s overall pandemic toll to 25,240.Over the last four days, of the 97 Covid-19 deaths reported in the national capital, 72 were patients aged above 40, showed Delhi government data.
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Two killed as car plunges into gorge in Chamba||Two people were killed and four injured when the car they were travelling in skidded off the road and plunged into a gorge in remote Salooni subdivision of Chamba district late on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as 36-year-old Surender Kumar, a resident of Meran village and Kulbhushan Kumar, 38, from Parchhi village of Salooni.Those injured have been admitted to Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba. Condition of one of the injured is stated to be serious. Salooni subdivisional police officer Mayank Chaudhary said the victims were on their way from Brangal to Manglera. The accident took place at Chamoh. Rescue teams were mobilised from Brangal police post and Khairi police station.The bodies of the victims have been handed over to their families after conducting autopsy. A case of rash and negligent driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered at the Khairi police station.The local administration has given an immediate relief of ₹20,000 each to the kin of deceased and ₹10,000 to the seriously injured and ₹5,000 to minor injured. Further investigations are on.9 hurt in bus collisionIn another mishap, nine people were injured when the bus they were travelling in collided with a Hydra machine inside the Aut Tunnel in Mandi district late on Tuesday.The injured were shifted to the civil hospital in Kullu. Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said there were total 40 passengers in the bus.She said that a case of rash and negligent driving has been registered and investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-two-killed-as-car-plunges-into-gorge-in-chamba-101642029473322.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Over 5,000 cases added to J&K’s virus tally in just 11 days||Amid surging Covid cases, Jammu and Kashmir clocked highest monthly infections in first 11 days of January than the past five months. From January 1 to 11, the UT recorded 5,216 infections, logging more cases than the total of any month since August 2021. Of these, 2,909 came from Jammu division and 2,307 from Kashmir. The UT had witnessed 4,438 cases in December, 4,603 in November, 2,819 in October, 4,011 in September, 3,957 in August and 5,800 cases in July.Authorities have said 13 cases of highly infectious Omicron variant have also been found in J&K – five of them in Kashmir valley.Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) on Wednesday advised people to take precautions like wearing masks and avoiding crowds to protect themselves from the new variant.DAK general secretary Dr Arshad Ali said vaccine remains the single best tool against Covid and its variants, including Omicron.“Fully vaccinated people have significant protection against Omicron infection, serious illness and death,” he added. “Those who are unvaccinated should go and get it now. People who are eligible for boosters should take them as soon as possible to protect themselves, their families, loved ones and the community,” the doctor said.January also saw 18 people succumbing to the disease in the UT. The monthly test positivity rate (TPR) – the percentage of tests turning positive out of the total conducted during the period – increased by 220% in the first 11 days of January to reach 0.84% as against 0.26% in December. In the past one week alone, the test positivity rate reached 1.18%. J&K’s Covid task force met under the chairmanship of chief secretary Dr Arun Kumar Mehta on Wednesday in view of the surge in cases. According to a government spokesperson, the task force was told that Jammu and Kashmir has administered 1.94 crore jabs to vaccinate 107% and 101% eligible population with the first and second dose, respectively. “The UT is further speeding up its vaccination drive in the 15-18 age group and has already achieved 32% coverage,” the spokesperson said. Mehta emphasised that Omicron has a growth advantage over the Delta variant and as such requires ardent mitigation and containment measures from an early stage, preferably when the positivity rate breaks out the 10% benchmark. He urged people to remain vigilant since it has a high rate of transmission and can infect a larger group of people over shorter periods. “It remains the social and moral responsibility of every citizen to be responsible for themselves and those around them. They must exercise due diligence against any symptom of infection in the interest of their family members as well as that of society at large,” Mehta said. The UT has conducted 6.18 lakh tests in the 11 days of January at 56,188 average tests daily.The chief secretary directed ramping up of testing facilities in Jammu and Kashmir to conduct over two lakh daily tests in the coming days while maintaining the contact-tracing ratio at 1:15. “At present, the bed occupancy in Jammu and Kashmir is less than 10% and the medical facilities are maintaining a healthy and comfortable state,” he said.The UT is witnessing a steep rise in novel coronavirus cases for the past one week.As many as 1,148 cases were detected on Tuesday, 706 on Monday, 687 on Sunday, 655 cases on January 8, 542 on January 7, 349 on January 6 and 418 cases on January 5. The first four days of January had recorded daily cases ranging between 165 and 199 while in December the union territory had reported 143 average cases daily. ‘J&K figures among top-ranking UTs, states on vaccination front’Jammu and Kashmir has figured among the best-equipped states and Union territories in the fight against the pandemic. It is also the second state/UT in the country to achieve 100% vaccination target of eligible population. The statement has come from director health services, Jammu, Dr Saleem-ur-Rehman to allay the rising fears of the third Covid wave in the region.He has advised the public not to neglect Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We have started witnessing an exponential rise in cases and there is a need to avoid panic and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he added. He attributed the achievement of record number of vaccinations to close monitoring from the highest level of UT administration led by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. “We have more than 84 functional oxygen plants, two 500-bed DRDO hospitals and over 250 ventilator-supported beds. ICUs are available at all district hospitals and sufficient number of beds for Covid patients are available up to the level of subdistrict hospitals,” he added. He said there are sufficient paediatric Covid care facilities as well, including specialised equipment and specially trained paediatricians. (With inputs from Ravi Khajuria in Jammu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-5-000-cases-added-to-j-k-s-virus-tally-in-just-11-days-101642028993263.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 1,695, J&K clocks highest daily Covid case count in 7 months||Jammu and Kashmir saw another major spike in Covid cases after recording 1,695 fresh infections on Wednesday, highest daily count in over seven months. A death was also witnessed in Jammu division.The surge is 47% more than Tuesday’s 1,148 cases and 900% more than 169 cases on January 1. The last time the union territory had recorded such high daily cases was in the first week of June. Of the total cases on Wednesday, 812 infections were reported in Jammu division while the Kashmir valley saw 883 people testing positive for the virus. The union territory reported the highest 438 cases in Jammu district followed by 320 cases in Srinagar, 250 in Kashmir’s northern district of Baramulla and 116 in Valley’s central district of Budgam. Jammu district also has the highest number of active cases at 2,066 followed by Srinagar and Baramulla districts with 1,413 and 596 such cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 262 with the active cases reaching 6,242. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 71,541 vaccine doses were administered on Wednesday. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,37,412 while the recovery rate has dropped to 96.9%. Since the pandemic started, the total caseload of J&K has mounted to 3,48,201 and the death toll has increased to 4,547. Officials said that 65,348 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,165 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 885 deaths. 18 test positive at IIT Jammu As many as 18 people, including students, staff, and faculty members, have tested positive for Covid, said IIT Jammu in an official release on Wednesday.RT-PRC test was conducted on 300 people last week on the campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-1-695-j-k-clocks-highest-daily-covid-case-count-in-7-months-101642028633300.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Jai Ram inaugurates Sanjauli heliport||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated a heliport near Sanjauli suburb of Shimla on Wednesday. This is the first among the six heliports to be built under Swadesh Darshan and UDAN schemes. Jai Ram said the heliport was built at a cost of ₹18 crore, of which ₹12 crore was provided by the Centre under Himalayan Circuit of the Swadesh Darshan programme and ₹ 6crore under UDAN-2. He said the heliport would facilitate the high-end tourists visiting the state and also be used in case of medical emergency as it was near the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC). Jai Ram said that this three-storey heliport has modern facilities like reception counter, heliport manager office, ticket counter and VIP lounge. He said the heliport also has portable cabin, parking for 50 vehicles, deck for helicopter and a safety net. He said more heliports were also being constructed at Baddi, Rampur and Mandi.The CM said that HP government would soon send a proposal of construction of new heliports at Reckong Peo, Chamba, Dalhousie, Jhanjeli and Jawalaji to the ministry of tourism and civil aviation. Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, MLA Balbir Verma, principal secretary (tourism) Subhashish Panda, director tourism Amit Kashyap, Shimla DC Aditya Negi and SP Monika Bhutungru were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-jai-ram-inaugurates-sanjauli-heliport-101642028513311.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mercury plummets further in Himachal; Keylong coldest||Himachal Pradesh shivered under biting cold wave on Wednesday as the mercury hovered around freezing point in several parts of the state. Keylong experienced its coldest night this season with temperature dipping to minus 16.5 degrees C while Kalpa saw a low of minus 6.2 degrees C. Natural sources of water like springs, lakes and tributaries of major rivers in tribal areas were drastically reducing the discharge of water. Water pipes froze and burst at several places and a thick fog engulfed the towns along the river banks while ground frost occurred in plains. Manali recorded night temperature of minus 2.8 degrees C and Kufri minus 1.6 degrees C while Shimla saw a low of 0.1 degree. Dalhousie recorded minimum temperature of 2 degrees, Palampur 3.5 degrees and Dharamshala 6.2 degrees C. MeT department has forecast dry weather till Friday. However, snow and rain may occur at isolated places on January 15. Shimla district, including Shimla town, experienced a fresh spell of snow. Khirki in Chopal town got 6 inches of snow and Chopal town 2 inches. Chanshal pass, the gateway to remote Dodra-Kwar subdivision experienced 9 inches of snow. Tourist destination Kufri got 3 inches of snow, Narkanda 2 inches, Fagu 4 inches and Shimla 1 inch. Dodra-Kwar got 4 inches of snow. 416 roads closedAs many as 416 roads, including three national highways, are still blocked for traffic. As many as 153 roads are closed in Lahaul-Spiti, 146 Shimla and 45 in Chamba. More than 440 power transformers are yet to be repaired. Over 160 water supply schemes, mostly in Shimla, Sirmaur and Kullu, are also hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-plummets-further-in-himachal-keylong-coldest-101642028454247.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid rages in HP as 1,804 more new cases surface||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday reported record 1,804 Covid cases, which took the state’s cumulative total case tally to 2,36,639 while the death toll mounted to 3,870 after three more patients succumbed to the infection.It was the highest single-day tally for the third consecutive day. The state had recorded 1,550 cases on Tuesday and 1,200 on Monday. Kangra, which is the most populous district, saw a record 411 cases while 334 cases were reported from Solan and 193 from Shimla.A total of 161 cases were reported from Mandi, 156 from Hamirpur, 151 from Una, 119 from Sirmaur, 107 from Bilaspur, 94 from Kullu, 38 from Chamba, 36 from Kinnaur and four from Lahaul-Spiti.Meanwhile, the active cases have jumped 6,937 while recoveries reached 2,25,462 after 258 people recuperated.Kangra also has highest 1,704 active cases, followed by 1,122 in Solan, 874 in Hamirpur, 752 in Shimla and 505 in Una. Remaining seven districts have less than 500 active cases.With its tally reaching 54,503, Kangra remains the worst-hit district followed by Mandi (32,699) and Shimla (28,949).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-rages-in-hp-as-1-804-more-new-cases-surface-101642028333214.html
13-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram police registers FIR against pvt air taxi firm for landing chopper without permission||Police registered an FIR against a private air taxi firm at Bhondsi police station in Gurugram on Tuesday evening for allegedly landing a helicopter without permission at a farmhouse in Aravali Raisina.The FIR was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code on the basis of a written complaint of assistant sub-inspector Ahmed Azeem with the Bhondsi police. Rajender Kumar, the SHO of Bhondsi police station, said that the helicopter belonged to a private firm that operates air taxis. He said that the firm had sought permission from the Gurugram deputy commissioner (DC)’s office to land it inside the farmhouse, but the permission was not granted.“The police station received a letter from the DC office for permission to land the helicopter. However, when a police team reached the farmhouse on December 30, it found that the helicopter had already landed there. It remained there from December 30 to January 10,” he said.The SHO said that the helicopter was on its way to Delhi but due to air traffic congestion, it had landed at the farmhouse.“The farmhouse owner, a retired Army colonel, was asked by the police team to produce papers for establishing that he had required permission from authorities to land a helicopter inside the premises. However, he didn’t produce it even after several days,” Kumar said.The SHO said that a detailed report regarding landing the helicopter without permission was submitted to senior authorities after inquiry. “When the farmhouse owner didn’t produce necessary documents for landing the aircraft, an FIR was finally registered,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-police-registers-fir-against-pvt-air-taxi-firm-for-landing-chopper-without-permission-101642024732375.html
13-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Air pistols stolen from vehicle of two professional shooters||Police said an unknown suspect allegedly stole two air pistols and a pair of shooting glasses from a vehicle in which two professional shooters were travelling in Sadar Bazaar on Monday afternoon.Police said the suspect distracted one of the victims by scattering ₹10 notes on the road beside the car.Police registered an FIR under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code was in connection with the theft on the basis of one of the shooters-- Vinay Rathee’s--written complaint. Rathee (20) is a resident of New Amanpura in Gurugram while his friend Sagar Bhargava (18) is from Khedi Gaon, Gurugram. Rathee said that he, Bhargava and Bhargava’s sister Megha were returning home after practising at a shooting range in Bhondsi when the incident took place.Rathee said that he is a pre-national level shooter while Bhargava is a national-level shooter.“Bhargava was driving the car. He stopped at a cellphone shop with his sister to purchase a cellphone cover. The shopkeeper asked him to move the car away from the shop so I drove it away,” he said. Rathee said that someone then knocked on the car’s window and pointed to some money on the road. “I opened the door to find eight or nine ₹10 currency notes strewn on the road. I started picking them up thinking Bhargava may have dropped them. Within 20 seconds, the man opened the rear door, picked up two bags on the rear seat containing our pistols and fled. We realised that the pistols were stolen after several minutes,” he said. Rathee claimed that both pistols were Swiss-manufactured and worth at least ₹4 lakh, while the glasses cost around ₹50,000. Gurugram City police station SHO Ved Pal said it was inconclusive if the shooters were targeted by a thak-thak gang. “We are gathering CCTV camera footage to identify the suspect. An investigation is going on,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-air-pistols-stolen-from-vehicle-of-two-professional-shooters-101642022751955.html
13-01-2022||Kolkata||Constitutional lapse, says Bengal governor as DGP, chief secretary skip two meetings||The acrimonious relationship between West Bengal’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) government and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar witnessed a new low on Wednesday when the director general of police and the chief secretary did not visit Raj Bhawan to explain why the police stopped the leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, during a district tour on January 7. The two officers were summoned to meet the governor at 11am on Wednesday after they skipped the first meeting on Monday.Pulling up chief secretary H K Dwivedi and director general of police Manoj Malaviya for skipping two meetings in three days on social media, Dhankhar on Wednesday called it a “constitutional lapse”. “CS @MamataOfficial DGP @WBPolice ‘boycott’ WB Guv meeting (Re:LOP @SuvenduWB Netai visit) for second time in 3 days - actionable incondonable constitutional lapse by top officials @IASassociation @IPS_Association bearing out observation @India_NHRC in WB ‘Law of Ruler not of Law’,” Dhankhar tweeted. The governor also uploaded a video showing him reading out a short speech on this issue and the chairs and sofas in his chamber lying empty. On January 9, Dhankhar said that an additional chief secretary and a police officer serving under the DGP must meet him with details of the incident since the chief secretary and DGP informed him that they were staying in isolation because of the Covid pandemic. After receiving a report on the incident from the Jhargram superintendent of police, the governor said on Tuesday that he wanted to see an updated written report. He alleged that his directions were not being followed. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Adhikari drew the governor’s attention after he was allegedly stopped by the police from visiting Netai in Jhargram district on January 7 to pay homage to the nine victims of a carnage that took place in 2011 during the Left Front rule. Adhikari was a TMC leader at that time. After his convoy was stopped on the highway, Adhikari accused the government of violating a Calcutta high court order that earlier said his movements cannot be restricted. On Wednesday, Dhankhar alleged that the DGP and chief secretary “damaged the reputation of top services” and violated the “essence of democracy” by not meeting him despite being called twice. “CS @MamataOfficial DGP @WBPolice conduct aggravated by lack of response and habitual defiance of directives from Guv. Rather than ‘uphold the supremacy of the Constitution and democratic values’ these officials @IASassociation @IPS_Association have violated essence of democracy,” the governor wrote in a second tweet. “Constitutionally ordained ‘to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution and the law’ would now ensure that CS @MamataOfficial DGP @WBPolice get into constitutional groove. These officials @IASassociation @IPS_Association have spinally damaged the reputation of top services,” a third tweet said. No government official spoke on this issue on Wednesday. TMC leaders also refused to comment, saying it was a government matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/constitutional-lapse-says-bengal-governor-as-dgp-chief-secretary-skip-two-meetings-101642022452178.html
13-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram town planning dept carries out demolition drive in Sohna||The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Wednesday carried out a demolition drive in Bhondsi. The department cleared 10 acres of land on which five illegal colonies were allegedly being developed without any permission or license from the government, officials said. They added that and despite repeated warnings, the construction had not been stopped.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that six houses that were under construction, a property dealer’s office, 25 plinths and boundary walls were demolished. “These colonies were in the initial stage of development and were demolished by the enforcement team after we issued notices to the owners. We again appeal to the buyers to not invest in such colonies as they don’t have any permission and are liable to come under the hammer anytime,” he said.On Tuesday, the enforcement team had carried out a demolition drive in Farrukhnagar, during which it cleared 30 acres of land, on which six illegal colonies were coming up.In a separate development, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran issued fines worth ₹5,000 each against 25 shopkeepers, who allegedly encroached upon open space in the market. HSVP officials said that if violators continue to encroach upon spaces then FIRs would be registered against them and occupation certificates cancelled.An HSVP official said that residents are filing repeated complaints regarding encroachments in the Sector 14 market and they also observed several violations during their inspection. “Some shopkeepers rented out the gallery and common area in front of their shops to vendors, which obstructs the market and leads to crowding. Action is being taken against violators and videography of the market is being conducted daily,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-town-planning-dept-carries-out-demolition-drive-in-sohna-101642022092072.html
13-01-2022||Gurugram||At 7.5°C, Gurugram witnesses fourth consecutive ‘cold day’||The district recorded a fourth consecutive “cold day” on Wednesday with a maximum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius. Gurugram also recorded a minimum temperature of 7.5 degrees Celsius (°C)--one degree above the normal for this time of the year. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16°C in plains, it is considered a “cold day”. The IMD issued a yellow alert for Thursday, predicting cold wave conditions and dense fog in the south Haryana region, including in Gurugram and Faridabad districts. “Over the next three days, there will be no big change in the minimum temperature in the region. [There could be a] rise by two to three degrees after that. Cold day conditions in isolated pockets are very likely over the south Haryana region during the next two days and some parts may witness dense to very dense fog also in the night or morning hours. A fresh western disturbance is also likely to impact the region with scattered rain likely around the weekend,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD. On Sunday, Gurugram witnessed its coldest day of the season so far as the maximum temperature dropped to 14.4°C--six degrees below normal. Meanwhile, Gurugram recorded “moderate” air quality on Wednesday with an Air Quality Index reading of 138 according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. On Tuesday, the city had reported an AQI reading of 175, also in the “moderate” category. An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, and 301 and 400 “very poor”.According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, over the next two days, the region’s air quality may deteriorate to the “poor” category as winds coming in from the northwest direction are likely to be relatively slow. The region’s air quality is likely to remain in the lower end of the “very poor” category on Friday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/at-7-5-c-gurugram-witnesses-fourth-consecutive-cold-day-101642021853484.html
13-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram industries body to approach high court over reservation law||The Gurgaon Industrial Association (GIA) said it plans to move an interim application before the Punjab and Haryana high court, challenging the constitutionality of the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, which mandates that 75% jobs in the private sector, for which the monthly salary is ₹30,000 or less, be reserved for domiciles of the state. The GIA said it plans to move an interim application as the hearing in the matter, scheduled for Wednesday, was rescheduled to February 2 and the provisions of the Act, including the reservation, will come into effect on January 15.Vishal Sharma, the counsel for GIA, said they will submit an application in the high court for early hearing as this was a matter that concerns thousands of industries and lakhs of jobs across the state. “The job reservation act comes into force from January 15 and this makes it even more important that our petition is heard in a timely manner. The hearing on Wednesday was postponed to February 2,” he said, adding that the re-scheduling does not affect their petition as they have challenged the constitutionality of the act itself. In the petition filed by GIA last November, it had submitted that the act was against the provisions of the Indian Constitution and also against basic provisions of meritocracy, which was the basis for any industry or business to remain competitive. JN Mangla, president, GIA, said, “This job reservation will make it difficult for businesses and industries to remain competitive in Haryana. There is a shortage of skilled and trained manpower locally,” he said. The Gururgam labour department, which shall be implementing the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, said the guidelines for implementing the act were being framed and once they are released by the state government, the department shall start implementing it. “As soon as the guidelines are released, we will start implementing the reservation,” said Ajay Pal Dudi, deputy labour commissioner, Gurugram. As per the new job reservation law, 75% jobs in factories, industries, privately managed companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnerships, partnership firms situated on Haryana, employing 10 or more persons, have to be given to domiciles of Haryana. The reservation would be for jobs having a monthly salary of ₹30,000 or less. The act was passed by the state assembly on March 2, 2021, and was approved by Haryana governor subsequently. On November 6, it was notified by state labour department and the government said that it will come into force on January 15, 2022. 
13-01-2022||Gurugram||Administration asks migrant workers not to panic due to lockdown rumours||The district administration on Wednesday stated that the Covid-19 situation is under control and that there is no possibility of a lockdown in the city, putting rest to rumours that a large number of workers were leaving the city in anticipation of a lockdown amid the rise in Covid-19 cases. Deputy commissioner Yash Garg urged people, especially migrant workers, not to panic but take precautions.In 2020, thousands of workers had to go back in packed buses, trains or on foot to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and even after the imposition of a nationwide lockdown amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, Garg said industrial units in the district were functioning normally and the information regarding migration of workers was baseless. “Workers are not going anywhere and there is no need to panic as Covid situation is under control with only 1-2% of the patients requiring hospitalization. The number of patients has increased but a majority of them are in home isolation. We are keeping a close watch on the situation,” said Garg adding that there is no need of a lockdown in the current situation. A visit to Rajiv Chowk, from where buses leave for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, showed there was no exodus like situation. A bus operator, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that there was only a minor increase in the number of people leaving the city and it was mostly due to elections in Uttar Pradesh and the marriage season in the next couple of months in these states. “There is no doubt people are scared about Covid-19 but the industrial units and construction sites are open so people will not leave yet,” he said, cautioning that migrant workers are getting anxious. Industrial associations and unit owners in Manesar and Udyog Vihar also said the labour situation was presently normal and they had not witnessed any large scale migration of workers or absenteeism in their units, like what happened in 2020. J N Mangla, president of Gurgaon Industrial Association, said units were working normally. “There is no curb on functioning of industrial units, so the workers need not worry about their jobs. We are keeping a close watch on the situation,” he said. Praveen Yadav, president of Gurgaon Udyog Association, said there is no information of any worker leaving Gurugram from any industrial area. “These rumours are misleading,” he said. Pawan Yadav, president of IMT Manesar Industrial Association, said workers should not pay heed to rumours regarding the lockdown and instead focus on observing Covid-appropriate behaviour. In Udyog Vihar, the industrialists said workers were coming regularly to the factories and there was no trend of missing workers as was experienced in 2020. “We are focussing on Covid appropriate behaviour and social distancing so that units remain functional,” said Ashok Kohli, president of Chamber of Industries of Udyog Vihar. Rajender Saroha, joint secretary of Bhavan Nirman Kamgar Union, Gururgam, said workers are panicking due to the rising Covid cases and the bitter experience of the last lockdown. “They are staying put presently because neither they have money to move nor are there many job opportunities in their native state,” he said. Dileep Kumar, a worker at Rajiv Chowk, said he was going home because of a marriage in the family. “We are scared because of the current Covid-19 situation but will return to work,” he said. 
13-01-2022||Gurugram||Active cases cross 13,000 as Gurugram logs 2,704 fresh Covid-19 cases||As many as 2,704 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the active case tally in the district to 13,253. The city also reported the death of a Covid positive patient, the second such fatality to be reported this week. Officials said a 66-year-old man, who was fully vaccinated, was Covid-19 positive but died due to comorbidities. On Monday, a 67-year-old Covid patient also succumbed to the viral infection due to comorbidities. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “The deceased (reported on Wednesday) was a 66-year-old man, who was suffering from congestive heart failure. The person had tested positive three days ago and was undergoing treatment for cardiac ailments at a private hospital in the city. He was fully vaccinated and had received his second dose in April last year.” According to the health bulletin, 929 people have died of Covid in Gurugram since the beginning of the pandemic. Of the 13,253 active cases (including one active case of Omicron variant), 101 patients are hospitalised while the remaining are in home isolation. According to official data, 1,405 people also recovered in the district. Officials from the district health department said according to the new guidelines from the Central government, a person is declared as recovered, seven days after they test positive, provided they are not hospitalised.On Wednesday, the health department collected 12,329 samples for testing. The district recorded a positivity rate of 21% on Wednesday. As cases continue to increase, health experts said that under-reporting of cases is likely with many people using self-testing kits and isolating themselves without informing the authorities. “There is always under-testing and under-reporting in these kind of cases. Even in the second wave, we were estimating that the actual number of cases was much higher than the numbers that were reported. The availability of self-testing kits leads to further under-reporting because patients, who are isolating at home, are not reporting their tests results to the authorities. So, we are assuming that the actual number of cases is much higher than what is coming to the fore,” said Dr Shuchin Bajaj, an internal medicine specialist director of Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, a total of 21,777 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine were administered, which includes 9,097 first doses, 10,654 second doses and 2,026 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.57 million doses have been administered in the district till now. On Wednesday, 1,809 children were also vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/active-cases-cross-13-000-as-gurugram-logs-2-704-fresh-covid-19-cases-101642020831719.html
13-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man dies on the spot after his car collides with pickup truck||A 27-year-old man from Delhi died on the spot after his car collided with a pickup truck near Atlas Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on Wednesday morning.Such was the impact of the accident that the front portion of the car was completely damaged, said police.The deceased has been identified as Shafat Ali, who worked as a driver in a private bakery in Sector 37. He was a resident of Uttam Nagar in Delhi.The owner of the bakery, Gurdeep Singh Tuli, registered a complaint against the unidentified truck driver. In the complaint, Singh stated Ali left the bakery around 7am with packets of chapatis to feed cows in a cowshed located in Vasant Kunj. According to police, the accident took place around 8am. The pickup truck driver had allegedly stationed his vehicle on the right-most lane of the carriageway, carrying traffic from Manesar towards Delhi, after one of the tyres of the vehicle punctured. The driver had placed a hydraulic jack below the truck to change the tyre. However, he had not put up any reflectors nor did he turn on the hazard lights, said police adding that the truck driver fled the spot after the accident. “The vehicle was so severely damaged that the body was completely stuck in the car. We had to use a crane to remove the body from the vehicle and then take it to the mortuary in Civil Lines. The bakery owner identified the driver’s body at the mortuary. We have seized the pickup car and investigations are underway to identify and arrest the accused,” said Jitender Singh, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Gurugram police, who is the investigating officer (IO) in the case.Based on Tuli’s complaint, the police registered an FIR against the unidentified driver under sections 283 (causing danger, obstruction, injury to any person in public way), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC at the sector 17/18 police station.Following the accident, Gurugram police barricaded the accident spot with traffic cones, and a crane was also used to tow the hatchback.The car was removed around 9am, within an hour of the accident. The accident also resulted in an hour-long snarl between IFFCO Chowk and Shankar Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, due to which commuters faced a five to 10 minutes delay in their travel time.
13-01-2022||Gurugram||Haryana minister pulls up Gurugram civic staff for being late, absent from work||Newly appointed minister for urban local bodies (ULB) Kamal Gupta asked the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to ask the employees, who were either found absent or came late to office during a surprise inspection on Wednesday, to submit a written application explaining the same. Gupta conducted a surprise inspection at the MCG’s main office in Sector 34 on Wednesday morning and found at least 20 civic officials absent while around a dozen reported late to work. It was also Gupta’s first visit to Gurugram after assuming charge as the ULB minister.“Ever since taking charge, I have been conducting surprise inspections across civic bodies in the state to improve their services and facilities. I visited the MCG office on Wednesday morning and found that some MCG workers were absent, and a few were coming late to the office. After taking an explanation from each of them, we will accordingly take action,” said Gupta during an interaction with the press at the John Hall in Civil Lines.All the 11 municipal corporations in Haryana come under the ambit of the ULB. Though private companies are allowed to work with only 50% staff due to the rising Covid-19 cases, emergency or essential government offices, such as the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), are still operating with full capacity.Just two days after assuming charge as ULB minister, Gupta, on December 31 last year, conducted a surprise inspection at the Panchkula Municipal Corporation and found more than 80% of the workers absent. On the same day, Gupta held a meeting with the commissioner of all the 11 municipal corporations. Following this meeting, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, on January 3, directed all the civic staff to report to their respective offices by 9am and maintain punctuality among other such directions. According to MCG officials, Gupta reached the MCG office at exactly 9am and checked the attendance registers of the accounts branch, audit, technical, planning branch as well as the offices of senior MCG officials located on the second and third floor of the building. Subsequently, he directed the officials to keep the attendance register and movement files updated.Each MCG wing has its own movement file, in which employees have to fill out the location and the scope of civic work they are covering if they leave office during work hours. Around 9.30am on Wednesday, additional municipal commissioner Rohtash Bishnoi and MCG joint commissioner Sumit Kumar also conducted surprise inspections at the municipal offices in Sector 34 and Civil Lines respectively. Bishnoi found at least 51 employees were not in office while Kumar found at least 10 such staff. Showcause notices have been issued to all the 61 employees. At both the offices, movement files were also not found. “The ULB minister conducted a surprise inspection at the MCG office and directed officials to come to office on time, expedite clearing of files, resolve the grievances of public with honesty and punctuality. An investigation against employees who were absent or came late to office has also been initiated,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.It is not the first time that a ULB minister has conducted a surprise inspection at the MCG office. In June last year,the then ULB minister, Anil Vij, had suspended two MCG sub-divisional officers (SDOs) for being absent among other such directions. 
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Damdami Taksal spokesperson, two former MLAs join BJP||Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal’s spokesperson-cum-media adviser Sarchand Singh Bhangu joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in the presence of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in Jalandhar on Wednesday. Also, former MLAs Didar Singh Bhatti and Satwant Singh Mohi also joined the saffron fold. Union minister Som Parkash, Delhi MP Hans Raj Hans, state general secretary Jiwan Gupta and others were present. Sarchand said he joined the BJP in appreciation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to resolve the issues of the Sikh community, including ‘punishment’ to the accused of 1984 anti-Sikh riots and opening of the Kartarpur Corridor. Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Dhumma had recently hailed the Prime Minister for announcing December 26 as ‘Veer Baal Diwas’ as a tribute to the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s younger sons Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh. In reply to a media query on the party’s chief ministerial face, Shekhawat said the party doesn’t have any such tradition. He also attacked Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. “Congress party itself can’t take Sidhu seriously because he can speak against anyone with the same words,” he said. On Enforcement Directorate’s probe against Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia, he said that let the agencies do their work. He said the BJP will soon declare its candidate as the selection process is underway. 
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Aapna Punjab Party merges into Sanyukt Samaj Morcha||More than a month after Sucha Singh Chhotepur joined the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Aapna Punjab Party (APP), a political outfit floated by him in 2016, merged into Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) here on Wednesday. The announcement was made by APP’s vice-president Jasbir Singh Dhaliwal at a meeting held in Sarabha Nagar. While Dhaliwal addressed the meeting virtually, APP workers and leaders, including Col DS Grewal (retd), HS Cheema, Kulwinder Singh Walia, Jagtar Singh among others were present during the meeting. BKU (Rajewal) general secretary Parminder Singh Chalaki welcomed the APP leaders into the SSM fold. APP executive member Col Grewal said Dhaliwal was the officiating president of the party after Chhotepur committed a “fraud” by joining the SAD. “Earlier we supported AAP but it also turned out to be the same as the other traditional parties. Chhotepur has also turned his back and now we believe that SSM can bring back the lost glory of the state. Youth is being forced to move out in absence of jobs and the drugs menace is continuously taking a toll on the youth. There are many other issues in the state and we will collectively fight for the betterment of the state,” said Grewal. Chalaki said APP’s merger will strengthen the SSM further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aapna-punjab-party-merges-into-sanyukt-samaj-morcha-101642018431654.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Ammonia level rises in Yamuna, parts of Delhi may face water supply disruption today||Water supply to various parts of Delhi may be affected from Thursday due to increased levels of ammonia in Yamuna water at the three Delhi Jal Board water treatment plants. In an advisory issued on Wednesday evening, DJB said the ammonia level at Wazirabad barrage has increased due to continuous discharge of pollutants from Haryana. DJB said that operations of treatment plants at Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla were affected on Wednesday evening, and added that the disruption may continue till the ammonia levels in the river reduces to treatable limit.The DJB advisory states that the areas likely to be affected include Civil lines, Kamla Nagar, Shakti Nagar and adjoining areas; Karol Bagh, Pahar Ganj; parts of west Delhi including Patel Nagar, Baljeet Nagar, Prem Nagar; and south Delhi areas such as Moolchand, South Extension and Greater Kailash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ammonia-level-rises-in-yamuna-parts-of-delhi-may-face-water-supply-disruption-today-101642018371622.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kejriwal’s 10-point agenda is copycat model: Navjot Sidhu||Hours after AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal unveiled his 10-point ‘Punjab model’ for the poll-bound state, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday dismissed it as a “copycat model” written by people sitting in Delhi with zero knowledge of the state. Sidhu, who has been propagating his own model, said that political tourist Arvind Kejriwal who was absent in Punjab for four-and-a-half years claims to have a Punjab model. “AAP’s campaign & agenda is a joke on people of Punjab. A list of 10 points written by people sitting in Delhi with zero knowledge of Punjab can never be Punjab Model,” he said in a series of tweets, hitting out at the Delhi chief minister. Kejriwal announced the agenda on his first visit to Punjab after the announcement of poll dates by the election commission. The Congress chief also posted, “Truth is Kejriwal’s model of functioning is ‘Copy-Cat Model’, ‘I am very insecure Model’, ‘Liquor Mafia Model’, ‘Ticket for Money Model’, ‘I am very sorry Majithia Ji: The Cowardice Model’, ‘Writing free cheques model’, ‘Electricity to Ambani’s Model’, ‘450 jobs in 5 yrs model’.” He said the resurrection of Punjab was a serious issue as the lives of three crore Punjabis are dependent on it. “People of Punjab will not fall for these hollow and non-serious agendas. A genuine roadmap which will bring back people’s resources from mafia pockets to people of Punjab is required,” he claimed in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwals-10-point-agenda-is-copycat-model-navjot-sidhu-101642017951761.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gear up to connect with voters virtually, Sukhbir tells SAD candidates||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday asked the party candidates to gear up to connect with the voters through digital mode. He was addressing the party candidates at a meeting here on Wednesday. The directions came in the wake of the ECI restrictions on physical campaigning in view of the third wave of coronavirus. The Akali leadership apprehends that the restrictions might be extended beyond January 15, leaving little time for the mass-contact programmes. The polls in the state are scheduled for February 14. The party had taken a head-start by announcing candidates ahead of rival parties and started campaigning with the party’s ‘13-points’ and ‘Punjab di gal’ programmes, however, farmers’ agitation forced the party to postpone its scheduled events. The SAD is contesting on 97 seats while it has spared 20 segments for alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) whose state president Jasvir Singh Garhi also attended the meeting. The SAD is yet to announce candidates for Mohali, Lambi, Baba Bakala and Amrtisar East. The party president asked the candidates to make arrangements for reaching out to the voters through the social media and take help from the party’s information technology (IT) cell. “We have decided to hold virtual rallies which party president and other senior leaders will address,” said party’s IT wing head Nashattar Singh Gill, adding that the plan and schedule of rallies will be announced this week. Sukhbir will address the electorate of the state at 7pm every evening and it will be streamed live on different platforms. The SAD has also tied up with different news channels to broadcast his speeches and plans are afoot to start conversation and discussions with the different sections of the society. Sukhbir also held discussions on the fast-changing political scenario and took feedback from the candidates on the repercussions of farmer bodies’ political plunge. 
13-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: When Tintin hung out here||Delhi has been visited by many celebs. The Beatles bought a sitar in Connaught Place. Gabriel García Márquez browsed for books in Khan Market. Queen Elizabeth II spoke from Ramlila Maidan. Che Guevara stayed at the Ashoka. Ricky Martin performed at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. Margaret Atwood met fans at the Stein Auditorium in India Habitat Centre.And Tintin… yes! He, too, hung out in our city — his presence lingers across NCR. There’s a Tintin cake shop in Gurugram’s Sector 23A, a Tintin crockery store in Faridabad’s Jawahar Colony, a Tintin cosmetic shop in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram, and a Tintin food delivery service in Delhi’s Gagan Vihar.Belgian cartoonist Georges Remi, a.k.a. Hergé’s redheaded, globe-trotting reporter, accompanied by Snowy (his dog), first set foot in India in the days of the Raj, meeting and rescuing the Maharaja of Gaipajama in ‘Cigars of the Pharaoh’, and in its sequel ‘The Blue Lotus’, meeting Chang Chong-Chen.His first documented sojourn in New Delhi would come while on the way to rescue Chang, in ‘Tintin in Tibet’, when he would spend a full three hours in the company of the pipe-smoking, hard-drinking Captain Haddock. As Tintin celebrates the 92nd year of his debut this week, here’s his Delhi itinerary.Landing at PalamArriving at Palam, Tintin disembarks from a plane bearing the registration number VT DAO. A few years ago, BBC journalist and Tintin fan Soutik Biswas snooped around to discover that “the number belonged to a Seagull II hang glider owned by a sugar factory”. Whatever, Tintin obviously flew on Air India because his plane had our Tricolour painted on it.Destination WillingdonSoon after landing, Tintin is informed that the flight to Kathmandu (spelt ‘Katmandu’ in the comic) will take off from Delhi’s other airport — Willingdon. The Viceroy, who reigned from 1931 to 1936, was fond of commemorating his family and himself with a hospital (now ‘Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital’), ‘Lady Willingdon Garden’ (‘Lodi Garden’) and even ‘Rattendon Road’ (now ‘Amrita Shergill Marg’), named after his son. Willingdon ‘aerodrome’ was India’s second and Delhi’s first airport, and was home to the Delhi Flying Club. Sanjay Gandhi took off from there before plunging to his death in a crash in 1980. Closed for all flying activity since 9/11, Willingdon is now known as Safdarjung Airport.Tintin in MehrauliTintin visits the Qutub Minar in Mehrauli, and says aloud: “It’s 238 feet high.” That’s all!Tintin in ShahjahanabadTintin’s next stop is Red Fort, where he, Haddock and Snowy hobnob with smiling Dilliwalas. Tintin wants to visit Jama Masjid and Rajghat, but with their flight departing in 25 minutes, the group thinks it prudent to head to Willingdon. (21st-century commuters can only sigh wistfully at the thought of streets so uncrowded that one could drive from Lal Qila to Safdarjung in 25 minutes.) They then look for a taxi in a packed bazaar. No name is mentioned, but since they were at Red Fort moments earlier, it’s almost certainly Chandni Chowk. A gateway at the far end supports this premise as it seems to be the entrance to Fatehpuri Masjid.As any Dilliwala would have told them, it’s insane to look for an airport-bound taxi all the way from Chandni Chowk. Haddock tries to step over a cow blocking the way, and the annoyed bovine then runs off with him on her back. The runaway pair passes through crowded lanes, one of which certainly is Chawri Bazar — the western wall of the great Jama Masjid is easily visible.Eventually a Sikh cab driver drops them at Willingdon, where they get on the plane to Kathmandu, and via Patna, onwards to Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-when-tintin-hung-out-here-101642017193124.html
13-01-2022||Noida||Fire breaks out in Gaur City mall, none injured||Greater Noida: A fire broke out at a showroom inside the Gaur City Mall in Greater Noida around 10am on Wednesday, said police, adding that no one was injured in the incident. Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer (CFO) of Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The fire started at a shoe showroom on the third floor of the mall. Three fire tenders were deployed to douse the fire after local shopkeepers informed the police about it. The fire fighters controlled the blaze in half an hour.”The showroom was closed at the time of the incident, said officials of the Bisrakh police, who also evacuated staff from the building. Videos and photos of the fire incident were shared on social media on Wednesday, in which thick smoke could be seen emitting from the building. Amit Maan, in-charge of the Gaur City police check post, said initial investigation revealed that the fire took place due to a short circuit inside the shoe showroom. “The exact loss of property is being ascertained... We have not received any complaint in the matter yet,” he said. According to a statement issued by the mall management, “The fire started due to a short circuit inside the Bata shoe store at the mall, and the fire was completely brought under control. The mall staff took prompt action and helped in dousing the fire. The fire tenders controlled the fire with the help of others, and no loss was reported.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fire-breaks-out-in-gaur-city-mall-none-injured-101642017051086.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Police nab 385 most-wanted criminals in 2021||The Haryana Police arrested 385 most-wanted offenders in 2021 and the crackdown resulted in solving cases including robbery, extortion, murder, attempt to murder, and snatching, director general of police (DGP) PK Agrawal said.“The special task force (STF),” the DGP said, “formed to deal with organised crime and field units had prepared a database on such criminals and gangsters, which helped in tracing their locations.”The crime investigation agency (CIA) cops also kept a close watch on the hideouts, resulting in an effective crackdown throughout the year. “ ₹64.30 lakh have been given to informers who provided credible information leading to the arrest of these wanted criminals,” the DGP said, asking commissioners of police and district superintendents of police to keep dealing with hardcore criminals and organised gangs with an iron hand.The DGP said the highest of 73 most-wanted criminals were arrested from Gurugram followed by 44 in Narnaul, 43 in Faridabad, 28 in Sonepat, 25 in Palwal, 22 each in Kurukshetra and Jhajjar, 21 in Rohtak, 18 in Panipat, 16 in Kaithal, 14 in Nuh, 13 each in Panchkula and Karnal, 10 in Rewari, five in Yamunanagar, four each in Ambala, Bhiwani and Dadri, two in Hansi, and one each in Hisar, Fatehabad, Jind and Sirsa districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-nab-385-most-wanted-criminals-in-2021-101642016811109.html
13-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Six from private developer booked over misconduct with revenue officials||Noida: Police booked six officials of a private developer in Noida on Monday for allegedly holding a revenue officer and two other officials hostage in the lift of a building, which they were supposed to seal, for one hour on January 5 this year.Ram Krishna, naib tehsildar (deputy revenue officer) of Dadri, said in his complaint that he and the two officials of the revenue team went to Supertech Limited’s E Square project site in Noida Sector 96 on January 5, in connection with a recovery notice, police said on Wednesday.“Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) issued a recovery notice of ₹112 crore against the developer last year. We went to seal the 24th and 25th floors of the building on January 5, as the developer had not cleared the dues. We were inside the lift on the 4th floor along with the security guard of the building, when the developer deliberately switched off the power supply, and we were stranded inside the lift for one hour,” Krishna said.He also said that they struggled to get out of the lift but could not. “We could have fainted inside the lift as there was no ventilation... We informed our seniors, who reached the spot and rescued us,” he added. The developer allegedly played the same trick twice in the past -- on September 17 and December 30 last year -- too, Krishna mentioned in the FIR.Officials of the revenue team sealed the premises later that day, and filed a complaint against six officials of the private developer who have been involved in the project, including the chairman of Supertech Limited, RK Arora, at the Sector 39 police station on January 5. A case has been registered against the six suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 342 (wrongful consignment), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) on December 10, said Rajeev Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 39 police station. “We are investigating the matter and action will be taken soon,” Kumar said. A spokesperson of Supertech Limited, however, said, “The lift malfunctioned due to some technical issues. We called the technicians and rescued the people from the lift.”RK Arora was not available for a comment, despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-six-from-private-developer-booked-over-misconduct-with-revenue-officials-101642016751026.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||225 health workers test positive at PGIMS, Rohtak in a week||Total 225 staffers, including 81 doctors of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak are down with Covid-19 since January 6.One death of a patient was also reported on Wednesday at PGIMS and 25 patients are undergoing treatment. Total 46 health workers including 18 resident doctors tested positive on Wednesday.As per officials at PGIMS, four doctors are admitted and others are in home-isolation. Most of them have mild symptoms but it has taken a huge chunk of the workforce, resulting in the health institute having to curtail services of elective surgeries.A senior doctor, requesting anonymity, said the number of people testing positive at PGIMS will increase in the coming days.“People should not panic. The virus is not as severe as the last time. We have redeployed available medical, nursing, technical and support manpower to ensure smooth functioning of patients,” he added.A resident doctor said they are ready to work for longer hours to ensure that services do not get disrupted and the situation is not so grim.“Most resident doctors are testing positive here as first they come in contact with the patients. We are aware that we are at risk but we will have to continue it and ensure safety of life for ourselves and the patients,” he added.In view of rise in the number of Covid and Omicron variant cases, the authorities at PGIMS had stopped elective surgeries from January 10 (Monday) to prevent spread of the virus. Moreover, the PGIMS authorities had vacated hostels after 35 students tested positive and all examinations have also been postponed until further orders.PGIMS spokesman Varun Arora said 225 health workers have tested positive in a week.“The staffers who are showing symptoms are isolating themselves. We have made adequate arrangements to handle the surge in cases. There is no need to panic. The best way to deal with the virus is to wear a mask at all times and follow Covid appropriate protocol,” he added.Meham MLA tests positiveIndependent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu on Wednesday tested positive for the virus after facing mild symptoms of fever and cold.In a press statement, Kundu urged people who came in his contact recently to appear for testing. During the second wave too, he had been down with Covid.Moreover, Kundu’s scheduled free eye check-up camps in different villages of his constituency have also been postponed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/225-health-workers-test-positive-at-pgims-rohtak-in-a-week-101642016631401.html
13-01-2022||Other||Two aides of slain gangster murdered in Bathinda village||Faridkot Six months after gangster Kulbir Singh Naruana was murdered, unidentified persons shot dead his close aides Manpreet Singh, aka Challa Sidhu, 32, and Manpreet Singh, aka Vicky Singh, 26, at Lehra Khana village in Bathinda district on Wednesday. Challa Sidhu, along with his aide Vicky, had come to the Lehra Khana village for the bhog ceremony of his relative. Unidentified persons opened fire at them at entrance of the gurdwara and fled from the spot. Sidhu and Vicky, who sustained bullet injuries, were rushed to a private hospital, where they were declared brought dead. Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja said the police had started investigation and prima facie, the crime appeared to be part of a gang war. “Manpreet Singh, alias Challa Sidhu, was a close aide of gangster Kulbir Naruana, who was murdered last year. Vicky was also a member of Naruana’s group. Our preliminary investigation shows that there were three to four assailants, who came in a Skoda car. They fired 12 rounds at them with .30 pistols; both were killed on the spot. There was no crossfire as no weapons were recovered from the deceased,” he said. In July 2021, gangster Naruana and his accomplice, Chamkaur Singh, were shot dead at his house in the village by the same name in Bathinda. After Naruana’s murder, Challa Sidhu had taken over charge of the gang. SSP Maluja has formed 15 police teams, under his supervision, to trace the murderers. “Police are investigating all possible angles. We are checking all rival gangs, who could have done this, and if this has any link with Naruana’s murder as well,” he added. A case has been registered against unidentified persons under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and Sections of the Arms Act at Bhucho police station. 
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Anganwadi workers, helpers court arrest in Karnal||A week after their show of strength, hundreds of anganwadi workers and helpers courted arrest in Karnal on Wednesday.Amid Covid-19 restrictions, the protesters from different districts of Haryana reached Karnal’s mini-secretariat and courted arrest after a brief protest march.The sloganeering women were taken into police vehicles and Haryana Roadways buses as heavy police deployment was made around the venue of their meeting.The protesters had accused Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar of backtracking on the promises made to them on several occasions.Anganwadi Workers and Helpers’ Federation president Usha Rani said thousands of anganwadi workers and helpers reached Karnal to court arrest as the government failed to fulfil the promise on their demands.The protesters alleged that Khattar had announced in 2018 during the assembly session to give skilled workers’ status to anganwadi workers and unskilled workers’ status to helpers.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also announced to raise the wages by ₹1,500 for workers and ₹750 for helpers in 2018 Diwali, but the promises have not been fulfilled even after three years,” they alleged.Last month, the state government had announced that representatives of anganwadi workers held a meeting with the chief minister and agreed to end the protest following an assurance on financial incentives for workers and helpers, including a retirement benefit of ₹1 lakh for the workers and ₹50,000 for the helpers.The CM had also announced a hike in the monthly honorarium and an additional Covid-19 incentive for the workers and a promotion policy. But the members of two other unions of the anganwadi workers and helpers refused to end their protest and have decided to continue it until their demands, including regularising their jobs, are accepted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anganwadi-workers-helpers-court-arrest-in-karnal-101642016451612.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Around 8,000 trees to be axed for construction of Greenfield Shamli-Ambala highway||A total of 7,966 trees will require to be axed for construction of the controlled-access Greenfield Shamli-Ambala highway to be constructed under Bharatmala Pariyojana giving another direct six-lane access between Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Also, over 750 hectare agriculture land will be acquired and 140 building structures will need to be demolished for the ₹3,660 crore project which is likely to be completed by 2024.As per the proposed terms of reference (TOR) prepared by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), the project will also include 7.5 hectare forest land in both the states.“Total 7,966 trees are likely to be affected due to the proposed right of way of 60m of which, 250 trees fall on protected land and the remaining 7,716 fall on private agriculture fields,” mentions the brief summary report of the project.“Most of the trees falling along the alignment are part of agro-forestry and the actual number of trees proposed to be felled will be submitted in the final report of environment impact after joint enumeration with appropriate authorities of respective state governments,” it mentioned.Assurances were made that efforts will be made to minimise tree loss by restricting tree cutting with information width.In Haryana, the highway will cross from hundreds of villages of Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Karnal districts and enter Uttar Pradesh’s Saharnpur and Shamli districts with a bridge over the Yamuna river near Chandron village of Karnal.The road project will also have two railway overbridges, 16 minor bridges, 31 vehicular underpass, 40 light vehicular underpass and seven interchanges.As per officials, work on the detailed project report and construction will start soon after the process of acquisition of land is completed by the NHAI.The work of marking of the highway has already been completed and the process for acquisition of the marked land is underway. The work of filling of soil is likely to start by April this year.However, farmers whose lands fall near the highway are complaining that this will divide their fields into two pieces and they will have to travel kilometres every day.“Earlier, we did not know much about the project but they have installed pillars in the width of around 60m. Now, we came to know that the government will construct a highway which will separate our fields and villages,” said farmer Manoj Kumar, of Radaur, whose three acre agriculture land is being acquired for the highway.Also, there are around 140 building structures to be demolished as they come between the highways but the officials associated with the project said most of these buildings are small tubewells and farm houses. There are no residential areas coming in the way of the highway.NHAI Ambala project director Virender Singh said, “The process of acquisition of this project of the Tarai belt is under process in Haryana. It will be completed by March whereas in UP, we are in advance stage as the initial ground work has been completed in both Shamli and Saharanpur districts.”On felling of nearly 8,000 trees, he said, “There are no forest trees. Most of the trees are located on link roads as there is no notified forest area being acquired for the highway and even the structures are small.”“We have already written for the public hearing for environmental clearance. The process for tendering will start soon after completion of the land acquisition,” he added.
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khwajke sarpanch murder: 6 years on, one gets life imprisonment, 3 acquitted||Six years after the murder of student leader-turned-sarpanch Ravi Khwajke at a wedding in Ludhiana, the district court convicted one accused and sentenced him to life imprisonment while acquitting three others in the case on Wednesday. The court of additional district and sessions judge RS Hundal sentenced Avtar Singh alias Tari of Dusanjh village in Moga to life imprisonment for the murder of Khwajke and for murder bid on his friend Balwinder Singh. The court also imposed a fine of ₹1.6 lakh on him. Those acquitted include gangster Dharminder Gugni and his aides Kirpal Singh and Navpreet Singh Novi. The court gave them the benefit of doubt. Another prime accused in the case, gangster Davinder Bhambiha was shot by Bathinda police in an encounter in September, 2016. Davinder was wanted in six murder cases. Two other accused Kamaljit Singh Bunty and Jaspreet Singh Jumpy were also killed in different police encounters before they could be arrested in the murder case of the Khwajke village sarpanch. On February 20, 2016, Ravinder Singh alias Ravi Khwajke was gunned down by assailants when he had gone to attend a wedding at Gill Garden. A prior rivalry with the accused was stated to be the reason for the crime. Police had procured the closed-circuit television camera (CCTV) footage and video recording of the wedding when he was shot. In the footage, four accused were seen shooting at Khwajke. Though Khwajke had a cover of private security and bouncers, no one came to his rescue.After the attack, the accused remained at the spot for some time and celebrated by dancing. The culprits had also fired 50 bullets in the air in celebration before leaving the wedding venue. Police had registered a case on the statement of Khwajke village numberdar Harpal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khwajke-sarpanch-murder-6-years-on-one-gets-life-imprisonment-3-acquitted-101642016211285.html
13-01-2022||Noida||Spike in Covid infections may impact voter turnout in Noida, say psephologists||With the number of active Covid-19 cases continuing to rise rapidly, and with experts predicting the present infection wave to peak either in the last week of January or the first week of February, political analysts believe that the pandemic surge will affect the voter turnout in Noida assembly constituency, which is primarily an urban segment, as compared to the other two assembly segments of Dadri and Jewar in Gautam Budh Nagar district.However, officials engaged in election duty are more optimistic and said they are doing their best to make sure that the polling percentage remains high in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, for which voting will be held in seven phases, starting February 10. The districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad in the National Capital Region (NCR) will go to vote in the first phase on February 10, as per the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India.Poll officials said Covid-19 positive persons and senior citizens, who are 80 years of age or above, can vote via postal ballots from their homes. “We are making efforts to make sure that the polling percentage remains high amid the Covid-19 surge. Voters who are Covid-19 positive and the elderly may opt for postal ballots with the help of booth level officers (BLOs), who will facilitate the process. The BLOs will make a list by going door to door so that such people can cast their vote safely,” said Suhas LY, district election officer and district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar. District police chief Alok Singh said he has directed all staff to follow Covid-19 protocols during the poll process. “We have directed the staff to follow social distancing, wear masks and strictly adhere to all precautions. And the staff have a duty to make sure that all follow these norms for their own safety and that of others during the poll process,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday reported 2,230 fresh cases of Covid-19, making it the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic nearly two years ago, according to the latest figures released by the district health department. The tally of active cases is now 9,267, the data showed. “And the number of Covid-19 cases may further increase manifold by February 10,” said a health official, requesting anonymity.In the 2017 assembly elections, the polling percentage in Noida constituency was 49%, the lowest in the three segments; Jewar saw 66% polling while Dadri recorded a polling percentage of 61%.“Being an urban seat, Noida traditionally witnesses lower levels of polling and that in itself is not encouraging. Urban voters should also actively participate in the polling process for a vibrant democracy. But as the election commission is making all efforts to increase the poll percentage, those efforts may result in increased polling this time,” said Rajiv Gupta, educationist and principal, Government Degree College, Noida.The administration said social distancing will be maintained at all 698 polling booths in Noida, but some voters are still apprehensive of crowding and long queues at polling booths. “If there is no crowding at the polling booths, then one can comfortably go and vote. We hope that discipline will be maintained this time. If there is a mob-like situation, with no social distancing, then I will not go to vote,” said Hansraj Singh, a resident of Sector 61. 
13-01-2022||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over Delhi civic body move to lease out heritage property in Mehrauli||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) criticised South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) policy to lease out heritage properties or buildings which, the municipal corporation claims, have been deteriorating in the absence of repairs and maintenance. As part of the plan, SDMC decided to lease out one such 280sqm property located in Mehrauli area. AAP MLA Atishi on Wednesday alleged that BJP-led SDMC is “selling historic buildings of Delhi to the private mafia”. She said that the Delhi government can take care of all these buildings.SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said that there is a house tax office in the Mehrauli municipal property. “AAP is lying to the people of Delhi by saying that we are selling the property. The said property is being rented out. It is being done through a transparent process of open tendering. There is no question of corruption or selling these properties. It has become a daily habit of AAP to make one baseless allegation and to move on the next allegation. Our house tax office is running from this property and there is no harm if we rent it out for generating more revenue for corporation,” he added.Atishi said, “If the BJP-led MCD cannot care for the heritage and legacy of Delhi then they should hand it over to the Delhi government. The government will not just take care of all the historical buildings but will also increase tourism in Delhi. The corporations want to sell all the properties of MCD before the April elections.” Prem Chauhan, leader of the Opposition from AAP in SDMC, said that the project is a scandal larger than corruption as it involves selling the history of Delhi. MLA Atishi said that the auction of this heritage building is now on the agenda of the South MCD standing committee. “BJP has now decided to sell every MCD property, asset, and the heritage of our city before April,” she added.The SDMC on Tuesday decided to grant licences to interested parties to use these buildings for commercial activities for a period of 20 years, with the stipulation that the licensee bear the entire expenditure on account of renovation, modifications, maintenance and upkeep of the property for the duration of the licence period, officials in the know of the matter said.This is the first time that the SDMC is exploring the possibility of auctioning these heritage properties and buildings -- some of which are as old as 400 years -- to private parties for upkeep and maintenance.A senior official of the heritage conservation committee said the SDMC has a total of 475 heritage properties under its control, of which some are as old as 400 years. “Some important sites include the 250-year-old Hauz e Shamsi (water reservoir), 100-year-old house tax building, 150-year-old St Thomas Church and 350-year-old malaria office near Lodi mosque in Mehrauli. Besides these, the Dilli Darwaja of Najafgarh, Purana Darwaja of Badarpur, Shroff hospital and Zeenat-ul Masjid in Daryaganj and the Hauz Khas pond in the Deer Park are more than 100 years old,” he said, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-spar-over-delhi-civic-body-move-to-lease-out-heritage-property-in-mehrauli-101642015550905.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Fake call centre busted in outer Delhi’s Budh Vihar, 28 arrested||Twenty-eight people were arrested in outer Delhi’s Budh Vihar area for allegedly running a fake call centre to cheat people by offering to provide loans under a government scheme.Deputy commissioner of police(Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the arrested persons were caught from the call centre after police began investigation in a case of fraud filed by a Rohini sector 5 resident. The woman had told the police that she received a call from a man who offered a loan of ₹6 lakh under a Central scheme.“She was induced to transfer ₹21,500 for the loan but once she transferred the money, the caller stopped taking her calls. It was on her complaint that we filed a case at the Budh Vihar police station,” said DCP Tayal. Police said that during the investigation, officials checked details of the bank accounts to which the money was transferred. “We also checked the call data records of the person in whose name and number the bank accounts were linked. We found out that the cheated money was transferred by a man named Satish Kumar to the account of another person named Shubhan Khan,” said DCP Tayal.The officer said that on Tuesday, police received a tip off about the two men running a call centre in the area of Mehendra Park near Rohini after which they conducted a raid.“A total of 28 persons were working there. During interrogation, we found out that the gang lured people by claiming to offer loans under a Central government scheme. The gang has cheated more than 1,000 people in the last two years gaining huge amount by wrongful means. They used to change the address regularly to escape from legal action,” added DCP Tayal.Police said the four main leaders of the gang were Jahangirpuri residents Subhan Khan and Diku; Yogesh Mishra, who lives in Mukundpur; and Sunita Sharma, a Ghaziabad resident. Police said they have recovered 19 cell phones, 4 computers, one laptop and ₹83,000 cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fake-call-centre-busted-in-outer-delhi-s-budh-vihar-28-arrested-101642015494572.html
13-01-2022||Other||BJP, PLC and SAD (Sanyukt) reach agreement on 65 seats||Chandigarh The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), former CM Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) on Wednesday reached an agreement on the allocation of 65 seats to contest among themselves in Punjab assembly polls. The decision was arrived at in a co-ordination committee meeting of the three parties held in Chandigarh on Wednesday. The assembly has 117 seats.Of 65 seats, the BJP will field its candidates on 41, the PLC will contest on 17 and Dhindsa’s party will fight on seven. Of 23 seats that, traditionally, the BJP used to contest, 20 are still with the saffron party, it is learnt. For all ex-MLAs that have joined the BJP recently, seats that they have contested as a convention, have also been finalised. The seats on which the PLC has staked strong claim include Amritsar North, from where former minister Anil Joshi has contested for the past three assembly polls. He has quit the BJP and will be contesting on a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ticket this time. The meeting of the co-ordination committee was attended by Amarinder’s son Raninder Singh, BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma and Parminder Singh Dhindsa. PLC has successfully staked claim in at least five seats in Patiala, Capt Amarinder’s home district, where the party probables have already started campaigning. Seats like Dirba, Jaito and Khemkaran assembly seats have been given to Dhindsa’s party, sources said. A detailed discussion was held on fielding party candidates using each other’s symbols on some seats. The state BJP also held an exercise, in Jalandhar for now, to take feedback from local leaders on finalising the candidates. Local leaders were asked to give names of three probables of their choice from a particular seat. The BJP, it is learnt, is also ready to leave five seats for Ludhiana-based Bains Brother’s Lok Insaaf Party and according to a senior party functionary, there are strong chances of an alliance being formally announced over the next two days. The BJP’s first list of candidates is expected to released not before January 20, a senior party functionary at the helm of affairs said.
13-01-2022||Noida||Parties shortlist poll candidates as resume submission, interviews get over||As political parties gear up to release the final list of their contesting candidates, most say that the process to decide the names took about a year -- beginning with the submission of prospective candidates’ biodata and ending with the screening process, which is currently in the final stages.The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Ghaziabad will go to the polls in phase 1 on February 10. Under phase 1 of the election, candidates are to begin filing their nominations on January 14. The last date to file nominations is January 21; nominations will be scrutinised on January 24, and the last date of withdrawal of nominations is January 27.Ghaziabad has 2,899,484 eligible voters as per the latest electoral rolls, comprising 1,605,081 men, 1,294,214 women and 189 transgender persons.A member of the Samajwadi Party (SP) said they collected about 40 resumes of prospective candidates about 8-10 months ago and are likely to release the final list of candidates for the assembly seats of Ghaziabad district--Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Modinagar and part of Dhaulana, which is in Hapur district-- within a week.“These resumes were submitted by prospective candidates about 10 months ago. They sought candidates’ personal information and their contribution towards leading party activities, protests and the probable winning formula they think will make them stand out,” said Rahul Chaudhary, SP president, Ghaziabad.He said that the party is primarily banking on the agenda of development and also how developmental projects during their earlier regime were allegedly not taken forward.“In Ghaziabad, the Metro projects were taken up during our government and have not inched forward till now. Even overbridge at Hindon river could not be completed after five years. So, people have seen the development process. Our main fight is with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the development agenda,” he added.The BJP office bearers, however, said that there has been multifold development during their government’s tenure since 2017 and they will take their activities a step forward this time.BJP leaders said they received 52 resumes of prospective candidates.“The resumes include those of all sitting MLAs. For Sahibabad, we received resumes of 17 people, including one of the sitting MLA. Likewise, we received eight resumes, including that of the sitting MLA, for the Ghaziabad seat. The party has shortlisted about 3-4 names for each assembly segment. The list is likely to be out within a week and our main fight is with the SP,” said Sanjeev Sharma, city president of the BJP.There have been speculations that the party may replace some of its sitting MLAs with new candidates across the state.Sharma said that the central committee of the party is in charge of deciding the allotment of tickets to sitting MLAs.“The party’s central committee decides this in consultation with the state unit office bearers. We have a strong IT cell presence in UP and a wide outreach,” he added.Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) officer bearers said that they have already finalised three candidates from Loni, Sahibabad and Muradnagar while two candidates from Modinagar and Ghaziabad will be finalised soon.“We received about 20-25 applications for seats in Ghaziabad and called the prospective candidates to Lucknow for a detailed interview. Their applications were shortlisted and the prospective candidates were also called to Delhi for a screening. The process has been on for the past two months now. Our main criterion is to choose a candidate who has a strong presence and can carry forward policies of the party. We have already released the list of three candidates from Ghaziabad and the names of the other two will be finalised within a day or two,” said Tarunima Srivastava, state spokesperson of AAP.“We are working vigorously to select candidates for seats which go to polls during phase 1 and 2 in the state. After a lot of calculation and thought process, we have decided our promises for people of UP and most of the policies which were implemented in Delhi will also be rolled out here,” she added.She added that the party considers BJP its main opposition.Congress workers said that they received about 26 resumes initially, and more later on.“The party has planned to give 40% seats to women and--we plan to announce two women candidates in Ghaziabad. The list is likely to be released after January 14,” said Ashutosh Gupta, media coordinator for the party’s city unit.
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab junior girls’ basketball team brings home national title after 29 years||Punjab junior girls’ basketball team received a rousing welcome at Guru Nanak Stadium on Wednesday as they returned with the 71st Jr Girls Basketball Championship title from Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Punjab has won the title after a gap of 29 years. The team achieved the feat after beating Rajasthan 57-52 in the final.To celebrate their win, the Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) and District Basketball Association (DBA) celebrated the occasion as ‘Dheeyan Di Lohri’, with the girls, their parents, coaches and officials of PBA and DBA encircling the bonfire and dancing in jubilation.Present on the occasion were PBA senior vice-president Yurinder Singh Hayer, PBA treasurer Vijay Chopra, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Parminder Singh Heer, PBA general secretary Teja Singh Dhaliwal, district sports officer Ravinder Singh, athletics coach Sanjeev Kumar among others.Hayer praised the girls and their coaches Saloni, Rajinder Singh, Davinder Singh Dhindsa, Ravinder Gill, Narinder Kumar, Amarjot Singh and Sukhvinder Singh. Eminent Punjabi poet Gurbhajan Gill termed this victory as a morale booster for Punjab’s girls on the eve of Lohri. Vijay Chopra distributed sweets and Brij Goyal of DBA thanked the parents for reposing faith in the sporting talent of their daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-junior-girls-basketball-team-brings-home-national-title-after-29-years-101642015250932.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 6,481 fresh Covid cases, 10 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Wednesday registered a big jump in Covid cases, recording 6,481 infections against 4,593 reported on Tuesday, a rise of 41%, according to a medical bulletin. The state also reported 10 deaths. Active in Punjab also rose to 26,781 with the positivity rate being stable at 18.77%. Among the fresh cases, Mohali registered 974 with 45.30% positivity rate, Patiala 906 with 31.66% positivity rate, whereas Ludhiana registered 724 cases at 19.7% positivity rate. Jalandhar registered 654 cases followed by 571 in Hoshiarpur, 522 in Pathankot, 480 in Amritsar, 285 in Ropar and 264 in Gurdaspur, the bulletin said. With 2,788 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 592760, it said. Till no, 16702 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. As many as 208247 doses of the vaccine were administered on the day. Capt Amarinder tests positive for CovidFormer Punjab chief minister and Punjab Lok Congress chief Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he has tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. “I have tested positive for #Covid with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested,” he said in a tweet. The 79-year-old leader had recently formed the Punjab Lok Congress. A few days ago, Amarinder’s wife and Congress MP from Patiala Preneet Kaur had tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-6-481-fresh-covid-cases-10-deaths-101642015190916.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Separated during Partition, brothers meet after 74 yrs at Kartarpur Corridor||Islamabad : Two brothers, who were separated during the India-Pakistan Partition in 1947, were reunited after 74 years in Kartarpur, local media reported on Wednesday. A video capturing the visibly emotional reunion of the siblings on Tuesday has been widely circulated on social media. The News International reported that Siddique, a resident of Pakistan’s Faisalabad, met with elder brother Habib who arrived at Kartarpur from the Phullanwal area of Punjab in India via the Kartarpur Corridor that connects Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan to the border with India.Siqqique was an infant during the time of the Partition when his family got split and his elder brother Habib grew up on the Indian side of the Partition line.The brothers could not control their emotions and burst into tears of joy after meeting embracing each other and recalling memories.During the meeting, Habib lauded the initiative of Kartarpur, saying that the corridor helped him to reconnect with his brother. According to The News International, he told his younger brother that they will continue meeting through the corridor.Meanwhile, social media was abuzz with comments of users who viewed the touching video of the reunion.Reports quoted the brothers thanking the governments of the two countries for opening the Kartarpur Corridor facilitating a visa-free travel from India to Pakistan up to Kartapur.In a major decision, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Indian government decided to re-open in November 2019, the 4.7-kilometre-long Kartarpur Corridor that was closed in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/separated-during-partition-brothers-meet-after-74-yrs-at-kartarpur-corridor-101642014770862.html
13-01-2022||Other||Kejriwal insulting Punjabis by dubbing himself a saviour: SAD||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday claimed that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had insulted Punjabis by asserting that they were not fit to govern themselves. In a press conference, held after the meeting of its core committee, the party’s top decision-making body, senior leadership of SAD alleged, “AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal is releasing anthems and even paid news to insult and demean Punjabis as well as project himself as the saviour of Punjab.”“Party tickets are being sold with a breakaway faction of the AAP giving proof of sale of 35 party tickets,” alleged SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumarja. He added that the Punjabis are a proud community and will never accept the imposition of outsiders like Raghav Chadha, in the same manner in which they rejected the duo of Durgesh Pathak and Sanjay Singh in 2017.Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Sikander Singh Maluka, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema also addressed the press conference. “Previously too, Kejriwal had insulted Punjabi leaders like Suchha Singh Chhotepur, HS Phoolka and Sukhpal Khaira. Now, for the past six months, he has made Bhagwant Mann beg to be anointed the AAP’s CM face,” Grewal claimed. According to SAD leaders, Kejriwal had also insulted farmer organisations and their leaders, with Balbir Singh Rajewal the prime example. “AAP started negotiations with the farm bodies and even indicated that Rajewal would be its CM face. However, they withdrew saying that they had got two surveys done which had made it clear that Rajewal and farm organisations would draw a blank,” Cheema claimedChandumajra and Bhunder also pointed out how the AAP and Kejriwal have consistently taken anti-Punjab and anti-Sikh stance. “The application for setting free Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, a 1993 bomb blast convict, was not being signed by Kejriwal. His government moved the Supreme Court for diversion of waters of Punjab to Haryana and Delhi. It also called for closing down the thermal plants of Punjab in the apex court besides calling for registering criminal cases against farmers for stubble burning,” added Grewal, asking voters to reject the AAP on February 14, the polling day.“Why is AAP leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema considered to be a misfit to be made the CM face? It is because he comes from a Scheduled Caste community,” Grewal claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-insulting-punjabis-by-dubbing-himself-a-saviour-sad-101642014710873.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana records 724 new Covid cases, one death||As many as 724 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana even as a 66-year-old male succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Wednesday.The fresh cases include 45 healthcare workers, 395 residents with influenza-like symptoms, 70 contacts of positive patients among others.15 containment zones in districtAmid the rising infections in the district, the number of containment zones has increased from seven to 15 in the last 24 hours. Micro containment zones have been established at New Prem Nagar, South City, Focal Point, Tagore Nagar, Dugri Phase 1, Udham Singh Nagar Block C, Dolat Street Civil Lines, Surya Vihar in Rishi Nagar, College Road and block B, F, G, H, J and K of Sarabha Nagar.The total count of Covid cases in the district has reached 92,141, of which 85,759 patients have recovered while 2,126 patients have succumbed. There are currently 4,256 active cases in Ludhiana. Out of the active cases, 4,184 are in home isolation and 72 in different hospitals of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-records-724-new-covid-cases-one-death-101642014590774.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||NGO protests against Ludhiana MC for inability to enforce ban on plastic||Criticising the municipal corporation (MC) over its failure to impose a complete ban on plastic carry bags in the city, Jalandhar based NGO, Action Group Against Plastic Pollution (AGAPP), staged a protest outside the Zone-D office in Sarabha Nagar on Wednesday.The civic body has failed to implement the ban on plastic carry bags in the city, ever since it was notified by the state government in 2016. The NGO had also staged a protest outside the Zone-D office on December 20. The members stated that from now on, weekly protests will be staged outside MC and Punjab Pollution Control Board offices every Wednesday.Founder member of the NGO, USA based doctor Navneet Bhullar, stated that plastic carry bags are not only polluting the environment, but affecting humans lives at large. He stated that weekly protests are being staged in Jalandhar too and demanded that the state government intervene to save the environment.The members stated that the government should encourage use of compostable bags, which are an available substitute. But, nothing concrete has been done in this direction.Despite attempts to reach MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, he was not available for comments. Earlier, Sabharwal had stated that MC has formed teams and raids are also being conducted to keep a check on sale and use of plastic carry bags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngo-protests-against-ludhiana-mc-for-inability-to-enforce-ban-on-plastic-101642014535288.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Goa polls: Sena prepared to go solo if talks with Congress fail: Raut||MUMBAI: With only a month to go for the Goa assembly polls, the pre-poll alliance talks between the Shiv Sena and Congress have not materialised and the Sena has chalked out plans to go solo if the talks fail. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party has prepared to contest 16 seats in Goa in a bid to increase its electoral presence outside its home state.On Monday evening, Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray helmed a virtual meeting of senior party leaders, including Sena MPs Sanjay Raut and Vinayak Raut, and minister Uday Samant to discuss the party’s plan for Goa which goes to polls on February 14.Last week, Sanjay Raut held a meeting with Congress leaders from Goa, including the leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat, AICC Goa-in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao, and state Congress president Girish Chodankar to forge an ‘MVA-like alliance’ in Goa. However, according to senior party leaders, the talks did not materialise owing to differences over seat-sharing.Raut however maintained that the talks between the two parties have not broken down yet. “With regards to seat-sharing, we had sought five seats from the Congress. They were ready to give about three seats, including Priol and Porvorim but we wanted Mapusa and Pernem which are close to the Maharashtra border. But it was not possible for them. They had already released the list (of candidates) on some of these seats,” said Raut.The Sena leader further added, “We are prepared to go solo, but I can firmly say that our talks have not ended with the Congress... We still feel that the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena must contest together to keep the BJP out of power. We are still trying. If not, we are ready to contest 16 seats.”A senior Sena leader said that the seats sought by the party were those where the Congress was weak and had never won. “We sought seats which the Congress never won in the last 50 years. The Congress will not win these seats in the upcoming elections as well. It was a good proposal (from us) not to waste those seats,” a Sena leader said.Sena leaders said that the local leadership of the Congress painted a very different picture about its strength and ability to win before the central leadership. “The local leaders of the Congress still think that they are in a better position in Goa. They still think that they can come to power on their own, so why divide the power. That is the sense I got through our discussions. But our discussions have not broken down,” Raut said.The Goa election is expected to be an interesting one as besides the traditional parties, Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) too have entered the fray. The Nationalist Congress Party, which has some presence in the state, will also be fielding candidates in the elections. Raut said that the main contest, however, will be between the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). AAP and TMC will ‘reduce’ the Congress’ chances in the upcoming election, he said.
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police conduct checking at railway station ahead of Punjab assembly elections||To instil a sense of security among voters besides strengthening law and order ahead of the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, Ludhiana police on Wednesday conducted a thorough checking at the railway station. Deputy commissioner of police Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, who was leading the checking, said they are fully geared up to maintain peace so that the polls can be conducted seamlessly. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Harsimrat Singh Shetra was also present during the checking.The DCP revealed that several companies of para-military forces have arrived in the city and anti-riot police have also intensified checking and other safety measures. In days to come, more companies of CRPF and ARP teams will reach the city, said the DCP, adding that free, fair, transparent and peaceful conduct of assembly polls will be ensured at all cost. He added that joint teams of paramilitary forces along with Ludhiana police will be deployed for patrolling, besides foot marching, especially in vulnerable areas as part of confidence-building measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-conduct-checking-at-railway-station-ahead-of-punjab-assembly-elections-101642014411027.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP’s decision to give Sahnewal ticket to Congress turncoat Hardeep Mundian ruffles feathers||At a time when opposition parties are taking a dig at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for poaching their leaders and giving them tickets to fight the upcoming state assembly elections, it has now come to fore that this has led to resentment within the party as well. A section of the AAP leaders are up in arms against the party’s decision to give Hardeep Mundian a ticket from Sahnewal constituency. Mundian had recently joined the party fold after quitting the Congress,At least five others, including Pardeep Khalsa, Baljit Grewal, Rachhpal Singh, Gurcharan Singh and Parminder Singh, all holding offices in the state and district unit of the party, have objected to the party’s decision to give him a ticket. Terming Mundian a corrupt leader, the leaders are said to have registered their resentment with the party high command. Pardeep Khalsa said, “He (Mundian) had joined the party around 3-4 months ago and now he has been announced as the party candidate from Sahnewal constituency. He was initially with the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and had joined Congress after the party came to power in 2017 and now he has come to AAP.”“Five of us from the constituency have submitted our demand to the party high command to change the candidate. We are not demanding that the party ticket be given to any one of us, the high command can choose any other volunteer also. But Mundian is a corrupt leader and has been changing parties for his vested interests. He should not have been given the party ticket and we have urged the party to reconsider the decision,” said Khalsa while adding that if the party fails to change the candidate, then they will chalk out a further action plan.Meanwhile AAP state spokesperson Ahbaab Grewal said the decision to allot the party ticket is taken by the high command. Even if some workers and office bearers are against the decision, they should submit their objections at the party-level rather than opposing the high command’s decision and the candidate in public.Four of the five candidates announced in Ludhiana by AAP are turncoat leaders. These include Daljit Grewal from Ludhiana east, Madan Lal Bagga from North constituency, Kulwant Sidhu from Atam Nagar and Ashok Prashar Pappi from Ludhiana central. AAP worker Rajinderpal Kaur Chhina has been announced as candidate from South, while no candidate has been announced from Ludhiana West. Mundian was unavailable for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-decision-to-give-sahnewal-ticket-to-congress-turncoat-hardeep-mundian-ruffles-feathers-101642014355094.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Main parties in Uttar Pradesh yet to release manifestos||The main political parties in Uttar Pradesh are yet to release their manifestos for the seven-phase state assembly elections that will begin on February 10.However, the parties have already organised hundreds of public rallies and meetings to woo voters before they begin the digital campaign due to the Election Commission having banned physical rallies in view of Covid-19.The Rashtrya Lok Dal (RLD), a minor player in the state’s politics, is the only party to have come out with a manifesto apart from the Congress that has brought a manifesto only for women so far.In a democracy, political parties are supposed to fight elections rallying behind their manifesto, laying down policy priorities and positions to help voters make their informed choices before they go to cast their vote.The two major parties, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP), are still working on their manifestos while the Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP), the third most important player, has publicly announced that it does not believe in manifestos. SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said the party is preparing its manifesto and would publish the same very soon.“Otherwise also, our leader Akhilesh Yadav is already telling people about the plans the party will execute after coming to power,” he said.The BJP has a different argument for the delay in bringing out its manifesto or “Lok Sankalp Patra”.“Our seven-member committee set up for the purpose is working hard on the manifesto,” senior BJP leader Vijay Bahadur Pathak said.The party, according to him, put up drop boxes at 30,000 places across the state to get public feedback on what they wanted in the manifesto.“We will finalise our manifesto on the basis of public feedback even if it may take some more time,” Pathak added. Political observers say that electoral manifesto is an important document or a vision statement not only for the people to make choices, but also for academicians and journalists to make analysis and keep political parties reminding of promises they made to voters.“Publishing a manifesto in any election in a democratic country is a time-honoured activity that political parties are expected to undertake,” said Shashi Kant Pandey, professor and head of the department of political science, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University. “It is unfortunate that most political parties show a casual approach to manifesto and do not bring out the same well in time,” he added. The electoral manifestos, he further pointed out, had of late, lost much of their relevance too because of political parties often making unrealistic promises to people despite knowing that they have little chance to come to power or will not be able to keep those promises even if they form the government at all. The positive side of this, however, he added was that it helped change the political discourse in the larger public interest.“For example, every political party in UP started focusing on issues related to women after Congress leader Priynka Gandhi made a number of promises, some of them unrealistic too, to woo women,” he said. “But in any case, political parties must bring out manifestos much well in advance and not sit over the same till the polling begins,” he suggested
13-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC aims to track home test kit buyers||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said that it will write to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asking them to give directives to all chemists in the city to compile and share data of people buying Covid-19 home test kits.The BMC said that it intended to contact individuals to ascertain the results after procuring this information from chemists. The decision was taken in the backdrop of concern that a large number of positive cases in the city are going unreported as many are not revealing their test status after testing positive in the home testing kit.According to BMC officials, around 300,000 to 350,000 home test kits for Covid-19 have been supplied to Mumbai in first 10 days of this month. However, the results of only around 98,000 individuals who have conducted home tests have been declared to the civic body.Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have got some rough figures and do not know how reliable they are but we are planning to develop a mechanism to ensure all those doing home testing for Covid-19 report to authorities. We will write to FDA on Thursday asking them to ensure all chemist owners in the city provide details of those purchasing home testing kits.”Kakani added, “After getting this data, we will have our 24 ward war rooms to contact those individuals whose results in unknown. We once again request all citizens testing positive in-home kits to report their status so that they can get timely medical assistance.”According to BMC officials, after purchasing the kits, individuals are asked to report their results status by using mobile app of manufacturer who in turn report to authorities. Those who do not update the app would be contacted specifically.By the end of the week, the civic body is likely to issue a detailed circular that would cover home test kit sales, even on e-commerce sites, officials said.As many as seven self-test kits have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) including Coviself by Mylab, CoviFind by Meril Diagnostics, PanBio by Abbott among others. These kits are affordable for the middle class, and range anywhere between ₹250 to ₹350.“We have witnessed a jump of almost 700% sales of our self-test kit in Mumbai in the last one week. Self-test kit is turning out to be highly beneficial given the massive increase in cases because people can get tested quickly and immediately isolate themselves,” Hasmukh Rawal, managing director and co-founder of Mylab Discovery Solutions that manufactures Coviself, told HT on Sunday. According to reports, nearly 500,000 such kits were sold in Mumbai last week. Prasad Danave President of Retail and Dispensing Chemist Association in Mumbai said that many chemists are already tracking buyers. “We have already informed our members to take down the mobile number of buyers who are purchasing home testing kits for Covid-19. We do not have any problem in giving the data but those buyers who want to hide such details, will go online and buy from e-commerce websites. These e-commerce websites do not need FDA permission, so authorities will have to figure that out.”Meanwhile, experts point out that timely reporting of positive results to authorities from home testing kits become important to get registered and getting timely results. Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiologist professor with Nair Hospital said, “The government should develop some mechanism to ensure that there is proper compliance of those getting tested using these home kits report their results with the government to ensure timely treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-aims-to-track-home-test-kit-buyers-101642014352314.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt to reimburse expenditure incurred by low-cost schools towards EWS students||The Delhi government on Wednesday allocated funds for the reimbursement of expenditure incurred by low-cost schools towards EWS students for the 2020-21 session. According to the Right to Education Act, private schools are required to reserve admissions for 25% of their seats in entry-level classes for students from the EWS/DG (disadvantaged group) category, for which they are reimbursed by the government. In a circular issued on Tuesday, the directorate of education’s planning branch outlined that it had allocated budget for reimbursement of child expenditure claims to private unaided recognised schools. The DoE also asked its Deputy director of education (DDEs) in various zones to expedite the process of reimbursements. The development was welcomed by stakeholders. Chandrakant Singh, general secretary of Private Land Public Schools Trust, an association of around 2,000 budget schools in the Capital, welcomed the order. Singh had lodged a complaint with the lieutenant governor (L-G)’s office to highlight the financial constraints that budget schools were facing due to the non-payment of reimbursement.“The DoE has allocated a huge amount to reimburse ours bills for the session 2020-21. Now, most of the bills will be cleared soon. We had written a letter to the L-G office in December last year in this regard,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-reimburse-expenditure-incurred-by-low-cost-schools-towards-ews-students-101642014235026.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Drugs for vote’ in Punjab: HC asks EC to detail measures taken by it till Jan 20||Chandigarh: To check use of “drugs for vote” in Punjab state assembly elections, the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked Election Commission of India (ECI) to detail measures taken by it by January 20.The former chief election commissioner stated with respect to the 2012 elections that in one month alone, the recovery of around 55kg of heroin and around 430kg of poppy husk was made in the state and that almost every psychotropic substance was found in circulation during elections, justice Pankaj Jain observed, adding that in the background of the fact that the elections already stand notified and that there have been incidents of ‘drugs for vote’ in elections in Punjab, the court took suo motu note of the issue.Justice Jain took note of the issue while dealing with a bunch of drugs seizure-related matters with his senior judge Ajay Tewari. He also sought details from the Punjab government on steps being taken by it. The court sought information whether there was any scientific study on the menace; whether areas identified and whether state went into reasons for the same and time it may take for such an exercise.“Pictures showing gold smoked mustard fields with the proud prosperous farmer used to showcase this land of five rivers. Today, Punjab is related to a portrait of wailing mothers holding corpse of their sons who died of drug overdose as well,” justice Jain observed referring to the stats which came presented during the hearing of the case. It had come to light that 16,000 appeals related to drug-related matters are pending, mainly from Punjab, in the high court.More than the burden of these appeals what weighs in is that over the years, the number of cases has not shown any decline, the judge said, adding that on an average more than one appeal per day is coming before the court. “This makes out a case for state to look beyond deterrent measure in the form of NDPS Act and evolve reformative measures as well, Justice Jain underlined.The court also referred to a prologue “the case for a new economy” in David Korten book ‘Agenda for a New Economy’, wherein a man jumps into a stream and saves a baby coming down stream. He saves it but spots another. It goes on like this but the main totally focused on saving babies, never thoughts to look upstream to check where are the babies coming from.Justice Jain observed that it is a welfare state and it has a role bigger than mere policing. “State of Punjab apart from registering cases, needs to wake up to the challenge. The malady has gripped the society. It cannot afford to be in a state of inertia.. Time has come for the society and the State to look upstream,” justice Jain observed further stating that some individual efforts were being made by public spirited citizens, but the menace by now is beyond the individual efforts and these efforts now needs to be integrated to respond to this ailment.
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khanna police arrest two members of Kancha gang with illegal weapons||The Khanna police arrested two members of the notorious Kancha Gang on Tuesday during a special checking at the National Highway near Pristine Mall and recovered two illegal weapons from their possession.The accused have been identified as Kamaljot Singh alias Harry of Chauhan Nagar, Dhandhran Road, and Jaswant Singh alias Jimmy of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Dhandhran Road. Police also impounded the car in which they were travelling.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) J Elanchezhian said the duo was coming from the Mandi Gobindgarh side when they were stopped for checking.When frisked, they recovered two 7.65 mm pistols and eight bullets from their possession. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act was registered at Khanna City-2 police station.During questioning, the accused revealed that they had robbed the pistols near Rudki in Uttarakhand, police said. Jimmy is already facing trial in two cases of drug peddling and assault lodged against him at Ludhiana sadar.Notorious gangster Kancha alias Sonu was arrested by a team of Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) on September 11, 2020. He was wanted in a June 2020 murder in Ludhiana city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khanna-police-arrest-two-members-of-kancha-gang-with-illegal-weapons-101642014232228.html
13-01-2022||Other||BJP MLA lodges FIR after ‘fake’ resignation letter||The Bharatiya Janta Party’s (BJP) Bhadohi MLA Ravindra Nath Tripathi has denied having quit the party and described a letter about his resignation as a “conspiracy.”The BJP MLA said he had got a complaint registered with the police in this connection.The letter had gone viral on social media on Tuesday night. “It’s a conspiracy by some brokers and anti-social elements,” he said on Wednesday.“By scanning and forging my letter pad, some people are spreading rumors. Every drop of my blood is dedicated to the BJP. I am a BJP worker for over three decades and I will always be a BJP worker,” he said.He alleged that the opposition parties were behind the entire conspiracy and claimed that his letterhead was misused.“I demand strict action against those who spread this rumor,” said Tripathi. He said he had lodged a complaint at Kotwali police station for a thorough probe. “Police should take strict action against those who spread such false information,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mla-lodges-fir-after-fake-resignation-letter-101642014181822.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Bathinda couple booked for duping 7 members of a family of ₹17.5 lakh||The Sudhar police have booked a Bathinda-based couple for duping seven members of a family of ₹17.50 lakh on pretext of securing jobs for them in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).The accused have been identified as Harinder Sharma and his wife Jasdeep Kumari of National Colony in Bathinda.The case was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged on November 12, 2021, by Jawahar Lal of Baraich village. Lal stated that the duo promised jobs in PSPCL to his son Munish Kumar, daughter-in-law Chanchal Jyoti, Jyoti’s sister Priyanka Sharma and other relatives including Pawan Kumar, Sukhwinder Sharma, Gagandeep Singh and Anil Kumar. “The accused took ₹42 lakhs from them, but failed to keep their promise or return the money. Later, they paid back ₹24.50 lakh, but refused to pay back the remaining amount ,” he said.Investigating officer ASI Rajdeep Singh said that a cheating case was registered following a preliminary investigation. The accused are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bathinda-couple-booked-for-duping-7-members-of-a-family-of-17-5-lakh-101642014180489.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman murdered, naked body found in bushes||Two days after a woman was raped in an auto-rickshaw in the heart of the city, the naked body of a woman — with her mouth gagged — was found in the bushes a few metres from her house in Maloya on Wednesday morning. The victim, a 40-year-old mother of three, had gone missing about 8pm on Tuesday, after being dropped at the bus stand in Maloya by her husband. Police have registered a case of murder, but has not ruled out sexual assault. The postmortem report is awaited.The two heinous crimes against women — Maloya woman’s murder and a Kolkata woman’s rape in an auto at Sector 17 — have surfaced at a time public movement is restricted in view of the Covid-19 surge and increased police presence is expected to enforce the night curfew and other curbs in the city.The police control room got a call around 9:25am on Wednesday, after a passerby spotted the Maloya woman’s body lying in the bushes. Sources said socks were stuffed in victim’s mouth to ensure she could not make any noise. The listless body was rushed to Government Multi Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, to confirm death. It has been kept in the mortuary, and the exact cause of death would be known after postmortem. Meanwhile, a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the police station in Maloya. Had gone to market to buy ration The woman is survived by her husband, two daughters and a son. The family belongs to Haryana and has been staying in Maloya for many years. Her husband, 45, who plies an auto-rickshaw, told police that he had dropped her off at the bus stand in Maloya around 8pm on Tuesday, as she wanted to buy ration for the house. But when he returned after sometime, he could not find his wife. He along with his nephew searched for her, and about 10pm they approached police with a missing person complaint.“Police told us to wait for about an hour. After we could not find her, we again went to the police station and got a complaint lodged,” he said.Clothes found at a distance, no external injury Cops privy to the investigation said there was no major visible external injury on the woman’s body. However, looking at the condition of the body, they are not ruling out sexual assault. The clothes of the woman were found a few metres away from the body.“We are investigating all angles. The exact cause of death would be clear after postmortem,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. Police are questioning drug addicts in the area as well as the victim’s family members. Senior officials in Chandigarh Police said that, as of now, the involvement of a family members or someone known to the woman cannot be ruled out. 
13-01-2022||Delhi||HC: How is husband-wife relation different from others in terms of trust?||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought to know how a fiduciary (trust) relationship between a man and his wife is different from any other relationship involving trust where a person will face sexual assault charges for forcing himself on a woman. A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar, while hearing a clutch of pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape, said in order to decide on striking down the exception to the rape law, Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the court has to come to a qualitative decision.Exception of Section 375 IPC decriminalizes marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape.“You went on the aspect of trust and fiduciary relationship. There are two points you have to answer. One, these words are used in law keeping in mind that the exception is in place…For example, trust in a case where chowkidar in school, teacher or student etc, -- these are one category of trust. Can you say that it is something which is similar to the trust existing between husband and wife in a sexual relationship?” justice Shankar asked amicus curiae, senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao.He further said, “We are concerned with whether this act should be punished as rape. It is not that the legislature was of the view that it shouldn’t be criminally punished. But legislature had taken a decision that it shouldn’t be treated as rape. If we are to strike it down, we have to come into a qualitative decision, that this act should additionally be categorised as rape.”The court is hearing PILs by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought the striking down of the exception in the rape law, saying that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.In 2018, the central government, in its affidavit filed, said marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing husbands.On Tuesday, the court observed that married or unmarried, every woman has the right to say “no” and just because a married woman has various civil and criminal remedies at hand, it cannot be a ground to not take marital rape seriously.On Wednesday, amicus curiae Rao criticised the existing rape laws and said, “The silver lining or the complete lack of it is that a woman is better off, as a matter of law, when she is assaulted by a stranger. But when her loved one assaults her, the law says, she is not entitled to call that act rape.” He said that in the context of rape, the question which needs to be asked is whether the court should sit by and watch a provision which aids in the possibility of a woman being dehumanised every day in such a situation.“…every day this act remains in the books, there is a section of the population which is denied the opportunity to call a rape as rape,” he said.Rao submitted that no amount of telling the woman that she can prosecute the husband under ten other provisions of law, can undo the inability that she faces because she is violated by the person who is supposed to be her companion, her husband, her partner, “a person who is in the fiduciary capacity”. He said that law places a premium on relationships and a greater responsibility on someone having a fiduciary relationship.The court also heard the submissions of two intervenors -- NGO Hridey and Men’s Welfare Trust -- opposing the pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape.Advocate Raj Kapoor appearing for the NGO, submitted that the Parliament through debates and considering overall view of Indian society, statutes and punishment, retained the exception to Section 375 of IPC. He also contended that if the exception is struck down, the husband would be in a worse position and may be subjected to harassment.The hearing will continue on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hchow-is-husband-wife-relation-different-from-others-in-terms-of-trust-101642014177963.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC proposes new project to clear Dadumajra landfill||The municipal corporation has decided to clean up more than 7.5 lakh metric ton (MT) legacy waste, which is not covered under the ongoing legacy mining work, to completely remove solid waste from the Dadumajra dumping site in Chandigarh.The project will cost ₹78 crore and will take at least three years to complete once it kicks off. The Union government will chip in, but whether it would be fully or partially funded by the Centre is yet to be finalised.At present, under a Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) project, nearly 5 lakh MT of legacy waste (pre-2005) is being removed from the site, which is less than half of the total legacy waste at the site. Now, under the new proposal, the rest of the legacy waste will be removed and the entire ground at the Dadumajra will be cleared.The failure to clear this legacy waste had dragged Chandigarh down to 66th position in the latest Swachh Survekshan, and was also a key issue that resonated among all parties and voters during the recently conducted municipal elections.In fact, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which had a majority in the previous MC House, lost all five wards around the dumping site. Its failure to resolve the issue during its five-year stint is being seen as the major reason for this poor showing.Immediately after taking over as the new mayor, BJP’s Sarabjit Kaur said that cleaning up the Dadumajra dumping site was one of her top priorities. Even UT adviser Dharam Pal has maintained that removal of legacy waste is one of his priorities.The dumping ground has led to not only environmental issues, but has also caused widespread health problems in the areas in its proximity. Also, about 40 lakh litres of water had to be dumped at the site to douse multiple fires at the dumping ground in the past six years.Who’ll foot the billFor starting the fresh legacy mining work, the MC is seeking financial support from the Union government. It has submitted a proposal for around ₹78 crore under the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM)-2. “Under the SBM-2, for solid waste management, Chandigarh is to get around ₹28 crore from the Centre. We have sought additional ₹42 crore under the mission,” said a senior MC official, who did not wish to be named.On the timeline for the project, the MC official, said: “The project is likely to be started in another six months. It will take at least three years for the project to be completed. The project will also include cleaning up 500 tonne waste dumped at the dysfunctional solid waste processing plant near the landfill.”However, MC officials maintained that full funding might not be forthcoming from the Centre, yet even partial funding, expected to be over ₹40 crore, will help in taking up the project.Delayed clean-upThe ongoing ₹33-crore legacy mining project was launched with much fanfare in December 2019 by the then UT administrator VP Singh Badnore in the presence of MP Kirron Kher. Around 5 lakh MT garbage (pre-2005), which had been lying at the landfill for more than 20 years, was to be biomined and the entire land of about 25 acres was to be reclaimed by May 2021. As only around 2.7 lakh MT (55%) has been removed yet, the deadline has been extended to August 2023, though officials say it is likely to be achieved by December 2022. A number of reasons have been put forward by MC officials for the slow pace of work, but largely the pandemic has been blamed for the missed deadlines. The other major reason cited was monsoon showers.This project doesn’t cover another 7.5 lakh MT waste that was dumped at the site after 2005. The daily generation of solid waste in the city is around 550-600 MT, but with less than 20-40 MT being processed every day at the solid waste processing plant, most is being dumped at the site unprocessed.
13-01-2022||Other||Ferozepur police arrest three, rescue kidnapped 16-year-old||Ferozepur Police on Wednesday arrested three persons and claimed to have solved the kidnapping case of a 16-year-old boy in less than six hours; the boy, unharmed, has been handed back to his family. Ferozepur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bhargav said advocate Sanju Sharma had complained that her 16-year-old son, Dev Viram, had not returned from tuition classes, and his mobile was switched off. “Sharma had received a video and an audio message on WhatsApp in which her son was saying that he has been kidnapped for ransom. She also received a WhatsApp call demanding ₹5 lakh as ransom,” the SSP added. Four teams under the supervision of SP (investigation) Manvinder Singh were formed to trace the boy. “Using technical assistance and intelligence, the team managed to trace the child and nab the accused in less than six hours. Rohit and Karan were nabbed, riding a motorcycle, Amarjit was arrested from a cattle barn in Doomni Wala village from where the boy was also recovered,” the SSP said, adding that there another accused, Akash, 23, of Basti Gol Bagh in Ferozepur managed to flee. Those arrested are Karan, 23, of Grain Market, Ferozepur; Raj Singh, alias Rohit, 25, of Basti Bagh Wali in Ferozepur and Amarjit Singh, 22, of Tunwala village in Ferozepur. Two pistols, two cartridges, a motorcycle, the victim’s Activa scooter and three mobile phones were recovered on the three arrested accused. A case has been registered under Sections 364A (kidnapping to cause hurt or death) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act at Ferozepur City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ferozepur-police-arrest-three-rescue-kidnapped-16yearold-101642014175371.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Eyeing Congress ticket, Mohali MLA Sidhu begins campaign||Even though the Congress is yet to declare its candidate from Mohali Urban seat, sitting MLA and former minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who is again eyeing the ticket, has kicked off his campaign in the city. On Wednesday, he held a meeting with several resident welfare associations and other organisations, seeking their support. Later in the evening, he held door-to-door campaigning in Phase 7. The former minister’s brother and Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu and other local party leaders also accompanied him.Lashing out at former mayor Kulwant Singh, who is contesting on the AAP ticket, Sidhu said: “People of Mohali will show him the door in the coming elections, and next time he will look for another party.” Security forces hold flag marchOn second consecutive day, Mohali police and paramilitary personnel carried out a flag march in markets of Mohali. It was carried out on foot in the market at Phase 7, and later, the security personnel moved in vehicles in markets of Phases 3B2, 5, 8, 9,10, and 11.The senior superintendent of police the falg march would create a sense of security among residents keeping in view the upcoming elections. Cops also made people in markets aware about the importance to wear masks and follow Covid-19 protocol. The shopkeepers were asked to follow the night curfew guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-eyeing-congress-ticket-mohali-mla-sidhu-begins-campaign-101642014173850.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Day’s tally crosses 1,000 mark for first time in Chandigarh||Showing no let-up, the number of Covid-19 cases surged to an all-time high in the tricity on Wednesday, with both Chandigarh and Panchkula setting their respective records for the highest single-day tallies.As many as 2,822 people tested positive for the virus across the tricity, with Chandigarh accounting for 1,114 cases, followed by 974 in Mohali district and 734 in Panchkula.This was the first time, the single-day tally went past 1,000 in Chandigarh, where the previous record was set just two days back with 967 cases. In Panchkula, the previous highest tally was 654, when the second wave peaked in the district on May 5 last year. Mohali district had set a record with 1,382 cases on May 10, the same day the tricity logged its previous high of 2,612.Meanwhile, the active caseload also jumped up to 11,514, with 4,808 patients in Chandigarh, 4,363 in Mohali and 2,343 in Panchkula. However, the rate of hospitalisations remain considerably low as majority of the patients are showing mild symptoms.Only 1.3% hospitalisedIn Chandigarh, only 109 patients (2.2%) are hospitalised, while 4,610 are isolated at their homes and 89 at mini Covid care centres, In Panchkula, only 43 patients (1.8%) are hospitalised and 2,300 are in home isolation. In a big relief, Mohali — which was worst hit during the second wave — has just four Covid positive residents (0.09%) in hospitals.Even the number of fatalities have remained negligible during the present surge, as compared to the second wave. With one more resident — 87-year-old comorbid woman from Chandigarh’s Sector 28 — succumbing to the virus on Wednesday, the death toll in the tricity has reached 10 this month. As compared to the average case fatality rate of 1.7% during the second wave peak in May last year, the figure is just 0.07% in January.However, at 30%, the daily positivity rate continued to remain alarmingly high in Panchkula, indicating three in every 10 people being tested were infected. It stood at 21.4% in Chandigarh and at 16.9% in Mohali. Panchkula chief medical officer Dr Mukta Kumar said: “The virus is highly contagious, but there is no need to panic as hospitalisation is quite low. A lot of patients are asymptomatic.”Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur asked people to visit hospitals only in case of any serious problem. Otherwise, they should contact the health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-day-s-tally-crosses-1-000-mark-for-first-time-in-chandigarh-101642014172154.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Chandigarh admn to take call on further curbs||The Chandigarh administration will hold a high-level meeting on Thursday to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the city.The meeting, to be chaired by UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit, is likely to take call on imposing additional restrictions, such as weekend curfew, opening of shops on odd-even basis, closing down of cinema halls and bars.Stating that all options are on the table, UT adviser Dharam Pal said: “Our basic criterion is the rate of hospitalisation, which at present is low and not putting any pressure on our health infrastructure. We don’t want to disturb the normal life that might affect people’s livelihood.”According to the health department data, of 4,808 active cases in Chandigarh on Wednesday, only 109 people (2.2%) are hospitalised, while 4,610 are isolated at their homes and 89 at mini Covid care centers.Pal also said that instructions have been given to the health department to expand the bed capacity, particularly through opening of mini Covid care centres.Anganwadi centres closedOn Wednesday, the administration closed all anganwadi centres in Chandigarh with immediate effect. However, all anganwadi workers and helpers have been told to report to duty as usual to carry out their field activities.Last Thursday, the UT administration had imposed night curfew from 10pm to 5am and mandated that all bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas and museums operate at 50% capacity with fully vaccinated staff.Gatherings for any purpose have been restricted to 50 persons for indoor and 100 persons for outdoor events. Besides, the total number of persons should not exceed 50% of the venue’s capacity. However, there were no separate curbs announced on festivities, such as Lohri that will be celebrated on Thursday.Further, the Chandigarh district magistrate, under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), had also directed that kitchens of restaurants, hotels, and food joints in various malls will run only at 50% capacity and close by 10pm. The last order can be accepted till 9pm.Gym owners protest, seek reopeningThe gym association of Chandigarh and the tricity held a protest in front of the UT adviser’s office on Wednesday against the closure of gyms. They also submitted a representation to the adviser regarding their demand. Along with other curbs, the administration last week closed all gyms, stadiums and swimming pools in the wake of Covid-19 surge. The gym association demanded that gyms should also be allowed to open with 50% capacity, following Covid-19 protocol, just like restaurants, cinema halls and malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-chandigarh-admn-to-take-call-on-further-curbs-101642014170829.html
13-01-2022||Other||Amid Omicron threat: Elaborate health arrangements in place for Magh Mela-2022||PRAYAGRAJ: Within next 48 hours, the Sangam city will begin playing host to the 47-day annual religious fair--Magh Mela-2022, being seen as the toughest edition of the fair to be held till date due to the rising cases of Covid-19 and its new variant Omicron. The Mela area has already reported 39 positive cases by the night of January 12 which includes 37 policemen and security personnel. However, the officials have made elaborate health arrangements for the devotees, who are arriving here for the first official bathing of the fair on Makar Sankranti (January 14) on the banks of Sangam. “Latest RT-PCR tests declaring an individual to be free from the Covid-19 virus are a must for all including the pilgrims, saints and seers as well as visitors. Just on January 11 we removed 51 individuals from the mela area who did not have the RT-PCR reports with them. We have already informed all not to enter the mela area without an all-clear RT-PCR report,” said chief medical officer, Prayagraj, Dr Nanak Saran. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had chaired Magh Mela-2022 review meetings in run up to the fair—a development that has the officials doubly alert. “In view of the pandemic and the necessary precautions to be taken thereof, we have made proper arrangements of sampling centres and ambulances in adequate number for the fair. Each government staff in the mela is being deputed only after proper screening,” informed Magh Mela Adhikari Shesh, Mani Pandey. For proper hygiene and cleanliness, 15,000 toilets have been built in the mela area. Of these, there are around 1500 pre-fabricated steel toilets, 3,000 tent toilets, 300 urinals, 9,000 institutional toilets and 900 at camps of government institutions, he added. “For the devotees, we have also constructed 10 major ghats stretching from Nagvasuki to Quila Ghat near Sangam in order divert devotees to avoid overcrowding at one place,” he added. Magh Mela Covid-19 Nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said that taking note of the challenges, 30 ambulances including 28 with basic life support and two with advanced life support capability have been parked in the mela area, besides two ambulances each for Covid patients in each of the five sectors of the tent city. “A total of 12 static sampling centres will function daylong in the mela area besides 20 mobile testing teams that will be reporting at sites and camps after being alerted by the 82-member surveillance teams set up to identify potential cases and vulnerable points. The mela also has two hospitals of 20-bed capacity each and both have one bed ICU each also,” he shared. The mela area has 16 entry points and all have screening teams in place that are checking the RT-PCR reports of the pilgrims and saints arriving in the mela area. “Those having latest negative RT-PCR reports are only being granted entry into the mela area. At these points we also have thermal scanners. Five thermal cameras too have been installed to identify persons suffering from fever,” Dr Sahai said. Recognizing the challenge that kalpwasis (people who camp in the tents to perform various religious rituals over a month-long period) present, the Mela officials have developed a system where all kalpwasis would be tested for Covid-19 once every week in the camps where they are staying, besides administering Covid vaccines to those who are eligible for a second or a booster dose, he said. Permanent vaccination centres would operate in the Mela area at the two mela area hospitals, besides one in each of the five sectors of the tent city. A doctor would also be available at each of the first aid points (FAPs) that exist in every circle of each sector of the Mela area. Those found Covid-19 positive would be isolated away from the mela area and for which Level-1 facilities including the CHC of Kotwa and Prayagraj Unani Hospital have been identified, Dr Sahai said. 
13-01-2022||Noida||After achieving 100%, UP govt enhances Ghaziabad’s first dose vaccination target||The Uttar Pradesh government revised Ghaziabad’s first-dose target on Wednesday -- the district must now vaccinate 135,330 more beneficiaries against Covid-19.Ghaziabad, last Saturday, completed its target of vaccinating 2,708,975 beneficiaries.With the revised first-dose numbers, Ghaziabad has now achieved 96.29% of its target. According to official figures, the district, till January 11, vaccinated 2,738,860 beneficiaries with the first dose, which is about 96.29% of the revised target of 2,844,305.District officials said that according to new guidelines released by the UP government, all districts should vaccinate beneficiaries with the first dose at least 10 days before the scheduled date of assembly polls.The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Ghaziabad district goes to the polls on February 10 under phase 1. The district, according to the latest electoral roll, comprises 2,899,484 eligible voters.“The revised target for the first dose has been assigned on the basis of voters’ list as new voters have been added. During the past week, vaccination numbers have increased and we will try to vaccinate 100% of the revised figure of first-dose beneficiaries. Likewise, we will also try to vaccinate 100% of children by January 15 as directed by the government,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer.According to officials, there are about 150,000 persons in the district who are due for the second dose but have so far not turned up.“With the rise in cases, it is of utmost importance that more beneficiaries get vaccinated as quickly as possible. It is due to the vaccination that a majority of patients showed only mild symptoms during this present wave,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).Vaccination for children in the 15-17 year category also started on January 3 in Ghaziabad. The district is supposed to vaccinate 234,488 children in the category, according to officials.“In case we miss the target, we will finish vaccinating the remaining children in the next couple of days after January 15,” the CMO said.Till January 11, Ghaziabad vaccinated 91,754 children with the first dose, which is about 39.13% of the target assigned to the district.
13-01-2022||Delhi||Of 188 Omicron patients sent to Delhi’s Lok Nayak hospital, 186 recovered: Data||New Delhi: Of the 710 Covid-19 patients admitted to Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital since December, 188 were detected with the Omicron variant, with 186 already discharged, according to the data submitted by the hospital to the Delhi government. The report for Covid-19 preparedness submitted by the hospital on January 10shows that during the third Covid wave (fifth in Delhi) it admitted 710 patients so far, much lower than 15,699 during the first wave (March 2020 to February 2021) and 5,551 during the second wave (March 2021 to November 2021). The report also said that of the total 710 hospitalisations, 188 patients tested positive for the Omicron variant. The hospital added that 186 of these have already been discharged. It said no deaths of the Omicron variant were reported at the hospital. “The hospital stay for Omicron patients is also relatively lower compared to those infected with other variants,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the hospital. Giving an account of the preparedness of the hospital --- the largest Covid hospital in the city --- the administration said that they have a total of 2,200 beds reserved for Covid patients, of which 900 are in the ICU (intensive care unit) and 1,610 of those with oxygen support. The hospital also had beds kept aside for paediatric cases. According to the report, of total 900 ICU beds, 150 are for children, and of the 1,610 beds with oxygen support, 210 are reserved for children. “To ensure proper care for patients, Lok Nayak Hospital has also filled up the positions of 625 doctors, including consultants, senior and junior residents and specialists, The hospital is also on the way to filling posts for 1,758 nursing staff, 450 paramedics, 1,115 nursing orderlies, 704 sanitation staff and 509 security staff,” the report said. 
13-01-2022||Mumbai||City reports 16,420 cases||Mumbai: The city on Wednesday reported 16,420 fresh Covid-19 cases pushing its daily test positivity rate by six percentage points over the previous day. On Tuesday, the city had reported 11,647 cases; it recorded 13,648 on Monday — a slump usually attributable to fewer tests over the weekend — after recording close to 20,000 cases starting January 6. However, the hospitalisation rate fell for the fifth continuous day on Wednesday to 18.8%. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal attributed the rise in cases on Wednesday to the Centre’s advisory issued Monday stating that only symptomatic individuals need to undergo tests.“Due to the recent change in the national Covid testing guidelines two days ago, where it has been directed that only symptomatic cases will be tested, it is likely to create spike in positivity as most of the symptomatic cases would be almost confirmed positive cases,” the civic chief said.The test positivity rate (TPR) — a ratio of the confirmed Covid positive cases to every 100 tests conducted — was 28.94% on January 7, when Mumbai recorded 20,971 cases. Since then, it has been on the decline. On January 8, the TRP fell marginally, to 28.60%, and thereafter to 23.03% on January 10. However, in the past two days, it rose again to 18.75% on January 11 and 24.38% on Wednesday.By contrast, the hospitalisation rate on January 8 was 21.4% and since then, it has registered a decline to the current 18.8%. This number refers to the overall Covid beds available in the city, which is a dynamic number. It is important to note that the occupancy of Oxygen beds in the city has increased in the past week alone.According to a new benchmark set by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), bed occupancy rate will be the new criteria to impose restrictions instead of positivity rate. Owing to this, the BMC last week said that bed occupancy rate of 50% would call for thinking towards imposing additional restrictions.On the falling bed occupancy rate, Chahal on Wednesday said, “It is because Delta variant is fast disappearing and Omicron taking over in Mumbai.” According to the December 31 results of genomic sequencing declared by the BMC, 56% of the random positive samples of Covid-19 were confirmed to be Omicron variant. Chahal last week said that experts were of the opinion that 80% of the cases testing positive in Mumbai are the Omicron variant, and in the coming days it may become 100% of all cases tested.“Generally on Wednesday, the backlog is also cleared and this could be reason for increased cases, but we will wait till Friday before deciding the future course of action in city,” Suresh Kakani, Additional Municipal Commissioner of the BMC said.Meanwhile, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday appealed to citizens to get vaccinated against Covid-19. “Since February 2021, 94% of Covid deaths have been among those who have not taken the vaccine shot. I appeal to all citizens to go out and get vaccinated considering the severity of Covid goes down with vaccination.”The recovery rate in the city is 87% with 832,933 recoveries. The mortality rate in the city is 1.72% and there are 102,282 active cases in the city. As many as 67,339 tests were conducted in the city. The total case tally in the city is 954,237 and the toll is 16,420. The daily positivity rate on Wednesday was 24.38% up from around 18% on Tuesday. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in its advisory dated January 10 had said that symptomatic individuals (cough, fever, sore throat, loss of taste and/or smell, breathlessness and/or other respiratory symptoms), at-risk contacts of laboratory confirmed cases followed by contacts that are elderly (above 60 years) and individuals with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic lung or kidney disease, obesity among other things, should be tested. However, this advisory did not restrict self-testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-reports-16-420-cases-101642013810875.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh wakes up to very dense fog again||With visibility down to below 50 metres, the city recorded very dense fog for the second day in a row on Wednesday.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), dense fog along similar lines is expected during the morning hours in the coming days as well.When visibility is below 50 metres, IMD considers it “very dense fog”, when commuters must exercise caution, as chances of accidents increase. Visibility was around 40 metres at the Sector 39 IMD observatory at 5.30am. Three hours later, it increased to around 150 metres, which is still considered “dense fog” as per the IMD.An IMD official said the fog was the result of drop in night temperature and high humidity following the recent rain spells.Meanwhile, city’s maximum temperature went up from 15.7°C on Tuesday to 17.1°C on Wednesday, but was still four degrees below normal. The minimum temperature also increased from 8.5°C to 10.8°C, five notches above normal.Over the next three days, the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 17-18°C, while the minimum temperature may go further up to 11°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-wakes-up-to-very-dense-fog-again-101642013760223.html
13-01-2022||Other||Covid-19 medicine kits being distributed in Varanasi||Over 903 monitoring committees were distributing Covid-19 medicine kits in Varanasi district for prevention of third wave of Covid-19, said additional chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Rai. Dr Rai said that a prescription had also been included with this kit, in which details, including the name of the medicines, when and how many doses to take and precautions had been mentioned. Dr Rai said that the medicines included in this kit were not to be used by pregnant r lactating women. Chief medical officer Dr Sandeep Chaudhary said that such medicines were included in the Covid-19 medicine kit which could be used as soon as the initial symptoms of corona were seen. The kit has been tailored for different age groups. There are separate kits for separate age groups, like babies of 0 to 12 months, children of one to five years and children of 6 to 12 years, apart from adults. Medicine kit for babies from 0 to 12 months:Paracetamol drops, Multivitamin drops, ORS Medicine kit for children of one to five years Paracetamol syrup, multivitamin syrup, ORS Medicine kit for 6 to 12 year olds: Paracetamol tablets, multivitamin tablet, Ivermectin tablets , ORS For adults: Tablet paracetamol, tablets Ivermectin, tablets Azithromycin, tablets vitamin-C, tablet zinc, /Capsule Vitamin-B Complex and Vitamin D-3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-medicine-kits-being-distributed-in-varanasi-101642013758819.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF Tennis Tour Juniors meet: Bhushan upsets fifth seed Yuvan||Qualifier Bhushan Haobam upset fifth seed Yuvan Nandal in a three-set marathon match to enter the boys’ U-18 quarterfinals during the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-2) at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10 on Wednesday. In the first set, both players played high-level tennis, but Bhushan won the tie-breaker. In the second set, Yuvan came back strongly with his aggressive game and won 6-2. But Bhushan used his experience and closed the final set and the match with 6-4. Another qualifier Manas Dhamne knocked out Daksh Prasad 6-3, 6-4. Top seed Chirag Duhan, Fadi Bidan of Lebanon and Woohyuk Chang of Korea also advanced into the singles quarterfinals. In the girls’ U-18 singles pre-quarterfinals, top seed Shruti Ahlawat defeated Jo-Leen Saw of Malaysia in straight sets 6-2, 6-4. Sixth seed Vlada Mincheva of Russia defeated last week ITF Juniors Grade-3 Winner Tejasvi Dabas 6-0, 3-0, who retired. Second seed M Safi of Iran, seventh seed Vaishnavi Adkhar of India and Lanlana Tararudee of Thailand also entered the quarterfinals. In the boys’ doubles match, top seed Aman Dahiya and his partner, Chirag Duhan of India, beat Poonthonq Komopisut of Thailand and Shingo Masuda of Japan in straight sets 6-1, 6-2, in the first round.In the girls’ doubles tie, Vlada Mincheva of Russia and her partner, Anya Murthy of USA, defeated Vanya Arora of India and Mahika Khanna of India 6-0, 6-0 to enter the second round.Results: (Pre-quarterfinals)Boys’: Chirag Duhan (IND) [1] bt R Senthil Kumar (IND) 6-3, 6-2, Aayush P Bhat (USA) [7] bt Singo Masuda (JPN) 6-2, 6-3, Woohyuk Chang (KOR) bt Aryan Shah (IND) 6-3, 6-3, Bushan Haobam (IND) (Q) bt Yuvan Nandal (IND) [5] 7-6(6), 2-6, 6-4, Daksh Ashok Agarwal (IND) bt Monil Lotlikar (IND) (Q) 4-4 Ret, Lucas Phanthala (FRA) bt Denim Yadav (IND) [4] 6-3, 6-2, Fadi Bidan (LBN) bt Rushil Khosla (IND) [6] 6-3, 6-2, Manas Dhamne (IND) (Q) bt Daksh Prasad (IND) 6-3, 6-4.Girls’: Shruti Ahlawat (IND) [1] bt Jo-Leen Saw (MAS) 6-2, 6-4, Lanlana Tararudee (THA) [5] bt Hannah Nagpal (IND) 6-2, 6-2, Lakshmi Gowda (IND) bt Charmi Gopinath (IND) 6-2, 6-3, Vaishnavi Adkar (IND) [7] bt Anya Murthy (USA) 6-1, 6-1, Vlada Mincheva (RUS) [6] bt Tejasvi Dabas (IND) 6-0, 3-0 Ret, Suhihta Maruri (IND) [4] bt Kotistha Modak (IND) (Q) 6-4, 6-3, S Sirimalla (IND) [8] bt S Verma (IND) 6-2, 6-0, M Safi (IRI) [2] bt Kristi Boro (IND) 6-2, 6-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-tennis-tour-juniors-meet-bhushan-upsets-fifth-seed-yuvan-101642013757221.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, Panjab University closes Student Centre for four days||With Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh setting new records daily, Panjab University (PU) on Wednesday decided to close shops at its iconic Student Centre from January 13 to 16.The varsity also decided not to allow any student in the campus departments on January 13 and 14. The decisions were taken on the recommendations of a varsity panel headed by dean university instruction (DUI) VR Sinha. The panel was constituted to make recommendations after the recent guidelines issued by the UT administration in the wake of the Covid-19 surge.The Student Centre, considered the heart of social activities of students, was earlier also closed after the pandemic broke out in March 2020 and had reopened on December 1. 50% students allowed in labs at a timeWhile the classes are already being held online, in the wake of UT administration’s directions, PU has also directed students to occupy laboratories at only 50% capacity at a time. The first- and third-floor reading halls of the AC Joshi library will also remain closed for the next four days. However, the outer reading hall will remain open, but only at 50% capacity.Heads of departments have been told to prohibit gathering of students and staff, and monitor strict compliance of the safety protocols.For this, university will also regulate the entry and exit points. Since Monday, varsity offices have already been functioning with only 50% staff strength.New restrictions Student Centre to remain closed from January 13 to 16 No student allowed in campus departments on January 13 and 14Only 50% students allowed in a laboratory at a timeReading halls on first and third floors of AC Joshi library closed from January 13 to 16. 
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rise in testing demand leaves labs overburdened, reports delayed||The surging Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh have left testing laboratories in government health institutes overburdened and increased the waiting time for reports.The UT health department is dependent on Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32 and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for RT-PCR testing. But as both hospitals collect samples from their own patients as well, sample load has multiplied manifold and so has the waiting time for reports. “After I got symptoms for the virus, I voluntarily got tested at GMCH-32 on Sunday, but did not get my results till Wednesday morning. My testing registration number was also not generated timely, which further delayed my report,” said Vivek Singh, a resident of Sector 40. “We send 400 samples to GMCH-32 and 1,500 to PGIMER on an average daily for RT-PCR testing. Besides, the health department is conducting 30% of its daily Covid tests through the rapid antigen testing kits. Generally, the RTPCR report is available within 12 hours for early morning samples, but when the samples are collected in the evening, the reports are available the next day. Also, it takes time to collect samples, transport them to the lab and update results on the central government’s portals,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.“We are working hard to ensure that test reports are given in 24 hours. At present, there is no pendency in the testing labs,” she added.‘Glitches in govt portal delaying results’According to Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH-32, the hospital can conduct 2,000 RT-PCR tests per day. “But due to some technical glitches, the central government’s portal is taking more time for uploading the test results. As a result, people sometimes get the reports late. But we ensure that reports are given within 24-36 hours,” said, adding that they were working to increase the daily capacity to 2,500 tests.Dr Mini P Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 testing at PGIMER, said, “The institute has a capacity to conduct 2,500 RT-PCR tests per day and we are conducting tests round the clock. But some staff members are also down with the virus, limiting the number of available hands. We are still managing to give the reports within 24 hours.”‘Adequate facility, GMSH-16 lab to be ready in 15 days’Meanwhile, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said an RT-PCR lab will soon be set up at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, so patients don’t need to turn to private laboratories.“The lab at GMSH-16 will be made functional in the next 15 days. PGIMER and GMCH-32 also have adequate testing capacity and there is no pendency. Results are mostly provided within 24 hours, but got delayed recently due to glitches in the government portal,” he said.During the peak of the first and second wave, the health department had to rope in private hospitals for testing after it found itself struggling to keep up with the testing targets fixed by the Union health ministry of Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhrise-in-testing-demand-leaves-labs-overburdened-reports-delayed-101642013754035.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi L-G reviews Karkardooma’s transit-oriented development project progress||Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Wednesday reviewed Karkardooma’s Integrated Development of East Delhi Hub, Delhi’s first transit-oriented development (TOD) project, and directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and project consultant NBCC India to fast-track the implementation of the project. Baijal said members will meet fortnightly to resolve pending issues for smooth and timely completion of the project. The Delhi L-G tweeted, “After detailed review, DDA and NBCC officials were advised to fast track project implementation by way of seamless coordination and follow up with Agencies including Delhi Jal Board, BSES, Forest and Fire Department for necessary clearance. It was decided to meet fortnightly to resolve outstanding inter agency issues for smooth and timely implementation of the project as per laid down timelines.” Spread over 37.42 hectares, the ₹1168-crore project will have residential, commercial green spaces. The flagship project of DDA will comprise high-rise residential complexes, commercial and office spaces, public utilities and multi-modal public transport facilities. DDA officials said that the mixed-use development project will have office complexes at walking distance and will be connected to Karkardooma Metro station, which is an interchange between the Blue Line (Vaishali to Dwarka) and Pink line (Shiv Vihar to Majlis park). It will also house one of the biggest residential complexes in the densely populated east Delhi with 6,518 flats, including 1,992 for the economically weaker section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-reviews-karkardooma-s-transit-oriented-development-project-progress-101642013752389.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panjab University semester exams from January 24, proctoring unlikely||Panjab University (PU) will conduct the theory semester examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses from January 24, the varsity announced on Wednesday.The practical examinations will begin on January 17. Both examinations will be held online. This is the fourth time since the pandemic broke out in March 2020 that the semester exams are being held online at PU.The decision comes days after teachers suspended their strike over non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales by the Punjab government. As part of their protest, teachers had suspended all academic activities from December 1, prompting the varsity to postpone the semester examinations scheduled in December.PU controller of examinations Jagat Bhushan said, “The detailed instructions for the forthcoming exams will be issued in a day or two.”The decision to conduct the exams online was taken in December after the student bodies opposed the varsity’s plan to hold them offline. They had also submitted various representations in this regard.Proctoring may be skipped againWhile the university was considering the use of online proctoring during the exams to supervise students, sources said it may not go ahead with it during the forthcoming exams. PU had constituted a panel to deliberate on the technicalities of proctoring as well, but no announcement was made. Proctoring was skipped during the previous semester exams as well, leading to criticism over the sanctity of online exams.Changes in academic calendar plannedWith the examinations being delayed due to teachers’ strike, the varsity is also planning to make some changes in the academic calendar to minimise academic loss to students. Around 45 academic days have been lost and PU plans to minimise it to around 20 days.
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid surge: Lucknow University tells students to vacate hostels||LUCKNOW Lucknow University on Wednesday asked all undergraduate and postgraduate first semester students to vacate hostels and go back home for their safety in wake of the Covid surge. An order to this effect was issued by university registrar Vinod Kumar Singh.The registrar said there was information that a few hostel inmates had tested positive for Covid and many students were running high temperature.The students were told that their semester exams were likely to be held in February and the UP government had ordered for online classes.Demand for online exams, vax camp Earlier during the day, various students’ organisations demanded shifting of upcoming offline exams to online mode and holding vaccinations camps on the campus. Prominent among them were National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), All India Students’ Association (AISA) and Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha.The demand came a day after a few students at LU’s Habibullah hostel tested positive for Covid.NSUI leader Vishal Singh said, “It was nice to see that all student organisations unitedly decided to meet the registrar and handed him a memorandum demanding vaccination camp at the university hostel and online exam instead of offline exam.”Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha - LU unit president, Kartik Pandey said, “We are united in this fight against corona, and we want the student fraternity to stay healthy.”AISA leader Adash was also on the same page with other student organisations. University spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said he was aware of the demands of students. “The university is getting the hostels sanitised to ensure that the infection does not spread and their demand for setting up vaccination camp will also be looked into,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-surge-lucknow-university-tells-students-to-vacate-hostels-101642013692441.html
13-01-2022||Other||Allahabad HC security: Eight cops suspended for negligence||Eight cops deployed at high court were suspended for negligence of duty on Tuesday. The action was taken by senior officials against them after some lawyers sneaked in the court premises and reached near the court of chief justice. The lawyers also created ruckus. On January 2, the high court has issued orders regarding the virtual hearings in view of Covid threat. The security personnel were instructed not to allow entry of lawyers inside the court premises from January 3. However, the security personnel deployed at high court showed negligence following which, a group of lawyers entered inside and raised slogans against the decision of virtual hearings. They even reached near the court of chief justice in protest of restrictions on their entry. High court authorities reprimanded police officials over the negligence following which an investigation was ordered. The enquiry revealed that sub inspector Chhedi Ram and constable Israfil, who were on duty at gate No 3 have shown negligence in informing about the orders to their colleagues. Moreover, sub inspector Suryanarayan Pandey and other cops deployed on the HC premises also showed negligence in duty. Officials said that eight cops who were found guilty of negligence have been suspended. SSP Ajay Kumar said the investigation into the matter was carried out by SP City Dinesh Kumar Singh. He recorded statements of the cops on duty and scanned the CCTV footages at the high court. The action against cops has been taken on the basis of the report prepared. Cops who are on duty at high court since long would also be shifted soon. Meanwhile a separate investigation by CRPF officials has also been initiated into the negligence shown in conveying the new orders and giving directions to the personnel on duty at high court. It is worth mentioning that CRPF is responsible for security at court premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-hc-security-eight-cops-suspended-for-negligence-101642013690739.html
13-01-2022||Noida||Coronavirus test positivity at 11.7% in Ghaziabad, the highest in nine months||The Covid-19 positivity rate of 11.7%, for the week ending January 12, is the highest in Ghaziabad district since April 2021 -- it was 17.34% for the week ending April 30 -- with the district continuing to report cases in large numbers daily, including on Wednesday when another set of 1,581 infections were added, the district health records showed. The officials of the district health department said the upward trend indicates that the current wave of Covid-19 infections is fast approaching its peak and that may happen by the last week of January.According to health records, the overall Covid-19 case count in the district is now 63,723, with the tally of active cases at 7,518. A total of 7,809 cases were reported in the month of January. Of the active cases, 23 patients are admitted to hospitals while the rest are recovering in home isolation, officials said. According to the health department figures, during the week from December 23-29 last year, the district tested a total of 32,420 samples which returned 65 positive cases to give a positivity rate -- ratio of samples that test positive from among the total tested -- of about 0.2%. In the next week, from December 30 to January 5, 36,381 samples were tested of which 787 were positive for Covid-19. The positivity rate that week was 2.16%, the data showed. In the latest week, from January 6-12, a total of 61,124 samples were tested of which 7,149 were positive for Covid. The large number of positive cases has spiked the test positivity rate to 11.7%, the highest rate since April 2021. In the week ending April 30, 2021, the positivity rate was 17.34%.“The pattern of high positivity rate indicates that the cases are headed for a peak, which we estimate will happen by the end of January or the first week of February. Since cases have spiked suddenly, it is estimated that they will also decline sharply. Of the patients undergoing treatment in facilities, seven are requiring intermittent oxygen support,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer. The Ghaziabad district saw its first infection peak in mid-September 2020, during the first wave, followed by another peak in April 2021, during the second and the mostly Covid wave. The positivity rate for the month of April 2021 was 9.12%, with 13,668 total cases, health records showed.As a result of the current spike, the sample positivity rate for the month of January has already risen to 8.96%, the second highest monthly rate since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020. A district health official said they have conducted a total of 87,124 tests this January, which has resulted in 7,809 cases. The positivity rate of private labs is about 47.11%, while that of government labs is 3.31%, the official said, asking not to be named. The official also said they expect a rise in the number of positive cases in the coming days as about 13,000 reports are still pending at different labs, including the one in Lucknow and the results may arrive in bulk. “Since the spike in cases has led to more people coming in for testing, the influx has burdened our labs. So, we have sent samples to Lucknow for testing. The reports are pending and they will arrive soon. Despite the overload, we are trying to release results within 48 hours. Since the government has also revised the discharge criteria for home isolation patients from 10 days to seven days, we will be discharging about 480 patients soon, as per the new norms. So, our recovery rate will also improve,” said Dr RK Gupta, district surveillance officer. According to health department figures, the recovery rate stood at 98.97% on December 31, 2021, and at 87.48% on January 12. “The major advantage during this wave is that the severity of infection is low and it could be due to the high rate of sero prevalence and increased vaccination coverage. The present spike is more likely to be the result of the Omicron variant,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president, Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Fake currency racket busted in Lucknow, five held||Lucknow: With the arrest of five people, Lucknow police claimed to have busted a fake currency racket on Wednesday. They also recovered fake currency notes with face value of ₹81,000 from the accused. Confirming the development, deputy commissioner of police (west) Somen Barma said, “Five members of the gang, involved in production, sale and circulation of fake Indian currency notes (FICN), were arrested by a team of Talkatora police station. The police are probing the matter to identify and track other members of the gang.”Those arrested were identified as Salman alias Aftab, 21, Md Mubbasir, 20, Md Arbaaz, 20, Shavez Khan, 22, and Rahul Saroj, 32. The accused informed police that they used special paper to print fake notes using ink printers. “The accused use to print fake currency in denominations of ₹500, 200, 100, 50 and 20 at their homes. They used the fake currency notes for personal use in smaller amounts and also used to supply these to other criminals for circulation,” said the officer. The accused also revealed that the gang members sold fake currency notes with face value of ₹60,000 in exchange of original currency notes worth ₹10,000. “We are trying to tack the distributors who use to buy fake currency notes from the accused for circulation,” the officer added. Police recovered reams of high-quality paper, ink printer, cutters and printed fake currencies from the premises of the accused. The arrests, according to police sources, were made following the intelligence input.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fake-currency-racket-busted-in-lucknow-five-held-101642013514927.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Lohri 2022: Get gajjak, rewari, home delivered, support local vendors||What’s Lohri without rewari, moongphali or gur patti, gajjak, popcorn and all the other winter special Indian confectioneries? If you are wondering how safe it is to venture outdoors and buy your annual supply of these Lohri specific goodies, amid the rising Covid cases in the city, then fear not! You can refrain from being at any of the crowded place, and yet get your stash as quite a few local vendors are home delivering these.In fact, this might also do good to their businesses, since Covid has immensely impacted their livelihood. Some small yet famous shops tucked in the bylanes of Old Delhi’s Kinari Bazar will sure fulfil your gajjak cravings. One of them is Premchand Gupta from Subedar & Sons (Gajak and Rewari), who can be spotted busy packing orders, which are coming in from across NCR, ahead of the festival. “Hum order phone pe le rahe hain aur phir pack karke tayaar rakhte hain. Bahut saari log delivery app pe riders ko bhej ke saaman collect karwa lete hain. Hum khud bhi booking karke deliver karwa dete hain, aur online wallets se payment bhi easily ho paa rahi hai,” says Gupta, adding, “Har saal log 7-8 kilo ka saaman ek sath le lete the Lohri ke ek din pehle aur Lohri ke din bhi. Iss saal toh dukaan har dusre din khul rahi hai Covid ke chakkar mein toh hum kum maal bana paa rahe hain. Toh sale bhi pehle jaise nahi hui abhi tak.” Ram Sewak, who mans a popcorn cart in Ashok Vihar’s Deep Market, says, “Iss saal toh sale bahut hi kam hai, yeh Corona ki wajah se log bilkul baahar nahi nikalna chahte. Leken Lohri ke time pe kuch aisi cheezein hoti hain jo logo ko leni hi hoti hain sagan ya reet karne ke liye. Toh popcorn ki booking ke liye bahut log phone kar rahe hain. Koi agar humein 8-10 packet ka order de raha hai, to hum unke ghar par jaake deke ayenge usi din fresh. Pichle saal toh hum pura din busy the. Iss saal bhi ho jaye aisa toh badiya hojayega tyohar.” And Rajmani, who sells gajak and rewris on a push cart in the same area, adds: “Dus saal se kaam kar raha hun, par inta kum saaman kabhi bhi nai bika. Iss saal Lohri par hi kuch umeed hai sale hone ki. Online shopping toh sab karte hain, humse bhi shopping kar lein toh humare bachchon ki Lohri achchi man jayegi.”It’s safe to say that peanuts are as important to bring in the Lohri vibe as the peanut chikki/gur patti. Ram Narayan, who owns a peanut cart in Shalimar Bagh, shares, “Main saath saal se yahi par mungphali ki redi laga raha hun. Par pehli baar hai ki Lohri se pehle itni kum bikri hui hai. Itni kam toh pichle saal bhi nahi thi. Vaise toh ahcha hai ki log bahar nahi nikal rahe, Corona bimari ko bhagana zaruri hai. Par hum jaise logon ka kaam sardiyon ka hi hota hai. Isliye ek hi jagah khadhe rehne ki bajaye ab apna number WhatsApp pe bhejna churu kar diya hai logon ko, is umeed me ki shayad log ghar bulake khareed lein.” And amid other hopefuls is Ram Vir, who sells shakarkandi (sweet potato) chaat in Wazirpur. “Har saal Lohri ke time par jab log gajak wagehra lene nikalte hain toh humari banayi chaat ki khoob bikri hoti hai. Pichle saal tak kum se kum 10 kilo chaat har Lohri pe banani padhti thi, aur sab bik jati thi. Kayi log shaam ko Lohri ka function karte the aur humse chaat leke jate the. Par iss saal un sabka aana mushkil lag rha hai... Waise toh mein logon ke gharon tak nahi jaata tha, sab maal yahin bik jata tha, par is bar koi bulaye toh ghar pe garma garam chaat deke aane ko mai tyyar hun! Ab corona zyada hai toh log bhi kaise hi ayenge,” he says.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lohri-2022-get-gajjak-rewari-home-delivered-support-local-vendors-101642013513045.html
13-01-2022||Other||{Drug seizure cases} Prolonged jail may invoke personal liberty deprivation clause: HC||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that the provisions of deprivation of personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution can be invoked in drugs seizure cases over prolonged incarceration of a person. The bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Pankaj Jain was dealing with a bunch of bails and suspension of sentence matters in the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, (NDPS Act) cases of Punjab and Haryana. It had come to light before court that 16,000 appeals were pending in the HC and the conclusion of the same is going to take time. Hence, bails/suspension of sentence pleas be decided, pending final disposal of the appeals.Data shows pending appeals in 2021 as 1,080, up from 57 appeals in 2013 before the division benches. Before single benches, 14,827 appeals were pending in 2021, up from 1,433 in 2013. Then there was this period of almost two years, when due to Covid, hearings remained suspended most of the time.Section 37 of NDPS could not beonly consideration for bail: AppellantsThe appellants had argued that the requirement of Section 37 under the NDPS Act could not be the only consideration for the grant of bail or suspension of sentence. On the other hand, states had argued that as per latest decisions of the Supreme Court, both for bail and for suspension of sentence under the Act, strict parameters of Section 37 had to be met.Section 37 says every offence punishable under this Act shall be cognisable, no person accused of offences in commercial quantity seizures and under some other sections, the accused can’t be released on bail unless the public prosecutor has been given an opportunity of hearing. The court has to satisfy itself of reasonable grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty or won’t commit the offence again, before releasing him on bail.Article 21 gives a fundamental right on every person not to be deprived of his life or liberty except in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. Thus, speedy trial is a fundamental right.The court, after examining a plethora of judgments of the SC and various other courts, observed that in the 1994, the SC held that a person who had undergone five years of pre-convict custody was entitled to be released on bail, on the touchstone of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.Though this judgment related to under-trials and only one time directions were issued, however, the directions in no way can be said to be against the legislative intent but are in furtherance of the Constitution of Article 21.“Therefore, it will also not be inappropriate if similar principles are followed with some variations and modifications in cases relating to convicts who are languishing in jails for reasons that their appeals are not likely to be heard for a considerable period,” the court observed, adding that the stringent provisions of Section 37 of the Act have to be applied in the cases of the convict/accused, where their cases do not fall within the parameters of Article 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-seizure-cases-prolonged-jail-may-invoke-personal-liberty-deprivation-clause-hc-101642013510619.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Molnupiravir showing promising results among Covid patients: Pune docs||Pune: Some of the city hospitals which started using Molnupiravir on Covid patients with mild symptoms have reported what they claim to be “good results” even as the drug is being debated for the possible side effects and its impact on women of fertile age, pregnant women, kids and also those with non-comorbid patients. The state government has removed the use of the drug for those with no-comorbidities although it is showing some positive results in the vulnerable population, said doctors and officials from administration. According to Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional Commissioner, Molnupiravir is being prescribed by treating doctors in Pune while the private hospitals are also making it available to patients. “Till now we have not come across any case of its side effects in Pune.” Rao said adding that so far as its stock is concerned, the FDA has informed the administration that there is no artificial shortage of the drug in Pune and Mumbai unlike what was witnessed about remdesivir during the second wave. Molnupiravir is being produced by over 13 manufacturers in India. According to Dr Amit Dravid from Noble hospital, Molnupiravir was used on about 26 patients and have seen a good result in them. “We used it on patients who are above 60 years of age and have co-morbidities, however not on diabetic patients as some studies suggest it has no real impact on those with diabetes or those who have a re-infection and that the impact could be only due to placebo. The immediate positive impact on the patients was drop in fever, headache and sneezing is also stopped although cough takes some time to go. We use it on patients who have mild symptoms like fever, cough, cold, extreme fatigue, headache but are vulnerable and so are at the risk of the symptoms progressing into moderate or severe. Regarding the side effect the drug does have a minor side effect like nausea and diarrhoea. We are strictly not using it on pregnant women and it is a five-day course and costs ₹500 per dose,” said Dravid. Dr Abrarali Dalal, chief executive officer at Sahyadri Hospital said, “We have used it on about 30 patients and have got good results. The benefits include relief from symptoms and also reduced replication of the virus. The patients we recommend have mild to moderate symptoms like cough and fever, sore throat, who otherwise could be recommended home isolation but due to the age and co-morbidity factor prefer to be admitted in the hospital. The patients are aged between 35 to 70 years of age, with few of them having comorbidity like diabetes and blood Pressure. Although it does have minor side effects like nausea.” Earlier last week, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director-general Dr Balram Bhargava said the antiviral Covid-19 pill is currently not included in the treatment guidelines of the Covid-19 national task force. However, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) this month gave emergency approval to Molnupiravir as the country witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases following the emergence of the highly contagious Omicron variant. In Pune, smaller hospitals too were using the drugs and are now reluctant to use it as the current state government recommendations allow using the drug with certain riders. Dr Sachin Yadav, medical director at Chintamani Hospitals in Bibwewadi said, “We has used it on about five Covid19 patients who had mild symptoms like fever, throat pain, cough, weakness and nasal congestion and the immediate impact of the drug is patient reporting as afebrile within 24 hours. There are some minor side effects also like nausea and diarrhoea. Although these patients with mild symptoms can be isolated at home the fear of Covid19 and their vulnerability brings them to the hospital. While private hospitals are using the drug, government hospitals in the district are yet to start the usage. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, Deputy director health services for Pune circle said, “None of the government hospitals in the entire Pune district including both the civic bodies are using the drug as we are in the process of procuring it. since it is only recently that the drug was recommended for the treatment of Covid19 patients with mild symptoms with certain riders. There are about 13 manufacturers in the country and we do not anticipate any shortage for the drug as of now.” Dr Pradeep Awate, State surveillance officer said, “The drug is allowed to be used on Covid19 patients with mild symptoms and those who could progress into severe diseases with certain riders including that it cannot be used on pregnant women, prospective pregnant women and those with non-comorbidity. It is up to the treating clinician’s discretion on whether or not to use the drug.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/molnupiravir-showing-promising-results-among-covid-patients-pune-docs-101642013452255.html
13-01-2022||Noida||Noida towers: Refund buyers or face jail, Supreme Court tells Supertech||The Supreme Court on Wednesday warned the realty major Supertech that its directors will be sent to jail for not complying with the court orders to demolish the 40-storey twin towers of its Emerald Court project in Noida, and defaulting on refunding the money to the affected homebuyers.The two towers were declared illegal by the Supreme Court on August 31, 2021, and the apex court had given three months to the company to demolish the two towers. The court also directed the Noida authority to take assistance from Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee, in safely accomplishing this task.With more than four months having elapsed since the order and more than 250 homebuyers yet to get their refund with interest, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna took a strict view against Supertech and said, “We are going to send your directors to jail. You are playing truant with the Supreme Court.”The homebuyers informed the court that the real estate firm was charging an interest over the refund which was not contemplated in the judgment. Further, the firm agreed to deposit the money in instalments after signing an agreement that would absolve Supertech of all future liabilities, and bar the homebuyers from seeking further remedy from the top court.“We find you (Supertech) are finding all kinds of ruses to avert compliance of our orders. Make sure the payments are made till Monday or else there will be serious consequences,” the bench said.Supertech’s counsel, senior advocate Parag Tripathi told the court that two firms – Edifice Engineering and Genesis Engineering -- were shortlisted for carrying out the demolition and clearing the debris. He said that the plans were forwarded to the Noida authority and the same had to be finalized by the CBRI.Supertech wanted to make CBRI a party in the Court proceedings but the request was turned down by the court after the Noida authority counsel Ravindra Kumar informed the court that the real estate firm was to be blamed for delaying the implementation of the court’s order. “Initially, Supertech submitted the proposal of Edifice Engineering and the firm made a presentation in which CBRI representative was present. For final approval, we sent it to CBRI. Then, Supertech submitted a second plan by Genesis Engineering on January 9 . We forwarded the same to CBRI on Tuesday.”The court told Kumar, “We will not hear CBRI. Let the Noida authority take a decision and make a statement on Monday.”Supertech said it was agreeable to either of the two agencies for carrying out the demolition.Homebuyers have also filed contempt petitions against Supertech for failing to abide by the court’s August 31 order.The August judgment said, “The appellant (Supertech) shall within a period of two months refund to all existing flat purchasers in Apex and Ceyane (Towers 16 and 17), other than those to whom refunds have already been made, all the amounts invested for the allotted flats together with interest at the rate of 12% per annum payable with effect from the date of the respective deposits until the date of refund.”Advocate Abraham C Mathews, representing some of the affected homebuyers said, “The judgment awarded interest to be paid till the date of actual payment by Supertech. However, they have made calculations on interest to be paid only till the date of judgment.”He added that Supertech has also made impermissible deductions in amounts calculated as payable to the homebuyers, by claiming interest on amounts paid as return of investment (ROI) previously. “The court has not permitted any such deduction,” he said.Earlier, the court resolved the difference in the amounts demanded by the homebuyers and Supertech by appointing advocate Gaurav Agrawal as amicus curiae who formulated a mutually acceptable figure that was approved by the court’s judgment.Abhishek A Rastogi, Partner at Khaitan & Co. said if the demolition is due to the fault of the builder, then certainly the home buyers deserve expedited refunds. “The proceedings against such defaults to expedite refund to homebuyers will certainly boost confidence of consumers and would help the genuine real estate businesses in the long run,” he said.The two towers facing demolition have 915 flats of which 633 were booked. Of them, only 252 flat buyers remained as 133 homebuyers re-invested in other Supertech projects while 248 took a refund.The order to demolish the towers came on a petition moved by the Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association objecting to the construction of the two towers on an area marked as ‘green area’ in the brochure issued to them at the time of purchase. Also, the distance between the two towers was not in accordance with the minimum distance criteria under the relevant by-laws.Following the SC decision, Supertech made a last-ditch effort to save its towers by proposing to partially demolish 224 apartments in tower T-17 along with the community area at the ground floor without touching the other tower T-16.The top court dismissed this application on October 4, as it said that the only recourse available to Supertech was to file a review petition and not seek modification of its order through an application.Subsequently, Supertech filed a review petition which is yet to be considered by the top court. The UP government has also ordered a probe by a special investigation team (SIT) to examine the nexus between the builder and bureaucrats that led to approval for the two illegal towers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/noida-towers-refund-buyers-or-face-jail-supreme-court-tells-supertech-101642013450775.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Govt employees to work in shifts||Mumbai: Employees of the Maharashtra government have started working in two shifts to reduce footfall in the Mantralaya as part of the state’s efforts to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state legislature has started staggering the hours of its 820 employees between two shifts, from 9 to 3pm and from 1 to 7pm.The General Administration Department (GAD) issued an order on Monday to stagger office hours to two shifts — from 9.45am to 5.45pm and from 10.15 am to 6.15 pm shift — and asked heads of departments to issue further orders on which shift their employees will be part of. More than 5,500 personnel work in various departments in the Mantralaya. Indra Malo, secretary, GAD said that the government departments were free to change the timing as per their requirement. “The GAD order is an advisory to other departments, which are free to make changes to reduce the attendance. Some of the departments have started doing it, while some have asked the employees to come to the office on alternate days. The order is open to the suggestions and changes in the future if the need be. We are minutely following the norms and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” she said.On January 8, the state government imposed curbs, including a night curfew, to prevent the spread of the pandemic. “The head of the department should ensure rationalising of the employees by promoting work from home and staggering working hours depending upon the requirement of the employees. The heads should consider the flexible working hours,” the GAD order stated.Rajendra Bhagwat, secretary, state legislature, said that the staggering of the office timing has been done to reduce attendance in the offices without hampering the office work. “We have also reduced the shift to 6 hours to ensure that the employees are not burden during the pandemic time. Instead of the calling them to work on alternate day we have reduce the shift duration. The order will be in place for next two weeks after which a review meeting will be held to take a call on its extension. The decision over the choice of the shift has to be taken at the department level amicably,” he said.Ends 
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Burglars decamp with valuables from godown||A gang of burglars targeted the godown of an electronics store on Sua Road of Sadar area and decamped with multiple valuables.The store owner, Manjeet Singh, said items worth ₹20 lakh were stolen. He stated that he hadn’t visit the godown in the last two days, which the burglars took advantage of. On Wednesday, he received a call from the landlord that the neighbouring store owner suspects something is wrong, as the electricity wires of the godown had been cut off. He got there and found that the godown had been ransacked and almost all expensive items had been stolen.The victim added that the goods used to be kept on the ground floor, where CCTVs were also installed. However, they had recently been shifted to the first floor, where CCTV was not installed yet. He suspected that the burglars must be aware of it and hatched the conspiracy. Police suspect that an acquaintance of Manjeet may be involved.Inspector Gurpreet Singh, SHO at Sadar police station, said that a case has been registered against unidentified accused. The police found some clues and will solve the case soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-burglars-decamp-with-valuables-from-godown-101642013211263.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Budget: North MCD holds off on fresh taxes, keeps provisions to increase parking||In view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, and the resultant restrictions, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, for the first time, discussed its budget proposals online on Wednesday.Standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said the civic body will take measures to boost the public health infrastructure in light of the Covid pandemic, and added that no new taxes will be imposed. He also said that the civic body will create parking space for 13.500 cars in the next two years.None of the three civic bodies are expected to levy any new tax since Delhi is due for municipal polls in April this year.“The parking projects are in various stages of execution at places such as Shiva market, Pitampura, Gandhi Maidan, Qutub Road, Sant Nagar, Rani Bagh, Idgah Road, Shalimar Bagh and Karol Bagh. Work on most of the major projects has already been started,” Jain said.“We are also setting up stack parking lots at Hanuman Setu near Nigambodh Ghat and Fatehpuri,”he said.Explaining the proposals of the Budget to the House, Jain referred to the ongoing financial crisis being faced by the civic body and referred to the trifurcation of the MCD. “The financial assistance assured to the corporation at the time of trifurcation was never released. We cannot say if trifurcation led to additional burden for the Centre or the state government but it led to acute deterioration in the financial situation of three civic bodies,” he added.Jain also announced that one family member of all corporation employees who died during service amid the ongoing pandemic will be given a job on compassionate grounds. “An amount of ₹10 lakh will also be given to the family members of such employees. Also, additional insurance to the employees working on daily wage and contract basis will be implemented,” Jain added.He said to boost health infra the civic body was adding more than 500 oxygen support beds at its hospitals. He added that oxygen plants were being made functional at Hindu Rao, Rajan Babu, Maharishi Valmiki and Girdhari Lal hospitals. “At Hindu Rao hospital, ICU beds are being escalated to 50 from the current 10, and 20 additional ICU beds will be provided for children. At Rajan Babu TB hospital, 20 ICU beds and 10 high dependency unit beds are being added; and 60 oxygen beds will be provided for paediatric Covid care at Girdhari Lall hospital,” he added.The cash-strapped civic body has recycled several of its old projects in the budget for 2022-23. While no tax has been levied, the budget also proposes to remove the provision of 2% tax rebate for online filing for property tax. “Most of the tax return process has moved to online mode so this 2% rebate no longer makes sense,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/budget-north-mcd-holds-off-on-fresh-taxes-keeps-provisions-to-increase-parking-101642013152012.html
13-01-2022||Other||Chauhan’s resignation: Keshav, Nandi tweet reactions; Sidharth Nath questions move||PRAYAGRAJ: Soon after senior OBC leader Dara Singh Chauhan resigned from the Yogi Adityanath-led cabinet and posted his decision on social media sites on Wednesday, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya along with state cabinet ministers Nand Gopal Gupta “Nandi” and Sidharth Nath Singh tweeted their reactions on the development. Trying to control the damage, BJP leader and deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya in his tweet said, leaders leaving the BJP would themselves have to bear the losses of jumping into “a sinking boat”. He, however, asked Chauhan to reconsider his decision, and said, when a member of the family strays away it hurts him. However, UP civil aviation minister Nand Gopal ‘Nandi’, an MLA from Allahabad South seat of Prayagraj, in his tweet said that Dara Singh was part of the cabinet for five years and was not heard saying a word on neglect of the backwards and the Dalits. “Suddenly before the polls, his copy-pasting letter of Swami Prasad Maurya has made clear to all as to who is the script-writer of his resignation letter,” he said. Cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh in an apparent reaction, without naming Dara Singh, posted a state government poster on Twitter highlighting the various welfare initiatives for various sections of the society, including youth, women and farmers. The post says: “OBC and SC/ST have got maximum benefit of these schemes still they are considering to join SP. One thing is clear that citing OBC/SC/ST as a reason behind the move is a false pretense, what is the real reason?”. In his resignation letter, Dara Singh Chauhan had mentioned that he was quitting the ministry because of the government’s “neglectful attitude” towards the backward classes, the underprivileged, the Dalits, the farmers, and the unemployed youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chauhans-resignation-keshav-nandi-tweet-reactions-sidharth-nath-questions-move-101642013150716.html
13-01-2022||Pune||Commuters cry for safe drive on Katraj ghat in Pune||Pune: Damaged barricades, inadequate signage boards and unattended garbage heaps on the Katraj ghat section pose risk to daily commuters. Following the accident of a tourist bus that veered off the road near Bhilarwadi on Tuesday, residents have demanded more road safety measures. “I daily travel from Katraj ghat to Kondhanpur for work. There are many spots where the side barricading built-in rock has broken. Also, the height of barricading wall is too short to stop speeding vehicles coming on the slope road. There have been several fatal accidents in the past in the Ghat section, still there is no proper safety measures taken by the government,” said Sagar Nimbalkar, a resident who lives near the area. Around 4 am on Tuesday, a tourist bus of Karnataka state transport carrying 19 passengers fell into a gorge 30 feet below the road level. Four passengers, including driver, were injured in the accident. “We have been demanding the height of barricading wall in the ghat section to be increased and have iron barricading over these walls. Dumping of garbage near the road is creating problems for commuters, as a gust of wind bring discarded plastic and other waste to the road posing grave danger to riders and motorists. The state public works department and local administration should take the issue seriously,” said Amit Gunjal, another resident. At the start of the Katraj Ghat there are some villages - Bhilarwadi, Gujawadi and Nimbalkarwadi — which are not merged into PMC jurisdiction. And daily thousands of commuters travel through the Ghat for jobs and other works. Despite the functioning of bypass highway from New Katraj tunnel via Dari Pul bridge, the vehicular movement on Ghat section has not decreased. Two leopards sighted, alert sounded The state forest department have taken steps to alert citizens after two leopards were sighted at the Katraj Ghat section a month ago. The department has placed a notice appealing to citizens not to halt their vehicles or venture into the forest area in the ghat section. However, despite these boards placed in the Ghat section, people were found entering the area and clicking pictures on the roadside in the ghat section. A forest officer said that patrolling has been increased in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/commuters-cry-for-safe-drive-on-katraj-ghat-in-pune-101642013030590.html
13-01-2022||Other||Balloons, coloured lights for easy identification of facilities at Magh Mela in Prayagraj||To make the Magh Mela more accessible and safer for devotees, Prayagraj Mela Authority has decided to introduce some new features for this edition of the annual religious fair set to start from January 14. Recognising the need for seers and pilgrims in identifying important places in the vast mela area like police stations, toilets, lost and found center, the mela authorities have decided to provide special features to guide the people towards them. These include specially coloured balloons on police stations that will help in easy identification from afar, thus making it easy for anyone to locate them. These balloons have been so designed that the details of the place over which a given balloon would be floating in the air would be mentioned in large, bold letters. A similar arrangement has been made for the identification of lost and found centers and toilets. While balloons would also be used to guide people to the lost and found centres, colored lights will be in place for quick identification of toilets. “The details of the police stations and lost found centers will be written in the balloons flying over these places. With this, the devotees will be able to easily spot the direction and distance of lost and found centre or police station. The security of the goods was always an area of concern and the same would be reduced to a great extent by providing cloak rooms at the ghats,” said Magh Mela Adhikari Shesh Mani Pandey. Keeping their clothes and belongings safe while taking holy dip is another area of concern for devotees and with this in mind the mela authorities decided to provide free cloak room facility at the ghats itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/balloons-coloured-lights-for-easy-identification-of-facilities-at-magh-mela-in-prayagraj-101642012973098.html
13-01-2022||Other||UT police register case in forgery of 11 Punjab Police promotion orders||Chandigarh Police have booked unidentified persons for cheating, impersonation and forgery, among others, after it received a complaint that promotion orders of 11 Punjab Police personnel had been forged. A deputy superintendent of police, on the behalf of the Punjab Police, lodged the complain. The promotion orders were of constables, senior constables, sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors, including the gunman of the former Punjab director general of Punjab (DGP). These letters were purportedly issued on January 8 in the name of former Punjab DGP S Chattopadhyaya, the day the model code of conduct was enforced in Punjab with the announcement of assembly elections. In reality, no such orders were issued, claim sources.A Chandigarh Police statement said a complaint was received from Punjab Police, Sector 9, Chandigarh against unidentified persons, alleging that forged promotion orders had been issued in favour of Punjab Police officials. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 464 (false document in the name of a fictitious person), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, or to receive any money, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC has been registered in Sector 3 police station, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ut-police-register-case-in-forgery-of-11-punjab-police-promotion-orders-101642012910755.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||JNU academic council nod for common entrance test from next year||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Academic Council (AC) on Wednesday approved a proposal to implement the Common Universities Entrance Test (CUET) for admission from the 2022-23 academic session, amid protests from teachers’ and students’ groups.Confirming the development, JNU vice-chancellor (VC) M Jagadesh Kumar posted on Twitter: “JNU Academic Council decides that JNU admissions for different academic programmes in 2022-2023 academic session will be through Common University Entrance Examination to be conducted by National Testing Agency (NTA).”In a written statement issued on Wednesday, Jayant K Tripathi, director of admissions, JNU, said that the university had “endorsed its earlier decision to hold the entrance examination through the Common Universities Entrance Test (CUET) for admission into various academic programmes for 2022-23.”Tripathi said that the decision taken on Wednesday is in conformity with an earlier decision taken at the 157th AC meeting in March last year, when it had decided to adopt and admit students through CUET whenever the NTA goes ahead with it.Recently, the Delhi University also decided to hold admissions from the next academic session through the CUET.The JNU AC decision comes a day after 111 faculty members from the university on Tuesday issued a statement, seeking further discussion on CUET, noting that it requires “extensive deliberations”. Many JNU faculty members are of the view that the one-size-fits-all approach espoused by the CUET is not suited for a university like JNU that offers a number of unique interdisciplinary programmes. The JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) had also opposed the proposal for the implementation of CUET.While the administration did not directly address the apprehensions raised by faculty members and JNUSU, it said that “misinformation spread by a few faculty members about CUET was noted by the Academic Council and deplored.”The university added that during the meeting on Wednesday, a large number of AC members pointed out that the CUET would provide a level-playing field to students from across the country, and reduce the hassle of taking multiple entrance examinations.While condemning the manner in which the proposal was rushed through, JNU Teachers Association (JNUTA) said that the VC did not allow some AC members to raise questions in the meeting. JNUTA also denied the university’s claim that the decision on the adoption of CUET had already been taken in the 157th meeting of the Academic Council. “A perusal of the minutes of the 157th AC meeting clearly shows that this was not even listed on the agenda of that meeting. It was only part of one of the several recommendations of the advisory committee on admissions which recommended that ‘in case of receiving any direction from MoE/UGC, the University will accordingly adapt and admit students through CUCET’,” said JNUTA president Milap Sharma and secretary Moushumi Basu in a joint statement on Wednesday. They said that the VC had acted in an authoritarian manner and muted speakers who wanted to question the proposal.An AC member who attended the meeting on Wednesday said that one admission test for all universities would lead to a dilution of the process that the university had followed so far. “Instead of holding a detailed discussion, the proposal was rushed through without understanding how the system of deprivation points (to assess eligibility based on an applicant’s socio-economic background) and other frameworks in place will work under a common entrance system. A detailed discussion was not undertaken to understand how a common entrance would work for JNU that offers unique programmes,” he said.JNUSU on Wednesday said that student representatives had not been involved in the decision process. Seeking that the proposal for the implementation of CUET be rejected, JNUSU said that there were fears that issues, such as discrepancies in question papers and delay in declaration of results, will surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-academic-council-nod-for-common-entrance-test-from-next-year-101642012791915.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||State govt to make double vaccination mandatory for accessing range of services||MUMBAI To overcome vaccine resistance and boost vaccination numbers amidst the onset of the third wave of Covid-19, the state government is working on making double vaccination mandatory for accessing a range of services. Maharashtra also reported 46,723 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which is the highest tally during the ongoing third wave. Double vaccination is already mandatory for suburban train travel in Mumbai, entering malls and shopping complexes as well as attending work in government offices. It might be made mandatory to attend private offices and establishments and for accessing various government schemes. “People take various concessions, but do not get themselves vaccinated. This is very wrong… double vaccination is needed to travel by the railways and enter malls and government offices. Similarly, we must ask offices to insist on double vaccination. We cannot make vaccination legally mandatory, but the state must increase its vaccination numbers as this is in the interests of the people. District administrations must take necessary measures for this,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope while speaking to the press on Wednesday after the meeting of the state cabinet. “Vaccination is a national programme, and no one should create hurdles in it as it goes against the national interest,” he warned. Tope added that at present, 90% of the intended beneficiaries have been vaccinated with the first dose, and vaccination has been completed for 62%. However, this is marginally lower than the national average. Of the 6 million beneficiaries in the 15 to 18 years’ age group, 45% have been given their first dose. On Wednesday, 46,723 new cases and 32 mortalities were reported in Maharashtra. Mumbai accounted for 16,420 of these cases and seven deaths. Another 86 patients were detected with the Omicron variant, of which 53 were from Pune city, 21 from Mumbai, six from Pimpri-Chinchwad, three from Satara, two from Nashik, and one from Pune rural. Till date, a total of 1,367 patients infected with the Omicron variant have been reported and of these, 734 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test. With people opting to test themselves with home testing kits and cases which have tested positive through this route not reflecting in the official data, the public health department is asking the district and municipal authorities to ensure that this data is captured. Later, they will be allowed to home quarantine and be monitored regularly. Pharmacies selling these home testing kits will be asked to report any positive cases. Tope said that in chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s virtual conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, the public health department asked him to raise the issue of shortage of vaccine doses. Covaxin is being used as a precautionary dose for senior citizens and also to vaccinate those in the age group of 15 to 18 years’, leading to a shortage. The state will seek 50 lakh doses of Covishield and 40 lakh doses of Covaxin from the Centre. Schools are likely to shut for another 15 to 20 days and a decision will be taken after observing the caseload. The state government has decided that a lockdown will be imposed in auto mode if the demand for oxygen of Covid patients crosses 700 metric tonne (MT) per day. However at present, oxygen demand for Covid and non-Covid cases is 150 MT and 250 MT, respectively. “There is no need for panic considering this situation, but precautions are necessary,” Tope said, adding that the hospitalisation numbers and oxygen demand could rise with the increase in daily infections. Relaxations in existing curbs are unlikely till January-end or mid-February as the first priority for the government is preventing transmission of the virus. While the number of daily cases showed a decline over the last few days, Tope attributed this to a decline in testing and weekends. The positivity rate was 21.4% for Maharashtra and 27% in Mumbai. Of the 2.06 lakh active cases, 29,110 (14.13%) needed hospitalisation and of these, 1,875 needed ICU admissions (0.91%), 656 were on ventilator support (0.32%), and 1,219 occupied oxygen beds (0.59%) and 1.89% of these patients (3,900) were on oxygen support outside ICUs. A total of 86% cases were mild and 5,775 patients (2.80%) were critical. According to the health department data, while the state has an average of 309,117 cases so far in January, the death rate is 0.03% compared to 43,759 cases and 0.50% deaths in December 2021 and 26,361 cases and 1.73% mortalities in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-govt-to-make-double-vaccination-mandatory-for-accessing-range-of-services-101642012790601.html
13-01-2022||Noida||Noida sees 2,230 new cases, the highest single day tally ever||Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday reported 2,230 fresh cases of Covid-19, making it the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic nearly two years ago, according to the latest figures released by the district health department. Even during the peak of the second wave in April-May last year, the highest single day count was 1,822, reported on May 5 last year. The total cases reported throughout May last year were 18,729, the highest monthly total so far. But the 12 days of January has already contributed nearly 10,000 cases and the tally of active cases is now 9,267. A total of 73,246 cases have been reported so far in the district since the start of the pandemic and 805,336 tests have been conducted so far, district health records showed. The Union government on Wednesday listed Uttar Pradesh as one of the eight “emerging states of concern“ given the rapid increase in cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. Of the 4,868 Omicron cases reported nationwide, 275 are from Uttar Pradesh, health department records showed. Although Gautam Budh Nagar has the highest number of daily as well as active cases in the state, district officials said only one case of the Omicron variant has been confirmed there. The overall positivity rate -- the ratio of samples that return positive from among the total tested -- in Noida was 29% on Wednesday, while the RT-PCR positivity rate was close to 40% , district health data showed. Of the total active cases, around 90 persons have been admitted to hospitals while the others are in home isolation. Officials said the condition of all those in home isolation is being monitored regularly. “Yes, cases are increasing rapidly, but the good news is that there are zero serious cases in the district. The rate of hospitalization is less than 1%, and even those in hospitals are not admitted because of Covid complications,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate. However, doctors said while cases are less severe and most people are in home isolation, this wave is likely to affect many more people than the previous one. Even a small percentage of such a large number can overburden the health-care system soon, experts said. “We are seeing that this time, cases are increasing rapidly and more people are testing positive for Covid-19, even if their symptoms are mild. So, it is extremely important for the health-care system to stay ready and prepared to handle the increasing patient load. Meanwhile, people should continue to keep track of symptoms, follow all Covid-appropriate behaviour and those in home isolation should stay disciplined,” said brigadier (retired) Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida. GIMS has reactivated its home isolation mobile app ‘UPCHAR’ that had last year helped over 800 patients recover at home. The application can be downloaded from the Apple store and Google play store and Covid patients can avail of free tele consultations round the clock, Gupta said. Doctors said cases are also increasing because of lack of isolation protocols at home this time. However, such behaviour may also lead to cases of serious infections, they warned. “We are seeing that since most people have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic, they are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour or isolating properly at home. However, such people can infect larger numbers and if they infect children, the elderly or immuno compromised individuals, that may result in serious cases. It is, therefore, imperative for all those even without symptoms to keep their surroundings clean and to isolate properly at home,” said Dr DK Gupta, chairman, Felix hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sees-2-230-new-cases-the-highest-single-day-tally-ever-101642012730571.html
13-01-2022||Pune||361 Pune cops test Covid positive||PUNE: A total of 361 police officials from Pune city police force have tested positive for Covid-19 as on Wednesday, including 48 who were found infected on January 12. The Wednesday count of 48 cases among police personnel has taken the city’s tally to 4,857 new cases. Of the total positive cases in the police force, four are hospitalised while all others are in home isolation. There are 43 officers and 318 staff members. Tests were conducted for all working personnel at the Pune city commissioner’s office around eight days ago when the number of cases from the commissionerate were at nine. The Pune rural police have started administering the third shot of vaccine in Pune. “We started on Monday and so far we have administered around 280 doses. The number of cases stands at 17, including three officers. Nobody is in the hospital,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police. A police officer who was recently transferred to special branch from a local police station, said, “I recently recovered and am now in home isolation. The impact was much less this time compared to the second wave. I had fever for one day and then weakness for a few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/361-pune-cops-test-covid-positive-101642012675443.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||‘Aim to vaccinate all in 15-18 age group by Feb first week in Delhi’||Over 350,000 people in Delhi aged between 15 and 18 years have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine, showed state government data, as senior health officials said they expect to cover the city’s estimated one million teenagers in this age bracket by the first week of February, if they all come forward to get the jab.The Delhi government data shows that the city has vaccinated 352,437 beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group between January 3, when the Centre started immunising teens, and January 11. The pace of vaccinations has also picked up significantly since day one, showed state government data.Over 21,029 shots were administered on January 3, which went up to 33,238 shots the next day. By January 7, the number of vaccine doses administered in a day reached 57,815. Senior health department officials said they aim to continue the momentum over the coming weeks, and their estimates are that at the current rate, Delhi could vaccinate at least half of the eligible teenagers in the group by next week. Delhi has so far immunised 35% of its 1.01 million residents between aged 15 and 17. “We have made our estimates based on the assumption that 100% of eligible teenagers in this age category will get vaccinated. The initial assessment shows that we will vaccinate 50% youngsters by next week and will have administered the first doses to all eligible teenagers by the first week of February,” a senior health official said. According to the central Children have so far been administered Covaxin doses across at least 159 centres in the city. Government officials asked all district magistrates to encourage all eligible residents in their jurisdictions to come forward and get the jabs, with many officials reaching out to people on WhatsApp and social media. Experts also stressed the need to immunise children as soon as possible. Dr PK Sharma, epidemiologist and advisor (public health) with the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), said, “Teenagers should get themselves vaccinated at the earliest in order to have some protection against the virus. I would also advise all parents to stress on getting their younger children vaccinated as and when the government makes provisions for it.”
13-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi man held for filing false complaint alleging abduction, robbery||Police on Wednesday arrested a man for filing a false complaint alleging that he was abducted and robbed of his cash in Kapashera area on Monday. Police said the man, one Arjun Kumar Kesri, lost around ₹3.14 lakh after betting the money online but came up with the fake story of being robbed to mislead his family. DCP(South West) Gaurav Sharma said Kesri, who runs a cellphone shop with his brother, wanted his brother to believe that the money was robbed.DCP Sharma said, “On Monday, we received a distress call from the complainant, who alleged that while he was going to Karol Bagh to purchase cellphones, two men hit his scooter in Kapashera and he fell down. He also said that the two men intoxicated him, abducted him for 3-4 hours, and took away the money from the boot of his scooter. But when police started the investigation, he started giving contradictory statements of the sequence of events. Later he broke down and confessed that he had concocted a story about the robbery to ensure that his brother did not find out the truth about how he lost the money in betting.”“He was responsible for managing the cash and purchasing the phones. In order to earn easy and fast money, he got involved in online cricket gambling. Initially, he won several times but he lost a huge amount in the betting about 2-3 days ago. In order to recover, his losses, he put more bets but finally lost all. In order to clear his debts, he planned to misappropriate the money from his brothers by concocting a false story of robbery, abduction and intoxication,” added DCP Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-held-for-filing-false-complaint-alleging-abduction-robbery-101642012370474.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Courtesy weekend rain, Delhi sees cleanest January air since 2015||Delhi is experiencing the cleanest January air since 2015, with the air quality improving to the “moderate” category on Wednesday. The minimum temperature also rose as foggy conditions kept the effects of cold northwesterly winds at bay.The Capital recorded an overall air quality index (AQI) of 191 (moderate), down from Tuesday’s reading of 224 (poor), as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin.Aided by a rainy spell on the weekend, Delhi has already recorded two ‘satisfactory’ air days on Saturday (91) and Sunday (69), while it recorded another ‘moderate’ air day on Monday, when the AQI was 151. Before this, Delhi has never recorded a satisfactory air day in January and has never recorded more than two moderate air days in the month. Officials said this is the cleanest January air spell since the AQI data began to be recorded in 2015.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The aftermath of the rainy spell is also expected to keep Delhi shrouded in moderate fog, with chances of isolated dense fog, said officials from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), attributing the high minimum temperature in the Capital to it.Delhi recorded an increase in the minimum temperature over the last 24 hours, increasing to 8.2 degrees Celsius (°C) on Wednesday -- one degree above normal – up from 6.5°C on Tuesday. “There are two factors in play at the moment. Wind speed has dropped, which is not allowing colder winds from the mountains to reach Delhi. We are also recording upper-level fog and cloudy conditions due to high moisture, which is not allowing the minimum to drop too much at night,” said IMD scientist RK Jenamani.The maximum temperature was 18.1°C -- two notches below normal — on Wednesday, and it is forecast to hover between 19-20°C for the rest of the week.Delhi recorded ‘moderate’ fog at Palam on Wednesday, with visibility around 200-500 metres, and ‘shallow’ fog at Safdarjung with visibility ranging from 500-1,000 metres in the morning.“We are forecasting moderate fog for the remainder of the week. The possibility of dense fog (when visibility drops below 200 metres) cannot be ruled out either,” said Jenamani.Delhi’s air quality could meanwhile return to the lower end of the ‘poor’ category, with a low mixing height expected to reduce dispersion of pollutants.“With the prevailing partially cloudy conditions, along with maximum temperature gradually rising and moderate wind speeds persisting, air quality is likely to touch ‘poor’ on Thursday and remain the same for the two days. From January 15, air quality is expected to improve due to high wind speed causing strong ventilation of near surface pollutants,” said the Centre-run System of Air Quality And Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/courtesy-weekend-rain-delhi-sees-cleanest-january-air-since-2015-101642012190724.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC, ITO graveyard admin at odds over space crunch||The space earmarked for burying Covid victims at the ITO graveyard, one of the Delhi’s biggest cemeteries for Muslims, is full with the management saying that it had to turn away two bodies last week, and send them to the facility at north west Delhi’s Mangolpuri on the city’s outskirts.This, however, has now triggered a tussle with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. The civic body has told the graveyard management that it cannot turn away people, and has threatened to issue a show cause notice.Delhi recorded 40 Covid deaths on Wednesday, the most in a single day since June 10 last year, when the Capital recorded 44 deaths, and took the city’s overall pandemic toll to 25,240.The ITO burial ground management said they had to turn away the bodies since the 5-acre section of the graveyard marked to bury those who die of Covid has no space left to dig more graves. The ITO graveyard is spread over 45 acres.Mohammad Shamim, supervisor of the Covid section, said, “Over the last two years, 1,350 bodies have been laid to rest here. There is no more space left and we were forced to accommodate a few more dead-bodies last year by clearing bushes. We had to ask the family members to take the dead bodies to other facility,” he added.However, a senior public health official from the south MCD said the management cannot refuse to accept any bodies and a show cause notice may be issued to them.Shamim Ahmed Khan, secretary of the managing committee, Qabristan Ahle Islam, ITO, said the committee has got an additional 4 acres space near the Millennium Park on the Ring Road last year, but the plan got stuck due to lack of police permission.“We are willing to provide manpower and other services, if that section is allowed for burials. There is no space left in the Covid section. Normally, we level up a part of the burial ground after 4-5 years to create more space but even that cannot be carried out in this case due to Covid. When hospitals are calling us to send more dead bodies, we are forced to advise them to divert them to other four facilities. We also need to take care of normal bodies coming mostly from old Delhi,” he added. Besides, ITO, Covid victims are buried at Mangolpuri, Madanpur Khadar, Okhla and Shastri Park.An SDMC official said the burial grounds are managed by the Delhi Waqf board, but Section 392 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act empowers the municipal commissioner to route the bodies to any such facility.“The management is in violation of Section 392 of DMC Act by refusing to take dead bodies of Covid patients. They cannot differentiate between Covid and non-Covid bodies. We are planning to issue a show cause notice after which further action will be taken,” the official said asking not to be named.Last year, burials at Buland Masjid in east Delhi’s Shastri Park also had to be stopped due to space constraints. EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said they have got an additional space of 2,000 square metres from the Delhi Development Authority, near the Buland Masjid site to prevent a crisis. “Our public health department is working with the graveyard management to increase the capacity,” the mayor said.The annual report on registration of birth and deaths in Delhi shows that around for 10% of annual deaths burial grounds are used. According to the 2020 report, a total of 142,789 deaths were registered in the city, of which 124,965 were Hindus, 13,103 Muslims, 2,365 Sikhs, 513 Christians and 1,843 were registered in others category.Delhi Waqf board, which oversees most burial grounds, has demanded more space to ease the burden on city’s burial grounds. Chairman of the board, Amanatullah Khan, said there are around 45 active graveyards in the national capital, of which five have been allocated for Covid victims.“In case of the ITO burial ground, the Waqf Board has granted permission to use an alternative plot near Indraprastha Ring Road, but the matter is now stuck with the police. The issue of shortage of space at many burial grounds is a reality, and thus more sites should be allocated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisdmc-ito-graveyard-admin-at-odds-over-space-crunch-101642011650588.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Govt forms 11-member council to protect city’s biodiversity, plan for its future||The Delhi government has created an 11-member Delhi Biodiversity Council to protect existing biodiversity parks and oversee the creation of more such facilities in the future in the Capital.Created after the National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) issued directions to have one such body in each state and Union Territory across the country, the council will function as an autonomous unit under the forest and wildlife department of Delhi and receive separate funds. It will hold its first meeting on Friday.As per the gazette notification, the council, headed by Delhi University professor CR Babu as its chairperson, has Delhi’s chief wildlife warden as its member secretary and includes the principal chief conservator of forest, the Delhi development commissioner, the principal secretary (environment and forest) and the principal secretary (urban development) among its five ex-officio members. The body also has four expert members -- Indraprastha University professor Sumit Dookia; Vijay Dhasmana, curator at the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram; and INTACH’s Dr Ritu Singh and Manu Bhatnagar -- each of who will have a term of three years.“Our long-term goal is to preserve Delhi’s existing biodiversity and to rejuvenate areas which are now suffering due to the urban stress. With the funds allocated, different sections such as waterbodies, forests and the floodplains can receive individual attention,” said Babu.Nisheeth Saxena, member secretary of the council, said the chairman of the NBA will attend the first council meeting on Friday. “The NBA will guide us in the first meeting, and plans for the year 2022 will also be decided,” he said.Dookia said the council can carry out different types of census for animals and birds once funds are allocated. “Once the first meeting is held, the agenda for the year will become clearer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-forms-11-member-council-to-protect-delhi-s-biodiversity-plan-for-its-future-101642011170320.html
13-01-2022||Delhi||Despite rule, no pet shop in Delhi registered with state animal welfare board||Over three years after the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Pet Shop) Rules, 2018, was notified, making it mandatory for pet shops in Delhi and other states to be registered with the State Animal Welfare Board (SAWB), not a single pet shop in Delhi has registered so far, according to a Right To Information (RTI) reply from the state animal husbandry department. An official from the department told HT that they have already begun work on registering pet shops.Aimed at bringing accountability to the pet shop trade in the city, the rules under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Pet Shop) Rules, 2018, also require shops to maintain a record of the different animal species it has, their procurement and sale; details of veterinarian checks; and other criteria to ensure decent living conditions for the captive animals.A three-month inspection -- from October to December last year -- of over 30 pet shops in Delhi by a team of volunteers from Ahimsa Fellowship, organised by a group of animal welfare NGOs, also found a number of violations at pet shops, ranging from the sale of animals prohibited under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, cramped cages, lack of temperature control systems and no separate quarantine areas for injured or diseased animals, among others.The lack of data on Delhi’s pet shops had become a problem during the pandemic, when the lockdown in March 2020 forced many to abruptly shut their shops, leaving birds and animals locked up inside. The Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) had subsequently issued directions in April, asking SAWBs to evacuate animals stuck inside pet shops with the help of local administration, but the lack of data on such shops posed a problem.An RTI filed by the Fellowship -- HT has a copy -- in November 2021 shows nothing has changed a year on, with Delhi’s animal husbandry department – under which the SAWB falls – stating it has no record of any pet shop in the city. Sunayna Sibal, an Ahimsa fellow who filed the RTI and also took part in the inspection, said technically, pet shops are operating ‘illegally’ and violating several norms in the process.“Ninety-five percent of the pet shops had cages which were too small for the bird or animal they were housing. There were no exhausts or temperature-control systems in most shops, making it uncomfortable for these animals and no pet shop had a separate quarantine area for sick or diseased animals. We also found shops displaying animals outside, leaving them exposed to the elements,” said Sibal, stating they discovered at least seven species prohibited for sale under the Wildlife Protection Act at these shops.“These included the Indian star tortoise, scaly-breasted munias, quails, lesser whistling ducks, parakeets, grey francolins and Indian silverbills among others. An inspection by the SAWB would have led to these animals being seized and the shop sealed, but the lack of accountability is causing these animals to be sold openly,” she added.Asher Jesudoss, who was also part of the inspection, said with no trail of sale and purchase being maintained by pet shops, it was difficult to ascertain how the animals were being procured. “The rules make it mandatory to maintain a record of the sale and purchase, to prevent forced breeding and illegal procurement of animals. We are unable to check that currently,” he said.Ahimsa fellow Akshita Kukreja said they shared a report on the inspection with Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on December 28, 2021, but they are yet to receive a response. “Another RTI will be filed soon on whether any action has been taken or not,” said Kukreja.Pointing out that each registration of a pet shop will fetch the government ₹5,000, Gauri Maulekhi, trustee at the People for Animals (PFA), said mandatory registration is one that will benefit the exchequer as well. Maulekhi estimated that there are over 500 pet shops in the Capital.“Pet trade is a multi-crore business which was completely unregulated till 2018. Now, the new rules provide for each such business to pay a registration fee to the state government, abide by the conditions imposed and provide receipts to the customers. Keeping multiple species in dirty, crammed spaces is not only cruelty to the animals but a public health hazard too,” said Maulekhi, adding that despite several pleas over the last few years, the development department of Delhi had failed to act.An official from the state animal husbandry department, on condition of anonymity, told HT that the department had data of around 150 pet shops in Delhi. “So far, we have only received two applications for registration. Advertisements and notices have been issued in the past, asking pet shops to register themselves with us, but a fresh campaign will soon be launched to ensure the same,” said the official, adding that district-level officers have also been asked to prepare a database of pet shops under their jurisdiction.“This will ensure there is no cruelty taking place at any pet shop in Delhi. We will not immediately fine any shop and some more time will be given to them to register, failing which will result in the shop being sealed,” the official added.The development department meanwhile did not respond to HT’s queries.‘Not an easy process’Pet shop owners, when contacted, said the lack of transparency in the registration process was making it difficult for most to complete the process. “A number of owners tried registering through the website, but the state animal welfare board’s website does not function a majority of the time. They also do not have a physical office currently, making it difficult to approach,” said Pawan Garg, owner of the Bittoo Pet Shop in Safdarjung Enclave.Lakshay Kumar, owner at the Fancy Fish Aquarium and Pet Shop in Rohini, too supported mandatory registrations. “There is no clarity on the registration process, but all pet shops want to get registered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/despite-rule-no-pet-shop-in-delhi-registered-with-state-animal-welfare-board-101642010810290.html
13-01-2022||Pune||25-year-old in Pune police custody for morphing pictures of women||PUNE A 25-year-old man from Khadki area of Pune has been remanded to police custody for morphing pictures of women living in the neighbourhood. The police have seized two mobile phones and have found pictures of at least five women on his phone.The man has been identified as Shubham Kailas Avale, 25, a resident of Khadki, he was remanded to five days in police custody by the court of Judge Shripada Ponkshe with public prosecutor Shubhangi Deshmukh. He was arrested and produced in court on Tuesday.The police got the information from a 19-year-old boy who used to play video games on the accused man’s phone. A few days ago he was using Avale’s phones to play video games with his friends, when they discovered morphed photos of the teenager’s sister.“This boy’s mobile was used by his friends to play games. One of them saw his sister’s photo on it. He then went through the phone and found photos of five other girls from their locality. We have seized two phones,” said senior police inspector Datta Chavan of Khadki police station.Senior PI Chavan said, “So far, the pictures have not been sent anywhere but the investigation is on. The boy who found it only sent it to his own phone number to show the police.Avale is a not very educated and had learned to make morphed pictures from links that he got from some social media groups. While playing games, he got a link to join two groups, one from Pakistan and one from Brazil. We are investigating what else was shared.”A case under sections 354 (C) (voyeurism) and 469 (forgery for harming reputation) of the Indian Penal Code along with section 66 of the Information Technology Act has been registered at Khadki police station against the man. Police sub-inspector Vikas Shinde is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/25yearold-in-pune-police-custody-for-morphing-pictures-of-women-101642008410073.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kejriwal campaigns in Kharar, AAP gets poll code violation notice||With the assembly elections scheduled on February 14, Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal along with the party’s Punjab chief, Bhagwant Mann, held door-to-door campaigning at Khanpur area in favour of their candidate Anmol Gagan Mann from Kharar assembly segment in Mohali district. While declaring the poll dates, the election commission had put a ban on rallies and public meetings till January 15, allowing only door-to-door canvassing. Kejriwal also listened to problems of the people of Khanpur and assured them that once the AAP gets voted to power in Punjab, it will solve all their issues. Lashing out at both the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal, the AAP chief said they had worked only for their vested interests. “Whatever promises we make to the people will be fulfilled, and we will make Punjab the number one state in the country,” said Kejriwal, who even had a cup of tea sitting in the courtyard at a house in Khanpur. We will form govt: MannMeanwhile, AAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann said that people have made up their mind to bring a change in the state, and “we are forming the government”. Interacting with mediapersons in Mohali, he presented the AAP’s Punjab Model, comprising a 10-point agenda that focuses on generating employment. According to it, the AAP would create a drug-free and corruption-free state, restore law and order, improve education, health, agriculture, and industrial sectors, provide free power to a certain segment and give ₹1,000 a month to each woman above the age of 18. The AAP has declared its candidates in all three constituencies of Mohali district: real estate baron and former mayor Kulwant Singh (60) from Mohali Urban, Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Mann (31) from Kharar, and Kuljeet Singh Randhawa (60) from Dera Bassi. The other parties are yet to announce their candidates. AAP gets poll code violation notice The returning officer of Kharar has issued a notice to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for code of conduct violation, after Kejriwal campaigned with more than five people.The returning officer-cum-SDM Kharar, Avikesh Gupta, said it is a clear case of violation of code of conduct as it has been decided by the chief election commissioner that door-to-door campaigning is only allowed with five people. The officer had asked the district president of the AAP to file the reply within 24 hours, failing which action will be taken as per the law.
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Now, OBC leader Dara Singh Chauhan quits as UP minister||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh environment minister Dara Singh Chauhan quit the state cabinet on Wednesday, becoming the second prominent other backward classes (OBC) leader to resign in 24 hours after labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya, deepening the turmoil in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The resignation -- which comes roughly a month before assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh -- will send alarm bells ringing in the BJP, which hopes to hold on to the rainbow coalition of backward classes and Scheduled Castes that propelled it to an unprecedented victory in 2017. Like Maurya, Chauhan joined the BJP from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) before the 2017 state polls. And, like Maurya, he blamed the BJP’s treatment of backward castes and Dalits as the reason for his resignation. “I am hurt by the state government ignoring the interests of the backward, marginalised, Dalit, farmers and unemployed youth. Hence, I resign from the cabinet,” he said in a letter to governor Anandiben Patel. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted a photo of himself with Chauhan, the MLA from Madhuban, and welcomed him to the SP. Yadav had also welcomed Maurya to the SP on Tuesday but a day later, Maurya made it clear that he hadn’t joined any other party yet. “I haven’t resigned as BJP member yet. I will reveal everything on January 14 though one thing is clear that I am not going [back] to the BJP,” the minister said. “One feels bad if a family member loses way. I would just request the respected leaders who have resigned to reconsider their decision as they won’t achieve anything by riding a sinking boat. I would appeal to big brother Dara Singhji to reconsider his decision,” tweeted deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya after Chauhan’s resignation. Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls in seven phases, beginning February 10 and ending March 7. The votes will be counted on March 10.On Tuesday, Maurya dealt a blow to the BJP with his abrupt resignation from the cabinet, indicating that the BJP’s hold on the non-dominant backward groups, a key demographic that helped the party win the 2017 state and 2019 general elections, may be slipping. Three lawmakers close to Maurya -- Roshan Lal Verma, Brijesh Prajapati and Bhagwati Sagar – also quit the party. On Wednesday, a fourth – Bidhuna MLA Vinay Shakya – said he was with Maurya and a fifth, Meerpur MLA Avtar Singh Bhadana, joined the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), an ally of the SP. To be sure, political realignments are common before every major election, and the 2017 polls also saw a raft of defections. And yet, the resignations on Tuesday and Wednesday, coupled with the BJP’s troubles with former ally Om Prakash Rajbhar and current ally Apna Dal, indicate that the BJP may have to focus on its outreach among the OBCs. The party came to power in a landslide five years ago on the back of unprecedented support among scores of smaller non-dominant backward castes, which resented the powerful Yadavs, also an OBC group considered the traditional base of the SP. OBCs form around 42-45% of the electorate, of which 9% are Yadav. The BJP has been wooing the remaining 32-35% of the non-Yadav OBC votes, which includes Kurmis (5%), Lodhs (4%), and Nishads (4%), among many others. Maurya is a five-time MLA from Padrauna in Kushinagar district who was a top minister in the 2007-12 BSP government and is influential among the Mauryas, an OBC community. Chauhan, a three-time MP (two-time Rajya Sabha MP) and currently a lawmaker, belongs to the Lonia OBC community.Stung by the resignations at a time when chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior leaders are deliberating in Delhi about candidate selection, the BJP’s game plan appeared clear. It inducted Naresh Saini, the Congress’s OBC lawmaker from Saharanpur in western UP who hails from the same community as Maurya, three-time SP lawmaker Hari Om Yadav, and former SP lawmaker Dharampal Singh. The event happened in the presence of Keshav Prasad Maurya and the party’s UP unit chief, Swatantra Dev Singh, both OBC leaders. Later in the day, a Sultanpur district court issued an arrest warrant against Maurya in a 2016 case in which he was accused of making objectionable comments against Hindu deities. It asked the former minister to be present in court on January 24. Maurya indicated that more leaders were likely to follow him, and added that the BJP will have to start according respect to its leaders. “My decision to quit has triggered an earthquake in the BJP. I pleaded with the leaders for the welfare of Dalits and backwards but they couldn’t care less,” he said. His son, Utkrisht Maurya Ashok, said the former minister was not concerned about tickets for his children. Maurya’s daughter, Lok Sabha MP Sanghamitra Maurya, continues to be with the BJP. Some BJP leaders argued that the resignations were triggered by fear that the party may drop many sitting lawmakers in a bid to curtail anti-incumbency. “UP elections are important. Naturally, if some candidates are dropped, it could be because of some specific input that might have emerged through field surveys. While it is true that we don’t want to lose any leader, at the same time, why do you think a certain political development that could be big news for the media would force us to compromise on candidate selection? Only the best will be selected. There are hundreds of claimants from each assembly segment and all know that only one eventually would get to contest,” a senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.But other leaders admitted that the exits could hurt the party. “It’s not good optics,” said a second party leader. On Monday, BJP MLA from Bilsi, Radha Krishna Sharma, joined the SP, the second Brahmin lawmaker after Digvijay Narain Chaubey, MLA from Khalilabad, to leave the ruling party, when Bahraich MLA Madhuri Verma and Sitapur MLA Rakesh Rathore, both OBCs, joined the SP. The rapid developments also sparked some drama. On Tuesday, Shakya’s daughter Riya made a video saying her father was abducted by her uncle, Devesh. A day later, Shakya and the local police refuted the claim. Hours later, a letter surfaced on social media claiming BJP lawmaker Ravindra Tripathi, considered close to Maurya, had resigned from the BJP. The legislator later filed a police complaint, saying the letter was fake and his letterhead was forged. “Such defections closer to the elections are common and if the joining are any indication, it’s set to be a straight contest between BJP and the SP, with none ready to blink ahead of an exercise that means a great deal for both,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist and political expert..
13-01-2022||Delhi||Tajpuriya gang member involved in Gogi’s courtroom shootout murder arrested||A key member of Delhi’s Tillu Tajpuriya criminal gang, who had supplied the weapons that were used to murder rival gangster Jitender Gogi inside a Rohini courtroom in September last year, has been arrested, Delhi police said on Wednesday.Police identified the suspect as Rakesh Tajpuriya, 31, who carried a reward of ₹50,000 for his arrest. Police said he was on the run since his name emerged following the launch of an investigation into Gogi’s killing.On September 24, when Gogi was produced inside a courtroom at the Rohini district courts complex for a hearing, he was shot 18 times by two gunmen. The two shooters had entered the courtroom posing as lawyers, waited for over half an hour for Gogi to show up, and opened fire on him.Gogi died on the spot, while his two killers were shot dead by police inside the courtroom.Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said Rakesh was arrested at around 10pm on Tuesday after a shootout with the police in Delhi’s Narela area.“Rakesh was one of the main conspirators [behind Gogi’s killing] and facilitated the other suspects in the murder. He’s involved in more than 12 heinous criminal cases such as murder, attempt to murder, robbery, extortion, criminal intimidation in Delhi and Haryana,” Singh said.“We received a tip-off that Rakesh was frequently visiting Alipur and Narela in outer Delhi. He was planning to kill a rival member of the Gogi gang. For the last four months, we have been trying to identify his hideouts to catch him,” DCP Singh said. “Based on a tip-off from an informer, we laid a trap near a factory in Narela’s industrial area on Tuesday night. Our team spotted him on a motorcycle. When they asked him to surrender, he dropped his bike and fired two rounds at the police. The police team fired back one round and managed to arrest Rakesh. Nobody was injured in the shootout. We recovered a semi-automatic pistol from his possession.”Police said Rakesh had helped the other suspects behind Gogi’s killing on the orders of jailed gangster Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuria, who heads the Tajpuriya criminal gang.Also Read: Gogi murder aftermath: Gangster ‘Bachi’ killed in shootout with cops in DelhiThe Gogi and Tajpuriya gangs have been embroiled in a bitter rivalry for about a decade. During these 10 years, more than two dozen people have died in clashes between the two groups. Members of the two gangs who have been arrested have been implicated in cases of contract killings, extortion, robbery and carjacking.Detailing Rakesh’s role in the Rohini courtroom murder, the police said he was the one who escorted the two gunmen who gunned down Gogi. “The gunmen and the weapons used in the crime were arranged by Rakesh. He was present outside the court when the shooting happened. He said he was acting on the directions of Sunil Maan,” Singh said.Gogi and Maan - before the latter came to be known as Tillu Tajpuria - were known to be childhood friends before they both entered college politics at Delhi University’s Swami Shraddhanand College in Alipur. Soon afterwards, they parted ways and turned bitter foes.Until his arrest in March 2020, Gogi, a resident of Alipur who had at least 19 criminal cases against his name, was No. 1 on the Delhi Police’s list of most wanted men.Tillu Tajpuriya is also in jail, while Delhi Police’s investigation into multiple crimes has revealed that he continues to run criminal activities from inside prison.Gogi’s sensational courtroom murder last year had sparked a fierce debate over security loopholes in the national Capital’s court complexes. The incident had prompted the Delhi Police to conduct a security audit. Since then, the management of security of Delhi’s courts has been handed over to the police’s dedicated security unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tajpuriya-gang-member-involved-in-gogi-s-courtroom-shootout-murder-arrested-101641980324041.html
13-01-2022||Jaipur||Girl found abandoned in critical condition in Alwar, rape suspected||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped and abandoned on an overbridge in Rajasthan’s Alwar on Tuesday night, police said and added her condition was critical, and she was referred to a hospital in Jaipur.Police said a passer-by spotted the girl around 8.30 pm and informed them. The girl was admitted to a local hospital but due to excessive bleeding, she was rushed to Jaipur for treatment. Police said the girl was unable to speak and that her parents said she has a speech disorder. They added she was missing since afternoon and her parents had lodged a missing complaint.Police superintendent (Alwar) Tejaswani Gautam said the girl is in a critical condition. “It appears that she was raped and left on the overbridge near a railway crossing.”Police have formed teams to arrest the accused. A dog squad and forensic science teams were also working on the spot. Police said CCTV footage was being examined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/girl-found-abandoned-in-critical-condition-in-alwar-rape-suspected-101641960698560.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Alarming groundwater depletion ‘non-issue’ for parties in Punjab||Gurjant Singh, 29, a farmer hailing from Namol village near Sunam, witnessed the fourth tubewell installation on his farm in January last year.Gurjant owns seven acres of land. The new tubewell was dug up to 330 ft with the cost of ₹90,000 due to the depletion of groundwater in the area whereas around two decades ago, water was found at 100 ft only.Tirath Singh, 60, from the same village, who owns 5 acres, is planning to dig new tubewell up to 500 ft as their earlier tubewell at 180 ft failed to provide sufficient water for the paddy crop. Singh will probably spend over ₹2 lakh on the new bore this month.According to a recent study of the agriculture department, conducted in 2020 in 150 blocks of the state, 117 blocks (78%) are “over-exploited”, six are “critical”, 10 are “semi-critical” and 17 blocks are in the “safe category”.Agriculture experts advised farmers to adopt crop diversification but farmers claimed that they are forced to cultivate paddy crops as successive governments failed to provide the minimum support price (MSP) for other crops. However, environmentalists accused political parties of making an important matter a non-issue in state assembly elections amid freebies.“The state is facing groundwater depletion. Farmers need to adopt crop diversification and cultivate short-duration varieties of paddy to save water. New varieties developed by the Punjab Agriculture University ripen early and require less water. We need to focus on cotton and pulses,” said Jaswinder Pal Singh Grewal, joint director, agriculture (inputs), Punjab.Environment activist from Punjab Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal said water and air should be key issues in the state assembly and Parliament elections but sadly even educated voters are not raising these issues.“Right to life is our fundamental right. Every party should give us this right. It is the government’s duty. Despite the fact that this is one of the major problems that Punjab is battling today, this is a non-issue for all political parties. It is high time that we start taking concrete measures to stop the depletion of groundwater,” added Seechewal.Dr Amandeep Aggarwal, an environment activist, said the water table sinks over 1 meter in Punjab every two years but in some pockets, water recedes even at double pace.“The successive governments and political parties are not serious about the depletion of groundwater. Besides, our drinking water is being polluted. We need cancer-free areas, not cancer hospitals. To improve the water table, the government should develop a rain irrigation model. If government institutes will adopt rain harvest model, the common man will follow them,” added Dr Aggarwal.Farmer Gurjant Singh said, “I am an educated man. I know that 1 kg of rice takes 5,000 litres of water. The overexploitation of groundwater is dangerous. We want to leave traditional crops, but the governments should provide MSP on other crops.”
13-01-2022||Delhi||1,460 FIRs filed for violating night curfew restrictions in Delhi||At least 1,460 cases have been filed across the city against those who violated the night curfew that was imposed since December 27 in the backdrop of rising Covid-19 infections in the Capital.According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, only the movement of essential services and government vehicles are allowed during the night curfew between 10pm and 5am.Delhi police officers said that they registered at least 1,460 first information reports (FIR) -- under IPC section 188, which pertains to disobedience to order promulgated by public servant -- between December 27 and January 13. If convicted, the person could be sentenced to six months imprisonment, fine or both.“Every police station has a team, which visits marketplaces in their area to check for violation of social distancing norms. At every station, an inspector rank officer is always present to monitor night curfew norms. Fines are issued to those who do not wear masks or are not ensuring social distancing norms. People are asked not to step out unless it is an emergency. Also, during the night curfew, police have issued fines to at least 4,133 persons. We file an FIR in cases where people are endangering lives of everyone by not ensuring social distancing at their premises. Cases are mostly registered against shopkeepers or eatery owners,” a senior police officer said. Meanwhile, at least 1,700 Covid-19 infections were reported among Delhi Police personnel. In the backdrop of rising infections, Delhi Police began a special drive to get its personnel inoculated with a booster dose. At least 791 personnel have been inoculated in the last two days under the drive, officials said.Like health workers, police personnel also come under the category of frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1460-firs-filed-for-violating-night-curfew-restrictions-in-delhi-101642097641152.html
13-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly elections: Tribal leader Ramraj Gond thanks Congress||Ramraj Gond (35), a resident of Ubha village, has been named Congress candidate for the Obra assembly constituency in Sonbhadra in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.Gond, a first graduate of his village, has thanked the Congress leadership for giving him a chance to contest the polls. Gond had led the agitation when 11 tribals were killed in a shootout over a land dispute in Ubha village in July 2019. Gond had demanded strict against the accused, who opened fire at the tribals.A day after the incident, the Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi was detained in Narayanpur in Mirzapur while on her way to Ubhbha village to meet the family of the tribals. She was kept in Chunar Fort and was released after 24 hours. Gond, along with three members of families who lost their kin in the incident, met the Congress general secretary and gave her complete information about the incident.Around a month after, in August 2019, when Priyanka Gandhi visited Ubhbha village and met families of the tribals, she visited Gond’s house and met several tribal families.Later, Congress appointed him district president. “I work for the cause of the tribals, and I would keep doing it,” said Gond.Cong fields Rai from Pindra, Rajeshwar from RohaniyaCongress has fielded Rajeshwar Patel from Rohaniya Assembly seat, while former minister Ajai Rai has been fielded from Pindra in Varanasi. Both Rai and Patel congratulated each other.Rai said that there would be a change in the 2022 UP assembly elections. Under the leadership of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, we will continue to raise the voice for the poor, youths and deprived, and every section of the society, both the leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-elections-tribal-leader-ramraj-gond-thanks-congress-for-ticket-101642093560930.html
13-01-2022||Mumbai||Animal activist lodges police complaint, 3 Kalyan pet shop owners booked||The Mahatma Phule police in Kalyan have booked three pet shop owners and attendants after an animal activist from Mumbai lodged a complaint following the fire incident in three pet shops that killed hundreds of animals and pets in Rambaugh, Kalyan (W) on Wednesday.Shashikanth Purohit, a 24-year-old animal lover from Mumbai, lodged an FIR with the Mahatma Phule police station on Wednesday night.“These pet shops are running without any registration or license from the authorities. Maharashtra Animal Welfare Board is the registering authority for these pet shops. The pet shops in Kalyan have not been registered and are illegally operating,” said Purohit.On Wednesday morning, one of the pet shops caught fire, spreading it to two other shops and killing several animals and birds on the spot. Purohit has placed a demand to get the medical examination done of those animals and birds that managed to escape the fire.“In my complaint, I have asked the officials to ensure that those animals and birds that had escaped from the fire are in good health. In a video that surfaced on social media, it was seen that some of the animals and birds were still alive,” added Purohit.According to Purohit, hundreds of animals like cats, birds, mice and Guinea pigs were burnt alive in this incident. They were locked up inside the shop without any attendant or any smoke detection or fire safety measures.“There is a lack of regulations amongst these pet shops as they are allowed to run their business illegally. There are no fire safety norms followed by the shop owners. In this case, such shops should not be allowed to operate,” added Purohit.Based on the complaint, the Mahatma Phule police have registered a case under Sections 337, 429, 289, 268, 3 and 11(1) (A) of Indian Penal Code.
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pahalgam freezes at -11.6°C, Jammu-Srinagar highway still out of bounds||The J&K and Ladakh centres of Indian Meteorological Department said all seven weather observation stations in Kashmir recorded sub-zero temperatures during the night.The lowest temperature of -11.6°C was recorded in Pahalgam in south Kashmir while the ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir shivered at -11.5°C. The mercury settled at -3.6°C in Srinagar during the night while it was -5.3°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund. Kokernag recorded -7.2°C, while it was -5.5°C in Kupwara and -3°C in Konibal. J&K witnessed widespread rains and snowfall between January 4 and 8 leading to closure of the Srinagar-Jammu highway and cancellation of hundreds of flights at Srinagar International Airport.In Jammu division, Bhaderwah, Batote and Banihal stations recorded -3.4°C, -0.3°C and 1°C, respectively, during the night. In Ladakh, Drass recorded the lowest temperature of -27.7°C while it was -13.9°C in Leh during the night. Many parts of Ladakh had witnessed light snowfall on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pahalgam-freezes-at-11-6-c-jammu-srinagar-highway-still-out-of-bounds-101642028813361.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Woman booked for ₹9 lakh extortion from couple||A Sarabha Nagar woman has been booked for allegedly extorting ₹9 lakh from a Jagraon-based man by threatening him with some pictures clicked with his female friends.The complaint was lodged by the victim’s wife on December 4, 2021 following which an inquiry was marked to the deputy superintendent of police.The couple reside City Enclave of Jagraon. The complainant said the accused, Gurpreet Kaur of Central Town in Sarabha Nagar Ludhiana, had been threatening to defame her husband by making public some pictures he had with his female friends. The complainant added that the accused had managed to extort ₹9 lakh from them by threatening them. After preliminary probe, a case under Section 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 499 (defamation) and 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused.Investigating officer, ASI Darshan Singh said the woman is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-booked-for-rs-9-lakh-extortion-from-couple-101642015671007.html
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||House burgled in Chandigarh’s Khuda Lahora||Burglars broke into a house and fled with gold jewellery and other valuables in Khuda Lahora. House owner Amrinder Pal Singh, who runs an eatery in Panchkula, told police that he and his mother had gone to a relative’s house in Mohali when the theft took place on January 10. On returning, they found the front door broken into, and two gold chains, two pairs of earrings, four gold bangles, a gold kada, two watches and ₹20,000 missing. A case of theft has been registered.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFAnother accused held for Ropar man’s murder 
13-01-2022||Pune||Covid: Pune district sees 8,261 new cases, 2 deaths||Pune: On Wednesday, Pune district reported 8,261 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths related to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.21 million of which 1.16 million have recovered, 20,214 is the death toll, and 32,672 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 57,518 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 1,411 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 376,889. The death toll stands at 7,052 as one more death was reported. Pune city reported 4,903 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 554,147. The death toll stands at 9,284 as one more death was reported. PCMC reported 1,947 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 281,921 with the death toll at 3,528 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 57,518 vaccinations on the day as per CoWin dashboard. Of the total of 15.91 million doses administered, 9.14 million are first doses and 6.75 million are second doses. A total of 649 sites saw vaccination of which 479 are government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-sees-8-261-new-cases-2-deaths-101642012431560.html
