14-01-2022||Pune||Police identify 19 accident-prone blackspots in Pune city||PUNE The Pune traffic police department has identified 19 blackspots in the city prone to fatal accidents as per data available for 2021. Last year, a total of 741 accidents happened in Pune city in which 255 people lost their lives. The highest number of fatal accidents, 45, happened under the jurisdiction of Sinhagad Road police station. Navale bridge and the new Katraj bypass come under this police jurisdiction. As per information given by the traffic police department, of the 45 accidents on Sinhgad road traffic, nine accidents happened at New Katraj tunnel bypass. Dari pool bridge had 11 accidents, Navale bridge chowk had 16 accidents and Bhumkar bridge chowk had nine accidents. “We have identified the blackspots in Pune city as per the data of 2021. There are a total of 19 such blackspots identified by the traffic department and we are now studying the reasons behind accidents happening at each of these blackspots. Compared to 2020, the accidents have reduced at these spots,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic). “Most of the accidents due to human error and rash driving. It is necessary for citizens to ride their bike or car safely, and follow all the traffic rules. And two-wheeler riders should wear helmets,” added Shrirame. Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhagad road-Warje residents association said, “There are several accident-prone spots and chowks on Sinhagad road. Halting riskily on the bypass highway or not following traffic rules have cost lives and people have got seriously injured,” Accidents in 2021 Total number of accidents - 741 Total number of deaths - 255 Accident black spots in Pune city New Katraj Tunnel road Dari Pool bridge road Navale Bridge chowk Bhumkar Bridge chowk Vaiduwadi chowk Phursungi Phata chowk Phursungi Railway bridge road Saswad Road near IBM Company Mutha River bridge chowk Dukkarkhind road Mai Mangeshkar hospital road Tata Guard Room chowk Kharadi Bypass chowk Thitevasti chowk Sainath chowk Pathan Shah Darga chowk Katraj chowk Mundhwa Railway Bridge chowk Khadi Machine chowk||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-identify-19-accident-prone-blackspots-in-pune-city-101642184890980.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Swami Prasad Maurya’s daughter Sanghmitra says she remains a loyal BJP worker||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Badaun Sanghmitra Maurya, who is the daughter of former Uttar Pradesh minister Swami Prasad Maurya, on Friday said that she would continue to be in the BJP despite her father having charted a different path.Swami Prasad Maurya quit the Uttar Pradesh cabinet on January 11 and formally joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Friday.“However, my bond with my father will remain intact despite the fact that we are now in different parries,” Sanghmitra said over the phone. Sanghmitra also made an emotional post on Facebook, saying that her father was a hero to her.“The meaning of my Facebook post is simple. All that I have tried to convey through it is that to me the party and my father are two different things. While I remain a loyal worker of the BJP and he has joined the SP, it does not affect the father-daughter relationship in any manner,” Sanghmitra said.Sanghmitra said her father never consulted her before leaving the BJP, nor did she ask him to reconsider his decision of moving out of the BJP. “In our family, the younger (person) respects the elders’ decisions,” Sanghmitra said. She also said that her father never advised or pressured her to part ways with the BJP after he quit the party. 
14-01-2022||Mumbai||238 Omicron cases in state, new cases over 43k||Mumbai Maharashtra reported 43,211 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s active tally to 2,61,658. Maharashtra has been reporting over 40,000 fresh cases daily for the past three days. Mumbai on Friday reported 11,317 fresh infections, while the city’s active case count was at 84,352.In the past seven days, the state has recorded daily cases between 46,700 and 33,400 cases. In the last three days alone, the cases hovered between 46,000 and 43,000, while the daily tests have ranged between 2,16,970 and 2,04,531. Though the cases seem to be stabilising, health department officials and experts said that the state is yet to peak in the third wave. Health department officials estimated that the state’s peak could come in the next week or the last week of January.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 238 new cases of Omicron variant, taking the total tally to 1,605. Out of these, 859 were discharged following a negative RT-PCR test. Of the new cases reported on Friday, 197 were from Pune city, 32 from Pimpri-Chinchwad, three each from Pune rural and Navi Mumbai, two from Mumbai, and one from Akola.The state’s chunk of the fresh Covid cases continued to come from Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), and Pune district. Of the total cases recorded on Friday, 50.99% came from Mumbai and MMR. While 10,047 cases or 23.25% of the total cases came from Pune districts, which has Pune city, Pune rural and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The remaining 11,127 cases reported or 25.76% came from the rest of Maharashtra.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 2,04,531 samples and had a positivity rate of 21.12%. Health department officials said that the administrations have been directed to follow the testing advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) earlier this week. It stated that only at-risk contacts, which are over age 60, of confirmed cases, must be tested along with only symptomatic individuals.In the past three days, the daily positivity rate was 21.87% (January 12), 21.38% (January 13) and 21.12% (on January 14). On January 10 and 11, it was 19.25% and 16.38%, respectively. The jump, officials said, was due to targeted testing. “The targetted testing does lead to an increase when the viral activity is this high. The number of tests may reduce, as we are following Centre’s guidelines on testing, but it will not affect our surveillance,” said a senior health department official who did not wish to be named.
14-01-2022||Pune||Pune dist reports 10,047 Covid positive cases||Pune: On Friday, Pune district reported 10,047 new Covid cases and no deaths. This took the progressive count to 1.23 million of which 1.16 million have recovered, 20,235 deaths and 43,561 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 35,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,020 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 380.696 and the death toll remained at 7,053. Pune city reported 5,561 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 565,351 and the death toll stood at 9,303. PCMC reported 2,466 new cases and the progressive count went up to 286,599 and the toll stood at 3,529 as no more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 35,554 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Friday and 16.02 million doses have been registered in the district. Of which 9.18 million are first doses and 6.80 million are second doses. Also, 33,965 precautionary doses have been given till Friday. A total of 583 sites saw vaccination out of which 416 were govt centers and 167 were private centers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-10-047-covid-positive-cases-101642184351575.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mother or father’s right to the custody of their minor child no longer absolute: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said the child’s welfare is decisive for the claim of custody, and court while taking the decision is expected to strike a “just and proper balance” between this requirement of welfare of the minor child and parents’ rights over the minor child.“The term custody should not be interpreted in its strict sense as physical custody. Custody means custody in the sense of supervision and control over the child. The mother’s or father’s right to the custody of their minor child is no longer absolute,” the bench of justice Sant Parkash said, dismissing plea from a mother, who had demanded custody of her five-year-old daughter.The plea was from a Fazilka woman who had told court that she got married in 2014 and a daughter was born in December 2015. Later matrimonial dispute arose, and in September 2020, after she and her daughter were “abused”, she called her parents. When she was about to leave with her daughter, her estranged husband and his family members “snatched” the girl and assaulted her kin. She then moved an application for custody before police and child development presiding Officer, but allegedly no action was taken. The petitioner being biological mother is entitled for her custody, it was argued. The state in its inquiry report had submitted that the minor was not snatched and that she was not living in a pathetic situation. She has deep-rooted love and affection for her father and grandparents, and was being looked after well, it was stated in the report. A lower court upon plea from the woman had ordered status quo on custody. The high court observed that the most important consideration that must always weigh with the court while deciding custody is welfare of the minor. “..what would be for the welfare of the minor must necessarily depend upon the facts and circumstances of each particular case. Sentiments and welfare of the minor are supreme consideration which cannot be ignored,” it said dismissing the plea from the mother, on the basis of facts that had emerged in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mother-or-father-s-right-to-the-custody-of-their-minor-child-no-longer-absolute-hc-101642183991036.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath to offer khichdi at Gorakhnath temple today||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is also the peethadheeshwar ( head priest ) of Gorakhnath temple here, would offer first khichdi at the temple to mark Makar Sakranti, official sources confirmed. On the occasion, a month-long khichdi fair , organised every year on Makar Sakranti, will also start at the temple which has been decked up with colorful lights . In view of the fresh surge in corona cases, Covid protocol will be followed completely while full security arrangement has been made to ensure safety of devotees. As temple chief, Yogi Adityanath has been performing pre-dawn special pujas on khichdi since years. The khichdi sent by former kings of Nepal is offered first by the CM and then the devotees are allowed turn wise to enter the sanctum sanctorum . The annual fair was expected to be visited by lakhs of devotees who would offer khichdi ( raw pulses and rice ) to Baba Gorakhnath , the manifestation of Lord Shiva, said temple official Dwarika Tiwari.Tonnes of khichdi offered by devotees is used for preparing langar and to feed the poor throughout the year.In view of the fair, an administrative team led by district magistrate Vijay Kiran visited the temple . The DM asked the officials to complete preparations before time. Arrangements for stay of devotees , bonfire and sanitation were also made. It is said 11th century saint Baba Gorakhnath moved to Gorakhpur and stayed here. People started offering him pulses, rice and other stuff .Since then, the tradition to offer khichdi continues at Gorakhnath temple||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-to-offer-khichdi-at-gorakhnath-temple-today-101642183869685.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Azad Samaj Party joins hands with Samajwadi Party||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Azad Samaj Party (ASP) led by Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad entered into an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Friday after Chandrashekhar met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav at the SP state unit office here in the morning.The Azad Samaj Party enjoys influence over Dalit community voters in the districts of west UP. Chandrashekhar is likely to contest assembly election in alliance with the SP in his stronghold Saharanpur. After meeting Akhilesh, Chandrashekhar said, “Discussion was held on alliance and seat sharing. The ASP has decided to join hand with the Samajwadi Party to defeat the Bhartiya Janta Party in the coming assembly election. The SP alliance led by Akhilesh Yadav will form the next government in UP.” The Samajwadi Party allies for the upcoming UP polls include the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Mahan Dal, the Apna Dal (Kamerawadi) , the Trinamool Congress and the Janvadi Party (Socialist). The SP and RLD alliance on Thursday released the list of the 29 candidates who will contest election on the SP and the RLD tickets on the assembly seats located in western UP.Launched in March 2020, the ASP had contested the Bihar assembly election held in October, 2020, in alliance with the Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) led by Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav. The ASP and the JAP had joined Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA) of the smaller political parties. The ASP failed to open its account in Bihar despite month-long campaign by Chandrashekhar Azad. In the zila panchayat ward election held in May 2020 in UP, the Bhim Army made its presence felt with winning wards in Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur districts. To mobilise the party cadre for the UP assembly election, the ASP had launched a bicycle yatra on July 1, 2020 in all 403 assembly segments in Uttar Pradesh. “The ASP will raise the issue of increasing atrocities on Dalit community members in UP, appointment on vacant posts according to the reservation formula, implementation of SC/ST/OBC reservation policy in the appointments for government jobs and price rise in the election campaign,” Chandrashekhar said.Fearing that ASP might cut into the BSP Dalit vote base, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati had called upon the party workers not to be misguided by the parties launched by some leaders to serve their vested political interests. “The Dalit community should remain wary of the political gimmicks of those who are claiming to be Dalit leaders. The BSP is not only a political party but a movement to fulfil the dreams of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram,” she had said.
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Yogi has meal at Dalit BJP worker’s home in Gorakhpur, targets Samajwadi Party||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had a “khichdi” meal at the residence of a Dalit worker of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the occasion of Makar Sankranti in Gorakhpur on Friday and targeted the Samajwadi Party, saying that under its rule there was “social exploitation” and not “social justice”.In contrast, the BJP government was working for the development of every section of the society without any discrimination, Yogi Adityanath said after taking the meal at the residence of BJP worker Amritlal Bharti in the Jhungia locality of Gorakhpur.Yogi Adityanath’s visit came a little before Swami Prasad Maurya and Dharam Singh Saini, who resigned from the BJP government earlier in the week accusing it of being anti-Dalit, gathered at the Samajwadi Party office in Lucknow to take up its membership in the run-up to the assembly polls beginning February 10.A total of 11 BJP MLAs and one Apna Dal (Sonelal) legislator have quit their respective parties since January 8. Eight of them, including the two former ministers, joined the Samajwadi Party on Friday. Another minister Dara Singh Chauhan had also resigned but he was not seen at the SP office on the day.Apparently hitting out at the former ministers who joined the Samajwadi Party, he said those who promote dynasty and family in politics can never be supporters of social justice. They are not fighting for the equality or the welfare of the backward and Dalit community but wish to promote corruption in politics, Yogi Adityanath alleged. Yogi Adityanath also said to reporters, “Only 18,000 houses were given to people under PM Awas Yojna in the full five-year term of the Akhilesh Yadav government in UP, whereas the present BJP government has given 45 lakh houses to the poor and the deprived under the scheme.”“It was ‘samajik shoshan’ (social exploitation) and not ‘samajik nyay’ (social justice) during the SP rule in UP,” he said, taking a swipe at his predecessor and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.Rather, the land and houses of the weaker sections were grabbed under the Samajwadi Party rule, Yogi alleged. If this is the SP leaders’ policy of social justice then BJP will oppose it, he said. Yogi Adityanath also said 2.61 crore households got toilets and 1.36 crore families benefitted from the Ujjwala Yojana under the “double engine” government, referring to the BJP rule at the Centre and in the state.“Those in the grip of dynastic politics cannot give justice to any section of the society,” Yogi added.“The SP government had committed dacoity on the rights of Dalits and the poor,” he further said.“There has been no discrimination under the BJP government, the poor people have benefitted from welfare schemes. The society based on equality, free of corruption, rule of law and good governance are the ideals of the BJP government,” he said. “Community meal is an important means of establishing social equality. The dream of Dalit icon Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar is being fulfilled with the mantra ‘sabka saath- sabka vikas’ under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The country, as well as Uttar Pradesh, is moving fast on the path of development, good governance and nationalism,” he said.Akhilesh Yadav was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh from 2012 to 2017.Maurya and Saini, as well as almost all rebel MLAs, had accused the state government of not caring for the welfare of Dalits and the backward classes and said this was the prime reason for leaving the BJP camp.
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid rise in UP: Dist court lawyers too demand virtual hearing of cases||After successful introduction of WebEx system for virtual hearing of cases in the high court amid the rising Covid cases, lawyers are demanding this system in district courts too. As Covid cases are increasing each passing day, lawyers feel that virtual hearing of cases could be extended for a prolonged period. In such a scenario, lawyers want a robust online system for it. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has introduced the WebEx system for virtual hearing of cases. The same software is being used in the Supreme Court and in several high courts across the country. “Covid-19 is here to stay for a prolonged period. Working of courts is among the worst affected due to the pandemic. The government will have to equip district courts also with the latest technique for virtual hearing of cases,” said Sunil Dwivedi, president, Central Bar Association, district court, Lucknow. “Like high court, district courts must also have WebEx system for virtual hearing of cases. To start with, the new system must be introduced in some courts. Thereafter, it must be introduced in all court rooms,” Dwivedi added.“As a pilot project, it must be introduced in some district courts starting with Lucknow and some other districts,” he said. The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh has also suggested the state government to upgrade videoconferencing facility in all district courts. The Bar Council also wants segregation of virtual hearing of cases into lower courts, civil and criminal, so that all cases could be taken up and not only cases related with criminal matters. “Working of district courts is again disrupted. We need a robust system of videoconferencing in several court rooms in district courts so that judicial work does not come to a standstill,” said Prashant Singh, co-president, Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-rise-in-up-dist-court-lawyers-too-demand-virtual-hearing-of-cases-101642183089631.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid surge: NER issues fresh guidelines for train passengers||In the wake of Covid surge across the state, the Lucknow division of the North Eastern Railways (NER) has issued fresh guidelines as per which unmasked passengers would neither not be allowed to enter station premises nor would they be allowed to travel . The guidelines were issued after the Union ministry of home affairs, the ministry of health and the ministry of railways issued strict anti-Covid protocols focusing on the stations that belong to A1, A and B categories and witnesses high footfall. “We have formed special covid monitoring squads to keep a check on the passengers and to ensure that they are on with the protective gears, including mask or face shield”, said Dr Monica Agnihotri, divisional railway manager (DRM), Lucknow division, NER.She also said all the public-dealing staff should also ensure that they wear proper mask while performing duties. She said there would be regular announcements on the station premises in order to spread awareness among the train passengers. She said the division had also put in place a crowd management system that would keep a check on overcrowding.“Under this, a team would ensure that social distancing is followed. The queue managers would be deputed at all entry points of the station and would ensure smooth entry and exit of train passengers,” Agnihotri added.The DRM also said sanitisation machines and foot-operated machines would be made available at all entry and exit points. Also, the arrangement of thermal screening had been made at the entry gates and hand-held devices had been given to the joint team of commercial and railway protection force for thermal screening of passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-surge-ner-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-train-passengers-101642182669751.html
14-01-2022||Pune||Two days after shortage of vax stock, Pune gets 0.12 million doses for teen vaccination drive||Pune: Two days after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had to bring down its teen vaccination centres from 179 to 40, the civic body is hoping to restart all these after the state supplied fresh stock on Friday. Of the 0.12 million doses that the district received, the civic body was allocated over 35,000 doses of the vaccine. The district has a total of 0.553 million target beneficiaries aged between 15 and 18 years of age who are eligible to get Covaxin as their anti-Covid vaccine. As of Friday evening, the district has been able to vaccinate 553,190 eligible beneficiaries of which PMC has vaccinated 48,601 beneficiaries (22%), PCMC has vaccinated 32,491 beneficiaries (28%) and rural has been able to vaccinate 155,902 beneficiaries (74%) which makes about 43% beneficiaries aged between 15 and 18 years of age who have got their first dose of the vaccine. Dr Suryakant Deokar, civic immunisation officer said, “SInce the past two days we have been running only 40 Covid vaccination centres instead of 179 launched since last week since we did not have enough doses. However, on Friday, we received over 35,000 doses of Covaxin from the state government. With the new stock we would be able to run all our centres for teen vaccination. There are about 0.224 million teenagers, aged between 15-17 and eligible to get the Covid vaccine in the city out of which 48,000 have got their first dose of the vaccine which is about 22% of the target population getting the first dose of the vaccine.” In response to the state government demanding more vaccines due to the shortage, the central government issued a press note saying that the state has enough vaccine stocks and that there is no shortage. The central government’s note states that as per the reports available today (January 14), Maharashtra has over 2.4 million unutilised doses of Covaxin available with it. An additional 0.635 million doses have been received on Friday. As per their weekly consumption data available on Co-WIN, the average consumption by Maharashtra for Covaxin to cover the eligible beneficiaries for 15-17 years and for precaution dose is almost 0.294 million doses per day. Therefore, the state has adequate vaccine doses for about 10 days to cover the eligible beneficiaries with Covaxin, according to the central government’s note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-days-after-shortage-of-vax-stock-pune-gets-0-12-million-doses-for-teen-vaccination-drive-101642182609607.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow crosses first dose Covid vaccination target||The state capital crossed its first dose Covid vaccination target for 18-plus population on Friday. “It was with the support of our staff and peoples’ participation that we achieved the given target,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge vaccination in Lucknow Lucknow had a target of vaccinating 37.40 lakh people above 18 years of age and by 9 pm, 38,62,788 doses had been administered. “Still there might be a few people left for vaccination, particularly those who shifted to live in Lucknow from other districts. We wish to appeal to all such people to get vaccinated who are yet to get the jab. Also, we hope to administer second dose to all eligible people soon,” Dr Singh added.The data for eligible population for vaccination was initially taken from voter list, hence there can still be some people who have not been vaccinated.First dose to over 14 cr in UPThe number of first Covid vaccine doses administered till now in Uttar Pradesh crossed 14-crore mark on Friday. According to the data from the health department, 14,09,23,405 doses of the anti-Covid -19 vaccine were administered till 7 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-crosses-first-dose-covid-vaccination-target-101642182190981.html
14-01-2022||Pune||Omicron, political unrest block SPPU students from Africa and Afghanistan to join campus||Even as admissions for various courses in Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is on, many foreign students are left with online format of study as travel restrictions are in place due to rise in Omicron cases. Foreign students, especially from African countries and Afghanistan, who have registered for various courses at SPPU are stuck in their hometown and pursue studies online. More than 165 students from these countries have taken admissions under the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) in the academic year 2020-21 and 2021-22. “There is an impact of the Omicron variant spread in African countries as the students registered for various courses are yet to arrive in India. Once their governments reopen international travel, they can come to SPPU and complete their admission process,” said Anuja Chakravarty, Pune regional director of ICCR. A total of 515 students have taken admission at SPPU’s international students centre in the academic year 2021-22. Of these, around 20 students are from African countries who have not yet come to complete in-person admission process. “The Afghan students mostly take admission for Bachelor of Arts (BA) course with specialisation in Political Science. International students go mostly for traditional BA, Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) and management courses. Since last academic year, many foreign students are opting for BBA in Hospitality and Management course at SPPU. Thirty foreign students enrolled for this course last year,” said Chakravarty. Ahmed Rumani, a SPPU BA student from Afghanistan of 2020-21 batch, said, “We are eagerly waiting to come to India and resume studies. There is a constant fear of war and attacks from the Taliban. Many SPPU students are waiting for flights to resume to come to Pune.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-political-unrest-block-sppu-students-from-africa-and-afghanistan-to-join-campus-101642182189786.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Ceremonial parade of 103 NCOs held at Lucknow AMC Centre||A ceremonial parade was held at Officers Training College, Army Medical Corps (AMC) Centre and College, Lucknow, as part of the training curriculum of senior cadre course on Wednesday (January 12).103 non-commissioned officers (NCOs), who will be assuming higher ranks in times to come, were trained at the college. Military training to the soldiers has raised their morale, confidence and self-esteem thereby preparing them to assume junior leadership roles with values, ethos and culture of Armed Forces Medical Service as flag bearers.The ceremonial parade was witnessed by course officers of Medical Officers Junior Command Course (MOJCC) and Basic Nursing Officers’ Course (BNOC). The parade was marked by military precision and customary elegance. The ceremonial parade was reviewed by Major General JP Prasad, Commandant and Chief Instructor, Officers Training College, AMC Centre and College.This course was conducted during the pandemic while adhering to Covid protocol. These Covid warriors have been trained in various aspects of Covid management from the lessons learnt in past. Havildar (nursing assistant) Pramod Kumar P was adjudged best in drill while havildar (nursing assistant) E Juno was adjudged the best in physical fitness test.Major General JP Prasad exhorted the NCOs to uphold the traditions of Army Medical Corps by maintaining the highest order of professional competence. He complimented all of them on their meticulous conduct of parade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ceremonial-parade-of-103-ncos-held-at-lucknow-amc-centre-101642182129814.html
14-01-2022||Pune||Extreme weather claimed 350 lives in Maharashtra in 2021||As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), over 30 districts in Maharashtra witnessed a flood-like situation in 2021 as the state faced maximum heavy rainfall and intense rainfall events in India. Extreme events like cyclone and thunderstorms were also reported. Pune district also reported extreme climatic conditions during the last year, as per the weather department. Senior officials from the ministry of earth sciences (MoES) inaugurated websites and four new radars across India during the 147th foundation day celebration of IMD on Friday. Details of the vulnerability atlas were published on the occasion. In 2021, 350 people in Maharashtra lost their lives due to cyclone Tauktae, cyclone gulab, flooding, lightning and thunderstorm and other extreme weather events. Of the 350 people, 215 died due to flooding as per IMD data. Maharashtra in 2021 reported 20 per cent deaths from across India due to extreme weather events. As per the weather department officials, 1,750 deaths were reported from across the country due to weather hazards in 2021, with 43 per cent deaths due to flooding and 45 per cent due to thunderstorms and lightning. According to the standardised precipitation index for the period January to December 2021, Pune district is mildly wet. Other districts in the state reported either mildly wet or more. Speaking about the atlas, P Guhathakurta, head of IMD’s Climate Data Management and Services, said there are 13 hazard categories differentiated into two categories — hazard and vulnerability. “We have tried to include all weather hazards, including flooding, thunderstorms and lightning, cold and heat waves. In the vulnerability data, we have included hazards which have caused at least one death between 1969 and 2020,” said Guhathakurta. He said vulnerability from cyclones are also added in the atlas. “We have used population density and housing density for cyclone vulnerability as per the last district wise census,” he said. Continuous rainfall in 2021 caused the cumulative standardised precipitation index (SPI) values of the past twelve months to indicate extremely wet-severely wet conditions over Konkan and Goa, central Maharashtra and Marathwada. Weather calamity Deaths in Maharashtra due to extreme weather events in 2021 Cyclone Tauktae and Cyclone Gulab: 56 Flooding: 215 Thunderstorm and lightning: 76 Other events (cold wave, dust storm, gale, hailstorm and snowfall): 3 Total: 350 Total deaths across India: 1,750 Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/extreme-weather-claimed-350-lives-in-maharashtra-in-2021-101642181715348.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||SGPGIMS restricts non-Covid admissions to 50%||After restricting the entry of OPD patients to the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), the PGI administration has decided to restrict the admission of non-Covid patients to 50% of the beds due to the surge in Coronavirus cases in the state capital.The PGI administration has directed to block admission on 50% beds through its MIS system from January 15.Professor Gaurav Agarwal, chief medical superintendent, PGI, said, “The rate at which Covid-19 is spreading will require manpower to be spared for Covid-19 care. Besides that a number of PGI staff, nurses are also getting infected. They too need a recovery period of at least a week according to ICMR guidelines. So, if we have to increase Covid-19 care then we will have to manage with our limited manpower. That’s why the PGI administration has decided to limit non-Covid-19 admissions to 50% of the bed strength. The manpower spared from non-Covid-19 care will be diverted to Covid-19 care if required.”However, there are some priority areas which will get immediate attention: cancer patients, those on dialysis, high-risk pregnancy patients, haemophilia patients and other blood disorders and cardiac patients. Currently, the PGI has around 950 beds and almost all of them are occupied.Meanwhile, the PGI administration has cancelled elective leaves of residents, officials, staff, nurses and doctors in the wake of the spurt in Coronavirus cases. The PGI administration has directed all heads of departments not to give leave to any staff, while all senior doctors who are on leave will be expected to join duties if they are required for duty.During the last one week around 35 PGI staff have tested positive, forcing the PGI administration to take steps to protect its staff from getting infected.Professor Gaurav Agarwal said, “Thankfully, fewer people are requiring admission in hospitals after getting infected this year but we are ready for an influx of patients. Currently, only 40 patients are admitted in Rajdhani Covid-19 hospital which has a capacity of around 300 beds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sgpgims-restricts-non-covid-admissions-to-50-101642181529410.html
14-01-2022||Pune||Covid cases touch second wave peak, O2 consumption drops by four times in Pune||A comparative analysis of the second and the third Covid wave shows the latter not as intense as the former one. During the peak of the second wave on April 7, 2021 when the district reported 9,621 new cases there were over 96,000 active cases. The district had 66% of active cases isolated at home and reported close to 150 deaths. However, in this wave, as of January 13, 2022, with over 9,600 new cases reported, the number of active cases has gone up to 42,000 of which more than 95% are isolated at home and the district has reported only three deaths due to the infection. As of April 7, 2021, which was the peak period for the second wave in the district, over 1,700 were on ventilator. As of January 13, 2022, when the district reported 9,645 new Covid cases on the day, 69 are on ventilator. While the previous wave was dominated by Delta variant and the sub-lineages of the variant which was the most fatal one, as of date, the third wave is most likely to be dominated by Omicron variant which experts have said would be mild in terms of symptoms, but highly transmissible. With more home test kits at hand, the central government has expressed concern that many cases might go unreported and that only 50% of the samples which have been genome sequenced reported Omicron variants, and the other half could be Delta variant or its sub-lineages. Experts have expressed the fact that many of the unreported Covid cases could be of the Delta variant and could add stress on the health infrastructure. The district administration said that though there is a rise in Covid cases, hospitalisations remain low with most patients reporting mild symptoms. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune circle said, “It is true that as of now genome sequencing results have shown that half the Covid cases are Omicron while the other half could possibly be Delta. We are aware of the fatal characteristics of the variant of Delta and its sub-lineages. Those getting tested at home and not reporting to authorities could be infected with the Delta variant. In addition to genome sequencing, one thing that is assuring is that the cases which are being admitted do not have severe cases. During the peak of the second Covid wave the hospitalisation rate was about 30% which as of now is just 2.9%. Even though genome sequencing is showing that Omicron is still not dominant, given the severity of symptoms of patients being admitted, we can say that Omicron is dominating.” Dr Deshmukh said that the picture would be much clearer in the next 15 days and if the symptoms continue to remain less severe than it is not a matter of concern. He said, “Although there is a slight increase in oxygen consumption in the last 14 days, it is not noticeable and is only because of the overall increase in admissions.” The district administration along with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has asked the chemist association and the pharmacy owners to ensure that all those who buy the home test kits for Covid should upload results on the respective company sites. Also, pharmacy selling these kits has to note down details on the person, including the Aadhaar number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-cases-touch-second-wave-peak-o2-consumption-drops-by-four-times-in-pune-101642181409366.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Brace for dense fog, more chill over weekend in Uttar Pradesh||letters@htlive.comThe Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), on Friday, issued an alert of dense fog and cold wave conditions across Uttar Pradesh over the weekend. The alert is in line with the recent changes in weather conditions across the state marked by a sharp drop in temperatures. The minimum temperature was recorded at 7.8 degrees Celsius in the state capital on Friday.According to the alert, “Very dense fog is likely over Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Hardoi, Bahraich, Sravasti, Balrampur, Siddharth Nagar, Maharajganj, Kushinagar and adjoining areas over the next 48 hours,” reads the statement.“Dense fog is very likely over Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Guttambuddha Nagar, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Sambhal, Badaun, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahajahanpur, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Farrukhabad, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Gonda, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Etah, Kasganj, Amethi and adjoining areas,” the IMD warning reads.Districts including Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha, Bareilly, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Baghpat, Pilibhit are expected to have severe cold conditions.Director of state MeT department JP Gupta said, “A low-pressure atmospheric zone has developed over central and west UP, which is responsible for the drop in temperatures. The low-pressure zone will subside gradually over the weekend.”Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions suggesting they make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold.The minimum temperature in cities across UP also plummeted on Friday. Meerut recorded a minimum temperature of 3.8 degrees Celsius, while the mercury dropped to 5.5 and 5.8 degrees Celsius in Muzaffarnagar and Agra, respectively. Kanpur recorded a minimum temperature of 4.4 degrees Celsius, while it was 9.5 degrees Celsius in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/brace-for-dense-fog-more-chill-over-weekend-in-uttar-pradesh-101642181051800.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||UP greener than it was 2 years ago: Report||The green cover has gone up in Uttar Pradesh, reveals the latest ‘State of Forest Report-2021’.“The forest survey is compiled by the Forest Survey of India, Dehradun, every two years and on the basis of it, the state of forest report is released by the government of India,” said Mukesh Kumar, chief conservator of forests, in a press statement.The report says that there has been a considerable rise in the forest and tree cover categories in Uttar Pradesh. The latest report includes satellite data between October 2019 and February 2020.Uttar Pradesh has been making record plantations for the past five years and a total about 100 crore trees have been planted over the period of five years, a maximum 30 crore in the past year. Apart from fruit-bearing trees, medicinal plants and trees of nutritional value have also been planted. Plantation drives focused on areas such as Bundelkhand and also banks of rivers for high survival rate of trees planted.Category -------------------------2019-----------------2021Very Dense Forest--------------2617 sq km---------2627 sq kmModerately Dense Forest------4080 sq km---------4029 sq kmOpen Forest----------------------8109 sq km---------8162 sq kmTotal--------------------------14,806 sq km-------14,818 sq km||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-greener-than-it-was-2-years-ago-report-101642180989486.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP will get rid of Punjab’s debt, fill treasury: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann on Friday said that the party would get rid of the state’s ₹3 lakh debt, fill the government treasury and fulfil its guarantees if voted to power in the upcoming assembly elections. Blaming the successive Congress and Akali governments for the present fiscal situation of the state, Mann said Punjab continues to reel under ever-increasing debt, while assets of ruling party leaders have kept increasing manifold. “The AAP has a comprehensive plan for the overall development of Punjab, under which pro-people policies, such as providing good quality education and treatment in government institutions, and development of agriculture and of industries, have been formulated,” he said at a press conference in Mohali, while presenting his party’s blueprint to save Punjab’s exchequer. The AAP leader said that out of the state’s treasury of ₹1.68 lakh crore, ₹30,000-35,000 crore is being looted every year through corruption and mafia. “We will put an end to this on priority. Sand mafia is robbing Punjab of revenue worth ₹20,000 crore every year. Transport, excise and land grabbing mafias will also be stopped,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-will-get-rid-of-punjab-s-debt-fill-treasury-bhagwant-mann-101642180749544.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Notice to nine Varanasi schools for laxity in teen vax drive||A notice has been served to the principals of nine schools for not complying with the order of keeping their institutes open for vaccination of children between 15 to 18 years of age. District Magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma had ordered that all the schools in which children between 15 to 18 years of age study would remain open from January 14 to January 16 for vaccination. But nine schools didn’t comply with the order, the officials said.Notices have been served to the principals of Nehru Inter College, Railirampur, Sevapuri, Girja Devi Memorial Children Academy, Sevapuri, Chowdhary Ganga Ram Secondary School, Jalhupur, Khandeshwari Baba Inter College, Chandpurin Chiraigaon, Mahamaya Malti Devi Inter College, Malhath, Dabethua, KD Intermediate College, Chiraigaon, BSRN Inter College, Chiraigaon, Rajnandan Sahu Inter College, Narayanpur, Premchand Intermediate College, Bankat, Gajapur, Sevapuri.The DM said that show-cause notices have been issued against the schools. The schools have been asked to explain why departmental action should not be taken against them for the negligence of duty, and criminal action should not be taken under the relevant sections of the National Disaster Management Act-2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/notice-to-nine-varanasi-schools-for-laxity-in-teen-vax-drive-101642180693334.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow PGI doctors performs rare heart procedure||The cardiologists of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences successfully performed a rare procedure — balloon dilatation of heart valve through neck veins— saving the patient from a costly surgery. The procedure was performed on a 25-year-old woman who had marked narrowing of the left heart valve. This procedure is commonly done through leg veins. But was not possible in this patient due to abnormal leg veins, and hence the only option left for her was to have open-heart surgery.Department of Cardiology additional professor Dr Roopali Khanna, said, “The patient reported in our OPD two weeks back after going through her reports, I decided to go for the procedure. I accepted the challenge and admitted the patient. The procedure was performed on Thursday, and today, the patient was discharged.”Dr Khanna said, “I thank my anaesthetic colleague Dr Amit Rastogi, who helped me to take this decision to perform the procedure through the neck veins, which needs exceptional experience and expertise. Till date, only a few cases have been done in the world through the neck veins.”Her team successfully resolved the mitral valve narrowing with balloon dilatation and avoided a high risk and costly surgery for a young woman. After a successful procedure, the patient is also able to walk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-pgi-doctors-performs-rare-heart-procedure-101642179729566.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: 21 people succumb, 7,642 test positive in Punjab||Punjab on Friday registered another surge in Covid-19 pandemic with 7,642 people testing positive and 21 succumbing to the virus in the past 24 hours. This is the highest death toll in a day during the present surge, which took the total to 16,731. The state’s infection tally has climbed to 6,49,736, of which 34,303 cases are still active, stated a medical bulletin.At 21.19%, positivity rate of the state on Friday was also the highest in the third wave, with Bathinda registering a record 43.35% amid 469 new cases. Ludhiana witnessed 1,808 fresh cases, at 43.17% positivity rate, and SAS Nagar accounted for 1,215 at a positivity rate of 34.99%. Meanwhile, Jalandhar registered 695 cases followed by 634 in Patiala, 462 in Hoshiarpur, 445 in Amritsar, 299 in Gurdaspur, 272 in Pathankot, 259 in Kapurthala and 248 in Ropar.With 3,612 people recovering from the virus, the number of those cured has reached 5,98,702, according to the bulletin. As many as 1,89,452 doses of the vaccine were also administered on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-21-people-succumb-7-642-test-positive-in-punjab-101642179429276.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||FIR lodged eight months after blast at oxygen plant in Lucknow||Around eight months after a blast in the oxygen cylinder factory on Dewa road, the Lucknow police on Wednesday registered an FIR against four people, including the plant owner, proprietor and hospital management in connection with the death of three people and causing severe injuries to two others, said senior police officials here on Friday.The officials said the FIR was lodged on the court directives on the complaint of one Kiran Pandey, the wife of one of the deceased Arun Kumar Pandey, in the matter. The FIR copy is in possession of the HT.The blast happened when hundreds were queued at the KT Oxygen plant on Dewa road in Chinhat during the second wave of the Covid pandemic on May 5, 2021. In the incident, factory employee Arun Kumar Pandey and two outsiders, Deepu Kannaujia and Tribhuvan Yadav, were killed, while two other factory employees, Rajbali Yadav and Ankur Yadav, lost a hand and a limb, respectively.As per the FIR, Arun Kumar Pandey’s wife accused the plant owner, its proprietor Atul Kumar Malhotra, one Pramod Jain and Jan Mangal hospital authorities of negligence and causing deaths and injuries due to negligent act as well insult and criminal intimidation.She mentioned in the FIR that along with her husband, Rajbali and Ankur Yadav were all factory employees and fell victim to the negligence of the factory authorities. Deepu was the domestic help of Pramod Jain and had come to take oxygen for the latter’s family member. Tribhuvan was an employee of Jan Mangal hospital and had come to take oxygen for the hospital, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fir-lodged-eight-months-after-blast-at-oxygen-plant-in-lucknow-101642179369303.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: 98 sets of nomination papers purchased in Braj region on first day||With districts of Agra, Aligarh and Mathura going for polls in first phase of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections on February 10, the nomination process begun on Friday. In all 98 nomination papers were purchased in these districts of western Uttar Pradesh on day one. The last date for filing of nomination is January 21. However, no nominations were filed on Friday. In Mathura, 17 nomination papers were purchased by intending candidates. Among these, 3 were for Mathura Vrindavan assembly seat, 5 were for Chata assembly seat, 2 for Goverdhan assembly seat, 4 for Mant assembly seat and 3 for Baldev assembly seat. Mathura has 5 assembly seats going for polls in the first phase. For nine assembly seats of Agra, 37 sets of nomination papers were purchased on first day. This included 5 for Etmadpur, 3 for Agra Cantt, 9 for Agra South, 2 for Agra North, 5 for Agra rural, 4 for Fatehpur Sikri, 5 for Kheragarh, 2 for Fatehabad and 2 for Bah. Aligarh district having seven assembly seats, too had beginning of nomination process on Friday and in all 44 nomination paper sets were purchased. These included 14 for Iglas, 12 for Aligarh city, 2 for Khair, 5 for Barauli, 3 for Kol, 5 for Charra and 3 for Atrauli. The scrutiny of papers would be held January 24 in these three districts of Braj region and January 27 will be the last date for withdrawal of names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-98-sets-of-nomination-papers-purchased-in-braj-region-on-first-day-101642178595044.html
14-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengal's single-day Covid tally dips with 22,645 cases, Kolkata's rises slightly||West Bengal on Friday reported a slight dip in the daily Covid-19 caseload after the eastern state saw as many as 22,645 of its citizens testing positive for the disease, according to health bulletin data. Friday's figures are 822 fewer than Thursday when 23,467 fresh infections were logged. The overall tally of Bengal has now reached 18,63,697, the health bulletin data revealed.Kolkata, however, took a U-turn from its declining trend and reported a marginal spike in the single-day case count with 6,867 Covid-19 infections as opposed to 6,768 on Thursday. It also remains the worst-affected districts in Bengal due to Covid-19.New deaths due to the virus in Bengal rose by two on Friday after 28 patients succumbed to it in comparison to 26 on the preceding day. With this, the death toll of the state climbed to 20,013.Also Read | From Alpha, Delta to Omicron: How Covid-19 symptoms changedMeanwhile, fresh recoveries in 24 hours saw a spike as more patients recuperated from coronavirus as against the number that did on Thursday. As many as 8,687 new recoveries were reported on Friday, which is 548 more than Thursday's 8,139. The total number of patients to have recovered from Covid-19 has touched 16,98,201 in Bengal after the latest additions.Besides Kolkata, districts that are the top five most-hit in Bengal include North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah.Here are the number of single-day cases that these five districts reported on Friday:Bengal, on the other hand, continues to hold the second spot in India's active case count with as many as 1,45,483 infections, only behind Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-single-day-covid-tally-dips-with-22-645-cases-kolkata-s-rises-slightly-101642176340231.html
14-01-2022||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge death: HC junks CBI’s mobile theft theory||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday rejected the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) theory that mobile theft could be a possible motive behind the alleged murder of Dhanbad additional judge Uttam Anand in July last year and directed the agency to submit the findings report of all technical investigation done by it to date in the case. Taking up the weekly investigation progress report in the case in a virtual hearing, the bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujeet Narayan Prasad dismissed the CBI theory that the two accused have confessed they were trying to snatch the mobile phone of the judge at the time of the fatal accident. The judge was mowed down by an auto-rickshaw while he was on a morning walk in Dhanbad on July 28, 2021. A CCTV footage of the incident showed the vehicle swerving towards the judge on an otherwise empty road and hitting him from behind. The vehicle, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was recovered from neighbouring Giridih district the same night. Two persons, auto driver Lakhan Verma, 22, and his associate Rahul Verma, 21, were arrested two days later.In its first charge sheet, CBI had claimed that the two were the only two occupants of the auto rickshaw that hit the judge, but is yet to establish the motive. “The court said could it be possible that the accused were trying to derail the murder investigation by making such claims,” a lawyer who attended the virtual hearing said. The court also asked for the reason behind CBI’s technical investigation like narco test and brain mapping twice. The probe agency told the court that it was done to establish different set of information they came across during the ongoing investigation. Fixing January 21 as the next date of bearing in the case, the court directed the CBI to submit all test reports by then. The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court had taken the suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident.The CBI took over the probe on July 31 after the apex court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary. The state government had also recommended an investigation by the central agency into the case.The central agency later filed the charge sheet against the duo under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dhanbad-judge-death-hc-junks-cbi-s-mobile-theft-theory-101642178052535.html
14-01-2022||Patna||Covid-19 third wave: Patna tops among urban areas in transmissibility||PATNA The third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, in the initial fortnight, has predominantly affected the urban areas in Bihar, with Patna reporting 38.5% (13,927) of the state’s 34,084 total active cases, said state health officials here on Friday. Patna also registered the state’s highest 32% (2,116 cases) of the total 6,541 new infections on Thursday, having the state’s highest positivity rate of 21.03% in the week ending January 13, said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, during a virtual press conference on Friday. Saharsa had a test positivity rate of 4.80%, followed by Muzaffarpur 4.73% and Jehanabad 4.23%, he said. Muzaffarpur (427 cases) and Gaya (132) were among the other two leading urban districts in terms of the high number of active Covid-19 cases, followed by Saharsa and Munger, which were relatively less urban. “Urban centres like Patna are showing higher transmissibility of the virus than rural areas in Bihar, just like Mumbai in Maharashtra,” said Amrit. “The number of daily new infections has been going up and down in Patna. It reported 2,566 cases on January 10, 2,200 on January 11, 2,017 on January 12, 2,275 on January 13 and 2,116 cases on January 14. It is actually early to predict the trend of the virus. We are, however, keeping a close watch on the trend,” he said. “Only 1% of the active cases have required hospitalisation, while the remaining 99% are under home isolation. This is a pointer to the fact that the effect of the virus has been mild so far. While there is need to be extremely cautious and follow Covid appropriate behavior, there is nothing to fear at this stage,” said Amrit. He said the home isolation tracking (HIT) application for monitoring Covid-19 patients has been made functional again. Explaining the functioning of the HIT app, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar (SHSB), Sanjay Kumar Singh, said: “The app, which has been installed on the tablets of auxiliary nursing midwives (ANM) and accredited social health activists (ASHA) who will visit people under home isolation, fetches data directly from the Covid-19 portal. The health worker concerned then visits the patient to check for temperature and oxygen saturation level, the readings of which are fed into the app. In case of deterioration in these parameters, an alarm is triggered and the patient is taken to hospital,” said Sanjay Kumar Talking about vaccination against Covid-19, Singh said 99% of the target population of 6.18 crore in the state had taken the first dose while 90% of those eligible for second dose had taken the shots.
14-01-2022||Lucknow||UP commercial tax dept gets high court rap again||LUCKNOW In a case pertaining to wrongful seizure of a trader’s consignment by commercial tax department, the Allahabad high court has passed severe strictures against authorities for harassing traders and also awarded a cost to be recovered from the official concerned, people in the know of things said. Pronouncing its order on January 6 on a writ petition, the court observed that the state government has tried to create an atmosphere for free flow of trade and commerce so that a good business environment could be developed in the state of Uttar Pradesh. “But the state authorities are bent upon harassing the trading community of the state,” Justice Piyush Agrawal said in the order. The court allowed the petition with a cost of Rs. 20,000 payable to the petitioner. “The cost shall be paid within a period of one month from today. The respondents are at liberty to recover the said cost from the erring officer,” the order said. “This is the second instance where the department has got a rap for harassing traders within a period of less than a month,” said a senior commercial tax official. Petitioner, Surya Traders, a registered dealer engaged in the business of selling Uncle (Sweet Supari) and Varanasi Ashik (Betel Nut Product) stated in the petition that in the normal course of business, 90 bags of betel nut product sold to two different registered dealers by issuing two tax invoices, were being transported along with tax invoice and e-way bill to its destination. The said goods were intercepted by commercial tax department officials on 9.10.2019 in Varanasi. On physical verification, three bags of betel nut product were found without tax invoice and a show-cause notice was issued to the petitioner. In reply to the show-cause notice, the petitioner submitted tax invoice issued in the name of M/s Lal Ji Pan Bhandar, Tikona Park, Nawabganj, Gonda. He further submitted that the said tax invoice was handed over to the transporter but he left it behind by mistake. The petitioner submitted that since the value of the goods was less than ₹50,000, the e-way bill was not generated. He argued that as far as the consignment of 87 bags sold to M/s Karuna Nidhan Agency was concerned, it had all requisite papers and the said goods should have not been seized, and if any discrepancy could be attributed it should be with regard to three bags only. Standing counsel Jagdish Prasad Mishra, who represented the department. sought to justify the impugned order with his arguments that the court refused by buy. The court ruled that the authorities were not justified in detaining/seizing goods and demanding security as documents accompanying the goods as well as submitted along with the reply fully covered the transaction in question and by no stretch of imagination it could be attributed any contravention of the provisions of UP GST Act or any other rule. “So far as the consignment of 87 bags are concerned, it was duly accompanied with all proper documents as prescribed under the Act/Rule and the authorities were not justified in seizing and demanding security for release of the same,” the court observed. Last month also the high court order pulled up the department for arbitrarily cancelling a trader’s application seeking registration for his firm. Passing an order in the writ petition Ranjana Singh vs commissioner state tax, the Allahabad high court questioned how the petitioner’s application for registration could be cancelled on the ground that he did not submit a legible copy of electricity bill of his business premise despite his attaching all other documents like copy of his Aadhaar card, PAN card etc. The court not only awarded cost against the official concerned but also directed the department to pass an appropriate order in the matter within a week of the court ruling. 
14-01-2022||Patna||Three SSB jawans electrocuted, 9 hurt in Bihar’s Supaul||Three jawans of Seema Shashatra Bal (SSB) were electrocuted and nine others injured at Birpur in Bihar’s Supaul district on Friday after they came in contact with a high tension wire passing over their camp, according to officials of the SSB, which guards India’s border with Nepal and Bhutan.S K Sarangi, deputy inspector general (DIG) of SSB in Purnia sector, said, “Three jawans died on the spot while nine others were injured. They are undergoing treatment. An inquiry has been initiated.”Alleging lackadaisical and apathetic attitude on the part of North Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (NBPDCL), a state-run power distribution company, he said, “We have been writing to them to relocate the high tension wire, which is passing over the camp, but they have not taken it seriously and as a result, this tragic incident has taken place.” “The SSB will take legal action against the department,” the DIG said.NBPDCL officials could be contacted despite repeated attempts.According to SSB sources, the jawans were shifting a tent in their camp during training when they came in contact with a high tension wire.The deceased have been identified as Amol Patil, Parshuram Sabar and Mahendra Chandra Kumar Bopche, all from Maharashtra. The nine injured were rushed to Birpur subdivisional hospital. “The condition of four is serious. They have been shifted to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for better treatment,” SSB sources said.SSB sources said this is the second such incident in the last few months. Earlier, a jawan in the same camp was electrocuted almost in a similar way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/three-ssb-jawans-electrocuted-9-hurt-in-bihar-s-supaul-101642177990517.html
14-01-2022||Patna||Bihar begins to set up police posts in premises sealed after liquor haul||Under all-round fire for easy availability of liquor in the state where total prohibition was imposed in April 2016, the Bihar government has moved ahead with its plans to open police pickets and stations in the premises from where liquor is recovered, a top police officer said. Despite statewide awareness campaign and frequent raids and seizures, liquor flow in the state has continued to embarrass the Nitish Kumar government, most recently the scores of hooch deaths in at least four districts of north Bihar since Diwali last year. According to state police headquarter, 16 premises have been identified in the state where police pickets and police stations would be set up following recovery of liquor there. This includes one godown in Patna, 12 locations in Purnia and three places in Sheikhpura district.In Patna, a part of Bypass police station was recently shifted into a godown, where constables would stay and impounded vehicles would be parked. Earlier, the police station near NH-30, operational since 2007, had just two rooms.Patna’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) M S Dhillon told HT that on January 31, 2021, the state’s excise department recovered liquor worth ₹2 crore, besides seizing a truck and pickup van from the private godown hired on rent for stocking fodder. “The godown is situated barely 500 metres from the police station. Following the seizure, the then station house officer of Bypass police station was suspended for dereliction for duty,” the SSP said. The godown, built over an area of 5760 square feet on private land, was leased for commercial use without following norms. The land is the name of one Dinanath Mahto, whose son Awinash Mahto is accused in the liquor seizure case. The plot, which was confiscated, has a concrete godown and a periphery wall. “The state government ordered the shifting of Bypass police station in the premises following Patna district magistrate’s confiscation order and that has been done,” Dhillon said.On Tuesday, the Sheikhpura police decided to open police outposts in three houses which were earlier sealed by the excise department. Sheikhpura superintendent of police (SP) Kartikye Sharma a proposal has been sent to the government through excise department to hand over the three houses, situated at Budhauli Bazar under Sadar police station, Maldah and Maur villages under Barbigha police station limits, to open police pickets.In Purnia, the district administration has identified 12 locations to open police pickets after seizure of liquor from there. Purnia SP Dayashankar told HT that one of the locations, Lal Godown, falling under Sadar police station area, is already functional as a police picket, which was opened after nod from district administration. Rest are under process, he said.Sources in the police said most of the constables face shortage of space in police barracks and quarters and have to manage in overcrowded police lines, as adequate arrangements were not available for them. The latest action, they said, would help solve their space problems.The Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016, the law brought in to ban liquor, empowers any excise official or police official, not below the rank of sub-inspector, to seal any premises on recovery of liquor and send a report to the district magistrate concerned to confiscate the property/building where the offence was committed.Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Singh Gangwar said setting up police stations at confiscated properties under the anti-liquor law is first of its kind in Bihar.However, Vinod Kanth, senior advocate at the Patna High Court, said the fairness demanded that the state government should have held its hands back since the matter is sub judice before the Supreme Court. “Such decisions will further complicate the issue and lead to more cases in the courts,” he said.Earlier this week, the apex court had lashed out at the Bihar government, saying its prohibition policy had “choked the courts” with cases. At a public function, chief justice of India N V Ramana had criticised the policy for its “lack of foresight”.
14-01-2022||Pune||Pune Metro tunnel reaches Budhwar peth; March deadline on track||PUNE The digging of a work between Swargate and Shivajinagar for the Pune Metro reached Budhwar peth on Friday. The entire underground tunnelling is to be completed by March 2022. The PCMC to Swargate Metro line has a 6km underground tunnel system starting from Shivajinagar. This 6km stretch includes Shivaji nagar, Civil Court, Budhwar peth, Mandai and Swaragte underground stations. The underground section comprises two tunnels. One for coming and the other for going. The tunnelling from Swargate to Shivajingar got completed on Friday. Now only the tunnel between Mandai and Budhwar peth remains and will be completed by March this year. Maha-Metro managing director Brijesh Dixit said, “The underground stretch is a very challenging and crucial part of the Pune metro project. Since the tunnel work is nearing completion, further work in the underground section has begun. The overhead equipment and signalling related works have started.” Dixit said, “Maha-Metro is trying to complete the entire underground stretch by December 2022. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-tunnel-reaches-budhwar-peth-march-deadline-on-track-101642177809347.html
14-01-2022||Pune||PMPML’s Rs91 crore question finds no takers amid civic Opposition||PUNE Opposition parties have kept mum on the issue of Rs91 crore being paid to Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) contractors for buses during the period of the lockdown in 2021. The amount has been approved by the board of directors of the PMPML. The ruling BJP’s senior members have raised the issue stating that this decision is not in the interest of PMPML. BJP leaders Ujwal Keskar and Suhas Joshi raised the doubts and it was expected that opposition parties would take up this issue and the target ruling BJP. All of a sudden, the opposition parties is mum on this issue. Nationalist Congress Party city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “The proposal was pending with the board of director for almost a year. They keep silent on it and before elections, BJP approved it.” Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The agreements are old during the tenure of Congress and NCP. Though buses are not operational, as per agreements, we are forced to give compensations though the buses were not operational. We did negotiate while approving the funds.” Civic activist Vivek Velankar has criticised the BJP’s decision to pay compensation to the contractor. Velankar said, “The buses were shut but PMPML is paying for it. Same decision was taken at a central level. The toll operators got compensation though there was no traffic on highways. It shows who the government is giving tax payers ‘ money to.” Opposition party leaders decline making statements on the issue. A second rung of leaders, speaking anonymously, said, “Ideally, our leaders need to issue a press statement and oppose this proposal. We are doing agitations on small issues but why we kept mum on this is a question workers too are asking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpmls-rs91-crore-question-finds-no-takers-amid-civic-opposition-101642177509348.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||92% of active Covid cases in Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation limits under home isolation||With more than 11,000 active cases in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits, 92% of these infected persons are in home isolation. The civic health department also claimed that the majority of those admitted in the civic Covid centres or hospitals do not have major complications.Out of the total 11,484 active cases in KDMC, 10,672 are in home isolation, only 8% of them are admitted to civic Covid centres or hospitals.“Most of the cases in the city are in home isolation as many are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms like cold, cough and weakness. Also, if a person from a family is infected, the entire family members are infected simultaneously. In such cases, home isolation is preferred. However, we are sending those with high-grade fever to the civic Covid centres,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The KDMC recorded 1,133 cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 1,68,119. The total number of deaths reported in the city is ,2878 while two deaths were reported on Friday.Ahead of the third wave, the KDMC has prepared 9,242 beds for the Covid patients, out of which 5,343 are general beds, 2,776 are oxygen beds, 1,123 are ICU beds and 164 are ventilators.However, though around 1,400 cases are being reported daily, with most patients in home isolation, the beds are lying vacant. The positivity rate in the city has gone up to 27.26% as on January 14 from 7.33% as on December 31, with on an average around 1,500 new cases registered daily.The death rate remains constant at 1.81% as few deaths are reported due to Covid in the city. The average number of testing done by the civic body has also increased to 4,000 now.Meanwhile, the civic body has managed to fine 744 people for not wearing masks and collecting a fine worth ₹3.72 lakh so far this year.
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Safety trials on Line 1 of Navi Mumbai Metro to be done on Jan 17-18||A team from the office of the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS) will conduct safety trials on the Line-1/Phase I of Navi Mumbai Metro from Pendhar to Central Park on January 17 and 18.The safety certificate issued by the CMRS team will be an important step in starting the Metro on this route.The CMRS team will conduct the safety trials on Line -1 and Taloja Depot in the presence of the joint managing director of CIDCO as well as the concerned officials from CIDCO and Maha Metro.The process will include testing of empty Metro as well as Metro running with heavy loads as per AW3 standards (Maximum Passenger Capacity), depot and DCC inspection, under-gear testing, fire/smoke test, passenger evacuation test and sound test among others.A safety certificate will be issued by the CMRS and Railway Board upon the successful completion of these important tests. This will allow CIDCO to initiate direct passenger transport.CIDCO vice-chairman and managing director, Sanjay Mukherjee, said, “Once the final certificate is obtained, operations will be started on Line-1, Pendhar to Central Park. Every Navi Mumbaikar’s dream of Metro travel will soon be a reality.” The first phase of the Navi Mumbai Metro stretches from Belapur to Pendhar covering around 11km, with 11 stations and a car depot at Taloja.So far, Metro has completed trials related to oscillation, electrical safety, emergency brakes, etc. successfully and obtained the certificates from RDSO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/safety-trials-on-line-1-of-navi-mumbai-metro-to-be-done-on-jan-1718-101642175829345.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Metro to run at frequency of 15 mins on Yellow, Blue Lines for weekend curfew||Delhi metro trains will be available at a frequency of 15 minutes on Yellow and Blue Line on January 15 and 16 owing to the ongoing weekend curfew in place and as per the guidelines by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).In a statement posted on Facebook and Twitter on Friday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) reiterated the information as another weekend begins from tomorrow.It said that barring the Yellow and Blue Lines, metro trains will operate at a frequency of 20 minutes on all other lines during the weekend curfew. On weekdays - Monday to Friday, Delhi metro trains across lines will “continue to remain available as usual” according to the extant guidelines.
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: SSM poaching AAP workers at BJP’s behest, alleges Meet Hayer||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and Punjab youth wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer on Friday alleged that farm union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal’s Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) has been trying to poach their workers at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government. However, the SSM — a political front formed by various Punjab farmer bodies that had taken part in the stir against the Centre’s now-repealed agricultural laws — has denied the allegation.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, Hayer said: “The BJP has been considering AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as the main opposition leader in the country. The BJP has put forth its all efforts to stop the AAP in Punjab. It is the saffron party’s policy not to make direct alliance, but divide votes of opposition parties by making indirect alliances. Hayer said even ahead of the Punjab polls, the BJP has made “indirect alliances” besides direct ones (such as the one with Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress)“Today those who are in indirect alliance with the BJP are approaching our honest and old workers to leave the AAP. Our workers are being offered money and tickets for fighting the assembly elections by the SSM,” he alleged.Hayer was accompanied by AAP state joint secretary Jaspreet Singha and others, who were allegedly approached by the Rajewal group.“We respected Rajewal due to his contribution in the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. But, now the SSM has started luring AAP volunteers. The SSM has been offering money and other support to leave the AAP and fight the election on SSM tickets. I was offered Amritsar South’s ticket,” alleged Jaspreet Singh.Hayer said the SSM should make it clear that who was providing the money being offered to AAP workers. “These conspiracies are being hatched to divide the votes of AAP, for all people in Punjab know that the SSM can’t win a single seat in the state,” he said.Allegations ‘100% wrong’: SSMReacting to the allegations, SSM screening committee member Kulwant Kanti termed them “100% wrong”. He said the SSM has no money and was strongly against those who spend money to buy support during elections. “We are fielding candidates with honest background. Our first condition is that our candidate must be the one who or his/her family members participated in the farmers’ agitation. We are against all political parties that are pro corporates. Our candidates will fight the elections with the money donated by people in the villages,” said Kanti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-ssm-poaching-aap-workers-at-bjp-s-behest-alleges-meet-hayer-101642174629216.html
14-01-2022||Pune||129 species of birds recorded during research at Mahatma tekdi in Kothrud||A research by avid bird enthusiasts, at the Mahatma tekdi, Kothrud, recorded 129 species of birds in seven years.These birds include black redstart, grey necked bunting, black-headed cuckoo shrike, red-necked, Eurasia collared dove falcon, short-toed snake eagle, Bonelli’s eagle, steppe eagle among others.The research was undertaken by three students from the city, Arnav Gandhe, BE Computer, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), FY MSc Biodiversity, Garware College; Adwait Dindore, FYBA photography, MIT WPU and Atharva Bapat, SY MSc Biotechnology, MIT WPU.The research was published in Journal Newsletter for Birdwatchers in January 2022. “The study began in 2014 and continued till April 2021,” said Gandhe.“Mahatma Tekdi is an isolated hill in Kothrud, being a lesser-known hill in terms of biodiversity, it has a rich habitat with beautiful grasslands, scrubs vegetation, woodlands and water bodies,” he said.“We chose Mahatma tekdi, also known as Kothrud hill or Warje hill because it is rich in biodiversity and few people know about it. Thus, revealing its biological importance as a fine urban forest was necessary,” he added.Most of the initial fieldwork was carried out by the students between 6 am to 8 am, six to seven days a week for two hours.The tekdi has simple topography, it proved quite hard to spot its avian diversity as their population and frequency of sighting kept on changing. Many rare winter migrant species have been recorded by the students and felt that the birds preferred this tekdi as it was landlocked and isolated from any other larger hill complex. The tekdi also became an example of how such a restricted ecosystem can support a fine amount of biodiversity which still survives here, proving to be an efficient urban forest within itself.Bapat said, “The habitat degradation was our prime concern. Unfortunately, today not all the species are observed that regularly spotted, observed over the hill till 2017 and many species distribution patterns have changed over the hill.”But in the last couple of years, Mahatma tekdi and its avian diversity is facing a serious threat. “This is due to high anthropogenic stresses in form of daily dumping of debris and garbage and landfilling, increased human activity, and constructions. Thus, the study would help in highlighting and revealing the lesser-known hill of Pune and its biological importance. This would help to awaken and reduce the anthropogenic stress over the hill, finally resulting in conservation of the hill in future, said Dindore.“The collective efforts would help in conserving all the hills of Pune with the addition of one more hill to the list, conserving the last surviving urban forests, the last abode of the city’s rich wildlife,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/129-species-of-birds-recorded-during-research-at-mahatma-tekdi-in-kothrud-101642173968878.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Former ministers Swami Prasad Maurya, Saini, six MLAs join Samajwadi Party||Former ministers Swami Prasad Maurya and Dharam Singh Saini, five other BJP MLAs and one lawmaker of the ruling party’s ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) formally joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) in Lucknow on Friday after over three days of high-voltage political drama in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.All the eight led by Swami Prasad Maurya are OBC leaders. However, there was no “bombshell”, contrary to the indication given by Swami Prasad Maurya in the days leading up to the joining. Maurya had quit the Uttar Pradesh council of ministers on January 11 and Saini on January 13.Besides Swami Prasad Maurya and Saini, the others who joined the Samajwadi Party on Friday are BJP MLAs Roshan Lal Verma, Bhagwati Sagar, Brijesh Prajapati, Vinay Shakya, Mukesh Verma and BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) MLA Chaudhary Amar Singh.At a virtual rally-cum-press conference, both Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Swami Prasad Maurya vowed to have the BJP voted out of power in the assembly election.Swami Prasad Maurya launched a scathing attack on the BJP while Akhilesh took swipes at chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his government.Swami Prasad Maurya also claimed that he was the chief minister candidate, along with the BJP’s OBC leader Keshav Prasad Maurya (currently deputy chief minister) in 2017.“So what was the speculation in 2017 when the BJP won? That Swami Prasad Maurya or Keshav Prasad Maurya will be the chief minister...but what happened eventually? A skylab from Gorakhpur (Yogi Adityanath) was dropped into the CM’s chair. Backwards were ignored even though BJP grabbed power riding on backwards and Dalits,” Swami Prasad Maurya said.He called the day a “confluence of Samajwaadis (socialists) and Ambedkarvaadis (Ambedkarites) and today we have scripted the beginning of the end of the BJP. “The BJP top leadership, who were sleeping like Kumbhakaran, are now sleepless because of what we did,” Swami Prasad Maurya said.Swami Prasad Maurya also said: “The top leadership of the BJP changed three chief ministers in the neighbouring Uttarakhand, but so much crime, atrocities and injustice happened in Uttar Pradesh, they did not do anything.”Describing himself as a power centre, he said: “I may not have had floated any party, but I am no less than a party. The one to whom I go forms the government. Till I was with Mayawati ji, she had been forming the government again and again, and now she is nowhere. And now the SP will form the government and Akhilesh ji will be the chief minister.”Swami Prasad Maurya charged the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) with digressing from the original Dalit and Bahujan Samaj agenda, the path of BSP founder Kanshiram, and joining hands with moneybags instead.About the BJP, he said that he thought that after returning to power in the state after 14 years, it may have mended its ways.“But now, to the BJP, Dalits and backwards are still untouchables, animals,” he remarked.“The storm, tsunami, that has risen will sink the BJP in the Indian Ocean,” Swami Prasad Maurya said.Invoking Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, Swami Prasad Maurya said: “Now all of us will use charkha daon (a wrestling move) on BJP and no counter daon by BJP can prevent it from falling flat.”After Swami Prasad Maurya, Akhilesh spoke and referred to cricket to attack the BJP.“All those who had been watching the developments over the last few days saw how the BJP wickets were falling one after the other. Our baba mukhya mantri (Yogi Adityanath) doesn’t know cricket. And now he has dropped the catch...BJP is out hit-wicket...The BJP’s annihilation is final,” the SP chief said.Further attacking the CM, Akhilesh Yadav said: “While one of our leaders had booked an air ticket for baba mukhya mantri to Gorakhpur for March 11, he went to Gorakhpur today itself because of what is happening here.”Yogi Adityanath was in Gorakhpur on Friday on the occasion of Makar Sankranti and had “khichdi bhoj” at a Dalit party worker’s home there.Last Saturday (January 8), Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh had booked an air ticket for Yogi Adityanth to Gorakhpur from Lucknow for March 11, the day after the UP polls result on March 10.Akhilesh said he agreed with Swami Prasad Maurya’s statement whoever Maurya goes with, forms the government in UP.Both Swami Prasad Maurya and Akhilesh Yadav attacked chief minister Yogi Adityanath over his recent comment that “the fight will be 80% vs 20% in the UP elections”.Swami Prasad Maurya retorted: “Now, it will not be 80% vs 20%, but 85% vs 15%. Even in the 15%, we will have a share”.He is understood to have referred to 85% (backwards, Dalits, Muslims, and others) and 15% upper caste Hindus.When Yogi Adityanath had said at a TV conclave last Saturday that the fight in the UP elections will be “80% vs 20%”, the observers deduced that he had meant 80% Hindus (all castes) and 20% Muslims.He charged Yogi and BJP with “not considering Dalits and backwards as Hindus”.“The BJP projected itself as a great hamdard (syphathiser) of Hindus. Are backwards and Dalits not Hindus, Yogiji? Now, the BJP will be back to its 40-50 seats days. I vow that,” he said.For his part, Akhilesh Yadav said: “This baba mukhya mantri needs to hire a mathematics tutor. He doesn’t know mathematics as he talks about 80% vs 20% or three-fourths. When he says three-fourths, I say that it means only three or four seats (of the total 403 seats in UP assembly) that the BJP will get. Till now we had the support of 80% of the population. After what has happened in the last few days even that remaining 20% is now with us...Now, the bicycle’s handle (leadership) is fine and so are the two wheels. The bicycle will run to victory with Samajwadis and Ambedkarvaadis together”.Bicycle is the election symbol of the Samajwadi Party.Commenting on BJP and a few others asking why Swami Prasad Maurya did not quit in the last five years, the former minister said, “Arey bhai, the mandate was for five years, that’s why I quit now, after completing the term.”Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh minister and BJP leader Anil Rajbhar said the mass base of the leaders, who quit the BJP recently, had already dwindled.“ The leaders who have left the BJP recently had their own base dwindling, while the BJP’s mass base is steadily increasing due to the welfare works of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. There was also resentment towards the leaders who quit due to their constant absence in their areas. The party had already made a strategy (to deal with the resentment due to these leaders). Even the leaders who quit, knew this,” Rajbhar said in a statement.On the other hand, fFormer minister Dara Singh Chauhan and two other BJP MLAs, Radha Krishna Sharma and Bala Prasad Awasthi (both Brahmins), who were among the 11 BJP lawmakers to have resigned since January 8, were conspicuous by their absence at Friday’s joining event at the Samajwadi Party (SP).Chauhan, Sharma and Awasthi did not reach the SP office on Friday.“They will join with more BJP deserters on January 16 (Sunday),” said a senior SP leader trying to defuse fresh speculation that those who did not join on Friday were rethinking their decision.Uttar Pradesh saw a total of 12 MLAs, including three Yogi ministers, quitting their parties since the announcement of the poll schedule on January 8. Eleven of them were from the BJP and one from the ally Apna Dal (S). One of these BJP MLAs Avtar Singh Bhadana has already joined the SP ally Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Wednesday. He has been fielded as the RLD’s Jewar candidate. Three other BJP MLAs (Rakesh Rathore, Digvijay Narayan Chaubey and Madhuri Verma) had quit before the announcement of the poll schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-ministers-swami-prasad-maurya-saini-six-mlas-join-samajwadi-party-101642173789097.html
14-01-2022||Pune||Six held for extorting money from Pune builder using Ajit Pawar’s mobile number||The crime branch, on Friday, arrested six persons for allegedly using the mobile number of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and demanding extortion of ₹20 lakh from a local builder.The builder had lodged a first information report (FIR) against the accused at Bund Garden police station on Thursday.The crime branch Unit I sleuths made the arrests in connection with a land dispute in the Wadebolai area of the city.The accused have been identified as Navnath Bhausaheb Chormale (28), Saurabh Narayan Kakade (22), Sunil alias Bala Gautum Waghmare (28), Kiran Rambhau Kakade (25), Chaityna Rajendra Waghmare (19) and Akash Sharad Nikalje (24).The police have booked them under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 384 ( extortion), 386 (Extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt ),506 ( criminal intimidation) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention ) including the Information Technology Act section 66 C and D.According to the police, the accused downloaded a fake call app and made a call to the builder in the name of Pawar’s personal assistant on Thursday.They told him to settle the land dispute related to six hectares of land in survey no 85/1, 85/3 and 87 belonging to Bababhau Chormale and nine others.The accused took Rs2 lakh extortion money from the builder and also threatened the builder.The action against the accused was taken under the guidance of deputy commissioner of police (DCP crime) Sriniwas Ghadge and his team.Ghadge said, “The accused had downloaded a fake app from where he made the call seeking an extortion sum for the settlement of the dispute. We have arrested all the accused in the case and further investigation is on in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-held-for-extorting-money-from-pune-builder-using-ajit-pawar-s-mobile-number-101642173670219.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||ECI to review Covid situation in UP for decision on rally ban||LUCKNOW The Election Commission of India (ECI) will review the Covid situation in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Saturday to take a decision over the ban imposed on physical rallies, road shows and padyatras in view of the surge in cases. The filing of nominations for the first phase of Assembly elections commenced in 11 districts of west UP on Friday amid strict Covid guidelines issued by the poll panel. Polling will be held on February 10 for 58 assembly constituencies in 11 districts including Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida), Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura and Agra.Data released by the UP health and family welfare department shows that a chunk of UP’s 16,016 fresh cases – 6,578 — were reported in these 11 districts going to polls in the first phase. These districts also account for nearly 50% of the active Covid cases (38,648), making the task of permitting political parties to hold rallies, roadshows and padyatras challenging for the poll panel. With the 16,016 fresh Covid-19 cases across the state in the last 24 hours, the tally of active cases has gone up to 84,440. The state is also witnessing increase in the death tally. Since January 1, the state reported 34 deaths, majority of which have been reported in west UP districts and state capital Lucknow. The recovery rate, which was 98% in December, declined to 94% on Friday. After the slowdown of the second Covid wave in June, the fatality count had also declined. No death was reported in December, said a health department officer. Acknowledging that the Covid situation in poll-bound states is dynamic and not static, poll preparations have been made to hold a Covid-safe election, said chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra while announcing the Assembly election poll schedule in New Delhi on January 8. Uttar Pradesh chief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said in view of the directions issued by ECI a ban has been imposed on physical rallies, road shows, padyatras, street corner meetings across UP till January 15. Political parties have been urged to hold virtual and digital campaigning on various social media platforms. The ECI’s guidelines have been sent to all the district magistrates and they have been asked to ensure that there is no violation of the poll panel order. DMs will be held responsible for the violation of Covid guidelines issued by the ECI, he added. Meanwhile, UP has ramped up Covid vaccination by administering 22.32 crore doses. While 13.54 crore eligible people above 18 years have received the first dose, 8.31 crore have been given the both doses. The 33.55 lakh teenagers in age group of 15-18 years have been given the first dose. Strict measures have implemented in districts having an active Covid tally of 1,000, he said. “People in cities like Meerut, Noida, Ghaziabad, Aligarh and Agra frequently move out to other places. Crowd movement has resulted in spurt of Covid cases. The administration in cities where Covid cases are rising should ensure all public activity including private gatherings are stopped immediately,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, Indian Medical Association, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eci-to-review-covid-situation-in-up-for-decision-on-rally-ban-101642173189141.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||B Tech course seat vacancy below 40% for first time in six years||MUMBAI With admissions to undergraduate (UG) professional courses including engineering (BE/B Tech) and pharmacy (B Pharm) having concluded recently, figures shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell reveal that seat vacancy across both courses has dipped this year as compared to last year.For the first time in over six years, seat vacancy in B Tech institutes in Maharashtra has dropped almost 10% points to below 40%—while the seat vacancy stood at 45.6% and 48% in the academic years 2020-21 and 2019-20, respectively, this year, the seat vacancy for the course stands at 36.6%.The sudden surge in demand for engineering courses is due to the sudden demand for fresh information technology engineering graduates in the placement season this year, said experts. “IT related graduate programmes are in high demand and most engineering colleges in urban areas haven’t got a single vacant seat in these departments. In the last two years, there’s been a sudden demand for fresh IT graduates and this has attracted more students to the course this year,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.He added that while courses such as mechanical and civil engineering are still facing seat vacancy, most other courses including computer science, IT, artificial intelligence (AI) and data science have attracted maximum applications this year.CET cell figures have also revealed how nearly 11.4% seats in B Pharm were vacant in the academic year 2020-21 while the seat vacancy stands at 8.8% this year. Experts have attributed this sudden surge in demand for undergraduate engineering and pharmacy courses to the delay in carrying out UG medical and dental admissions in the state this year.“Not only was the overall admissions’ process delayed but simple registrations for students and the announcement of the state merit list were delayed in Maharashtra by four months. In the meantime, several students opted for admissions in neighbouring states where the process began in November itself and several students with low scores in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) opted for admissions in other courses including engineering and pharmacy to avoid further delay,” said Sudha Shenoy, activist fighting for medical aspirants’ rights.Hindustan Times had recently reported how pre-admission registrations for undergraduate health science courses including MBBS and BDS witnessed a drop by a few thousand applications this year. Figures shared by the CET cell, the admission conducting authority, revealed that only 55,674 candidates completed the process by uploading the necessary documents and paying fees by January 5 which was the deadline. This is nearly 9,000 applications lower than the 64,645 registrations completed in the previous academic year.Looking at the dip in registrations, the state CET cell extended the deadline for completion of registration for health science courses and nearly 2,000 new candidates have registered since January 6 and this process will go on till January 17.
14-01-2022||Mumbai||3rd Covid wave has affected people in 21-40 years age group the most: Navi Mumbai civic body data||The third wave in Navi Mumbai has affected the crowd in the age group of 21-40 years the most since the end of December, as per the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) data.This is probably because of the year-end holiday season.The wave has also defied the prediction that the highest affected would be the children. When the pandemic started in March 2020, the maximum affected were in the age group of 45-65 years.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, added that the number of infections in the age group above 50 years is not more than 30% while those below 18 makes 10% of the total active cases.Bangar said, “During the second wave, the most affected group was younger than the first wave. The age group of 35-45 years was the one affected during the second wave while during the third wave now; it is younger than the previous. Though paediatric cases are reported, it is not like what was feared.”This week reported the highest number of average Covid cases ever since the pandemic broke out with an average of 2,108 per day cases. Last week, the average cases were 443 per day. The average daily testing done was 12,780 last week while it is 11,991 this week and the doubling days have come down to 44. Meanwhile, the deaths reported in this period of the third wave were just five, which is 0.02% of the total cases.“The call centre is now divided into three categories. One part is dedicated to making calls to the positive patients for counselling them after their reports are out. Second one is dedicated to making calls to the active patients to know about their well-being. The third one is dedicated to making calls to the vaccination beneficiaries whose second dose is pending. A total of around 7,000 calls are made daily by the call centre,” Bangar added.Dr Farah Ingale, Director - Internal Medicine, Fortis Hiranandani Hospital, Vashi, said, “During the first wave, we saw that patients in the age group of 40-60 years were infected as they were at higher risk because of the existing comorbidities. Most of them were vaccinated by the second wave, so the middle-age group that was not vaccinated was infected. In the current situation, the younger population have taken to socialising, outings, etc. They work at places like hospitals, in the hospitality sector, transportation sector, where they are exposed. So, they catch infection and transmit it too. Again Covid-appropriate behaviour has gone for a toss and since their exposure to the virus exponentially increased outdoors, more cases of infection in this age group are being witnessed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3rd-covid-wave-has-affected-people-in-21-40-years-age-group-the-most-navi-mumbai-civic-body-data-101642171812400.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Magh Mela begins in Covid shadow||The 47-day religious congregation Magh Mela-2022 began in the shadow of Covid-19 with the first official bathing of Makar Sankranti at the Sangam ghats in Prayagraj on Friday. Over 6.5 lakh pilgrims took the holy dip by 7pm, Mela officials said. The Magh Mela is an annual religious event unique to Prayagraj.Devotees, who had started arriving in large numbers from Thursday onwards, continued to come all through the day, defying the winter chill and overcoming the fear of Covid-19 on Friday also.Tight security measures were put in place to ensuring smooth conduct of the bathing. “The bathing took place smoothly with no untoward incident being reported during the day,” said Magh Mela adhikari (officer) Sheshmani Pandey.In view of the rush of devotees, traffic diversions were put in place at all the entry points of Prayagraj district.Despite efforts and repeated appeals to the pilgrims to observe social distancing and wear facemasks to prevent the spread of Covid-19, most visitors were seen violating the set norms. However, the less than expected rush of pilgrims this time around eased the situation somewhat as the usual scene of pilgrims taking the dip shoulder-to-shoulder at the bathing ghats was not commonly visible. All through the day, the ghats remained abuzz with pilgrims taking the dip and performing various rituals. On Makar Sankranti, the sun transits into Capricorn marking the beginning of its northward journey (uttarayan) ushering in the auspicious period for Hindus, according to the faithful. Makar Sankranti bathing is the second most important snan during Magh Mela after Mauni Amavasya which falls on February 1 this year. The Magh Mela will end with Maha Shivratri snan (bathing) on March 1.At the camps, the saints performed special rituals to celebrate Makar Sankranti. However, this time, announcements for following Covid-19 protocols dominated the sounds of bhajan and kirtans (religious songs). At the dozen entry points, pilgrims were allowed in only after thermal scanning. As many as 65,000 free facemasks were also distributed among the pilgrims.Prayagraj divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal, district Magistrate Sanjay Kumar Khatri and senior superintendent of police Ajay Kumar were seen personally issuing appeals to pilgrims to vacate ghats immediately after taking the dip to prevent crowding and wear facemasks.As per the mela officials 1.5 lakh people had taken the dip till 10.30am. By 3pm, the count of pilgrims rose further, reaching around three lakh by 1pm. By 4.30pm, over 5.5 lakh pilgrims and by 7pm over 6.5 lakh had taken the holy dip, the Mela officials said.The auspicious timing (muhurat) for the bathing commenced on Friday evening though people started taking the dip from sunrise as traditionally Makar Sankranti is observed on January 14, according to astrologers. “The mahurat for the dip starts at 8.34pm on Friday. However, the best time for the dip and performing rituals would be from sunrise till 12.34pm on Saturday,” said Pt Diwakar Tripathi Purvanchali, director of Utthan Jyotish Sansthan, Prayagraj. Owing to this, the pilgrims are expected to take the dip till late in to the night and all through the first half of the day on Saturday, he added.Thousands of devotees and pilgrims braved the chill to take a holy dip in the Sangam even before daybreak. But with the sun rising, its warmth brought relief to pilgrims and the rush increased at the bathing ghats. Hundreds of pilgrims from Deoria, Ballia, Jaunpur, Sitapur, Ayodhya and other districts sang devotional songs to the accompaniment of musical instruments like harmonium, cymbals, chimtas in the camps after midnight.The first bathing of Magh Mela-2022 also marked commencement of the month-long Kalpwas in the mela area for Dandi Swamis and those coming from Mithila region as per tradition. Nearly 20,000 Kalpwasis began their month-long rigorous schedule of meditation and attending religious discourses. The remaining Kalpwasis will begin their kalpwas from Paush Purnima on January 19. Besides Uttar Pradesh, devotees from other states, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Chhattisgarh, are camping in the Magh Mela area for the month-long religious practice. 
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 43,000 Covid-19 infections, Mumbai sees 11,317 new cases||Maharashtra reported 43, 211 new Covid-19 infections and 19 more fatalities on Friday, taking the state’s total caseload to 7,124,278 and the death toll to 141,756. The new cases and deaths on the day were less than the 46,406 infections and 36 fatalities on Thursday.As many as 33,356 people recovered from the disease in the state and the total recoveries so far reached 6,717,125, according to the latest data.The daily Covid-19 infections and the active caseload in Mumbai continued to decline for the third straight day after 11,317 more tested positive for the disease in the city on Friday. This took the total caseload to 981,306, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Also, nine more people lost their lives to the disease on the day and the death toll climbed to 16,435.#CoronavirusUpdates14th January, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/1pSTbwfiCGThe city reported 16,420 cases and 13,702 cases on Wednesday and Thursday respectively. However, the dip in cases on Friday came along with a dip in the number of samples tested too. As many as 54,924 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, less than the 63,031 tested on Thursday.Meanwhile, the active caseload also witnessed a significant decline of 10,771 cases and was recorded at 84,352, compared with the 95,123 on the previous day.The civic body also noted that 84% of the new infections on the day were asymptomatic. Further, 16.8% or 6,432 hospital beds in the city have been occupied so far out of the total 38,088 beds.Also read | ‘Ill informed & incorrect’: Centre on vaccine shortage in MaharashtraEarlier on Thursday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope warned that the decline in Covid-19 cases might be due to low testing in the state. “In the past two-three days, the reporting of COVID-19 cases might have come down. It may be because of the low testing. On Wednesday, the state has reported around 46,000 new COVID-19 cases. So, there is no indication of flattening of the curve in Maharashtra,” he said.Further, he also said that there was a vaccine shortage in the state due to the inoculation of precautionary third doses and the inclusion of those between 15 and 17 years of age in the vaccination drive. However, on Friday, the Union health ministry denied any crunch in the doses available with the state and said that the unutilised doses of Covishield would sustain for 30 more days and Covaxin for 10 days, considering the state’s daily average consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-in-mumbai-daily-tally-active-caseload-dip-for-3rd-straight-day-city-sees-11-317-new-cases-in-24-hrs-101642170066560.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Serial fraudster arrested in Thane for cheating women through matrimonial websites||The Property Cell of the Thane Police Crime Branch, on Friday, arrested an alleged serial fraudster accused of cheating a string of women in various cities of Maharashtra to the tune of lakhs of rupees through matrimonial websites and apps.According to Crime Branch officers, investigations into the matter were initiated after a Kalyan-based woman registered a complaint with the Khadakpada police station on January 4. The complainant told the police that she had been approached by the accused who claimed to be a senior office bearer with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), on a matrimonial website.The accused allegedly took ₹14.36 lakh from her under various pretexts, promising to return it at the earliest. However, when he asked for a further ₹25 lakh, the complainant smelled a rat and registered an FIR.The Property Cell, while conducting parallel inquiries into the case, found that the accused went by many names including Aditya Mhatre, Navhush Mhatre and Tanmay Mhatre.“The accused was constantly changing his location and we used technical investigation methods to obtain leads about his whereabouts. We finally got a breakthrough when we learnt that the accused was going to be in Navi Mumbai to meet another girl that he had befriended through a matrimonial website,” Additional Commissioner of Police, Ashok Morale, Thane Crime Branch, said.A team of personnel with the Property Cell subsequently laid a trap and intercepted the accused, whose real name has been found to be Aditya Mhatre (29), on Thursday.“According to inquiries so far, the accused is married and has a son. He would regularly pose as a senior official with organisations like the ISRO or the USA-based National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and cheat women of their money. Till date, he has targetted at least 15 women in Maharashtra as well as in other states,” Morale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/serial-fraudster-arrested-in-thane-for-cheating-women-through-matrimonial-websites-101642170249109.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Web series maker Mohammed Ali arrested in cheating case||Mumbai The Amboli police on Thursday arrested web series maker and owner of Don Infotainment, Mohammed Ali for cheating a film producer to the tune of ₹1.25 crore.The police had booked Ali and celebrity physiotherapist Dr Ali Irani on January 2, 2022, after Vijay Mulchandani lodged a complaint against the two for promising ₹1.25 crore for his movie rights but did not pay him.Officers said that while Irani was granted anticipatory bail, Ali was arrested as they found his signature on the cheques given to Mulchandani against their transaction.Ali was produced before a metropolitan magistrate and has been remanded to police custody for four days.According to the Amboli police, Mulchandani claimed that in 2019 he produced a film named #Yaram, which was released. He said he wanted the movie to be released on OTT platforms for which he met Dr Irani and Ali. After they worked out a deal where Mulchandani was offered ₹1.25 crore for the rights of the movie. After the deal was signed, the movie was released on the OTT platform in March 2020. The producer claimed that the accused did not pay him the promised money ever after the release and added that the accused had cited financial issues during lockdown when he demanded the money.After a long wait, a meeting was set in January 2021. Mulchandani claimed a cheque dated February 19 was given to him but it bounced. In June 2021, after two more cheques bounced, he learnt from the bank that the account holders had shut their account in March that year. Mulchandani tried contacting the duo several times, but could not get a hold of them.Mulchandani then learnt that Rajshri Productions had released a public notice asking if anybody had objection over the rights of #Yaaram. After he saw the notice he contacted the company officials and learnt that Dr Irani and Ali had sold the movie rights for ₹15 lakh. Following this, he lodged a complaint with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/web-series-maker-mohammed-ali-arrested-in-cheating-case-101642170129452.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||7 people died in 'extreme weather' last year in Delhi: IMD||Seven people lost their lives to extreme weather events last year in Delhi, including four due to heavy rainfall and flooding, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday.A bountiful monsoon had yielded 1,169.7 mm of rainfall in Delhi last year, the highest since 1964.Normally, Delhi records 653.6 mm of rainfall during the monsoon season. In 2020, the capital gauged 576.5 mm of precipitation.According to the IMD, the Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, had gauged 1,155.6 mm of rainfall in 1975 and 1,190.9 mm in 1964.The all-time record is 1,420.3 mm rainfall in 1933.It was the third time in the last two decades that the monsoon rainfall in Delhi breached the 1,000 mm mark.The city had recorded 1,031.5 mm of rainfall in the monsoon season in 2010. In 2003, the capital had gauged 1,050 mm of it.According to IMD data, India saw 1,750 deaths due to extreme weather events in 2021, with Maharashtra being the worst-affected state with 350 fatalities, followed by Odisha and Madhya Pradesh.Thunderstorms and lightning reportedly claimed 787 lives in India last year, while 759 people died in heavy rainfall and flood-related incidents, it said.Cyclonic storms claimed 172 lives and 32 others died due to other extreme weather events, according to the IMD's annual climate statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/7-people-died-in-extreme-weather-last-year-in-delhi-imd-101642169475099.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Bulli Bai app case: Second accused tests positive||Mumbai A Metropolitan Magistrate Court was informed on Friday that Mayank Rawat, an accused in the Bulli Bai case, had tested positive for Covid and was admitted to Kalina COVID Care Centre.On Wednesday, another accused arrested in the case, Vishal Kumar Jha, tested positive. Even the investigating officer had tested positive for the virus on Thursday.Meanwhile, accused Shweta Singh alleged before the court that she was harassed in the custody of Cyber Cell after which the court ordered an inquiry.On Friday, Metropolitan Magistrate K C Rajput remanded Uttarakhand-based accused Shweta Singh and Mayank Rawat to judicial custody for 14 days.After being remanded to judicial custody, both the accused applied for bail. The magistrate court has posted the bail pleas for hearing on Monday.Rawat filed his bail application through counsel Sandeep Sherkhane, claiming that he was an innocent student. He claimed to have a very limited role and had just followed a link. He added that he was misguided and brainwashed.“He is falsely implicated and was made a scapegoat in the matter. He is a student whose whole career will be destroyed if he was kept with habitual criminals as his exams are also approaching,” said Sherkhane.Advocate Chittranjan Das for Singh alleged that she was put in police custody after the court inquired with Singh whether she had any pain, to which she replied in negative.The judge then ordered the DCP Cyber Cell to inquire into the allegations and submit a report to the court.Singh and Rawat were arrested on January 5 from Uttarakhand in connection with the ‘Bulli Bai’ case pertaining to a GitHub App. Mumbai Police are probing the app hosted on the code-sharing platform GitHub. The app was named after derogatory references to the Muslim community. Hundreds of Muslim women, including vocal activists and top professionals, were listed for “auction” along with their photographs sourced without permission and doctored.21-year-old Vishal Kumar Jha is a second-year student of civil engineering college in Bengaluru while Rawat is a Bachelor of Science (BSc) Chemistry student.Meanwhile, the Delhi police have arrested Niraj Bishnoi who is alleged to have created the Bulli Bai app. After Bishnoi’s arrest, the Delhi police arrested Aumkareshwar Thakur from Indore. Thakur has confessed that he was the one who created Sulli Deals, a similar app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bulli-bai-app-case-second-accused-tests-positive-101642169648765.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bathinda at 4.2°C coldest in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Friday. Bathinda in Punjab reeled under intense cold and recorded a low of 4.2°C, according to the meteorological department.Gurdaspur, too, experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.2°C, while Moga registered a low of 5.9°C. Amritsar recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8°C, Jalandhar a low of 8.6°C, and Ludhiana’s minimum settled at 8.8°C. In Haryana, Hisar reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 4.3°C, the meteorological department said. Sirsa also experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.4°C, while Gurugram’s minimum temperature settled at 7.5°C. However, Ambala registered an above normal temperature at 10.3°C.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 11°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-in-punjab-haryana-101642168870389.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||After 4 days, Delhi sees dip in daily Covid cases with 24,383 new infections||Delhi on Friday reported a marginal decline in its daily Covid-19 cases after four days with 24,383 fresh infections logged in 24 hours, according to health bulletin data. Friday's figures are 15.5% lower than 28,867 recorded the day before. With this, the cumulative tally of Delhi has touched 16,70,966.New fatalities due to the virus, however, witnessed a spike once again to 34 on Friday as opposed to 31 on Thursday. The overall death toll has now reached 25,305, the health bulletin data revealed.The positivity rate of the national capital has surpassed the 30%-mark, up from 29.21% on Thursday.Also Read | Delhi likely to record less than 25,000 new Covid cases today: Health ministerThe dip in daily cases comes after Delhi on Thursday recorded its biggest ever single-day count since April last year when the dreadful second wave was active across the country.Meanwhile, the city saw a massive 26,236 people recuperating from Covid-19 in 24 hours, thereby taking the total number of recovered patients to 15,53,388.Containment zones in the national capital climbed to 27,531 on Friday, and so did the number of patients admitted in hospitals due to coronavirus - from 2,369 to 2,446.A total of 2,529 people are currently hospitalised in Delhi, and barring the 2,446 Covid-19 patients, as many as 83 are suspected cases of the virus.Also Read | Why children are getting more infected by Covid during 3rd wave: Experts answerOn Wednesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that Covid-related hospitalisations have stabilised in the national capital and if infections cut down in a few days, restrictions will be lifted.Delhi is currently under night curfew between 11pm and 5am along with weekend curfew. Schools, colleges, gyms, cinemas and restaurants are also shut.The current surge in Covid-19 cases across the country is owing to the Omicron outbreak. Since detecting its first two cases of the new ‘variant of concern’ of Covid-19 in December, India has till now confirmed 5,753 infections. Delhi is one of the top three most-hit regions by Omicron variant in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-4-days-delhi-sees-dip-in-daily-covid-cases-with-24-383-new-infections-101642165469194.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||CM Thackeray asks forest secretary to look into complaint against Kharghar mangrove destruction||Swiftly acting on green groups’ complaint against “massive” mangrove destruction and land grab in Kharghar, Navi Mumbai, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the forest secretary to look into the issue.NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan have complained to the CM about the destruction in progress along at least a 2km stretch of the creek in Kharghar. “We received a prompt response within 12 hours and it is not an automated or computer-generated one,” said NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar. The CMO marked it specifically to Forest Secretary, B Venugopal Reddy, Kumar said.The complaint said the landfill done on mangroves is being levelled with no checks whatsoever on the illegal shrimp farms springing up in some places, which interferes with the tidal flow.“Our concern is that the townships of Kharghar, Kalamboli and Kamote will be affected if the mangroves are allowed to be destroyed in this manner. We request the government to find out the number of fishing community people affected by the urban development and resettle them under Blue Economy and mangrove-based economy schemes,” Kumar said.Vast stretches are being landfilled and levelled with the help of JCB machines and this is impacting the biodiversity of the area, said Jyoti Nadkarni, another Kharghar activist.Denying any lethargy, CIDCO PRO, Priya Ratambe, said, “We have reiterated our commitment to preserving the environment through our actions of keeping 40% area for green cover. There is no question of any delay as CIDCO is the only government organisation and public sector undertaking to hand over 2,000 hectares of land to the forest department. We will hand over the remaining too as asked by the ministry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-thackeray-asks-forest-secretary-to-look-into-complaint-against-kharghar-mangrove-destruction-101642167968723.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Dog sterilisation programme in Thane at a standstill since Aug 2018||For nearly three-and-a-half years now, the stray dog sterilisation programme conducted by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has stopped.The last sterilisation was done in August 2018. Since then, animal lovers in the city have to bear the sterilisation cost of the dogs they take care of.However, dog lovers claim that getting the dogs sterilised at private centres was very costly with each sterilisation costing ₹6,000 to ₹7,000. Besides, they also have to bear the expense of vaccination, dog feeds and any injury or sickness, which is not affordable for any middle class dog lover.Experts claim that the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme has halted not only in Thane but also most of MMR as many corporations have stopped funding it. This has led to an increase in dog population, leading to cases of cruelty towards strays. The TMC officials claimed that the tenure of the NGO that did sterilisation till 2018 ended, after which it was not extended due to lack of funds and Covid. The work order will now be issued and the tenders will be finalised in the coming weeks.As per the TMC data, between March 2020 and November 2021, there have been 11,346 cases of dog bites reported. Recently, there was a case of one dog having bitten at least 34 people in the Wagle Estate area.Since the onset of the sterilisation programme in 2004, the corporation had sterilised 58,537 dogs, spending ₹8Cr.A COSTLY AFFAIRShubhra Rawlins, a dog lover from Ghodbunder, said, “The sterilisation programme of TMC stopped in 2018. We feeders get the dogs in our areas sterilised. However, it is very expensive as I spent ₹6,000 to ₹7,000 on each dog. Along with the operation, we also need to keep the dog in shelters for a week for it to heal. This also involves transporting the dogs to shelter homes. At times, the cost is as high as ₹10,000 per dog. Apart from this, we also get the dogs vaccinated and spend on dog food. The vaccination for each dog is ₹400. If we take care of 10 dogs in the area, it is not possible to spend so much money. There are feeders and dog lovers from slums and middle-class families for whom these expenses are not possible.”Rawlins added that the corporation had a well-set programme earlier that was better compared to other MMR cities. However, since its closure, the population of stray dogs has increased. “This has also given rise to cruelty in animals. The dog that I adopted had given birth to puppies just before she came to us. All the puppies were burnt. Such incidents could be avoided with effective birth control programmes,” she said.Priyanka Dabholkar, founder of Animal Welfare Foundation, added, “It is not just the birth control programmes. For almost a year, the animal hospital in Wagle Estate was shut and the vaccination programme too has stopped. We used to admit dogs there in case of maggots or sickness and injuries. Now, we have to take them to private hospitals and pay additional for the treatment too.”The NGO has written several letters to the TMC to restart the programme. However, there is no progress.ABC PROGRAMME ESSENTIALVidya Heble, another dog lover from Saket Complex, added, “The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) carries out a sterilisation programme in Mumbai. However, the TMC has stopped its own. So, we have to take dogs to Mulund or Deonar. This also involves transport and other logistics. The anti-rabies vaccine too has stopped, leading to an increase in rabies cases. This is another issue that needs to be addressed.”Dog lover Bharti Redkar added that the ABC programme is essential as puppies are left dying on the road, which is cruelty in itself.Shakuntala Majumdar, president of former Thane Society for Protection and Care of Animal, SPCA (soon to be renamed as Community for Protection and Care of Animal, CPCA), said, “Not only Thane, the sterilisation programmes was also suspended by many other corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region since the pandemic set in. The funds for ABC were transferred for Covid. Recently, when we had some hope of getting funding, the third wave set in.”This stalling of animal control has led to an exponential increase in stray population. “People have also started feeding stray dogs aggressively as most of them were home and had time on hand. This has led to massive proliferation of the dog population. The second issue is that there is no control or monitoring of the ABC programme by the State as there is no animal welfare board. The earlier board has dissolved. Due to zero monitoring, most NGOs have underpaid or not paid the basic charges for sterilisation.”Talking about the high cost of sterilisation at private centres, Majumdar added, “Apart from sterilisation, the dogs also need to be kept in the hospital for six to seven days for post-operative care, thus the high cost.” ₹1.40CR BUDGET ALLOCATEDDr. Kshama Shirodkar, veterinary officer, TMC, said, “It is true that the programme came to a halt in 2018. However, we are now issuing a work order for the same in the coming weeks. The tender will be finalised and the work will also begin as we have been allotted a budget of ₹1.40Cr.”A source from TMC claimed that the work was stalled due to lack of funding. He said, “We have still not cleared the bills of the NGO that helped with sterilisation and vaccination programmes. Thus, they are not ready to work with us. Moreover, the process was finalised in 2019. However, the then head of the department retired and since then there has been several changes in the health officer’s post. Once the pandemic set in, we were not given any funding for animal welfare. Last year, we got merely ₹20 lakh and thus had to close down even the treatment centre.”
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Poll code violation: AAP files reply to notice, Kharar SDM to reinvestigate||Put on notice for alleged violation of the model code of conduct during door-to-door campaigning by its national convener Arvind Kejriwal in Kharar, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday replied to the returning officer, claiming that only five people had gone for canvassing and were later joined by some locals. It was on January 12 when AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal along with Punjab AAP president Bhagwant Mann campaigned for the upcoming assembly elections at Kharar in Mohali district. Later in the evening, Kharar subdivisional officer, who is the returning officer for the assembly segment, issued a notice to the party, stating that more than five people had taken part in campaigning in a “clear violation” of the model code. The election commission had banned public rallies till January 15, while allowing door-to-door campaigning with only with five people. The returning officer had asked the AAP district president to file a reply within 24 hours. Confirming that he has received the reply, SDM Avikesh Gupta said: “The party has filed the reply, but we will be reinvestigating the case to check its authenticity.” Samana MLA put on notice Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Samana Rajinder Singh has been served a show-cause notice for alleged poll code violations by organising public gatherings on Friday. The returning officer from Samana assembly segment in Patiala district has sought a written explanation from the MLA within 24 hours. It was found that Congress workers organised public rallies at Badanpur and Rajla villages in the segment. Photos of the events were also attached with the notice. “In failure to submit required written response, action will be taken against local MLA as per guidelines of election commission,” the notice stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poll-code-violation-aap-files-reply-to-notice-kharar-sdm-to-reinvestigate-101642166168393.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 cases rising fast but hospitalisation and deaths low: Kejriwal||Covid-19 cases are rising fast in the national capital but there is no reason to worry, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday emphasising that hospitalisation and death rates are quite low. He asked people to be responsible and assured them that the government has made all preparations and there are enough hospital beds. "There is no need to panic. Cases are rising fast and there is no two ways about it. The Omicron variant is quite transmissible and infectious," Kejriwal told reporters on the sidelines of an event.He was at Rajghat to flag off 100 low-floor AC CNG buses that will run from Ghumanhera depot in outer Delhi and will cater to rural areas.The chief minister said that despite the rise in cases and the increase in positivity rate, which has crossed 29 per cent, the hospitalisation rate and deaths are quite low.  "We have made all the preparations and there is no shortage of beds," he added.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has been saying that the hospitalisation rate has become stagnant which is an indication that the current wave has plateaued. According to him, 75 per cent of the people who died due to coronavirus were unvaccinated and 90 per cent of the people had comorbidities. Delhi on Thursday reported 28,867 Covid-19 cases, the sharpest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic, and 31 deaths while the positivity rate went up to 29.21 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-rising-fast-but-hospitalisation-and-deaths-low-kejriwal-101642165334895.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||90% youngsters in 15-18 yrs age group jabbed with first dose against Covid in Navi||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has successfully vaccinated 90% of the youngsters in the 15-18 years age group in Navi Mumbai with the first dose.The vaccination for the 15-18 years age group started on January 3 at 206 schools. Of the total 72,823 eligible candidates, 64,938 have already got their first jab by Thursday. Of the 64,938 students, 63,556 (98%) got their first jab from the NMMC-run vaccination camps and 1,373 (2%) got it from the private hospitals. The remaining nine have got from private centres.“The response that we are receiving for the vaccination among the 15-18 years age-group is very good. Within 10 days, we have vaccinated 90% of them. Since Covaxin is vaccinated to them, the second dose will start after 28 days. So, in the next 18 days, we would be starting with our preparation to jab them with the second dose,” Dr Sanjay Kakade, additional municipal commissioner, NMMC, said.Even with the schools being shut, the response received for the vaccine at schools is good. “Even with the increase in Covid cases, the fatality and severity of the cases are very low, which is proof that the vaccine has been effective. Hence, most of the parents opted to get their children jabbed without hesitation. The centres being the schools, it was most convenient to visit without any problem,” a NMMC health officer said.Meanwhile, 971 above the age of 60 years have taken their booster dose till now. A total of 94,121 citizens are fully vaccinated. While 2,368 Front Line Workers received their booster dose, a total of 21,981 Front Line Workers have been fully vaccinated. The booster dose vaccine drive began on January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/90-youngsters-in-15-18-yrs-age-group-jabbed-with-first-dose-against-covid-in-navi-101642163768178.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: SAD urges EC to review ban on public meetings||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday urged the Election Commission to reconsider the ban on street corner (nukkad) meetings to campaign for the February 14 Punjab assembly elections. Also read: Punjab elections: Former minister Joginder Singh Mann quits CongressSAD senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema said that political parties should be allowed to hold small gatherings and reach out to voters, while ensuring the Covid-19 protocol is followed. On January 8, while declaring the poll schedule in the five states, including Punjab, the EC banned rallies and public meetings till January 15 amid the rise in Covid-19 cases. The SAD and other political parties fear the ban may be extended. “This is causing inconvenience to candidates of all parties. It is not possible to cover all voters through the digital mode,” Cheema wrote to the EC, adding that there are backward areas in the state where internet connectivity is an issue. According to him, the marginalised section of society has limited access to technology and restricting the campaign to the digital mode was denying voters an equal opportunity. “This will also affect the poll percentage,” Cheema said. He, however, agreed that big rallies ought to be banned but smaller meetings should be allowed. He alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party, which is contesting the elections in Punjab and has a government in Delhi, was misusing funds to further its political interests. “They (AAP) are daily showing multiple development stories in the form of paid news on various TV channels of the state to influence voters. Since there is no code of conduct in Delhi, the AAP is exploiting the loophole and spending crores on paid news advertisements at the expense of the Delhi state exchequer, putting other parties at a disadvantage,” Cheema said. Meanwhile, in order to reach out to people, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal met all 93 candidates of the party nominated so far and asked them to reach out to voters by digital means. The party president has himself launched digital campaigns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-sad-urges-ec-to-review-ban-on-public-meetings-101642162147890.html
14-01-2022||Jaipur||'Bike ambulance' to deliver medicines at home to Covid patients in Jaipur||The Health Department has started a ‘bike ambulance’ facility in Jaipur city to deliver medicines at home to those infected with coronavirus.This initiative has been taken keeping in mind the convenience of the infected living in 'home isolation'. Such infected people can now get medicines by calling the number '108' while sitting at home, an official said.According to an official statement, 25 bike ambulances have been set up police station-wise in Jaipur city. Through this, medicines will be made available to the patients, especially the coronavirus infected patients, at their homes through bikes and ambulances on calling 108 helpline.Of the 9,881 new cases reported in the state on Thursday, 2,785 were in Jaipur. A total of 45,565 cases are currently under treatment in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bike-ambulance-to-deliver-medicines-at-home-to-covid-patients-in-jaipur-101642160516019.html
14-01-2022||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Does life’s ‘best before’ option get any better?||Have you ever felt that you just don’t have enough time? Enough time to do the things you have to do on a day-to-day basis? Have you ever felt that life is just one long schedule that leaves you with very little space to stop and breathe once in a while? That it’s all just about to fall apart? Well, in case you have felt that way, this one is for you. Some time ago, I met this guy and he asked me: “Do you ever feel that you always need to depend on someone else?” Well, I just looked at him and waited. “Like you never have any answers and you always need to have a friend or family member or someone - anyone - around to help you through the day?” I continued to look at him. This was shaping up like one of those deep, really deep, moments when I was required to say something profound; but my mind was blank. “I feel like that very often,” he said finally with a long sigh. That kind of woke me up. Heck, I feel that all the time. So, I told him: “Actually, I have that kind of a day almost every day.” “Really? What do you do then?” “I am not too sure. I think I try to get by not thinking about it too much.” “How’s that possible? It affects my work, my interactions… everything.” “That’s why I try not to think about it.” “Does it get any better?” I thought about that one carefully. I know a lot of people who seem to breeze through life with very little tension or doubts. I am not one of those people. And whenever I feel that I am on top of things, and that life is smooth, something comes along and I am back to square one. “It does get better, but that’s because you remember that you have been through this before and that you came out of it.” “Like how? Will I always have to depend on others for answers?” “I don’t know.” I didn’t want to think this conversation through. I had too much work and I wasn’t sure how I was going to make it through the day. But that’s precisely what he was asking: Will it be better tomorrow? “I suppose it depends on why you are going to others in the first place.” “Meaning what?” “Meaning, if you are hoping others will make your decision for you then you will keep looking for answers from others. On the other hand, if you are looking only for a different perspective, then you will eventually stop depending on others in crisis situations.” “Hmmm.” That conversation ended on that note; but it continued in my head in a different vein. Frankly, I go through life in waves – there are these ups and then there are these downs. Most often, the downs are longer – very much against wave theory. Or so it seems to me. The pressure at work and on the personal front builds up and builds up and builds up till I start thinking about what I really wanted to do with my life, whether I really want to be in this place right now, whether late nights and early mornings are worth it and so on. Usually, such thoughts occur when the pressure is really high and you are stretched way beyond your limits. And that’s more or less the kind of work life most people I know have these days. The week is one long night and then there is the weekend when we want to party and unwind or sleep it off. And then it’s Monday again. This kind of a lifestyle does not give us much time to think about how to nurture relationships, how to find time for friends and family and for our personal needs. Everything but work goes on the back burner till things come to a head. And when things come to a head, work is still a pressure cooker, so that’s when you start thinking: Does this get any better? What am I doing here? Why can’t people understand the pressures I work under? When will I ever get to a stage when I can just do the things I want to? When will I get a job where I do what I love most? I remember a commercial on television for an SUV which was built around the same concept. I think the ad went something like: I always wanted to quit on Monday morning. I always wanted to swim with the whales. I always wanted to do something or the other…. and then it goes on to say: Reclaim your life. Now that ad touches a chord with me. It touches a chord because it reflects a reality of the urban lifestyle. The world that we live in is increasingly driven by schedules and deadlines. We are living in a service-oriented society, and that means service-on-demand 24/7. And this is a lifestyle that is here to stay for a long time to come. So, does it get better? Yep, it does. But I have to choose not to run the race, any race. I have to choose when to let work and personal life merge, and when to separate work life from personal life. One has to choose to make time for oneself and loved ones. And I have to stop being afraid that the world will pass me by while I am taking a day off or switching off early. Most importantly, it must be my choice, not pressure from family, work or society. I guess what I am saying is that sometimes we have to think about the big things our own selves. Else we may end having a virus do it for us. Global Village Idiot: Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-does-life-s-best-before-option-get-any-better-101642160347920.html
14-01-2022||Dehradun||As Covid-19 cases surge, Ganga ghats wear deserted look on Makar Sankranti||Major ghats of the River Ganga in Haridwar and Rishikesh wore a deserted look on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on Friday with a ban on ritual bathing in the river owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases.Har ki Pairi Ghat in Haridwar and Triveni Ghat in Rishikesh, which generally receive lakhs of devotees from Uttarakhand and the neighbouring states on the auspicious occasion, were completely sealed even as police personnel stood guard to ensure that the ban was effective.  Patrolling and checking along Haridwar's borders were intensified so that people unaware of the ban did not enter the Har ki Pairi area for a bath, a police official in Haridwar said.People proceeding for a holy dip in the Ganga due to lack of information about the ban were convinced and made to return from the borders, he said. Haridwar District Magistrate Vinay Shankar Pandey and his Dehradun counterpart R Rajesh Kumar had announced a ban on ritual bathing in River Ganga on Makar Sankranti a few days ago to check the spread of the virus.Though some crowd was seen on Subhash Ghat, a short distance away from Har ki Pairi, Superintendent of Police (City) Swatantra Kumar said they had arrived for immersing ashes of their deceased kin as the ghat is reserved for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/as-covid-19-cases-surge-ganga-ghats-wear-deserted-look-on-makar-sankranti-101642159891439.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||State Backward Class Commission aims to complete survey in April||Mumbai: In a move to restore political reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in local body elections, the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission (MSBCC) has launched the process to collect empirical data to map caste and socio-economic status of all residents of Maharashtra. It is expected to be completed by the end of April contingent on the Covid-19 pandemic.Members of the Commission met on Thursday, and finalized the questionnaire that would be used to collect relevant information. Though empirical data collection norms were drawn up last year, they were fine-tuned after consulting experts. The format of the survey will be decided after similar consultations, and the Commission is expected to issue the order to launch the exercise in the coming days.The last caste census was carried out in 1931 in British-ruled India. The survey, which will be called the Socio-Economic Caste and Political Research-2022 will aim to provide a scientific enumeration of castes, which may cause a quantum shift in Maharashtra’s politics driven largely by caste and community affiliations.On December 22, as part of the supplementary demands presented in its winter session, the state laid down a ₹435-crore outlay for the MSBCC to conduct the survey that has been mandated by the top court of the country. “We have finalized the draft questionnaire for the survey,” said Govind Kale, a member of the 10-member Commission. Kale said that the survey will include information on family members who have contested and won elections (local body included) to assess the political status and backwardness of the community. The castes and categories (like Open, OBC etc) will also be recorded, as will the educational and employment status.“We will map the proportion of OBCs in the population,” Kale said and added that empirical data collection and analysis is expected to be completed in four months if adequate resources were made available. In March 2021, the Supreme Court (SC) struck down the 27% political reservation available to OBC candidates in local body elections and said that the state should conduct a “rigorous empirical survey” to ascertain the exact nature of backwardness of the communities before according reservation. It also struck down the reservation on grounds that the state was exceeding the 50% ceiling on reservation when taken together with the constitutionally mandated reservation to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC and ST) candidates. In December, it struck down an Ordinance promulgated by the state that sought to amend existing laws to ensure up to 27% reservation to OBC candidates in local body elections.This had put the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on a sticky wicket as OBC candidates sought to lose close to 57,000 seats cumulatively across various local bodies including zilla parishads, municipal corporations and panchayat samitis. Though Marathas dominate Maharashtra’s politics, OBC communities — across religion, classes and castes — are considered the largest social bloc at around 53% of the population, based on existing estimates. Though the MSBCC finalized the empirical data collection norms in July 2021 — four months after it was constituted — the exercise could not be launched due to lack of funds.The state government had also reportedly sought an interim report from the Commission as the OBC reservation issue is underway in the SC. However, MSBCC member B.L. Sagar Killarikar said that they would write to the government stating their inability to do so for the time being considering “the lack of records and information.”However, another member of the MSCBC pointed to how they had been severely hamstrung by lack of adequate manpower, research staff and office space.Dattarao Deshmukh, member secretary of the commission confirmed that the questionnaire had been finalized and added that further line of action would be finalized in the next meeting. The date of the next meeting is not confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-backward-class-commission-aims-to-complete-survey-in-april-101642160109229.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||5-kg IED, ₹1 lakh found in Ajnala on Pakistan border||A special task force (STF) of Punjab Police on Friday recovered a 5-kg improvised explosive device (IED) and ₹1 lakh from the outskirts of Dhanoa village in Ajnala sub division on the India-Pakistan border. Also read: Punjab elections: Former minister Joginder Singh Mann quits CongressThe seizure was made after the Amritsar STF team got a tip-off about the smuggling of arms, ammunition and drugs from across the border. STF assistant inspector general (AIG) Rashpal Singh said, “We received a specific secret information that a consignment of arms, ammunition and drugs has been delivered near the Attari border. Our team started searching the area, during which a suspected black packet was found near Dera Baba Gulab Shah on Bachiwind road.” At first, it appeared to be a consignment of drugs, but when monitored closely, the team suspected it to be an explosive and the services of a bomb disposal squad were requisitioned. The 5-kg IED along with ₹1 lakh was found in the packet. The AIG said police teams were working to identify those behind the smuggling of the explosive, which might have been smuggled from Pakistan. After the recovery, the area was thoroughly searched along with a team of the Border Security Force. There have been incidents of Pakistani drones dropping smuggled arms and drugs in the sensitive area. An STF official requesting anonymity said the explosive might have been used to disrupt peace in poll-bound Punjab. The seizure comes two weeks ahead of Republic Day. On Thursday, police recovered 2.5-kg RDX, a detonator, codex wire (hollow wire packed with explosives), five fuses of explosives, along with wires and 12 cartridges of the AK-47 assault rifle from Gurdaspur. A police team from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar made the recoveries. The BSF also seized 5-kg heroin along the border in the Amritsar sector on Thursday. The contraband was smuggled from Pakistan by anti-national elements, taking advantage of the dense fog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5kg-ied-1-lakh-found-in-ajnala-on-pakistan-border-101642160107788.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||IED found near Delhi’s Ghazipur flower market destroyed||NEW DELHI: An improvised explosive device (IED) was destroyed through a controlled explosion after it was found in an unattended bag near the Ghazipur flower market in east Delhi on Friday amid a high alert in the city ahead of the Republic Day celebrations on January 26. Earlier, teams of the counter-terror agency National Security Guard (NSG), bomb detection and disposal, dog squads, Delhi Disaster Management Authority, fire department, the special cell, and local police rushed to the spot and cordoned it off.The bomb detection and disposal experts examined the bag to ascertain if it contained any bomb or IED.Additional deputy police commissioner (east) Vinit Kumar said around 10.30 am, their control room received a call regarding the bag. He added a police team immediately reached the spot and cordoned off the area and alerted other agencies about it. Thereafter, the bomb squad, sniffer dogs, and experts from the NSG also arrived.Kumar said the experts examined the bag to find out what exactly it contained. “Further updates will be shared after the entire operation is over.”With PTI inputs
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Omicron: Not so mild for the vulnerable||Mumbai: In August, health workers from the civic body visited 58-year-old Brijesh Singh’s home in Malad to vaccinate him against Covid-19. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had launched a door-to-door vaccination drive for people who were bedridden and immobile, but Singh, whose right leg was amputated, refused to get jabbed. “He told the health workers that there was no point in taking the vaccine as he hardly stepped out of the house,” said Singh’s wife Saroj. Fourteen years ago, Singh’s leg was amputated because of sepsis. He was diabetic but had not taken medication for years. He had suffered from tuberculosis in the past. Once a taxi driver, he stopped leaving his home after the surgery. His unvaccinated status added to his vulnerability in the pandemic. On January 6, Singh’s family rushed him to the civic-run Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli as he had stopped eating for two days. When they did a Covid-19 test on him, it was positive. The next day, Singh was shifted to the jumbo facility in NESCO, Goregaon, where he was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). He died two days later. His death certificate stated that he died of Covid-19 pneumonia that led to respiratory failure. The third wave of the pandemic, predominantly driven by the Omicron variant, is being called “mild” as the symptoms seem to range from fever to sore throats and most persons affected seem to recover within five to seven days. However, the term is misleading, experts said. For the vulnerable population — like Singh and others with co-morbidities — Covid-19, whether it is a Delta variant or Omicron, can still be fatal. In the past 10 days alone, Mumbai’s oxygen bed occupancy has gone up from 11.5% to 23.6%; ICU bed occupancy has gone up from 19.6% to 29.3%: and the occupancy of ventilator beds has increased from 23.3% to 34.7%. As per the case curve in the earlier waves, oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds typically start filling up seven to 12-days from the onset of infection as the patient would start displaying serious symptoms — thus requiring ventilator or ICU support — only from the 7th day onwards. In other words, as cases rise, so will the need for critical care, irrespective of the variant as a section of the population will always remain vulnerable on account of weak immunity and/or co-morbidities. “(Singh’s) infection was widespread into the lungs, and the X-ray showed ground-glass opacities,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the NESCO facility where Singh was admitted. Ground glass opacities are hazy grey areas in the lungs suggesting pulmonary fibrosis. Singh was put on a range of medications including Remdesivir, but he did not respond to them. In Singh’s case, his treating doctors were unaware of the variant he was infected with. “Knowing the variant won’t change anything,” said Andrade, who has been closely monitoring the progress of ICU patients. “Omicron, despite being known to cause mild infection, can cause severe disease in patients like Singh who have co-morbidities and are unvaccinated,” she said. Being unvaccinated during a pandemic increases the chances of severe disease and mortality by multifold, experts said. “Besides co-morbidities, a lot of factors play a role in how a patient copes with the infection,” Andrade said. “Whether the patient has been on proper medications for his/her co-morbidities, are they following a healthy lifestyle, do they have good nutritional intake etc. matters immensely. We have seen patients with multiple co-morbidities turning around, and otherwise seemingly healthy patients failing to cope with the infection because of these factors,” she said. DON’T CALL IT A MILD WAVE Mumbai has recorded 969,989 cases and 16426 deaths due to Covid-19 since the pandemic began. At present, nearly 900 people are admitted in ICUs across the city — up from 507 on January 4. In the same time period, those hospitalized rose from 4,491 patients to 6,946, the number of cases rose from 816,965 to 969,989. The number of infections is so widespread that it has already overwhelmed the healthcare systems. On one hand, ICUs in the private sector are full up, and on the other hand, there is an acute staff crunch with many healthcare workers down with Covid-19. Vile Parle resident E Valsalam Yunus (63) was unable to find an ICU in the civic-run Seven Hills hospital and the private Nanavati Hospital, following which his family rushed him to the NESCO facility on January 3. Yunus remained in the ICU for five days and was discharged upon recovery. He had a history of heart disease, diabetes and hypertension, but and was unvaccinated. “He has a pacemaker and multiple stents and his heart is functioning sub-optimally with an ejection fraction (pumping ability of heart) of just 20%,” said Yunus’s daughter Angel (31). “I tried to convince him to take the vaccine multiple times, but he refused,” she said. At the start of the new year, Yunus, his wife and son developed symptoms like body ache, runny nose and cough. While his wife and son became better within two days, Yunus’s oxygen level dropped to 91. “Calling this a mild wave sends a very wrong signal,” said Dr Anita Mathew, an internal medicine specialist at the Fortis Hospital in Mumbai. “When we have infections in such a large number, a considerable section of the population is going to need critical care,” she said. “There is a lot of underlying Covid-19. Many patients coming with other ailments like heart attacks, accidents or any other interventions have active Covid infection. And this infection definitely plays role in the patients’ overall recovery,” she said adding that those landing up in the ICU are a mix of unvaccinated, partially vaccinated and fully vaccinated individuals. There are also some patients with re-infections requiring ICU admission, she said. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid-19 task force said that they have defined three broad groups as high risk: people with co-morbidities who don’t have the ability to mount their immunity despite vaccination, senior citizens and those who are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated. “We have to focus on getting people vaccinated, and those who are vaccinated should get their boosters to mount the immunity. Other than that, following strict Covid behaviour is the best weapon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-not-so-mild-for-the-vulnerable-101642158907673.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Police book organisers, attendees of illegal bullock cart race in Ambernath village||Shivaji Nagar police in Ambernath have registered a case against the organisers and attendees of an illegal bullock cart race that was allegedly organised in a village in Ambernath on Wednesday.According to Shivaji Nagar police, they received a call at around 11am on Wednesday about a large crowd having gathered in Bohonoli village for a bullock cart race. Several teams of personnel were immediately despatched but the crowd had dispersed by the time police reached the spot, officers said.“Based on preliminary inquiries, we have registered an FIR against 50 to 60 people that includes the organisers of the race as well as the people who had gathered to view it. We have booked them under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act as well as under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Indian Penal Code for flouting restrictions relating to the on-going Covid pandemic,” police inspector Ajay Gavit said.The incident comes close on the heels of the Supreme Court permitting resumption of the 400-year-old tradition of bullock cart racing in Maharashtra. There are several petitions pending before the SC over bullock cart racing, and the apex court has allowed races to be held in the State till the matters are pending.“While the SC has allowed bullock cart races to be held, there are certain guidelines that need to be adhered to. The organisers of the race need to seek and obtain permission from the District Collector as well as inform the local police, which was not done in this case. Further, all restrictions related to the pandemic were violated by the large crowd that had gathered to witness the race,” Gavit said.The police are now working on identifying and apprehending the accused. Inquiries are under way and arrests are expected in the case soon, officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-book-organisers-attendees-of-illegal-bullock-cart-race-in-ambernath-village-101642157528145.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal flags off 100 low floor, air-conditioned buses||The public transport bus fleet size at 6,900 has become the largest so far in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday after flagging off 100 low floor and air-conditioned buses at Rajghat depot here.The city transport department is also making efforts to have 300 e-buses on the road by April, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said on the occasion."With induction of these 100 buses now, the public transport bus fleet size has grown to 6,900 which is the highest so far. Earlier, there were around 6,000 buses at the time of Commonwealth Games (in 2010)," Kejriwal said.The government is procuring many more buses including e-buses, he said.  "It takes 2-3 years for new buses to come due to tender process and other formalities, it cannot happen overnight. When our government was formed, there was much shortage of buses as no new buses were purchased for many years. The buses started rolling out after we activated the procurement process," he said.The 100 new buses will be operated mostly on rural routes from Ghumanhera bus depot, he said, adding "We are committed to boost public transport ensuring people have buses for commute on regular frequency."Meanwhile, the transport minister tweeted, "Congrats! Today we've added 100 more fully BS VI compliant AC CNG buses to our fleet. Under Hon'ble CM @ArvindKejriwal ji's dynamic leadership, Delhi in 2022 will see more and more state of the art buses, including 100% electric ones being added to it's fleet!."A prototype e-bus will be flagged of by the chief minister on Monday. Fifty more e-buses will arrive by first or second week of February and all the efforts will be made to have 300 e-buses by April, Gahlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-flags-off-100-low-floor-air-conditioned-buses-101642156224903.html
14-01-2022||Patna||Bihar’s first floating solar power plant to be commissioned||DARBHANGA: Bihar Renewable Energy Development Agency (BREDA) is set to commission the state’s first two MW floating solar power plant in Darbhanga, said electrical superintending engineer Sunil Kumar Das.As many as 40,04 photovoltaic (PV) panels, each capable of generating 500-watt electricity, will be installed in a pond in Darbhanga’s Kadirabad locality by Delhi based firm AVAADA.Rohit Kumar Singh, the project manager of AVAADA, said the work for the floating solar power plant started in October last year. However, the foundation work only began on November 15. It is now ready for commissioning, said Singh.The solar power plant will be directly connected to the utility power grid from where power will be supplied to consumers.The project is a part of efforts to tap as well as to generate mass awareness about solar energy. The floating solar power plant has been built in line with the state government’s promotion of clean energy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-first-floating-solar-power-plant-to-be-commissioned-101642155066913.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Mansa Congress MLA opposed to Moosewala’s candidature||Raising the banner of revolt against the Congress leadership, Mansa MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia on Friday said he would oppose the candidature of controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala from his constituency. Also read: Punjab elections: Former minister Joginder Singh Mann quits CongressManshahia said the state leadership has sent feelers that the singer may be the party’s nominee from the semi-urban segment. In 2017, Manshahia was elected on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket with over 20,000 votes. But in April 2019, he rebelled and joined the Congress under then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. “My family is a traditional supporter of the Congress and I am a better claimant for the seat. I have a long association with the veteran Congress leader and cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. In the last elections, I contested on the AAP ticket but I managed to win with a huge margin due to support of the Congress,” he claimed. The Congress list is expected later today and Moosewala’s name should be reconsidered, Manshahia said. “The Congress will lose Mansa if an ‘outsider’ and political novice like Moosewala is selected. I have conveyed my feelings to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi through an email,” he said. He said ever since Moosewala was inducted in the party about a month ago, the Congress workers are upset with him being projected as the projecting him as the candidate. “Moosewala belongs to Sardulgarh segment and the party should honour sentiments of a seasoned person like me. He is even ridiculing the party by stating that he will contest as an Independent if the Congress declines his candidature,” Manshahia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-mansa-congress-mla-opposed-to-moosewala-s-candidature-101642154887651.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||BJP doesn't want it, so got child rights panel to stop ‘Desh Ka Mentor’: Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) does not want the Union territory government to continue with the ‘Desh Ka Mentor’ programme; hence they used the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to stop the same. He added that a BJP worker from Chhattisgarh complained about the programme being a “threat” to a child's safety.“[The] BJP does not want (Aam Aadmi Party) AAP's 'Desh ka Mentor' programme to continue so they used NCPCR to stop [it] on a complaint by a BJP worker from Chhattisgarh, who said it is a ‘threat’ to a child's safety,” Sisodia was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The NCPCR has raised concerns against the mentor programme a couple of times, with the latest being on January 11 when it wrote to the Delhi government seeking suspension of the same. The child rights body alleged the programme exposes children to unknown persons and that it should be suspended till the loopholes are taken care of.In the January 11 letter, the NCPCR said that it wrote to the Delhi chief secretary last month following which a response arrived from the UT government's directorate of education (DoE) on January 3. However, the commission claimed the reply was “ineffectual”.Sisodia, however, brushed aside the claims of the child rights body, saying that all mentors involved in the programme are mandatorily needed to undertake psychometric evaluation before they are taken on board by the Delhi government.“We have taken extreme care on these subjects while deciding the structure of the programme. Under the programme, all female students are allotted female mentors while all male students are allotted male mentors. Parental consent has been made mandatory for students to seek allotment of a mentor under the programme,” he added.Notably, the ‘Desh Ka Mentor’ programme was launched by the Delhi government in October last year. Under it, students of classes 9 to 12 of Delhi government schools will be guided by mentors in exploring different types of career and life options. It involves “adopting” up to 10 government school students to be mentored by individuals, who are successful in their respective fields.Bollywood actor Sonu Sood is the brand ambassador of the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-doesn-t-want-it-so-got-child-rights-panel-to-stop-desh-ka-mentor-sisodia-101642151875547.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi likely to record less than 25,000 new Covid cases today: Health minister||NEW DELHI: The Capital is likely to see a drop in the number of new Covid-19 infections on Friday, Delhi’s health minister Satyendra Jain said. Speaking to a news agency, Jain said the number of new daily coronavirus cases in Delhi was expected to be less than 25,000 on Friday. “Delhi reported 28,867 cases yesterday. Today, we are expected to record less than 25,000 cases,” Jain told ANI. Over the last two days, Delhi recorded more than 25,000 daily Covid-19 infections. On Wednesday, the city reported 27,561 new cases, and on Thursday, the number of cases, according to daily health bulletins released by the Delhi government, was 28,867. On Wednesday, the health minister said the number of Covid-related hospitalisations in Delhi had stabilised, which indicated that the daily case count could also possibly drop over the coming days. Jain said if the cases started to come down, the Delhi government would consider easing some of the existing restrictions that have been put in place to control the spread of the coronavirus. Jain also said that while the death count in Delhi was seeing an uptick, it was important to note that 75% of the Covid-related fatalities reported over the last few days were of people who were not vaccinated against the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-likely-to-record-less-than-25-000-new-covid-cases-today-health-minister-101642154107524.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Former minister Joginder Singh Mann quits Congress||Former Congress minister and Punjab Agro Industries Corporation chairman Joginder Singh Mann on Friday quit the party amid reports that he may join the Aam Aadmi Party in the run-up to the February 14 assembly elections. Also read: Covid norms go for toss as thousands gather for Maghi MelaSoon after Mann snapped his 50-year-old ties with the Congress and stepped down as the corporation chief, a cabinet rank post, sources said that he would be joining the AAP as negotiations were underway. When contacted over phone, Mann neither confirmed nor denied his plans of joining the AAP but said that he was yet to take a decision and would announce his decision in two days. He said he had lost eight family members to militancy yet he remained “a loyal soldier of the Congress for five decades. Apparently, now the party doesn’t need us that is why our loyalty is considered as our weakness. But it is not so as we are strong enough to safeguard the interests of residents of Phagwara in general and that of underprivileged sections in particular even without the Congress.” In a letter to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, the three-time former Phagwara MLA said, “I had a dream that when I die, the Congress tri-colour will be wrapped around my body but my conscience does not allow me to stay here after seeing the Congress patronising those guilty of the post-matric scholarship scheme for Scheduled Caste students.” Mann had spoken up against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu recently after he was ignored during a rally organised by local MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal in Phagwara. “Maharajas, landlords, moneybags and opportunist leaders like Captain Amarinder Singh and Sidhu came to the party for their vested interests due to which the party drifted from its core values and the focus shifted merely to contest elections and grab power. For the past few months, I’ve been having sleepless nights because hundreds of SC students’ career has been ruined due to the usurping of money. Instead of punishing the guilty, the Congress sheltered them and the recent Cabinet decision was the final blow,” he said. Citing another reason for quitting, he said residents of Phagwara have to travel 40km to Kapurthala for getting their administrative works done at the district headquarters. He said had been repeatedly flagging the issue of according district status to Phagwara with the then CM Captain Amarinder Singh and later Charanjit Singh Channi. “Instead of paying heed, they ignored this long-pending demand of Phagwara residents,” he said. Mann also claimed that over the past few years, the Congress has been meting out a step-motherly treatment to the Valmiki or Mazhabi Sikhs, while using the community as a vote bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-former-minister-joginder-singh-mann-quits-congress-101642153987391.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions prevail in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Friday.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 4.3 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.Sirsa also experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.4 degrees Celsius, while Gurgaon's minimum temperature settled at 7.5 degrees Celsius.However, Ambala registered an above normal temperature at 10.3 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Bathinda reeled under intense cold and recorded a low of 4.2 degrees, while Amritsar recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius. Gurdaspur, too, experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.2 degrees Celsius.Jalandhar recorded a low of 8.6 degrees, while Moga registered a low of 5.9 degrees. Ludhiana's minimum settled at 8.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-in-punjab-haryana-101642150191845.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid norms go for toss as thousands gather for Maghi Mela||Thousands of devotees gathered at Muktsar on Friday to commemorate the annual Maghi Mela amid the third Covid wave. Also read: Punjab polls: In the virtual world, propaganda politics takes the poll positionEvery year, a three-day festival is organised in the memory of the 40 ‘muktas (the redeemed ones)’, who sacrificed their lives fighting the Mughals in the last battle of Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th Sikh master, in 1705. Since early on Friday, people started arriving at Muktsar, 60km from Bathinda, for a ritual bath at the historic Tuti Gandi Sahib gurdwara. There is no restriction for those converging for the religious event. While political rallies have been banned due to the pandemic, religious processions or gatherings have not been barred. According to the information, Covid-19 guidelines were not followed during the mela. Social distancing norms were not enforced and devotees were seen without masks in and around the shrine. People took a dip in the holy sarovar in large numbers. Muktsar civil surgeon Dr Ranju Singla said the health department is keeping its fingers crossed as the town is seeing a rush of pilgrims since Thursday even as Covid cases are on the rise in Punjab. Special teams have been distributing masks to devotees but people in a festive mood have been ignoring appeals to maintain distancing, Dr Singla said. “Seven vaccination-cum-screening camps have been set up but there are hardly any takers. On Thursday, about 100 people took the vaccine but today nobody has turned up,” the civil surgeon said. In view of the rush at the mela, the Muktsar district administration declared a holiday in all public offices on Friday. All liquor vends and shops selling meat will remain closed in the Muktsar municipal limits till Friday midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-norms-go-for-toss-as-thousands-gather-for-maghi-mela-101642148887698.html
14-01-2022||Kolkata||Consider postponing civic elections, says Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: Amid rising Covid-19 cases in West Bengal, the Calcutta high court on Friday directed the State Election Commission to consider postponing civic elections by four to six weeks and to take a decision in this regard within 48 hours.“Hence, we dispose of the present petition with a direction to the state Election Commission to consider the galloping speed with which the Covid-19 cases are increasing and also to take into account the issue if holding of elections in such a situation will be in the public interest and if free and fair elections will be possible on the dates notified, and take a decision in respect of the postponement of the date of elections of four municipal corporations for a short period of four to six weeks,” the court said.The elections to civic bodies in Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri, and Chandannagar are scheduled on January 22. One Bimal Bhattacharya moved the court citing the Covid-19 situation and sought the postponement of the polls.West Bengal reported 23,467 Covid-19 infections on Thursday taking the number of active cases to over 15,300. The positivity rate in the state was 32.1%.On Thursday, the state government told the court that once the election dates were announced, it has no role and the poll watchdog could defer the polls. The watchdog informed the court it does not have the power to defer the election dates once the dates have been notified unless the state government declares an emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/consider-postponing-civic-elections-says-calcutta-hc-101642147206957.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Makar Sankranti: Our kites will do the socialising, say kite flying groups||New DelhiThey may be just pieces of colourful papers strung on delicate wooden frames, but come Makar Sankranti and kites become the harbinger of joy. On the festive day, this year too, Delhi’s kite flying groups have plans to convene and mark the harvest festival, but only from their individual terraces. For a collective yet safe experience, and to exhibit their shared passion for kite flying, most of them will fly kites to stay upbeat during these tough times, but not in groups. Terraces allow social distancing“Many families around the Jama Masjid area, in Old Delhi, celebrate Makar Sankranti by taking to kite flying. For us kite groups, it’s a day of added joy as there are many more kites in the sky on this day,” says M Javed, president, Delhi Kite Flying Association, adding: “Since many homes and terraces are in close quarters in the Old Delhi area, people can see each other from the terraces and still remain socially distanced. We’re all planning to celebrate the day by flying kites on our terraces and not congregate in any one spot. It’s our duty to follow Covid rules, when we know the situation at hand.” Competing in the festive spiritKaphil Ahmed, a member of Venus Kite Club, says, “We’re organising a competition on our individual terraces on Makar Sankranti. It’s a big date for us, and we will ensure that it’s celebrated that way, but without flouting Covid rules. Had the cases not increased yet again, we all would have surely got together in open fields, to fly kites. Many of those fields are closed at the moment. So we will start flying kites from around noon and conclude the competition with a special festive spread on our terrace itself. Some of us have also made arrangements for barbecue on the terrace. As the sun sets, it feels amazing to cook and have warm food after a good session of kite flying.”Bonfire, music at dusk“There are many people in old Delhi who have their roots in Gujarat and Rajasthan, where Makar Sankranti is a super popular festival,” says Naeem Khan, founder of Paragon Kite Club, adding, “Among those families, and others too, will also get on the terraces where children will be taught how to fly kites, snacks shall be served, and come evening and loud music and bonfire will be set up, too. We, as a club, are also planning a kite-flying competition on our terrace. Earlier we used to send each other snacks and tea or coffee during this competition, but that might not happen this time, due to the Covid scare. But we’ll let our kites do the socialising without remaining distant!”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/makar-sankranti-our-kites-will-do-the-socialising-say-kite-flying-groups-101642143667004.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||HCs shouldn’t throw spanner in works of recovery proceedings: SC||NEW DELHI: High courts should not throw a spanner in the works of the recovery proceedings initiated by financial institutions against the borrowers, who abuse the process of the courts by filing writ petitions, the Supreme Court has said.“Filing of the writ petitions by the borrowers before the high court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India (writ petition) is an abuse of process of the court,” said a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna, underscoring the significance of relevant laws under which recovery proceedings are initiated.The bench pointed out that there are specific laws such as the SARFAESI (Securitisation and Reconstruction for Enforcement of Security Interest) Act, which provide for debt recovery mechanisms involving banks and other financial institutions. The SARFAESI Act, said the top court, also laid down the process of challenging various notices issued to a borrower, and therefore, high courts should not entertain writ petitions against such orders or notices.“The secured creditor and/or its assignor have a right to recover the amount due and payable to it from the borrowers. The stay granted by the high court would have a serious adverse impact on the financial health of the secured creditor/assignor,” the top court in a judgment on Wednesday.Advocate Abhishek A Rastogi, a partner at Khaitan & Co, said a writ petition under Article 226 cannot be entertained when sufficient alternate and effective remedy is available. “The availability of alternate remedy will certainly depend on facts of each case but the findings of the Supreme Court are relevant in debt recovery cases and must be kept in mind by all judicial authorities.”Also Read | Haridwar hate speech: Supreme Court issues notice to Uttarakhand govtThe top court’s judgment came as it set aside a 2018 order of the Karnataka high court, directing a status quo with regard to possession of mortgaged properties subject to the borrowers making a payment of ₹1 crore with the assets reconstruction company (ARC) concerned.Phoenix ARC Private Limited challenged the high court order in favour of its borrowers, Vishwa Bharati Vidya Mandir and St Ann’s Education Society, which had defaulted in repayment of loans to the tune of ₹117 Crore. After the borrowers committed defaults repeatedly between 2013 and 2015 even after issuance of notices under the SARFAESI Act, Phoenix sent a communication to the borrowers intimating them about taking possession of the mortgaged properties.Against this letter, the borrowers moved the high court, which ordered a status quo with regard to possession of the mortgaged properties subject to the borrowers making a payment of ₹One crore Phoenix in August 2015. The high court extended this interim order on two other occasions in 2017 and 2018, prompting Phoenix to approach the Supreme Court.Allowing the appeal, the Supreme Court said that writ petitions against the private financial institution under Article 226 may not be maintainable when they seek to challenge SARFAESI proceedings, particularly because such institutions do not perform any public function by lending money.“The secured creditor and/or its assignor have a right to recover the amount due and payable to it from the borrowers. The High Court ought to have appreciated that by passing such an interim order, the rights of the secured creditor to recover the amount due and payable have been seriously prejudiced,” said the bench.It proceeded to dismiss the writ petitions before the high court, adding the borrowers to pay ₹One lakh each to Phoenix as the cost of litigation.
14-01-2022||Delhi||Republic Day 2022: Celebrations at Rajpath to get an artistic touch||For the first time ever, two gigantic scroll paintings, each about one kilometre long, will be exhibited at the India Gate, as part of the upcoming Republic Day celebrations. The scrolls, created by around 500 Indian artists during workshops as part of National Gallery of Modern Art’s (NGMA) recent Kala Kumbhs in the cities of Chandigarh and Bhubaneshwar (Odisha). Depicting the unsung heroes of India’s freedom movement, these scrolls will add an artistic touch to the R-Day fervour. Adwaita Gadanayak, director general, NGMA informs, “These scrolls celebrating the unsung heroes of India. Indigenous, traditional and contemporary artists have worked in the same emotion to make them... We will begin installing these scrolls about 10 days before the parade day, and these will be visible at an open gallery at the Rajpath on January 26. This will help connect India’s artists with the public.” And, “It’s for the first time something like this would be exhibited at Republic Day,” says Ruchi Singh Baoni, curator at NGMA.The making of the scroll, which began on December 11 in Odisha, also draws from the creative illustrations in the Constitution of India and elements painted by late artist Nandalal Bose and his team. It’s also a part of the ongoing Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, which celebrates 75 years of India.The artists from Bhubaneswar have weaved tales of heroism and tales of independence struggle from Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bengal, and even Northeast India such as Andhra Pradesh. Art forms such as Pattachitra, Talapatra Chitra, Manjusa, Madhubani and Jadu Patua have thus found space on these scrolls. In Chandigarh, the artists painted tales of valour of unsung heroes from Ladakh, Jammu, Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, and Rajasthan, using art forms such as Phad, Pichwai, Miniature, Kalamkari, Mandana, Thangka and Warli.Shyam Sunder Sharma, an artist from Rajasthan’s Nathdwara says, “We are traditional Pichwai artists, and my family has been doing this art since almost five generations. I, too, have learnt this beautiful Rajasthani art form from my forefathers. It’s great to know that the 400-year-old Pichwai art, which is now getting lost, will be shown at a national level like this. My team of artists, which also comprises my son Jatin Sharma, has used Pichwai motifs to represent Maharana Pratap and the queen of Jhansi, Rani Lakshmibai.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/republic-day-2022-celebrations-at-rajpath-to-get-an-artistic-touch-101642141749730.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to dense fog, air quality drops to ‘severe’ zone||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality was in the “severe” category on Friday morning amid dense fog as the minimum temperature was expected to plunge to 6 degrees Celsius. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) was 355 at 8am. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 321.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Thursday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said the prevailing partially cloudy conditions with low temperature, low wind speed, and low mixing layer height were leading to the accumulation of pollutants. It added the air quality was likely to degrade to the very poor category by Thursday evening or Friday and remain the same for the next three days.The maximum temperature on Friday was expected to reach 17 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 16.7 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-dense-fog-air-quality-drops-to-severe-zone-101642138746253.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Dense fog engulfs capital, AQI slips to ‘very poor’, flight delays likely||A dense layer of fog engulfed Delhi on Friday morning as the air quality deteriorated from 'moderate' to 'very poor' category amid cold wave conditions. The national capital recorded an overall air quality index (AQI) at 312, according to the morning bulletin of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).The air quality in the national capital remained in the 'satisfactory' category for three days from January 9 to January 11, but slipped to the 'moderate' category on January 12.Several flights are expected to be delayed due to the fog conditions in the national capital. The Delhi International Airport issued an alert asking passengers to contact the airline concerned for updated flight information.As many as 100 flights were delayed due to the fog conditions on runways at the Delhi airport, dropping visibility to around 50-100 metres between 4.30am and 9.30am on Thursday. Officials, however, said that no flights were cancelled or diverted.The minimum and maximum temperature on Friday is expected to be around 6 and 17 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, the air quality in Noida and Gurugram is in the 'poor' category. The AQI in Noida as of this morning was at 262, while Gurugram's AQI was at 256.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted cold wave conditions over Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, West Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and north Rajasthan during next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dense-fog-engulfs-capital-aqi-slips-to-very-poor-flight-delays-likely-101642128927983.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Of 97 who died of Covid-19 from Jan 9-12, only 8 were fully jabbed||Only eight of the 97 Covid-positive people who died in Delhi’s hospitals between January 9 and 12 were fully vaccinated, and only 19 had got one jab of the vaccine, according to a new analysis by the government that underscores the vulnerability of the unvaccinated in the third national wave of cases fuelled by the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2.The analysis pointed to three trends: a majority of the deaths were in unvaccinated people; people were at greater risk if they had serious comorbid illnesses like cancer and kidney disease; and most of the fatalities occurred in less than two days of hospital admission, suggesting people may be reaching critical care too late.“According to the latest report of the death audit committee, which was recently reconstituted, the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 are of those who were admitted due to a comorbidity or a serious disease. For hospital admissions, RT-PCR test is mandatory, so many critically ill patients came with other serious diseases and were found positive upon admission,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said.
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Drug peddler tries to end life in police lockup||A 40-year-old man, arrested in a drug peddling case, tried to end his life in a police lockup on Thursday by repeatedly hitting his head on a wall.The accused, Dharamraj, alias Dhamma, of Mauli Jagran, was locked up at the Manimajra police station after being arrested with 60 vials of buprenorphine and pheniramine maleate injections, and 2kg ganja near Shiv Mandir, Mauli Jagran on Wednesday. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station following his arrest.On Thursday, police personnel spotted him banging his head on a wall and took him for treatment. He is reported to be stable. Police have lodged another FIR against him under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code at the Manimajra police station. Officials privy to the matter said the accused was a hardened criminal, involved in several cases in the past||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhdrug-peddler-tries-to-end-life-in-police-lockup-101642110913192.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Speeding car claims six-year-old girl’s life in Panchkula||A six-year-old girl was killed in a hit-and-run accident on the Panchkula-Shimla highway on Wednesday.The child’s father, Rupesh Kumar, a resident of Tipra village, said that his daughter and son ventured out to the highway while he and his wife were away at work in Parwanoo. There, a speeding car hit his daughter and drove off, leaving her seriously injured.She was taken to the government hospital in Kalka, where doctors declared her dead.Following his complaint, the unidentified car driver was booked under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.48-year-old man falls off moving truck in Lalru, dies 
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Congress in a fix as 35 hopefuls line up for Kharar ticket||As many as 35 people have applied for a Congress ticket from the Kharar Assembly constituency, leaving the party in a fix. With Kharar being the hometown of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, stakes are high in the semi-urban constituency, located on National Highway-21.Part of SAS Nagar district, Kharar was declared an assembly constituency in 2012. Among the front-runners for the Congress ticket are former cabinet minister Jagmohan Singh Kang, Mohali District Planning Board chairman Vijay Sharma Tinku, senior advocate Natrajan Kaushal and Youth Congress senior vice-president Jaswinder Singh Jassi.Former deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh, who had resigned from SAD (Sanyukt) last month, is also likely to join the Congress and will be a contender for the ticket. A senior Congress leader said the party leadership was in a dilemma over picking its candidate from Kharar, but a name will be finalised soon.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already fielded Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Mann, 31. In the 2017 Assembly elections, party’s Kanwar Sandhu had won from the seat by a margin of nearly 2,000 votes, defeating Congress’ Jagmohan Singh Kang. But in November 2018, Sandhu, a journalist-turned-politician, along with Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, was suspended from the party for “anti-party activities”. Though Khaira later resigned from the AAP and the Assembly, Sandhu is still with the party, but has not been active in the constituency.During the Kharar municipal elections in February last year, AAP won only one of the 27 seats. The Congress won 10, the SAD eight and independent candidates also grabbed eight seats.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has picked realtor Ranjit Singh Gill, 57, as its candidate. He had finished third in 2017.From the Bharatiya Janata Party, three names – Sukhwinder Singh Goldy, Khuswant Rai Giga and Vineet Joshi – are doing the rounds.
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP’s Mohali vice-president switches over to Congress||In a boost to Congress’ election campaign in Mohali, Davinder Singh Baidwan, the vice-president of AAP’s Mohali unit, along with his supporters, joined the Congress party on Thursday. On the occasion, local Congress MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said the opposition leaders were joining the Congress due to its people-friendly policies and agendas. “Baidwan switching over to the Congress is one such example. Only the Congress has a long history of serving the nation and its people. The record developments carried out by the Congress in Mohali can be seen everywhere in the district. The agenda-less oppositions are in a fix over countering Congress’ popularity,” said the MLA.He added that the people of Mohali were fully aware of the opposition’s dire attempts to divert their attention with fake and issue-less agendas. “The public has already made up its mind to ensure Congress victory in the upcoming Punjab polls and the opposition, aware of this truth, is in a state of shock,” Sidhu claimed. Lashing out against the AAP, Sidhu said it was a party of opportunists, money and power mongers, who were backstabbers by nature and showed it with perfection whenever elections approached. Senior Congress leader joins SAD After serving the Congress for five decades, senior leader Jaspal Singh on Thursday joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma. Jaspal said he, his father and grandfather held the post of Zirakpur sarpanch for several decades and remained Congress loyalists. He himself was a councillor, Block Congress president and state secretary from Zirakpur, but he did not get respect in the party in the past few years. Appointing Jaspal as SAD’s state vice-president, Sukhbir alleged Congress’ Deepinder Dhillon and his men were involved in illegal sand mining and liquor smuggling in Dera Bassi. He said even though they took up the issue with higher Congress leaders, no action was taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-mohali-vice-president-switches-over-to-congress-101642110909167.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP will improve health, education in Punjab: Kulwant Singh||Former mayor and AAP candidate from Mohali, Kulwant Singh on Thursday said the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections will be a means for the party to bring change in the country and society. On a door-to-door visit to interact with residents of Bakarpur village, Mohali, Kulwant said even after so many decades, there had been no improvement in health and education in Punjab. “If the health facilities were good, our health minister would not have got treatment in private hospitals, and if education was satisfactory, our ministers and bureaucrats would have sent their children to government schools instead of private schools,” he said. The former mayor said the AAP will be forming the next government in Punjab and Mohali Assembly constituency will definitely contribute to it. Reacting on rebel workers leaving the party, Kulwant said switching the party will not change anything in a society where the whole system needed a change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-will-improve-health-education-in-punjab-kulwant-singh-101642110907384.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Truck driver robbed of ₹10,000, mobile phone by 4 in auto-rickshaw||Police are on the lookout for a robbers’ gang that assaulted a truck driver and took away his wallet and bag, containing ₹10,000 cash, mobile phone and other belongings.Police said the victim, Deshraj, 28, hailing from Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, was robbed at Transport Chowk in Sector 26 on January 10.According to the victim’s complaint, he was standing on a slip road near the light point around 3.30am when an auto-rickshaw stopped besides him and its driver offered to give him a ride. Three others, including a woman, were already sitting in the vehicle.When Deshraj gestured that he didn’t need a ride, one of the four passengers got out and started hitting him. The accused then snatched his wallet, containing ₹10,000 cash and ATM card, and a bag which had his clothes and mobile phone, before fleeing in the three-wheeler with other passengers.Police said the victim could not note down the auto’s registration number. After verifying the matter, police have registered a case under Sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Industrial Area police station. Efforts are on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-truck-driver-robbed-of-10-000-mobile-phone-by-4-in-autorickshaw-101642110906031.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Teacher found dead in car at Panchkula market||A 35-year-old computer teacher from Yamunanagar was found dead in a car in the parking of the busy Sector-11 market on Thursday.Police received information about the body around 11.30am, following which they identified the deceased as Padam Singh, a native of Yamunanagar, Haryana, said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Vijay Nehra.He added that when the deceased’s wife was contacted, she identified the body and confirmed that he had left for Panchkula on Wednesday. On Thursday, he called her around 9.30am, complaining he was not feeling well.Police said the body was found in a Maruti Alto car, which belonged to the deceased’s friend Yadwinder, also a teacher in Yamunanagar.The body has been sent to the Panchkula civil hospital for post-mortem examination to determine the cause of death. “An autopsy will help establish whether the deceased die due to a sudden heart attack or another reason,” the ACP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teacher-found-dead-in-car-at-panchkula-market-101642110904664.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge in Chandigarh: Panjab University limits movement of hostellers||After closing Student Centre for four days in view of the Covid surge in the city, Panjab University on Thursday issued an advisory for hostels, asking wardens to allow hostellers to go out only if necessary.According to the advisory, a movement register will be maintained and residents will not be allowed to go out unless absolutely necessary. Also, no resident will be allowed to spend the night outside.No visitor will be permitted inside the hostels and parents can meet their wards only with the permission of the wardens. Hostellers have been advised against roaming unnecessarily on the hostel premises and avoid gathering in groups.They have also been advised to self-monitor their health and report any illness to the supervisor, warden or chairperson of their department. Apart from this, hostellers have to provide the contact number of a local guardian for emergency use. Besides, hostel wardens have been told to verify the vaccination certificates of all staff members and occupants, and ensure all of them are fully vaccinated at the earliest.Apart from closing Student Centre till January 16, the varsity on Thursday had also shut down the reading halls at the AC Joshi library and restricted the entry of students in campus departments for two days. Since Monday, varsity offices have been functioning with only 50% staff strength.NSUI objects to closure of shops Members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the varsity authorities against the closure of shops at Student Centre. Demanding a rollback of the decision, NSUI suggested that instead of closing all shops, strict enforcement of Covid protocols should be emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-in-chandigarh-panjab-university-limits-movement-of-hostellers-101642110902805.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn caps RT-PCR test price at ₹299||The UT administration on Thursday slashed the charges for Covid-19 tests at private hospitals and laboratories.While earlier the prescribed charges for RT-PCR test was ₹450, now private labs can charge only up to ₹299.Also, charges for True Nat test have been capped at ₹1,250 and for IgG-based ELISA test at ₹250. Earlier, there was no cap on these tests.However, no change was made in the charges for rapid antigen test, which costs ₹350. “After due consideration and taking into account the cost of kits, consumables and rates fixed by the Haryana and Punjab governments, the Chandigarh administration has revised rates for Covid-19 testing,” UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said.“In case sample is collected from home, private laboratories may charge up to ₹200 per test in addition to the capped prices. Violators found overcharging will face strict action,” he added.Chandigarh-specific Covid app launchedIn order to provide the public a handy access to all meaningful information on Covid-19, UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday launched the COVA Chd App.The app assists Covid patients in self-health inspection, and updates them on necessary utilities, including details of essential commodities’ vendors, Covid Care Centres, hospitals and labs in their vicinity. It also assists the health department in patient management, contact tracing, sample collection and management of home-quarantine patients. The geo-fencing feature of the app helps track and trace patients, and also helps in keeping a tab on quarantine-jumpers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-caps-rt-pcr-test-price-at-299-101642110846655.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid cases hit new high in Chandigarh, but no new curbs||Even as Chandigarh’s daily Covid-19 cases mounted to a new high of 1,338 on Thursday, the UT administration decided against imposing fresh restrictions, such as weekend curfew, and instead allowed relaxations for restaurants.In the Covid review meeting, chaired by UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit, all restriction options were discussed, but the administration decided against imposing any more.On the other hand, it was decided that the hotels, restaurants, cafés, coffee shops and other eating places will be allowed to function up to 10pm, and their kitchens can remain open up to 11pm. But no home delivery will be allowed after midnight.UT adviser Dharam Pal said, “We are monitoring the situation very carefully. In the meeting, there was a consensus that additional restrictions are not required at this moment of time. The high number of cases is also due to increase in testing. The positivity rate marginally dipped from yesterday and we have adequate health infrastructure in place for hospitalisations. We are already stepping up our preparations if these parameters show an increase.”Disabled, pregnant employees can work from homeThe administration exempted persons with disabilities and pregnant women employed in government offices from attending office, but will be required to work from home.Operators of buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws have been directed to only allow passengers as per seating capacity, else they will face strict action.Testing rate increasedAppreciating UT administration’s effort to arrest the spread of Covid by increasing testing three-fold, Purohit hoped that the early detection followed by quick isolation will be helpful in checking increase in cases.Currently, over 5,000 people are being tested a day, compared to 1,200 to 1,500 earlier.Ordering strict enforcement of Covid guidelines and restrictions, Purohit said intensive containment and active surveillance should continue, unabated.Thrust on vaccinationExpressing satisfaction over UT’s vaccination coverage, the administrator directed 100% vaccination of all eligible beneficiaries at the earliest.He said at a review meeting with states and union territories, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared that Chandigarh had achieved 125% first-dose and 97% second-dose coverage.Besides, in the 15-18 years category, 50.38% population had been jabbed.‘Public must not lower guard’Purohit said currently common public perception was that Covid infection in the ongoing wave was mild. “But lessons learnt from the past experiences were that the pandemic scenario was dynamic and residents should not lower their guard,” he added.Stating that it had been brought to his notice that Covid protocols were being violated in markets and apni mandis, he directed the DGP to intensify challaning.He cautioned that negligence in enforcement will not be tolerated and directed all concerned to strictly check overcrowding and mask violations.To tackle the issue of incorrect contact details provided by people during testing, leading to cumbersome contact-tracing process, the administrator directed the health secretary to resolve the matter by issuing strict instructions to the testing centres.Cases dip slightly in Mohali, PanchkulaWhile Covid cases hit a new record in Chandigarh; Mohali and Panchkula saw their daily tally decreasing slightly.Compared to its all-time high of 734 cases on Wednesday, Panchkula logged 701 cases on Thursday. Similarly, Mohali reported 917 cases, lower than 974 the day before.However, Mohali recorded another Covid fatality, fifth this month. The patient was a 79-year-old man from Kharar. As many as 11 tricity residents have succumbed to the virus in January so far. Chandigarh has witnessed five deaths and Panchkula one.Positivity rate rises in MohaliMohali district’s positivity rate increased to 19.8% on Thursday, compared to 16.9% 24 hours earlier. But Panchkula’s positivity rate decreased from 30% to 27% and in Chandigarh too, the figure lowered from 21.4% to 20.8%. The fresh infections caused tricity’s active cases to jump to 13,324, a figure last recorded on May 22, 2021, amid the peak of second wave.Amid steady rise in infections, Chandigarh’s active cases rose to 5,816. Besides, Mohali has 4,915 infected patients and Panchkula 2,956.Of the total cases in Chandigarh on Thursday, as many as 136 cases were reported from Manimajra alone. In Mohali, 390 cases surfaced in Mohali city, 197 in Kharar and 330 in Dera Bassi. Dr PVM Lakshmi, professor, community medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, said, “At present, Covid cases in the tricity are multiplying manifold every day. The next week is crucial as the cases can either increase or start ebbing away. When cases show downward trend for three to five consecutive days, we can say that we have surpassed the peak period.”47 areas sealed in ChandigarhDue to the spike in infections, the Chandigarh administration declared 47 more micro-containment zones across the city. Now, the total active micro-containment zones in Chandigarh are 183.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-hit-new-high-in-chandigarh-but-no-new-curbs-101642110845412.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn open to proposals on technology to be used for upgrade of waste processing plant||The UT administration is open to proposals regarding the technology to be used for the upgrade of the solid waste processing plant in Sector 25, near Dadumajra. A different location may also be considered, if the upgraded plant requires changed land configurations.Notably, the municipal corporation general House had last year voted for the “waste to energy” technology option to run the plant, through which power can be produced from dry garbage.UT adviser Dharam Pal after a meeting with Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, (IIT Ropar) representatives on Thursday regarding the preparation of the request for proposal (RFP) for the project, said, “We are focusing on the end-result, which is minimal dumping of waste at the landfill site after its processed. Also, the plant must meet emission standards. So, we want to keep it open for bidders to propose any technology for the plant, but it should satisfy us on these key and other parameters.” Pal added that the location of the plant can also be changed if there is requirement for additional land. MC commissioner Anindita Mitra was also present at the meeting, where IIT-Ropar gave a presentation on the RFP and DPR. IIT-Ropar was asked to revise the RFP and include suggestions made by the administration. A fresh report will be submitted within a week. After the report gets the nod of the administration, a tender will be floated to set up the new plant.The city produces 550 to 600 metric tonnes (MT) of garbage per day, but the dysfunctional solid waste management plant in Sector 25 is currently processing only 20-40 MT. All the unprocessed garbage is being dumped at the Dadumajra landfill site.MC signed an agreement with a private firm in 2005 to set up the plant, but took over in 2020 citing poor performance and violation of norms. The move to upgrade the current plant came up after a IIT Roorkee report recommended either upgrading the existing plant or setting up of a new plant to meet the city’s solid waste management needs.The report, at the time of study, stated that the existing plant can at best handle 60 to 65 metric tonne waste per day. Thereafter, the MC appointed IIT Ropar to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) and RFP for plant upgrade.The MC councillors had also visited several processing plants across the region, including Delhi, to finalise the technology and various firms had also made detailed presentations on different technology options before the councillors.
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor: Must also celebrate the birth of a girl child||Mayor Sarabjit Kaur and municipal commissioner Anindita Mitra distributed gifts among the parents of girl children celebrating their first Lohri on Wednesday.While adhering to Covid protocols, the Lohri gifts were distributed at the mayor’s office. Speaking on the occasion, the mayor said that we should all take pride and rejoice the birth of a girl child in our families. Kaur wished the citizens of Chandigarh a happy Lohri and hoped for their happiness and health.Mohai admn holds district-level celebrations The district-level “Dheeyan Di Lohri” celebration was organised by the Mohali health department at the district hospital on Wednesday. Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur lit up the ‘Lohri’ bonfire and greeted residents. Dr Kaur visited the maternity ward of the hospital and distributed gifts to newborns and their mothers.Speaking at the event, she said that giving due respect to girls is very important. She added that due to widespread awareness, the mindset of the people is gradually changing and cases of female foeticide are decreasing. Lohri functions were also held at all government health institutions across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mayor-must-also-celebrate-the-birth-of-a-girl-child-101642107242848.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF juniors tennis tournament: Aayush, Lanlana upset top seeds||Seventh seed Aayush P Bhat of USA upset top seed Chirag Duhan 7-6(3), 7-6(6) while Lanlana Tararudee of Thailand outplayed top seed Shruti Ahlawat 6-2, 6-1 in the boys’ U-18 and girls’ U-18 quarter-final matches, respectively, to book their spots in the semi-finals during the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-2) at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10 on Thursday.Aayush P Bhat maintained his momentum throughout the match to beat Duhan in a tough match. He will play Bhushan Haobam in the semi-final on Friday. In another quarter-final tie, Haobam knocked out Woohyuk Chang of Korea 6-4, 6-4. Lucas Phanthala of France and qualifier Manas Dhamne also advanced into the semi-finals in the boys’ singles category. Tararudee of Thailand outplayed top seed Shruti Ahlawat 6-2, 6-1 in straight sets without any trouble. Vaishnavi Adkar beat Lakshmi Gowda 6-2, 6-1 in straight sets. Vlada Mincheva of Russia and second seed M Safi of Iran advanced into the last four in the girls’ singles category.Results(quarter-finals)Boys’ U-18: Aayush P Bhat (USA) [7] bt Chirag Duhan (IND) [1] 7-6(3), 7-6(6); Bushan Haobam (IND) (Q) bt Woohyuk Chang (KOR) 6-4, 6-4; Lucas Phanthala (FRA) bt Daksh Ashok Agarwal (IND) 3-6, 7-6(5), 7-5; Manas Dhamne (IND) (Q) bt Fadi Bidan (LBN) 6-3, 7-5.Girls’ U-18: Lanlana Tararudee (THA) [5] bt Shruti Ahlawat (IND) [1] 6-2, 6-1; Vaishnavi Adkar (IND) [7] bt Lakshmi Gowda (IND) 6-2, 6-1; Vlada Mincheva (RUS) [6] bt Suhihta Maruri (IND) [4] 6-1, 6-2; M Safi (IRI) [2] bt S Sirimalla (IND) [8] 6-4, 6-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-juniors-tennis-tournament-aayush-lanlana-upset-top-seeds-101642107062548.html
14-01-2022||Noida||Daily spike in Covid-19 cases falls by 600, but positivity rate still high||The daily spike in Covid-19 cases declined marginally in Gautam Budh Nagar on Thursday, with the district reporting 1,763 fresh Covid-19 cases, 503 less than the tally of 2,266 confirmed cases on Wednesday, the data from the district health department showed. With this, the number of infections reported in the month of January is now at 11,058. Currently, there are 10,718 active cases, which is the highest in the state, as per state records.Although the total daily count is less than that on Wednesday, the positivity rate continued to remain high, according to the district health department figures. The overall positivity rate -- the ratio of samples that return positive from among the total tested -- on Thursday was 27.8%, up from the 26.07% recorded a day ago. The overall RT-PCR positivity rate also increased from 36.3% on Tuesday to 41.1% on Wednesday. Tests conducted using the RT-PCR method is believed to give out more accurate results as compared to rapid antigen tests. Officials, however, claimed that the higher positivity rate is indicative of better testing and tracking. “In this wave, the number of positive cases has been high as compared to the previous wave. Obviously, the transmissibility of the infection is more. However, the number of serious cases and the need for hospitalisation is low so far, which is a positive sign. The higher positivity rate indicates that the surveillance mechanism has been efficient in testing and tracking patients, and is therefore helping reduce transmission,” said district magistrate Suhas LY. Health officials said depending on the need, focused testing has been consistently increased over the past one month. A comparison of testing and positivity rate data over the past 15 days shows how rapidly the positivity rate in Noida increased from 0.2% on December 25 to 26% on January 11. During the same period, the number of tests also increased from 3,358 on December 25 to 8,693 on January 11. The overall positivity rate crossed 1% on December 29 and crossed 10% on January 5. Following this, the daily spike surged as positivity rate doubled to 20.3% within the next two days on January 7. The overall RT-PCR positivity rate is 41.1%, as on January 12 -- it was a mere 0.4% on December 25, as per the health department figures. Between January 3 and 6, it went up from 7.3% to 25.2%. Officials said the test positivity over the next few days will determine whether cases have already peaked in Gautam Budh Nagar or whether more is yet to come. “It is good that fewer cases have been reported (on Thursday). It is still early to determine the trend in cases but cases recorded over the next week will determine whether they have started declining,” said Suhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/daily-spike-in-covid-19-cases-falls-by-600-but-positivity-rate-still-high-101642107002197.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Lohri a sombre affair in Chandigarh; traders record dismal sales||Lohri remained a sombre affair in the city and markets wore a deserted look as residents chose to stay indoors amid the record surge in Covid cases. Traders dealing in items like dry fruit and jaggery said this resulted in sales taking a massive hit. Even vendors who had started setting up stalls outside markets from Tuesday, said they barely made any sales. Arif, who had set up a stall to sell wood in front of the Sector 46 market, said, “I come here every year, but this time, my sales have been almost negligible. The footfall in the markets has also been less.” Opposite the Sector 29 Mandi ground, Ayub who had set up a stall to sell gachak and rewari added, “I had opened up on Tuesday itself, but the response was poor.”Wholesalers of dry fruits in the city were also affected adversely. Many of them are based in the grain market in Sector 26, where entry of the general public has been banned by the administration . President of the Sector 26 Grain Market Association, Ram Karan Gupta, said, “Wholesalers have recorded zero sale of dry fruits this year. We understand that restrictions are needed to keep Covid in check, but the grain market shouldn’t be clubbed with the Sector 26 mandi, where a large number of vendors continue to flout social distancing and mask rules.”The situation was dire in other major markets as well. Neeraj Bajaj, president of the Business Promotion Council in Sector 17 and proprietor of Sindhi Sweets, said, “There is hardly any festive spirit left in the air in Sector 17 and the whole situation seemed so different just a few days back on Christmas,” he said. Proprietor of Uttam Sweets in Sector 46, Balwinder Singh, added that even though some people purchased items like gachak and rewaris from them, sales were disappointing. “People used to gift sweets to their friends and relatives on Lohri , but this year, people are not moving out and only made small purchases for personal consumption,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lohri-a-sombre-affair-in-chandigarh-traders-record-dismal-sales-101642106885468.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||670 new Covid cases, 1 death in Ludhiana||The district logged 670 fresh cases of Covid-19 and one death in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Thursday.The deceased, 45-year-old woman was a resident of Shimlapuri and under treatment at a hospital in Amritsar. The fresh infections include 49 healthcare workers, two police personnel, 377 residents with influenza-like symptoms, 43 contacts of positive patients among others.The cumulative count of Covid cases in the district has reached 92,811, of which 85,814 patients have recovered and 2,127 have succumbed.There were 4,870 active cases in the district as of now, of which 4,787 are under home isolation and 83 admitted in different hospitals of the district.Amid rising infections in the district, 15 micro containment zones have been established. These are at New Prem Nagar, South City, Focal Point, Tagore Nagar, Dugri Phase 1, Udham Singh Nagar Block C, Dolat Street Civil Lines, Surya Vihar in Rishi Nagar, College Road and Block B, F, G, H, J and K of Sarabha Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/670-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-ludhiana-101642106702479.html
14-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad: Present wave largely affects 21-50 age group, infects 369 minors too||The present wave of the Covid-19 pandemic largely affected Ghaziabad residents in the 21-50 age group, who comprised about 66.96% of the total number of cases between December 2021, and January this year, according to district officials.Officials did say that the positivity rate declined during the past two days with an increase in testing, but attributed it more to the pendency of reports which were yet to arrive from several labs.Positivity rate refers to the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to all those who have been tested for it.Health department records indicate that the district recorded about 10,118 cases from December 2021, to January 13 this year. Of these cases, there were 6,775 patients in the 21-50 age group, comprising 66.96% of the total.Meanwhile, officials said children in the 0-10 age group were also affected during the ongoing wave, and 369 of them tested positive, comprising 3.65% of the cases between December 2021, and January this year. Likewise, 702 senior citizens were also infected this time, comprising 6.94% of the total cases since December 2021.“A majority of positive cases were reported by the 21-50 age group as it is the set of people who regularly move out for work and other jobs. The trend is continuing. During the initial days, people who travelled to different states or returned from foreign countries were testing positive, but this trend is not observed nowadays as the infection has now spread,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer.Within the 21-50 age group, the segment of people in the 31-40 age group has the highest share in present cases. According to data from the district health department, of the 10,118 cases, this age group accounts for 2,623 cases with a share of 25.92%, while the second-highest affected age group is 21-30 as 2,379 of them have been infected so far (a share of 23.51%).Of the 10,118 patients, 6,053 were men and 4,065 were women.“Despite the infection spreading fast, the severity is very low. This is due to the high rate of seroprevalence and vaccination. So, it is vital that people get vaccinated. Those who have not taken any of the doses are at risk,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).Officials said that of the infected patients, they estimate that about 99% have taken either one or two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.“This has prevented deterioration of their health to a large extent. Our focus is on increasing vaccination for children and also for other age groups. We estimate that the rate of infection has not come down as indicated by lower positivity in the past two days. We are waiting for test reports from different labs and this may increase the number of cases when uploaded. We will observe the declining trend for about a fortnight before we can safely say that cases are on the decline,” the CMO added.The Ghaziabad district on Thursday recorded 1,680 cases out of the 11,022 samples tested--with a positivity rate of 15.24%. This is the highest daily testing figure in December 2021, or January so far.The positivity rate of the cases showed a decline on Wednesday too when the district reported 1,581 cases out of 9,335 samples tested. The positivity rate was 16.94%--lower than the highest positivity of 18.72% recorded on January 11.Starting January 5, the district is conducting more than the daily target of 7,400 tests, with the daily testing peaked to 11,022 tests on Thursday.According to official records, the district reported 65,403 cases overall since the start of pandemic and has 9,036 active cases at present.
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Skies painted in political colours as parties engage in battle of kites in Ludhiana||The skies were painted in political colours on Thursday as candidates of various parties got their election symbols and leaders’ pictures printed on kites and distributed it among residents on Lohri.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate from Ludhiana North, Madan Lal Bagga, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket aspirants Gurdev Sharma Debi from Ludhiana central and Mahesh Sharma from Ludhiana North were among the few who took to this novel way of campaigning at a time when election gatherings have been restricted due to surge in coronavirus cases. The leaders got thousands of kites printed through local dealers and distributed them ahead of Lohri. AAP candidate from North constituency Madan Lal Bagga said, “The decision to get kites printed was taken on the request of our supporters, especially teenagers, who fly kites with a lot of enthusiasm on Lohri. We got around 7,000 kites printed and distributed it among supporters and residents well in advance.”The kites printed by Bagga had a message, ‘Ik Mauka AAP Nu’ (Give one chance to AAP), besides the pictures of AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal and AAP state president Bhagwant Mann. Bagga’s picture also featured on the kite. Similarly, BJP state treasurer Debi got pictures of himself and Prime Minister Narendra Modi printed on the kites. Messages like ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padao’ and ‘Nawa Punjab, BJP de naal’ were printed on the kites.Debi said, “We got the kites printed through local manufacturers on the demand of our supporters. The aim was not campaigning as tickets are yet to be announced by our party. People admire PM Narendra Modi and the working of BJP, so my supporters said give them kites of our party. We also gave a message to save and educate the girl child on the occasion of Lohri.”BJP district vice-president Mahesh Dutt Sharma, who is aspiring for a party ticket from Ludhiana North, said he distributed around 700 kites among the supporters. The supporters of the candidates were also seen excited about kites with pictures and symbols of political parties.Maninder Singh, a resident of Chhawani Mohalla, said, “Everyone enjoys flying kites on Lohri and it was good to fly kites with the picture of AAP candidate Bagga. We support him and it was a good initiative which also helped in his campaign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skies-painted-in-political-colours-as-parties-engage-in-battle-of-kites-in-ludhiana-101642106586426.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Homeless man succumbs to injuries, 25 days after road mishap||After battling for life for 25 days, a homeless man succumbed to the injuries he suffered in a freak accident on the city roads.The victim, identified as Rahul Kumar, 22, was sleeping beside a generator set installed outside a bank on December 20, 2021, when a speeding Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza car rammed into the generator set, injuring him in the process. An eyewitness, Vishal Kumar Gupta of Aarti Steel Chowk, who is also the complainant in the case, had rushed the victim to the civil hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday.On Gupta’s statement, police had booked Pawan Ahir of Mohalla Kishore Nagar for the accident. Assistant sub-inspector Rachhpal Singh said that a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and a manhunt launched for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-homeless-man-succumbs-to-injuries-25-days-after-road-mishap-101642106462554.html
14-01-2022||Noida||Noida police conduct flag march in ‘critical booths’, issue red-cards||Police on Thursday conducted a flag march in the areas they identified as containing “vulnerable/critical booths” and met voters in Noida Central and Greater Noida zones, ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly election scheduled to begin on February 10, 2022.The police urged people to participate in the assembly polls without any fear and issued “red cards” to some people warning them against influencing voters.The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Under phase 1 of the election, candidates are to begin filing their nominations on January 14. The last date to file nominations is January 21; nominations will be scrutinised on January 24, and the last date of withdrawal of nominations is January 27. The Election Commission of India (ECI) on January 8 announced that no political rallies, roadshows, or street corner meetings will be allowed in Uttar Pradesh till January 15.Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the police team, accompanied by two companies of Border Security Force (BSF), also conducted an area domination exercise in Noida Phase 2 and Phase 3.“The police team conducted the march in areas containing vulnerable and critical booths and strengthened security. We also issued red cards to some people warning them against trying to influence voters,” he said.A red card states that police have received confidential information that some people can gather at certain places/houses and influence voters.“There is enforcement of Section 144 CrPc and you have been issued a red card to ensure your premises are used only by you and your family members. The police and local intelligence unit are keeping a watch on your movement,” it says.According to district officials, Gautam Budh Nagar comprises 1,623,545 voters – 690,231 in Noida, 586,889 in Dadri and 346,425 in Jewar. There are 1,754 polling booths at 552 polling stations in the district. According to official data, there are 202 polling centres that are categorised as “vulnerable/critical” polling centres.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida, said the Noida police had conducted a flag march in Noida Sector 37, Sector 44, Sadarpur village, etc. on Wednesday as well.“The police have identified some persons with criminal histories. Police teams visited their houses for a search but they were not found. The police team will continue searches in the coming days and arrest anti-social elements before the elections,” he said.Police also urged people to report violations of the model code of conduct through the c-VIGIL app. The Election Commission of India’s c-VIGIL app allows people to easily file a report by letting users register with their mobile number and then share photos, videos and voice messages related to the violation. The ADCP said the police team will take swift action on these complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-conduct-flag-march-in-critical-booths-issue-redcards-101642106222629.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 bikers killed in hit-and-run in Ludhiana’s Sidhwan Bet||Two motorcycle-borne men died after an unidentified vehicle hit their bike in Gorsian Makhan village of Sidhwan Bet on Wednesday night. The victims have been identified as Kulwinder Singh, 24, of Sidhwan Kalan and Chamkaur Khan, 26. The FIR has been registered on the statement of Baljinder Singh, who is the father of Kulwinder Singh.Baljinder said that Chamkaur Khan worked as the conductor of a private mini-bus. On Wednesday, the bus had developed a snag, following which Chamkaur had come to pick Baljinder’s son for repair work. When Chamkaur was dropping Kulwinder back to his workshop, an unidentified vehicle hit his bike, killing both on the spot. Assistant sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the driver of the unidentified vehicle. Police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras to identify the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-bikers-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-ludhiana-s-sidhwan-bet-101642106162901.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Vaishno Devi tragedy: Stampede survivors demand findings of L-G Manoj Sinha’s probe panel||While the status of a probe marked by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to a three-member panel headed by home secretary Shaleen Kabra remained unclear, the survivors of a stampede at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine said they reserved the right to know who was responsible for the criminal negligence that led to the killing of 12 pilgrims and injuries to 15 others. Following the stampede at 2.15 am at the shrine on January 1, Sinha had marked the probe to a panel headed by Kabra. It has additional director general of police Mukesh Singh and Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer as its members. The panel had to submit its report within a week’s time to the LG. Survivors from Mumbai, Pathankot and Prayagraj, who spoke to HT over the phone, recalled the nightmarish experience. “We reserve the right to know, whose fault it was that took away 12 precious lives and injured scores. We had gone there to seek blessings of the deity for a prosperous New Year and not to get trampled,” says Sumit Kumar, 32, of Pathankot, a first-timer to the shrine. “I am still recovering from a fracture and trauma. We were coming out of the shrine after paying obeisance. What we saw was a huge rush of pilgrims and none to manage them,” he adds. “Though the authorities announced compensation for the dead and injured, money can never compensate a human life. Those who died there had also gone to pay obeisance and seek blessing for a prosperous New Year for themselves and their families. They didn’t return but their bodies,” he recalls. “It is my second birth. I am still in a state of shock. I have a two-year-old son. My parents and my wife are now reluctant to send me again to the shrine,” he says. “Amid the stampede, I fell with my chest facing the ground. Six to seven people were on my back and I was gasping for breath. Even now I get goose-bumps while recalling the horrifying incident,” he says. Sumit said, “It is my right to know that who was behind this criminal negligence. I even called shrine board numbers in Katra, but didn’t get any satisfactory reply from them.” Sumit felt that the delay in making public the report could be a cover up to shield guilty. Ashish Kumar Jaiswal, 25, from Prayagraj, said, “I am still having a bandage on my arm. I am recovering from a fracture and the deep scars the stampede left on my body and my psyche”. Jaiswal claimed he didn’t get a single penny as compensation from the authorities. “I have been visiting the shrine for the past seven years on the eve of New Year but I had never had seen such an incident before,” he says. He also demanded that the inquiry report be made public, the guilty held accountable and tried under the law of the land. Vikas Tiwari, 35, from Mumbai said, “Me and my brother Rishikesh were injured in the stampede. We had visited the shrine umpteen times but what unfolded on the fateful night was very frightening”. “It was sheer negligence by the government. The findings of the probe must be made public,” he says. Reasi district SSP Shailendra Singh said, “Since a high-level probe has been ordered, all the information has to be shared by the committee. We are authorised to speak only after the report is submitted”. He also refused to divulge FIR numbers, Sections and the accused. SHO, Katra, Sunil Sharma also refused to share any information. Repeated calls and messages to home secretary Shaleen Kabra went unanswered. The LG’s probe panel was constituted to examine in detail causes/reasons behind the incident, point out lapses, fix the responsibility, and suggest appropriate standard operating procedures (SOPs) and measures for preventing the recurrence of such incidents in the future. 
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Farooq Abdullah demands stern action against ‘hate speech at conclaves’||NC president and member of parliament, Srinagar Lok Sabha seat, Farooq Abdullah on Thursday expressed outrage at “Muslim genocidal calls by some right wing outfits”.Abdullah said that India being a signatory to Article 3 C of the Genocide convention is bound to take action against outfits calling for the genocide of minorities and demanded stern action against people responsible for hate speeches at conclaves across the country.The NC leader termed the inflammatory and provocative speeches as deeply disturbing. “The nature of speeches delivered in Haridwar between 17 and 19 December 2021, and other such hate speech conclaves across the country is deplorable. Recurring such open seditious and genocidal calls in the country are deeply disturbing,” Abdullah said in a statement released in Srinagar.He said the criminal hush in government circles raises a question mark that begs to be answered. “India being a signatory to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (CPPCG) under Article 3 C which clearly criminalises ‘Direct and public incitement to commit genocide’ - should act firmly against such groups and individuals that call for genocide of country’s Muslims,” he further said in the statement, adding that these hate speech conclaves also fit a variety of crimes under Indian laws and are antagonistic to national integrity and peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farooq-abdullah-demands-stern-action-against-hate-speech-at-conclaves-101642106047647.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 soldiers killed on LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri||Two soldiers of the Army were killed in a suspected case of fratricide along the Line of Control in Rajouri district, said officials. The incident occurred in the Hanjan Wali area along the LoC in Rajouri district. “Both the soldiers had bullet injuries and it seems to be a case of fratricide. We have sent a team to the area,” said a police officer. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 Cr PC. The identities of the deceased soldiers have not been ascertained as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-soldiers-killed-on-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-rajouri-101642106042444.html
14-01-2022||City||JeM terrorist killed in Kulgam encounter identified as Pakistani national||The police have identified the militant killed in Kulgam operation on Wednesday as Babar from Pakistan who was active in south Kashmir for the last four years.The police on Thursday said that misleading information by the house owner led to the killing of a cop and injuries to three soldiers.The encounter began on Wednesday evening after a joint team of the police and the army launched a search and cordon operation at Pariwan village.The police spokesman said that during the search operation, as the joint search party approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated leading to an encounter.“While evacuating civilians from the encounter site to safer places, one police personnel, three Army soldiers and two civilians got injured. All the injured were immediately shifted to the hospital for treatment. Police personnel Rohit Chib succumbed to his injuries. The condition of other injured, including two civilians, who had sustained minor injuries, is stated to be stable,” the spokesman said.The militant killed in the encounter was identified by the police as a top Pakistani JeM militant Babar Bhai. “As per police records, the Pakistani militant was active since 2018 in Shopian, Kulgam and its adjoining areas. He was wanted in several terror crime cases,” the spokesman said, adding that one AK-47 rifle, one pistol and two grenades were also recovered from the site of encounter.IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar visited the encounter site and SOG camp Nillow Kulgam, where besides interacting with the JKP, Army and CRPF personnel, he also reviewed the security grid and operational aspects.He told mediapersons that the owner and his family members, where the killed militant was hiding, deliberately misled the search team by saying that no one was hiding in their house which led to collateral damage. “The action under terror law will be taken against them.”He further said that so far 14 militants have been neutralised during the current year out of which seven are foreign terrorists, including one killed at the LoC in Kupwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jem-terrorist-killed-in-kulgam-encounter-identified-as-pakistani-national-101642105988518.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dharamshala: Construction work of CUHP campus likely in March-April, says vice-chancellor||The construction work of the permanent campus of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) on non-forest land allotted at Jadrangal near Dharamshala would likely begin in March-April this year while the proposal will be sent to the Union ministry of environment and forests for FCA clearance of forest land within a week, vice-chancellor Prof Sat Prakash Bansal said on Thursday.He was addressing the media after presiding over a meeting to review the progress in the process of construction of campus which was also attended by the local MLA Vishal Nehria. He said a few objections regarding the construction work on the non-forest land allotted for the campus have already been removed.A master plan is ready and building work would begin with construction parks and playgrounds on the non-forest land in coming March-April, said Bansal.He said that the ministry concerned had raised about half a dozen objections in the case referred to the FCA regarding the construction work on the non-forest land.The first objection was related to the geological suitability of the proposed land for construction work which has been removed.“In the preliminary report, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has given the go-ahead for construction work at Jadrangal,” said Prof Bansal.There were also objections related to road connectivity and electricity, drinking water and sewerage which were being resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dharamshala-construction-work-of-cuhp-campus-likely-in-march-april-says-vicechancellor-101642105984062.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal high court, district courts to work with 50% staff||In the wake of a spike in Covid-19 infections, the high court of Himachal Pradesh has issued instructions regarding its functioning and that of district courts.As per the instructions, Saturdays falling on January 15 and January 22 have been declared closed days for the high court, its registry and district courts. The high court will function with 50% staff and the remaining staff will work from home and remain available at their residences. Wearing face masks is mandatory on the court premises and entry to the court premises will be allowed only after thermal scanning.The district judiciary, where winter vacation is scheduled between January 17 and February 12, the staff shall be deployed in such a manner that 50% staff shall remain on duty and 50% will avail special casual leave as per the batches ordered by the district and sessions judge(s) concerned.In the summer zone, in order to maintain social distancing, 50% of the sanctioned staff strength shall attend the office on a rotation basis on each working day and the remaining will work from home. They shall not leave the station and be available on the telephone or other means of communication and will attend the office, if called for, any exigency of work.The existing norms and standards for the assessment of disposal of cases of the judicial officers have been relaxed by 50% till further order. The district and sessions judges are authorised to be strict in the listing of cases in their respective civil and sessions divisions, in order to maintain social distancing.The district and sessions judges have also been directed to have meetings with the presidents of Bar association in their respective civil and sessions divisions regarding complete vaccination and take up the matter with the district medical authorities to achieve the goal of vaccination by organising special drive.Only those clients are permitted to enter the court complexes, who are appearing in person or their presence is especially required by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-high-court-district-courts-to-work-with-50-staff-101642105982208.html
14-01-2022||Noida||With campaigns going virtual, GB Nagar admin to step up digital monitoring||With just a month to go for voting day in Gautam Budh Nagar and the district still reporting the highest daily surge in Covid-19 cases in all of Uttar Pradesh, political parties are heavily relying on social media to reach out to the masses with their digital campaigns. In light of the rising Covid-19 cases, the Election Commission has banned all kinds of physical meetings till January 15.Political parties are, therefore, strengthening their IT infrastructure to hold virtual rallies as well as digital public meetings on social media platforms such as Twitter, YouTube and Facebook.“We are utilising each and every digital tool available to talk about development issues and connect with voters. Moreover, since the pandemic, social media has played a pivotal role in helping candidates connect with their voters and we have created a deep social media strategy that reaches down to the booth level and have volunteers specialising in IT and social media,” said BJP Noida spokesperson Tanmay Shankar, adding that the IT cell of the BJP in Noida comprises over 40 volunteers.Party representatives said there is a high percentage of young voters in Noida, which means that they are more active on social media. A Congress spokesperson said party workers in the constituency are connected to voters through WhatsApp groups.“Through these groups, we help out voters in distress and also establish close contact with them. Since the pandemic, residents rely heavily on social media to make their issues heard and we lend them a ear,” said Pawan Sharma, Noida Congress spokesperson. He added that the Congress does not have a local IT Cell at the district level as of now.Raghvendra Dubey, a party worker from Samajwadi Party, said, “We had not anticipated that Covid cases will see a sharp increase right before the elections and, hence, a number of our strategies that included physical public meetings had to be cancelled. However, we have been carrying out digital campaigns through social media and public meetings are being organised virtually.”Meanwhile, in order to keep track of political activity on the internet, the district election officer and Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said his team has strengthened their media certification and monitoring committee (MCMC) with a separate team for social media tracking.“This time, elections are very different because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Parties are routing their campaigns through digital means and hence we are also strengthening our teams to monitor the digital space. While the MCMC already has separate teams to monitor electronic, print and new media, this time we may increase the number of persons on the social media team as digital campaigns are set to increase in the coming days,” said Suhas.He further said, “On the social media team, we have carefully selected officials who are tech-savvy.”Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority, who is the head of the Gautam Buddh Nagar district level MCMC committee, said currently the social media monitoring team has five government employees on deputation.“Once all candidate names are declared, we will be on our toes to track their social media activity. We will also keep an eye on their social media tags as it is possible that the candidate does not violate the model code of conduct but a worker might, by tagging the candidate. In case of a violation, we will inform the DEO who will then inform the state election commission to take action. Scrutiny will also be on WhatsApp groups and forwarded messages,” he said.He added that monitoring expenditure done by parties on social media will be hard to quantify.“While it is easy to spot paid articles or news pieces in print and on electronic media, it will be hard to quantify how much political parties are spending on social media management firms or graphic designers to carry out their digital campaigns. However, we will investigate if we get any tip-off about violations,” said Tripathi, adding that soon a helpline number will be made available to the public where any poll violation on social media or other media channels can be reported. 
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Prof Laxmidhar Behera is new director of IIT Mandi||Prof Laxmidhar Behera has been appointed as the new director of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Mandi.Prof Behera is currently the Poonam and Prabhu Goel chair professor of electrical engineering at the IIT, Kanpur. In addition, he is an affiliate faculty member of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS).He will succeed the current acting director of IIT Mandi Prof AK ChaturvediProf Behera earned his BSc (Engg) and MSc (Engg) from the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Rourkela, in 1988 and 1990, respectively. In 1997, he received a PhD from the IIT, Delhi.Over the past 26 years of his research and teaching career, Prof Behera has contributed significantly to areas such as intelligent systems and control, vision-based robotics, warehouse automation, brain-computer-interface and drone-based pipeline inspection systems.In addition to establishing industrial collaboration with TCS, Renault Nissan, Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), and Bharat Electronics Limited, Bangalore, he had made significant technological development in areas such as robotics-based ware-house automation, vision and drone guided driver assistance.He worked as a reader at the University of Ulster, the United Kingdom, from 2007 to 2009 and visiting professor at ETH, Zurich, and Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft (FHG), Germany.He supervised 22 PhD candidates to completion. Besides three graduate-level textbooks, he has authored 110 peer-reviewed journal articles, 208 conference papers, and 17 book chapters.“It is a great honour and simultaneously a huge responsibility. I will strive hard for the holistic development of the institute where the culture of excellence will be a norm,” said Prof Behera.Welcoming the new director, the acting director Prof Chaturvedi said Prof Behera was a renowned academic and his inspirational leadership of IIT, Mandi, will ensure growth, along with continuity, on the solid foundation laid by the founding director Prof Timothy Gonsalves who served the institute from 2010 to 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prof-laxmidhar-behera-is-new-director-of-iit-mandi-101642105925160.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman found dead: Day on, police yet to identify suspect||A day after the naked and gagged body of a 40-year-old woman from Maloya was found in the bushes close to her home, police are yet to identify the accused. Senior officials privy to the investigation said the postmortem has been conducted and they are waiting for the report. Superintendent of police (SP, city) Ketan Bansal, said, “We are going through CCTV footage to identify the accused.” Police officers are also speaking to the people of the area and working on leads. The woman had gone to buy rations on Tuesday night and her husband, an auto driver, had dropped her at the Maloya bus stand. Later, when he returned to pick her up, she couldn’t be found and he complained to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-found-dead-day-on-police-yet-to-identify-suspect-101642105923874.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dharamshala MLA’s estranged wife accuses him of mental harassment||Oshin Sharma, a probationer Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officer and estranged wife of Dharamshala legislator Vishal Nehria, has again accused her husband and his family of mentally harassing her. A case of mutual separation is pending between the two.Addressing a press conference at Bilaspur, she said she has a right to live her life with dignity like her husband but Nehria was “continuously troubling her due to which she was not able to perform her duties properly”.Nehria and Sharma tied the knot on April 26, 2021. Two months after the marriage, she accused her husband of physical and mental torture. Later, she filed a case for separation which is still pending in court.Sharma said that back then she was pressurised to withdraw the FIR filed against her husband. “I withdrew the FIR because my husband was threatening me,” she alleged.She alleged that even after filing the case, Nehria continued to follow her.“He followed me to Jogindernagar and later Hamirpur where I was undergoing training,” alleged Sharma, adding that she was also harassed during training at the Himachal Institute of Public Administration (HIPA), Shimla, after which she filed a complaint at the Dhali Police station.Meanwhile, Nehria has refused to comment on the fresh allegations levelled by his wife stating: “I have nothing to say on this issue as the matter is pending in the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dharamshala-mla-s-estranged-wife-accuses-him-of-mental-harassment-101642105922250.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM security breach: Punjab CM Channi recites verse to wish Modi long life||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday expressed regret to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the breach in his security during a visit to the state and recited a verse to extend his wishes for a long life to him, sources said.Channi used the occasion of Modi’s video interaction with chief ministers over the COVID-19 situation to convey the message to him.Channi told Modi that he regrets whatever happened during his visit to Punjab.“Tum salamat raho qayamat tak, aur khuda kare qayamat na ho,” he said in Hindi, reciting the verse to express his wishes for a long life to him.It was Channi’s first interaction with the Prime Minister since the incident on January 5.The BJP has been attacking the Punjab government and the Congress over the breach in Modi’s security during his visit last week, which had to be cut short, with its leaders alleging an attempt to physically harm the prime minister.Channi had expressed his regret earlier as well but has insisted that there was no threat to Modi. He has in fact mocked Modi over the issue at times.A group of protesters had blocked Modi’s route in Ferozepur in what the Union home ministry had described a serious lapse in security as the Prime Minister remained stranded on the road for 15-20 minutes. Modi had to cancel his rally and returned to Bathinda airport from where he flew back to the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-security-breach-punjab-cm-channi-recites-verse-to-wish-modi-long-life-101642105862519.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh discontinues Covid kits for patients in home isolation||The UT administration has decided to discontinue distribution of Covid-19 relief kits to infected patients under home isolation. UT officials said the decision has been taken as per the Centre’s guidelines.The administration had started distributing the relief kits to home isolated Covid patients during the second wave of the pandemic, so that they can regularly self-monitor various health indicators. The kits included an oximeter, digital thermometer, face masks, sanitizers, kaadha (medicinal drinks) and necessary medication, besides educational material and instructions on use of medicines.“The distribution of kits was discontinued as per guidelines of the Union government. The medicines, which were included in the relief kits, have not been included in the treatment protocol this time. As per medical experts, it was learnt that people were consuming medicines even when there was no requirement. Also, drinking kaadha in excess was also proving to be bad for health. Thus, there is no point in distributing kits without the essential medicines,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg.As the Mohali and Panchkula health departments are still providing the relief kits, residents in Chandigarh have expressed disappointment and demanded distribution of at least essential medicines.Manveer Singh, a local resident, said that the health department must provide basic medicines so that people can use them in case of emergency. “My mother, 56, and I tested positive for Covid-19 last Saturday. The health department contacted us initially when our conditions were stable. After two days, my mother developed a cough and high fever. We tried calling helpline numbers, but it remained busy of the time. Since we could not step out of the house and there was no one to help us, I had to contact my relatives in Mohali to provide us medicines,” he said.Ram Bahadur, a resident of Kishangarh, said, “I work as a security guard in Sector 41. I tested positive on Monday and since I didn’t know what medicines to take for fever, I self-medicated. Then, my colleagues helped me with essential medicines.”Ankita Passi, a social worker, who runs a helpline to provide food and medicines to Covid patients in the tricity, said, “We often get calls from home isolated patients who require food. But, many times, people demand basic medicines from us, mostly for fever and cough. We try to provide them when required, but the health department must distribute medicines to people, especially those who are financially-challenged or living in colonies.”“We have not got any guidelines on replacing the medicines with other drugs. Also, distribution of kits at patients’ doorsteps requires huge manpower. However, even though we are not distributing kits, we are keeping a close watch on the home isolated patients. Our rapid response teams contact each patient and check on their health. Since most of the patients are asymptomatic, teams of doctors visit their houses only when they ask for it and provide medicines as per their requirements Also, helpline numbers are provided to patients so that they can contact us in case of any emergency or for advice,” Garg added.------Though Mohali and Panchkula health department are providing relief kits to home isolated patients, UT administration say that the distribution of kits is not included in Centre’s treatment protocol||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-discontinues-covid-kits-for-patients-in-home-isolation-101642105744440.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: In the virtual world, propaganda politics takes the poll position||As political parties in Punjab are gearing up for a virtual mode of campaigning, propaganda Facebook (FB) pages in the garb of comedy/satire are already on the job. At least six such pages with substantial visibility are posting content aimed at tarnishing the image of one or the other political party. Virtual profiles of five such pages declare that they run paid political content in the form of videos, images, and graphics. The content on these pages is mainly in Punjabi and the number of their followers, along with ‘likes’, ‘shares’ and ‘views’ of the posts, vary. Started on November 8, 2021, ‘Beakli Dal’ page targets the Akali leadership. On Wednesday, it had 16,000 followers and a video posted on Thursday garnered 80,000 views. Its transparency details say the page has eight India-based administrators. ‘Dhongiaap’ page’s Punjabi content targets Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and it was created on November 9 last year. With 9,500 followers, the page posted 11 videos on Wednesday and the views ranged between 6,000 and 39,000. It, too, has eight India-based administrators. Another Facebook page with the same name — Dhongi AAP — started in October 2016 has 16 administrators, of which four are based in Canada and 12 in India. Six videos posted on it on Thursday had up to 3,400 views. ‘Gapptaan Pro’, an anti-Congress page, was floated in March last year and the page has a following of 38,000 accounts. A 1.43-minute video posted here eight weeks ago logged 47,000 views. Created on October 23, 2021, ‘PunjabBolda’ FB page has over 16,000 followers. Its content is mainly against the AAP, Congress, and BJP. All the 15 administrators of the page are based in India. Started on December 8 last year, ‘KhakiKachhianWale’ page that targets the BJP and its political allies, already has over 7,500 followers. A video posted last week attracted 26,000 views. Except ‘Gapptaan Pro’ and ‘Dhongi AAP’, the rest of the pages run the political advertisements, say the ‘transparency’ profile of the respective FB accounts. Dean of mass communication at a private university in Punjab and a media analyst, Ashutosh Mishra, says the political memes are aimed at influencing mainly the young voters. “Earlier such pages were found camouflaged as ‘news’ websites or channels but now they are appearing in the guise of satire. Digital media literacy is the key to redress the issue,” he says. Leaders of the political parties say their IT teams are identifying the offensive content and complaints are being lodged with the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the Facebook. “Digital propaganda in the guise of humour is aimed at to escape from the objective discussions on electoral issues. This is a cause of concern as the virtual platforms are being used to build a narrative against the opponents,” said Rubal Kanozia, an assistant professor and expert in political communication at Bathinda-based Central University of Punjab (CUP). Spokesperson of AAP’s state unit Neel Garg said the IT team has been sounded to get the biased content removed. Akali Dal’s IT cell chief Nachhatar Gill said the party has already taken up the matter with the Facebook authorities against 4-5 propaganda pages. BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said the party’s legal cell is preparing a list of FB pages propagating slanderous content and a complaint will be lodged with the ECI in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-in-the-virtual-world-propaganda-politics-takes-the-poll-position-101642105564234.html
14-01-2022||Noida||Political parties set sights on Jewar, western UP’s new business hub||With Jewar becoming the new business hub, spurring growth in western Uttar Pradesh with its line-up of projects, which includes the Noida international airport that is being developed along the Yamuna Expressway, political parties are nominating their veteran leaders to contest from the seat this assembly elections.The Jewar seat grabbed eyeballs after the Rashtriya Lok Dal nominated senior leader Avtar Singh Bhadana (60) for this constituency. Bhadana is a native of Faridabad, which was once represented by him. He also became an MP from Meerut and won the assembly seat of Meerapur before joining the Rashtriya Lok Dal.“I want to fight from Jewar because I wish to work for all communities. Farmers and many other people from other communities have not been given their due respect. I will fight for their rights,” said Bhadana after he was named as the RJD candidate from Jewar. Currently, Thakur Dhirendra Singh is the incumbent MLA from Jewar, who won the state assembly elections for the first time in 2017 on a BJP ticket. The Bahujan Samaj Party has already named Narendra Dedha (50), an ex-journalist from Jewar while Congress has fielded Manoj Chaudhary (50) for this seat.“Avtar Singh Bhadana has joined our party because he has realized that Lokdal, along with Samajwadi Party, is going to form the government in UP in 2022. We will win Jewar seat because the farmers want a change this time,” said Trilok Tyagi, national general secretary of Rashtriya Lok Dal.Jewar has become a focal point of politics this time because it has attracted international investors as many projects, such as the Noida airport, Film City, medical device park and other mega projects have been proposed in the region. Dhirendra Singh however is quite confident that he will easily win because he and his party have worked a lot in this constituency. “We have made the airport a reality in this area. Apart from this, we have built two government colleges, skills institutions, film city and apparel park, creating jobs for the youth and boosting growth in the region. We have worked for the farmers, whose blessings I am sure we’ll get in the elections,” said Singh. 
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three theft cases reported in last 24 hours||Even as the police are extra vigilant due to Covid restrictions and night curfew imposed in the city, a number of thefts and burglaries were reported in the last 24 hours.Hukam Chand, the owner of a pharmacy in Manimajra, reported ₹17 lakh stolen from a bag he had kept under his bed. He said that he had last checked on the money on December 22 and when he checked again on Wednesday, he found the cash missing. However, the thief had left ₹2 lakh in the bag. While no arrests have been made yet, officials said there was no sign of breaking and entering and it is likely that someone inside the house committed the theft. Police are scanning CCTV footage to identify the accused.A resident of Sector 35-B, BBMB Colony, alleged that a boy from the same neighbourhood had stolen gold jewellery from his cupboard. The complainant, Manpreet Singh, said the theft was committed by Mahesh Negi alias Lala. Police are verifying the matter before arresting Lala. A resident of Sector 19C, Karamjeet, reported that an unknown person had stolen his bicycle which was parked at his home on Wednesday. A theft case has been registered at the Sector 19 police station.Theft cases have been registered for all three incidents.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFS24-yr-old girls falls prey to snatchersThe mobile phone of a 24-year-old girl was snatched near Centra Mall in Industrial Area, Phase 1, on Wednesday evening. The victim, Pallavi of Kishangarh, said she works at an automobile service centre in the area and was waiting for her brother to pick her up after her shift. While she was talking on the phone, an unknown person snatched her phone and fled. Her brother, Sonu, reached the spot and tried chasing the accused but he managed to escape. A case under Section 379A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Industrial Area police station.150 frontline MC workers get booster dose
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: AAP ticket aspirant booked for addressing gathering despite ban||An Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, who is a ticket aspirant from Dakha, has been booked for allegedly addressing a gathering, in violation of the election commission’s guidelines. The election commission has banned all political rallies and public gatherings till January 15, in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases.The accused has been identified as Subhash Kumar, a builder and the circle president of AAP.The FIR has been registered on the orders of the returning officer-cum sub-divisional magistrate. A video purportedly showing Chand addressing gatherings and campaigning in favour of AAP had surfaced on social media, following which the returning officer had sought his reply. In the reply, Chand said he was campaigning for the party when locals gathered there on their own.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hamir Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Sections 51 and 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-aap-ticket-aspirant-booked-for-addressing-gathering-despite-ban-101642105262220.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest two men with 98-kg stolen brass||Chandigarh Police have arrested two men with 98 kilos of stolen brass. The accused have been identified as Sonu (19) and Jeet Lal Kumar (18), of Sanjay Labour Colony, Industrial Area, Phase 1.Sonu had been arrested with 50-kg stolen brass and on interrogating him, it was found that he and Kumar had stolen it from plot number 913/A in Industrial Area, Phase 2. A theft case was registered at the Sector 31 police station on January 9. The owner of the plot, Harinder Singh Khanna, identified his stolen property. Later, Kumar was also arrested with 48-kg brass stolen from Khanna. They were produced before court on Thursday and sent to one-day police remand. More recoveries are expected. Both the accused are unemployed. Sonu was previously involved in two theft cases and one robbery, while Kumar has no criminal history. A case under Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was further registered against Sonu after the stolen brass was recovered from him at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-two-men-with-98-kg-stolen-brass-101642105024112.html
14-01-2022||Noida||Congress banks on party workers, offers them three seats in Ghaziabad||The Congress party on Thursday released its first list of 125 candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, including three candidates each from Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts. Two of three candidates from Ghaziabad are office-bearers of the party’s district unit while the third is the son of a former Congress MP. The list was released by party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is leading the campaign in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, where elections will be held in seven phases, starting February 10. The districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad will vote under the first phase, as per the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India.“Out of the total 125 candidates, 40 per cent are women and 40 per cent are youth. With this historic initiative, we hope to bring in a new kind of politics in the state,” Vadra said in a virtual meeting, after releasing the list.The Congress has announced three candidates from Ghaziabad, which has five assembly segments and a part of Dhaulana segment (Hapur district). They are Bijender Yadav , the party’s district president, for the Muradnagar seat; Yameen Malik, the party’s district president (minority cell) for the Loni seat; and Sushant Goyal ,the son of former Congress MP late Surendra Prakash Goyal, for the Ghaziabad seat. “The party has released a list of 125 candidates, with three each from Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. The list includes 50 women candidates. In Ghaziabad, two more candidates are yet to be declared for the Modinagar and Sahibabad assembly seats. They will be declared soon,” said Dolly Sharma, member of All India Congress Committee and spokesperson of UP Congress Committee. Presently, all five assembly seats in Ghaziabad are held by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sushant Goyal, the Congress candidate from Ghaziabad seat, is a contractor who says he is now into full time politics. His father, the late Surendra Prakash Goyal was a Congress MP from Ghaziabad in 2004 and also contested on a Congress ticket (Congress-Samajwdi Party alliance candidate) in the 2017 assembly elections from Muradnagar seat, but lost to BJP candidate Ajit Pal Tyagi by a margin of 90,770 votes.“I am now into full time politics and will work closely with the people. I will carry forward the works done by my father who was loved by all due to his down-to-earth approach. I will try to implement whatever I learnt while working with him. It would not be right to say that the party has given tickets to its confidants this time. As far as I know, the party conducted at least 10 internal surveys and the last one was carried out about two days ago. It is only after assessing the ground level situation that the party offered me a ticket,” Goyal said. Bijender Yadav, the Congress district president, said the party has recognised the hard work he has put in over the past 32 years. “It is indeed a moment of pride for me as I have been offered a ticket to contest. It shows that the party cares for its workers and this will infuse a lot of energy among them. We will contest the upcoming elections with full strength,” Yadav added. Yameen Malik, the Congress candidate from Loni, said he has been attached to the party for past seven years. “I have been raising issues relevant to the people and fighting to get them justice at the grassroots level. This ground work has been recognised by the party and I will work for the development in Loni. I will work to establish two hospitals in Loni and also a girls’ college, besides ensuring a proper drainage system,” Malik said. The sources in the Congress said of the two tickets pending for Sahibabad and Modinagar seats, one is likely to be offered to a woman candidate. The list also includes names of Pankhuri Pathak from the Noida seat, Deepak Bhati from Dadri and Manoj Chaudhary from Jewar assembly constituencies in Gautam Budh Nagar. In all, there are 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh and major political parties are in hectic brainstorming sessions to release their respective lists of candidates for the first phase, which will primarily cover districts in western Uttar Pradesh. Like the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has also declared a list of three candidates for the Ghaziabad district -- Sachin Sharma from Loni, Dr Chavi Yadav from Sahibabad and Mahesh Tyagi from Muradnagar. BSP and SP ANNOUNCE CANDIDATESThe Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) also released its first list of candidates on Thursday evening, including those for two Ghaziabad assembly segments -- Dr Poonam Garg from Modinagar and Haji Aquil from Loni. Aquil was recently involved in alleged violation of model code of conduct in Loni and booked by the Loni police. “The two candidates from Loni and Modinagar have been declared by the party while candidates for the remaining three seats will be declared soon,” said Virendra Jatav, BSP district president. On the other hand, the Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal combine also announced three candidates in Ghaziabad. The SP fielded Amarpal Sharma from the Sahibabad assembly seat. Sharma is a former MLA from Sahibabad; he had won in 2012 on a BSP ticket. The RLD announced candidates from Modinagar and Loni on Thursday evening. “Along with Sharma, the SP-RLD alliance has declared Madan Bhaiya from Loni and Sudesh Sharma from Modinagar. The rest of the candidates will be declared in the coming days,” said Rashid Malik, district president of the Samajwadi Party.
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Moga man arrested for duping Chandigarh resident of ₹70k on the pretext of government job||The cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested a man from Moga for duping a city resident of ₹70,000 on the pretext of providing him a job with a government bank. The accused has been identified as Harpreet Singh and police have recovered two mobile phones and two sim cards were recovered from him. As per police, the victim Narinder Singh approached them in November 2021 alleging that a Facebook user by the name of Parveen Sharma had sent him a message asking if he wants a job. Upon following up, he was told to get in touch with a Harpreet and he sent ₹70,000 to him. But, he didn’t get the job. Police are verifying how many people Harpreet has duped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-man-arrested-for-duping-chandigarh-resident-of-70k-on-the-pretext-of-government-job-101642104782769.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chaduni upset as Sanyukt Samaj Morcha offers his outfit ‘only a few seats’||Haryana’s farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni has expressed displeasure over Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) chief Balbir Singh Rajewal offering only a few seats to his political outfit Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP) for the February 14 Punjab polls. Chaduni’s made known his displeasure days after talks between his outfit SSP and Rajewal-led SSM for a pre-poll alliance. The SSM had also formed a committee for finalizing the seat-sharing arrangement with the SSP. Polling for Punjab’s 117 assembly seats will be held on February 14 and votes will be counted on March 10. In a video message, Chaduni said he had demanded 25 seats for his party but Rajewal’s SSM offered only nine seats. Chaduni said he will be forced to field candidates on his own if the SSM did not give adequate seats. On January 9, Chaduni had held talks with the SSM for the poll pact and after that, he stopped the scheduled announcement of his party’s 10 candidates. “In the January 9 meeting (with the SSM), we requested them not to fight separately. You are ignoring us. We should fight jointly. We also stopped our press conference (for the announcement of candidates),” said Chaduni. Various Punjab farmer bodies which had taken part in the stir against the Centre’s now-repealed farm laws had launched their political front — Sanyukt Samaj Morcha — last month and announced to contest the assembly polls. The SSM, which had ruled out any alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party, announced its first list of 10 candidates on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-chaduni-upset-as-rajewal-s-sanyukt-samaj-morcha-offers-his-outfit-only-a-few-seats-101642104422527.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Reunited after 74 yrs, brothers Siqa and Saddique seek visas to spend more time together||Two real brothers, who grew up in India and Pakistan sides of Punjab, and got to see each other after 74 years at Kartarpur recently are now pleading for visas so that they can spend more time together at the fag end of their lives. Siqa Khan, now 76, and Saddique Khan (80) got separated during the Partition in 1947. Saddique, his father and sister crossed over and settled in Faislabad of Pakistan, while Siqa, who was named ‘Habib’ at birth, and his mother got stuck in India. Behind the emotional reunion was the efforts of a Pakistan-based journalist Nasir Dhillon and medical practitioner Jagsir Singh from Phulewala village of Bathinda district, where Siqa grew up. “My native village was Jagroan De Kothe, falling under today’s Jagraon town in Ludhiana district. I was at my maternal uncle’s village Phulewala with my mother when the Partition violence erupted. My brother, along with my father and sister, migrated to Pakistan, but I and my mother got stuck at Phulewala,” says Siqa. The tragedy of separation didn’t end there for Siqa. “My mother could not bear the shock of separation from family members. She was mentally upset and committed suicide by jumping into a canal, leaving me orphaned. My maternal uncles and villagers looked after me,” he adds. The villagers said Siqa did not marry and worked as a labourer for a living. Currently, he lives with the children and grandchildren of his maternal uncles. Saddique lives at Bogran village in Faislabad district of Pakistan. Making of the reunion Jagsir, who played a key role in facilitating the reunion, said, “Siqa comes from the Gujjar community and he was told by his maternal uncles that his brother and other relatives migrated to Pakistan. He asked us to trace his brother, but nobody has a clue how to do that. He also showed us photos of his family members, including that of his brother. In the meantime, my sister-in-law’s husband, whose family also has a link with a village now in Pakistan, shared a video with me in which Dhillon was interviewing an elderly man who was naming our village and narrating how his brother got separated from the family during the Partition.” “When I watched the video, I found a facial resemblance between Siqa and the elderly man in the video. I called up Dhillon and told him about Siqa. He facilitated a video call between both the brothers in April 2019. Since then he was in touch with his brother and nephews. After that, we started efforts to arrange a meeting but the Covid-19 restrictions came as a hurdle. Finally, it happened at Kartarpur.” Dhillon, along with a fellow journalist Lovely Singh, did that interview of Saddique. They run a web channel focusing on memories of the Partition. “We got emotional during the interview as he she expressed deep longing to see his brother. And, God listened to him,” says Dhillon. 
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Terror job: IYSF lures Hindu boys with money, foreign dreams||Luring youths of lower strata of society, irrespective of their religion, with foreign dreams and easy money is the latest modus operandi of the banned terror outfit International Youth Sikh Federation (IYSF) to further its cause, investigations suggest. Of the six IYSF operatives arrested by the Punjab Police for last year’s November 21 grenade attack at an army camp in Pathankot, three are Hindus and all of them come from a poor family background. The IYSF is a banned outfit being run by wanted terrorist Lakhbir Singh Rode, who reportedly operates in Pakistan. The six accused were identified as prime accused Amandeep alias Mantri of Lakhanpal village, Parminder Kumar, alias Rohit, alias Rohta, of Kharal village, Raman Kumar of Ghazikot village, Gurwinder Singh of Kharal village, Rajinder Singh of Gunnupur village and Harpreet Singh of Gotpokhar village in Gurdaspur district. Officials familiar with the matter, who didn’t wish to be named, said the accused were neither radicalised nor driven by pro-Khalistan ideology. Their job was to create panic through grenade attacks as briefed by their handler, Sukhpreet Singh alias Sukh of Kharal village, who is currently in Greece, and reportedly an aide of Rode. The accused trained themselves in handling grenades from videos available on YouTube, the officials said. Officials said Amandeep Kumar came from poor family background and earned hand to mouth. His father was a truck driver, who is bedridden since he met a road accident. Amandeep is also said to be a drug addict and has an attempt-to-murder conviction behind him. “He was known to Sukhpreet and was the one who received the consignments of arms and ammunition to execute the blasts. Amandeep was offered paltry sum of up to ₹20,000 per terror activity,” added the officials. Another accused, 19-year-old Raman Kumar is too a drug addict, officials said, and his late father had served in the army. His mother runs the household on her husband’s pension, while Raman’s sister is married. He was lured with foreign dreams by Sukhpreet through another accused, Harpreet Singh. Parminder Kumar, 23, worked as a carpenter and was lured by another accused Gurwinder Singh with money to execute the terror activities. “They were active for the last four to six months. Probe suggests that one of the accused was not even paid any money. In its attempt for survival, the IYSF is targeting needy youths belonging to the lower strata of society in lieu of paltry sums and foreign dreams,” the officials said. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar senior superintendent of police, Kanwardeep Kaur, declined to comment on the matter. 
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Verdict in nun rape case involving former Jalandhar bishop today||Thiruvananthapuram: A special court in Kottayam will deliver its verdict in the 2018 rape case against former Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal on Friday. In June 2018, a nun had accused Mulakkal of sexually abusing her several times between 2014 and 2016. The case attracted national attention after five fellow nuns had staged a two-week sit-in protest in Kochi seeking action against the bishop. Though the victim filed a complaint on June 29, 2018, it took three months for the police to arrest Mulakkal on Sept 19, 2018. The victim, also a mother superior, is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab, which also runs three convents in Kerala. But Mulakkal denied the rape charges saying he was framed after he took action against the nun for financial irregularities in the convent. Later, he was charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code including 376 (2) (indulging in sex by exhorting authority), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation). During the course of the trial, he had approached the high court and Supreme Court with discharge petitions, but both were turned down. Later he was removed from the post of bishop. The case was also marred after many witnesses turned hostile. A key witness, Father Kattuthara, was found dead near Jalandhar in 2019. Cardinal Mar George Alancherry, the senior-most priest of the Catholics in the state, 24 nuns, 11 priests were among 83 witnesses deposed in the case. Church watchers said this is the first time a senior Catholic religious leader is facing rape charges. “I hope the victim will get justice,” said Sister Lucy Kalapura, who was thrown out of the congregation and religious duty after she openly supported the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/verdict-in-nun-rape-case-involving-former-jalandhar-bishop-today-101642103404596.html
14-01-2022||Kolkata||Rumblings force Bengal BJP chief to dissolve new party cells announced in Dec||KOLKATA: The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced on Thursday evening that its state president Sukanta Majumdar has dissolved the new cells and departments announced on December 22. The move comes after the formation of the cells, departments and committees led to rumblings and dissent in the Bengal BJP as several veterans were replaced while many who came from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in recent years were accommodated in the new committees. On December 22, the party announced names of 11 new vice-presidents, five general secretaries and 12 secretaries alongside seven new morcha (front) presidents and heads of departments such as media, information technology and social media. New spokespersons and television show panellists were also appointed.Although there has been infighting in several district units in recent years because of the importance given to ex-TMC leaders and workers, BJP veterans such as Pratap Banerjee, Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury, Union minister of state Dr Subhas Sarkar, Raj Kamal Pathak, Debasish Mitra, Ritesh Tiwari, Raju Banerjee and Jay Prakash Majumdar were dropped from the panel of vice-presidents. Only Majumdar was made a spokesperson. Pathak was among the most vocal critics of the party’s policies while Roy Chowdhury was a known hardliner. Another hardliner, general secretary Sayantan Basu, was dropped as well.Ali Hossain, who was the state minority morcha president, was replaced by Charles Nandi, a former journalist and member of the Christian community who used to handle the social media page of former state president Dilip Ghosh.Legislator Joyel Murmu was made the ST morcha president while Sudip Das was appointed head of the SC morcha.Some of those dropped from the state committees left the WhatsApp groups of the Bengal BJP. “….all departments and cells stand dissolved till the time they are reconstituted and new appointments made,” said Thursday’s notice issued by the BJP under instructions from Majumdar who was admitted to a Kolkata hospital two days ago after testing positive for the coronavirus infection.The December reshuffle took place a day after the BJP was trounced in the Kolkata municipal polls and six months after the saffron camp secured only 77 of the state’s 294 assembly seats against the TMC’s 213. When the new cells and committees were formed, there was no visible effort to project people who have worked with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) as was the practice in the past, said a senior BJP leader. The new selections were made after discussions with BJP national president JP Nadda and other central leaders. “Though the talks were carried out by Majumdar and general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakravorty, some other leaders had a say in the decision-making process. The end result led to dissent in the rank and file,” a state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. The reshuffle had many surprising elements, according to BJP leaders.Saumita Khan, a two-time Lok Sabha member from Bankura district who left the TMC and became the yuva morcha (youth front) president, was replaced by Indranil Khan, a Kolkata-based oncologist who unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls. However, Saumitra Khan, whose sharp differences with Dilip Ghosh have never been a closely-guarded secret, was made a state vice-president.Tanuja Chakraborty replaced fashion designer-turned politician Agnimitra Paul as the mahila morcha (women’s front) president. Paul, who won the Asansol South assembly seat in the March-April polls, was made a general secretary along with Lok Sabha member Locket Chatterjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/rumblings-force-bengal-bjp-chief-to-dissolve-new-party-cells-announced-in-dec-101642103224159.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab: Drugs, liquor worth ₹23.8 cr seized after poll code came into force||Chandigarh: After declaration of polls in Punjab, enforcement teams of the Election Commission on India (ECI) have seized psychotropic substances and liquor worth ₹23.8 crore. Giving details on Thursday, chief electoral officer (CEO), Punjab S Karuna Raju said the surveillance teams have seized 80,000 litres of liquor worth ₹24 lakh. He said the enforcement wings have also recovered psychotropic substances amounting to ₹23.36 crore and ₹4 lakh unaccounted cash.The CEO revealed that 1,028 sensitive areas have been identified and 1,131 persons have been identified, who are apprehended of creating disturbance. Raju said action against 362 persons has been initiated and remaining would also be booked. Non-bailable warrants against 998 personsRaju said non-bailable warrants have been issued against 998 persons after enforcement of model code of conduct in Punjab.The ECI teams have removed 49,852 defacements of public properties and 16,900 on private properties.As per the directions of the election commission, Raju said to date, 12,684 out of 297,140 licensed weapons had been deposited in the state, whereas 17 without licenses weapons were seized in the state.Covid vaccination for poll staffRaju said that 84% of staff to be deployed in election duties have got their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while, 49% staff is fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-drugs-liquor-worth-23-8-cr-seized-after-poll-code-came-into-force-101642103222160.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP accuses election commission of tweaking registration process||Chandigarh : The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday accused the Election Commission of making changes in the registration process of political parties under pressure from the BJP to facilitate the registration of a new “morcha” in Punjab. AAP’s Punjab affair co-incharge Raghav Chadha claimed that the changes were being made to prevent the formation of his party’s government in the state. “The EC is reducing the 30-day objection period to seven days to make special changes for the registration of a special political party. Despite the imposition of the code of conduct, the EC is going to register this political party just 25 days before the election,” he said at a press conference in an apparent reference to the Samyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) set up by the farmers’ organisations. The AAP leader, however, did not specifically take the name of any party. Both the AAP and the SSM were in talks for an electoral, but to agree on seat sharing and have been targeting each other since. AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday conceded that his party could lose some votes due to the decision of the SSM to contest the state elections. Questioning the need to change the laws overnight and the motive behind these changes, Chadha said the political party that will be registered should make its relations with the BJP and Amit Shah clear in front of the people of the country. “At first, the BJP thought they can stop the AAP using the Shiromani Akali Dal, Congress and Amarinder Singh. When they failed, a party is being registered,” he said. He also asked the EC and the BJP as to which existing political party stands to lose the most once this new and special political party is established and which one stands to gain the most.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-accuses-election-commission-of-tweaking-registration-process-101642103042008.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Sidhu says not running for any post, his fight is against system||Chandigarh : Amid mounting pressure on the Congress high command to name its chief ministerial face, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday said he is not running for any post and his fight is against the system. Sidhu, who has been making a case for naming the party’s CM face and pitching himself for the post, tweeted that the fight is to change this system which has eroded Punjab like termites and is being run in connivance of mischievous politicians. This system cries for a change and reforms as the glory of Punjab has been annihilated by the nexus of few political leaders and mafia, he posted on Twitter. In another tweet, Sidhu said the system which could not give justice to Guru (reference to sacrilege cases) and punish the big fish involve in drug trade needs to be demolished. “I categorically state that I’m not running for any post and it’s either this system will stay or Navjot Singh Sidhu,” he said, upping the ante just minutes before the Congress Central Election Committee was scheduled in Delhi to discuss the names of the party candidates. The PPCC chief’s tweets are being seen in the Congress circles as part of his efforts to get himself declared as the CM face of the party. Like Sidhu, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has also started pressing for naming the CM face and pitching himself. A senior party leader questioned the approach the two leaders, particularly Channi, despite the high command’s decision to fight the elections under collective leadership. “It is odd that Channi should question the wisdom of the high command. He was picked for the CM’s post without having any support among the party MLAs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-sidhu-says-not-running-for-any-post-his-fight-is-against-system-101642102921903.html
14-01-2022||Other||Friday namaz: Gurugram cops to ensure Covid protocols||In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, the district administration on Thursday asked senior police officials to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed at all the open sites where namaz will be offered on Friday. More than 400 police personnel will be deployed at such sites to track down any violations, officials said.“We have directed the police to keep strict vigil and to penalise people if found violating rules,” a senior official from the district administration said, adding that some members of the Gurugram Imam Sanghathan met the deputy commissioner on Thursday and assured him that protocols will be followed during the Friday prayers. According to officials, the Gurugram police commissioner has directed all police stations to deploy a team each to ensure that people follow guidelines in areas such as Udyog Vihar, sectors 37, 44, 10, 57, 22 and 29, and Palam Vihar that are prone to crowding on Fridays.Meanwhile, members of Gurugram Imam Sanghathan and Muslim Rashtriya Manch held a meeting on Thursday afternoon and asked people to not gather for namaz in large numbers in the open and advised them also not to assemble in mosques on account of the fresh wave of infections.The members met the deputy commissioner and handed over a letter to him stating that they would not violate any Covid-19 protocol and will also reduce the number of people offering namaz in the open.Currently, a maximum of 50 people are allowed for any function/religious programme in open spaces.Khurshid Rajaka, coordinator of the sanghathan, who is also the national convener of Muslim Rashtriya Manch, said there were complaints last week that more than 80 people had offered prayers in the open at one particular spot. “We do not want to violate any guidelines or orders of the state and the district administration, and we have asked all our brothers to follow the protocol for the benefit of everyone. We have planned to reduce the strength to just about 10 people per spot,” he said.“We have appealed to all mosques in Gurugram and Nuh not to allow large gatherings for namaz. The imams of mosques will offer namaz in the presence of limited people, and in shifts. We have to work together to fight the Covid-19,” Rajaka said.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said police teams will visit the areas where footfall to offer prayers is high. “If anyone is found violating Covid-19 norms such as the mask rule and social distancing, then they will be fined,” he said.Last Friday, Muslims offered namaz at 10 locations in the city, with no disruption reported from anywhere under police protection. At the Sector 29 site on last Friday, leaders of the Muslim community had announced that prayers would not be offered in the open spaces from next Friday in view of the rising Covid cases in the district. Gurugram has been witnessing protests over offering of namaz in the open from members of some right-wing outfits since 2018.It is worth mentioning here that currently, there are no designated sites (open public spaces) for offering namaz in Gurugram. The Gurugram administration last year had brought down the number of designated sites from 37 to 20 across the district. However, after the Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced on December 10 that performing namaz cannot be tolerated in open spaces, all sites were cancelled. The administration is yet to earmark new places for prayers.
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 6,083 fresh Covid cases, 6 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Thursday reported 6,083 fresh Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 6,42,182, according to a medical bulletin. With six Covid-related fatalities, the death toll reached 16,708. A death each was reported from Patiala, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Pathankot and Mohali. The number of active cases climbed to 30,384 from 26,781 on Wednesday. The state’s positivity rate was 17.02%, according to the bulletin. Of the fresh cases, 914 was recorded in Mohali, followed by 776 in Patiala, 731 in Amritsar, 670 in Ludhiana and 514 in Jalandhar. A total of 2,330 people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have recovered to 5,95,090, the bulletin said.AAP MLA Aman Arora tests positive Chandigarh: Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Aman Arora on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. The Sunam legislator urged all those who came in contact with him to get themselves tested for the infection.“I’ve tested +ve for Covid. No symptoms at all. Absolutely feeling fit & fine. Still going in for Home Quarantine. All those who came in my contact in these days, please get yourself tested,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-6-083-fresh-covid-cases-6-deaths-101642102802523.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Cong finalises first list, likely to be out today||Chandigarh : The Congress central election committee (CEC) headed by party president Sonia Gandhi, which met on Thursday, is learnt to have finalised the names of candidates for most of the 70 Punjab assembly constituencies for which discussion was held. The committee, which held a two-hour long virtual meeting, finalised the names of candidates for seats mostly held by the party at present. The Congress was expected to release its first list of candidates for 65 to 70 seats after the meeting but held it back due to lack of consensus on a few seats, party leaders familiar with the deliberations said. Punjab has 117 assembly constituencies. The Congress president and former president Rahul Gandhi are likely to have more consultations on the assembly seats on which some leaders had different views before deciding the candidates. “The first list should be out either tomorrow or the day after,” one of the leaders said. Besides Sonia Gandhi, the CEC includes Rahul Gandhi, KC Venugopal, AK Antony, Dr Girija Vyas, Janardan Dwivedi, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik and M Veerappa Moily. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary also joined the meeting. The screening committee headed by All India Congress Committee general secretary Ajay Maken had recommended the names of candidates for these seats after a series of meeting over two weeks. The Congress is expected to clear the names of Channi, Sidhu, Randhawa, Soni and most of the other ministers in the first list. There are indications that the party may deny ticket to about a dozen out of 80 sitting MLAs owing to strong anti-incumbency against, but most of these seats will be taken up in subsequent meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-cong-finalises-first-list-likely-to-be-out-today-101642102563968.html
14-01-2022||Other||In 2 years, Gurugram lost highest forest cover in Haryana: Report||In Haryana, the loss of forest cover has been the highest in Gurugram district since 2019, according to the State of Forest Report 2021 released by the Forest Survey of India on Thursday. In the past two years, Gurugram has lost 2.47 square kilometers of forest cover and has 113.71 sq km of green cover at present, which is 9.04% of the total geographical area of the district, the report said. Overall, the state of Haryana has 1603.48 sq km as forest area, which is 3.63% of its total geographical area. In terms of area, the state has gained only 1.04 sq km of forest cover in the past two years. Forest department officials said that the loss of forest cover in Gurugram can primarily be attributed to the different development projects that have been undertaken impacting the forest areas. VS Tanwar, principal chief conservator of forest for Haryana, said, “We are finding out the possible reasons for loss in forest in Gurugram, and I conducted a meeting with senior officials regarding this today (Thursday). Mainly, we have lost maximum forest cover due to road widening, recarpeting of roads and different developmental works. We have also noticed that we are not able to implement our programme of agro-forestry properly, which can also be one of the reasons. We are studying the report in detail and will analyse the reasons further.” According to the report, neighbouring Faridabad district has lost 0.71 sq km of forest cover since 2019 and has 79.23 sq km under forest cover at present, which is 10.69% of the district’s total geographical area. In Gurugram and Faridabad districts, Aravallis are the primary forest cover, which lacks the tag of deemed forest or legal protection and is marred by anthropogenic pressures like roads cutting, construction of farm houses, luxury hotels, among others. Chetan Agarwal, a city-based environment analyst, said, “Virtually all of the forest cover of Gurugram is concentrated in the Aravallis. The forest cover in the district is already so less with just 9% of the total area and with that also if 247 hectares is lost in two years, then it raises questions on extent of legal protection and practical enforcement. Protecting Aravallis by giving them legal status of forests and keeping them under natural conservation zone is the only way to save the remaining forest cover.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-2-years-gurugram-lost-highest-forest-cover-in-haryana-report-101642102502175.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Despite low key affair, warmth of Lohri spreads cheer in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Most of the people in the state capital opted for scaled down Lohri celebrations this year due to the Covid surge and ringed in festivities at home with family. A programme was organized by Khalsa Inter College on the Naka Gurudwara premises on Thursday to mark the occasion. President of Lucknow Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee and manager of Khalsa Inter College, Rajendra Singh Bagga, highlighted the social importance of Lohri, the festival that marks the harvesting season of crops. “Lohri is a social, not a religious festival. The Punjabi community celebrates it on the eve of Makar Sankranti. People offered puffed rice, munchies and popcorn to the fire god (bonfire),” he said.“The festival of Lohri was earlier called Tilodi. The word is derived from the words Til (sesame seeds) and rhodi (jaggery). On this occasion, people circle around the fire, wishing to spend their life in happiness and peace. After Lohri, the nights become shorter and the days become bigger,” added Bagga.“Due to Covid protocols, Lohri celebrations have been restricted within families and large gatherings were avoided,” said Nirmal Singh, a resident of Alambagh.Gagan Bagga, a resident of Krishnna Nagar said, “Our families celebrated Lohri with a bonfire. But this time, we didn’t invite guests for the celebrations.”Meanwhile, Samar Vihar Residents’ Welfare Association, Ashiana Residents’ Welfare Association and Patel Nagar Residents’ Society cancelled celebrations due to a surge in Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/despite-low-key-affair-warmth-of-lohri-spreads-cheer-in-lucknow-101642102386592.html
14-01-2022||Other||Curbs in place as active Covid cases cross 1K mark in Prayagraj||Gyms, water parks and swimming pools of the district have closed down as active Covid cases in the district crossed a thousand cases. The curbs will continue till the cases go down, officials said. Movie theatres, restaurants and hotels are also functioning at half of their capacity, district administration officials said. The district currently has 1546 active Covid-19 cases. “We are following all protocols of the state government. The curbs are in pursuance of the order that state certain measures to be in place if the active Covid case count crosses 1000 mark”, said additional district magistrate (city) Madan Kumar. He said only 50 percent people will now only be allowed in open air events while a maximum of 100 people will be allowed for events held in a closed spaces with maximum 200 people capacity. Covid desks would again need to be set up at religious places and entry in the premises without masks will be prohibited. Covid desks have been made mandatory for both government as well as private workplaces. Officials said ‘work from home’ culture is to be encouraged for private workplaces. Thermal screening will be mandatory in all public places and sanitisers would also have to be provided, officials said. “Only three people will be allowed to travel on e-rickshaws and maximum of four could travel in four wheelers,” officials said. They added that the markets will function as before with closure on fixed days of the week and traders have been asked to not sell goods to customers without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/curbs-in-place-as-active-covid-cases-cross-1k-mark-in-prayagraj-101642102201717.html
14-01-2022||Other||Bring interrogation rooms under CCTV coverage: HC to Punjab, Haryana & UT||Chandigarh In what could go a long way in curbing human rights violations, the Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered that CCTV cameras have to be installed in all interrogation centres in police stations in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. “...it is not an excuse for us, in India, to take a plea that many other countries are far more advanced than us and, therefore, there can be no comparison with the methods adopted there, in interrogating the accused here. We are the 5th or 6th largest economy in the world and therefore any such plea taken would only seem to be taken as an excuse to not actually adopt contemporary methods of investigation, including interrogation, rather than taking short-cuts by using third degrees methods etc,” the bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh said, issuing directions. The order came on the plea of gangster Kaushal Chaudhary who had alleged that human rights violations are being committed against him in jail. His name had cropped up in the day-light gruesome murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera in Mohali. The court also ordered that medical record of every accused and other provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), with regard to rights of an arrested and the one to be taken into custody are met and same be made part of challans to be presented in a particular case. If the same is not complied with, it would be considered as contempt of court, it said. “No court is oblivious to the fact that the police faces a very uphill task in dealing with criminals, especially hardened criminals, and the work done by the police force and any investigating agency is to be highly appreciated, in trying to apprehend criminals and actually apprehending them and bringing them to justice; yet, as per the constitutional scheme and the statutory provisions framed in India, not even the worst criminal can be denied a fair procedure in terms of the (CrPC),” the court said, adding that violation of such procedure, especially leading to the violation of human rights even in the case of the worst criminal, cannot be ignored by any court. WHAT STATES HAVE SAID On the previous hearing, the court had asked the DGPs, whether Supreme Court (SC) directions with regard to CCTV coverage at police stations and jails have been complied with. Haryana had submitted that there is no such provision in the CrPC and Punjab DGP’s response was “conspicuously silent” on that aspect. However, they had submitted that entry and exit points in police stations are under CCTV coverage. The court, however, referred to the SC order passed in Paramvir Singh Saini vs Baljit Singh, and said that any order of the apex court is enforceable throughout the country and is binding on all courts. The court observed that the SC directions also included that cameras be installed at not just entry and exit points and main gates of police stations, but also in all lock-ups, corridors, lobby and reception areas, verandas, out houses, rooms of officials, outside the lock-up rooms, station hall and in front of the police station compound, as also outside washrooms and toilets, the obvious implication is that no part of the police stations would be left uncovered by CCTV surveillance. Now, court has directed DGPs of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to file affidavits as to whether the directions of the SC have been complied with or not. It reiterated that the HC is duty-bound to ensure enforcement of SC orders and if not implemented, it would amount to contempt of court. 
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Conman dupes Ludhiana resident of ₹63K on pretext of selling bike||Posing as an army man, a Tarn Taran resident allegedly duped a Raikot resident of ₹ 63,999 on the pretext of selling a Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycle through an online marketplace. The accused has been identified as Manjit Singh of Tarntaran. The FIR has been lodged after an 11-month long investigation.Complainant Gurpreet Singh of Mohalla Ajitsar of Raikot said he found a bike for sale online and contacted the seller. The latter introduced himself as an army man, and to win confidence of the complainant, he even sent an Aadhar Card, PAN number and other documents to his mobile phone. The deal was settled at ₹ 69,399, following which the victim transferred the money. But even after receiving the money, the accused did not deliver the bike and subsequently stopped picking up the complainant’s phone. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kulvir Singh said that a case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), and 120-B (criminal conspirancy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conman-dupes-ludhiana-resident-of-63k-on-pretext-of-selling-bike-101642102145173.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Truck stolen from Transport Nagar found in Jagraon||A truck stolen from Transport Nagar was recovered by Jagraon police during a special checking on January 12. The accused managed to flee after assaulting an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) but dropped his Aadhar card on the spot, which identified him as Gagandeep Singh of Bhindar Kalan village, Dharamkota. Sub-inspector Amarjit Singh said he along with a police party was checking vehicles at Kothey Khajura road. On receiving information from inspector Ravinder Kumar, station house officer at Moti Nagar police station, that some unidentified accused have stolen a truck from the Transport Nagar and were coming towards Jagraon, they signalled the truck to stop. The accused tried to escape from the spot, but ASI Hakam Singh nabbed him. The accused opened an attack on the ASI and fled.A case under Section 411(dishonestly receiving stolen property) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-truck-stolen-from-transport-nagar-found-in-jagraon-101642102141872.html
14-01-2022||Other||Gurugram cops recover 100 missing phones worth ₹18 lakh||The Gurugram police have recovered at least 100 missing mobile phones and returned them to their respective owners in the district in the last two days. These cellphones were estimated worth over ₹18 lakh, police said, adding that several teams went to different states such as Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Bihar, and parts of Haryana to recover the phones for which missing reports were lodged at different police stations in the Gurugram police district (west). In some cases, the unauthorised users were asked to return the cellphones, police said. According to senior police officials, the missing reports for these cellphones were submitted between September and December last year and were traced by the cyber cell.Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (west) who handed over the recovered cellphones to their respective owners, said that the owners were relieved after getting their phones back. “We usually call the unauthorised users of missing phones and ask them to return the phones immediately. In case of an FIR, legal action is taken,” he said. Another police officer said most of these missing phones are picked up by people from lower strata of society. “They either give such phones to their family members in native places in different states or sell them for easy money,” he said. Police said cellphones are traced as soon as someone starts using them again. “Tracing is done with the help of technical surveillance,” said an official from the cyber cell, seeking anonymity. Police said that around 110 cellphones worth at least ₹22 lakh, reported missing from different areas in the police district (west), were recovered from different states and handed over to their owners last year too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-cops-recover-100-missing-phones-worth-18-lakh-101642102022038.html
14-01-2022||Other||UP polls: Prayagraj, MP cops to coordinate to check border crime||Ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly elections, the trans-Yamuna police of Prayagraj district have increased their vigil in areas that border Madhya Pradesh where they are taking help of villagers in identifying those involved in activities like bootlegging. Senior officials also held a border meeting for better coordination among cops of both states to identify trouble makers and trace their hideouts on both sides of the border. Police has started patrolling the rocky terrains of trans-Yamuna and villages bordering Madhya Pradesh. During poll season illegal liquor smugglers, sedative syrup suppliers, firearm smugglers and other antisocial elements become active as candidates try to lure voters. SP trans-Yamuna Saurabh Dixit said number of checkposts and barriers have been increased in the areas bordering Madhya Pradesh. “Police and paramilitary personnel are patrolling the bordering villages round the clock and more security personnel will be deployed and checkposts in the coming days. Stress is on identification of illegal liquor smugglers, drug peddlers etc,” he said. At a recent border meeting with senior police officials of Rewa, Satna and few other districts, lists of criminals and anti-social elements with hideouts both in Prayagraj and in Madhya Pradesh were shared by cops. “It has been decided that raids will be carried out at their hideouts by police of both states under their jurisdictions. If someone has fled to MP then local cops there will be alerted to nab him,” the police official said.Several villages in Prayagraj which includes Bathat, Basahra, Naribari, Lodha Sonbarsa, Dhobra Upachar, Naudia border Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-polls-prayagraj-mp-cops-to-coordinate-to-check-border-crime-101642101962215.html
14-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: BSF officer among four held for duping contractors of ₹150 cr||The Gurugram Police on arrested four persons, including a deputy commandant of Border Security Force (BSF), over the last two days for allegedly duping owners of four city-based construction firms of over ₹150 crore. Police said the deputy commandant, Praveen Yadav, was the kingpin of the gang, posed an IPS officer on deputation as a NSG group commander at the Manesar campus, and promised the victims to provide construction contracts for various work on the campus. The NSG is part of the Indian special forces under the ministry of home affairs. Praveen allegedly provided the four owners of construction firms with letters of intent and copies of fake tender contracts and, according to the police, also made them deposit money in an account with a private bank, in the name of “Office of GC (Garrison), Station HQ, NSG, Manesar”, on the pretext that it was earnest money for tender allocation. Police identified the other suspects as Praveen’s wife Mamta Yadav, sister Ritu Raj Yadav and his friend Dinesh Kumar. Police said the contractors have complained against eight people, and they are still verifying facts based on which others will be arrested. Police said they recovered ₹13.81 crore in cash from Praveen, and six high-end cars from the four suspects. KK Rao, Gurugram Police commissioner, said on January 8, they received an online complaint from one Monesh Israni, who alleged that he had been duped by an officer posted at NSG Manesar campus, and who was taking care of construction contracts. Three more contractors later lodged police complaints, claiming that they too were duped of money by a man posing as an officer of the elite counter-terrorism force.“We conducted a preliminary investigation and registered a case. We formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) comprising the crime team of Manesar police station and the economic offence wing, under assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan, and arrested Praveen, the kingpin, from Zirakpur in Punjab on Wednesday night, where he was living in a rented accommodation, and recovered cash from that house. He was posted on deputation as deputy commandant at NSG, Manesar campus, until May 2021,” he said.Police confirmed that Praveen is a deputy commandant of BSF who was on deputation at NSG, Manesar, and misused his ID card to gain access to the campus after his tenure was over.Rao said during questioning, the names of his wife, sister and a middleman were revealed, following which they were also arrested from Manesar on Thursday. ACP Sangwan said Praveen was posted to NSG on deputation for three years till May 2021. “He had lost over ₹60 lakh in share trading and was in heavy debt. He planned to dupe people taking advantage of his access to the NSG campus in Manesar. He had applied for premature retirement but the approval was pending from headquarters,” he said. Sangwan said Praveen was in charge of fencing, solar plants and other construction-related work while he was posted to NSG. “He was introduced to Dinesh Kumar, and later joined hands with him and started offering people fake tenders for construction work at NSG,” he said. Police said Praveen opened a fake private company and made his wife Mamta and sister Ritu Raj Yadav the directors. Police said Ritu works with a private bank in Sector 83 in Manesar and lives on the NSG campus with her husband who is an assistant deputy commandant. The police said they have not given NSG official a clean chit, and that they will also check if he had any involvement in the scam. Ritu helped her brother open the bank accounts, said police. Sangwan said Praveen met contractors, offered them tenders and gave them forged letters of intent and pay orders to start the work. “He duped four contractors of ₹37 crore, ₹65 crore, ₹18 crore and ₹20 crore respectively. All the victims had pay orders, work allotment letters and work permits with NSG letterheads,” he said. The victims became suspicious after he allegedly asked them for more money to offer them construction work at a training centre allegedly located near Hyderabad in Telangana. Police said when they investigated they found that there was no civil work in the pipeline and that Praveen was planning to flee the country. Police said it all started in May last year when Praveen asked the contractors to apply for a tender to construct a chain-link fence. Praveen returned the amount the contractors paid as security deposit, allegedly to gain their trust, and later asked them to pay 60% of the tender amount. “The contractors were asked to bid for the installation of electric poles, PPGI-coated seats and pipes, GST certificate, cancelled cheques--an amount totalling over ₹150 crore,” said Sangwan. Sangwan said Yadav would show his identity card, photograph, designation and visit the campus on multiple occasions with the contractors to win their trust. “He would present his NSG identity card with his photograph and designation as group commander. The contractors believed him as it is not possible to enter the NSG campus without being posted there, and all the security officials knew him,” said Sangwan, adding that he forged NSG seals to issue the allotment letters. All the suspects were produced before a duty magistrate on Thursday. Praveen was remanded to six days in police custody, and the others were remanded to four days in police custody. NSG and BSF could not be reached for comments despite multiple attempts. 
14-01-2022||Lucknow||6 Covid deaths as cases hit 8-month high in UP||Six Covid deaths and 14765 fresh covid cases were reported from Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Thursday. Hardoi reported 2 deaths, while Kanpur, Lakhimpur Khiri, Jaunpur, Pilibhit reported one death each. As per data from the state’s health department, six deaths were reported on January 8 too. The 14765 new covid cases reported on Thursday were the highest in a single day in eight months’ time, officials said. “There are 71, 022 active Covid cases in UP at present. In all 255391 covid samples were tested out of which 14765 tested positive. Till now 9, 55, 52, 240 Covid samples have been tested and the overall test positivity rate is 1.87%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary medical health in a press conference. Escalating new covid cases have also brought down recovery rate to 94.7%. It was over 98% in the first week of January. Lucknow reported 2213 Covid cases while Ghaziabad also reported 1678 new covid cases. Cases were also reported from Gautam Buddha Nagar (1626), Meerut (1197), Varanasi (515), Agra (618), Prayagraj (434), Muzaffarnagar (484), according to the health department data. Among new cases in Lucknow 38 were health workers, 648 are contacts of previous Covid patients and 269 have travel history from other states or countries. “In all 277 tested positive when they gave samples after having mild symptoms of Covid,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer. “Lucknow has reported a total 249633 covid cases and among them 236741 have recovered. The recovery rate in the state capital is 94.83%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. Majority 428 cases were reported from Aliganj, 343 from Chinhat, 263 from Alambagh and 246 from Indira Nagar. Over 10k active cases in Lko, GB Nagar HT Correspondent letters@htlive.comLUCKNOW: Active Covid cases in two districts Lucknow and Gautam Budha Nagar crossed 10K mark on Thursday. Number of active covid cases Lucknow reached 10241, next to 10717 in Gautam Budha Nagar, the only two districts having over 10K active cases. Ghaziabad has 9179 active cases while Meerut has 6681 active covid cases under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/6-covid-deaths-as-cases-hit-8-month-high-in-up-101642101725022.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | SAD failed to act as bridge between Centre and farmers, says Gurdeep Gosha||Two days after joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), former district president of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) Gurdeep Gosha accused Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of failing to work as a bridge between farmers and union government during the farm agitation against the three agricultural laws.Addressing a press conference, along with BJP district president Pushpinder Singal, at the party’s district headquarters near Clock Tower on Thursday, Gosha said the SAD has only been working to save its skin and has nothing to do with the welfare of the state. When he was with the SAD, Gosha used to slam the BJP-led Union government for the demise of around 700 farmers who were part of the agitation, but on Thursday, he said the farmer unions were responsible for the deaths as “they failed to make proper arrangements for the agitators” on the Delhi borders. Accusing the Congress of trying to divide Sikhs and Hindus in Punjab, Gosha said the leaders of the grand old party and a few farm leaders, who have now jumped into politics, misled the farmers for their vested interests during the agitation. Responding to the allegations of SAD leaders that Gosha left the party with an eye on a BJP ticket from Ludhiana South, Gosha said he “joined the saffron party for development of the state” and tickets will be decided by the party high command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sad-failed-to-act-as-bridge-between-centre-and-farmers-says-gurdeep-gosha-101642101721836.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: The journey is his address||He has no companion, he asserts. He then pauses, and after some moments, speaks again - “But I do ask about the haal chaal of the people who sleep next to me on the footpath.”This morning, Muhammed Rajit is walking along a secluded tree-lined pathway in central Delhi. He calls himself a fakir, an ascetic.Although the fakir may believe himself to be all alone, he confesses he does have a family - or had one, to be precise. “My mother and father are dead… my wife, too, is dead... but my brother is of this world, so too his wife, and their children.”Wearing a lungi and a green jacket pulled upon a green kurta, the turbaned Mr Rajit isn’t certain of his age, but believes himself to be in the late 40s or early 50s.An Odisha native, he grew up in Cuttack, near a Sufi shrine, he recalls. “I was attached to Sufis. I wanted to leave the worldly life, so I became a fakir.” Delhi was a logical destination because “it is the land of Sufis and fakirs”.How different is a fakir’s daily life from that of other people?What is the source of livelihood?What are the anxieties that bother a fakir?Mr Rajit looks thoughtful. He slows down his walk, moves from a shaded part of the lane to a sunnier spot. Looking directly towards the shining sun streaming unevenly across his face through the foliage of a tree, he stays silent as if framing his thoughts. A mild breeze kisses his brows. He opens his mouth, but appears hesitant and shuts it back. After about a minute’s pause, he says: “I do not know.”He then directs the attention towards his shoulder bag. “It has a blanket, a sheet, some clothes and a set of spare chappals.”A man passes by. He seems to be familiar with Mr Rajit. He quietly hands him a hundred rupee note, bows in reverence, and briskly walks away. Gazing down at his feet (he is wearing grey chappals), Mr Rajit says, “I haven’t been to Cuttack since the [first] lockdown began… haven’t met my brother for years.” He never felt the need to connect with his relatives. He has no mobile phone.Mr Rajit now discloses that “I have a daughter”. He lowers his already low voice. “She lives with her naani.”Does he miss the child?“The only person I know is uparwala… my dost.”He walks on. To where? He mumbles: “ To no place… I’m just walking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-journey-is-his-address-101642101143143.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Two truck drivers arrested with 40kg poppy husk||The CIA staff-1 of police commissionerate on Thursday arrested two truck drivers for drug peddling and seized the truck and 40kg poppy husk hidden inside it.The accused Balwant Singh, 38, and Avjinder Singh, 40, of Umaidpur village were arrested near Dehlon Chowk at Ludhiana-Malerkotra road during special checking. Sub-inspector Amarjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said, “The accused told police that they had gone to Ahmedabad, Gujarat, to deliver cycle parts. While returning they loaded submersible motors and pipes. On the way back to Ludhiana, they took a halt at Mangwalwara of Udaipur, Rajasthan, and bought poppy husk to supply to their customers.Amarjit Singh said the accused have been into drug peddling for the past two and a half years. A case under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) has been registered against the accused at Dehlon Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-truck-drivers-arrested-with-40kg-poppy-husk-101642101664218.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Refund, penalty powers lie with RERA, not adjudicating officer’||The Punjab and Haryana high court said for complaints of refund of the amount, delayed delivery of possession and penalty, etc the adjudicating authority under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, will be the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) and not the adjudicating officer.The high court bench of justice TS Dhindsa and justice Vinod Bhardwaj was dealing with a clutch of petitions filed by developers from Haryana. The HC said the legislature intent of the law demonstrates that the adjudicating officer has to deal with issues of adjudging compensation and award of interest thereupon.The HC was dealing with the petitions in which the developers had raised issues with regard to the adjudicating authority in case of complaints of delay, penalty and deciding on compensation, etc against the developers and powers of the RERA authority and adjudicating officer, established under the RERA law.The second issue was whether the HC can intervene to waive off pre-deposit condition for an appeal before tribunal against the RERA orders, by a developer.The RERA tribunal hears the appeal of a builder against RERA decision only if interest amount decided is deposited with the tribunal by the developer in question.The HC said the compensatory relief under the law has been kept separate and distinct and accrues in the event of occurrence of certain prerequisites. The determination in that case has to be done by the adjudicating officer, under the RERA law. The RERA authority would have the jurisdiction to entertain a complaint seeking refund of the amount and interest on the refund amount as well as for payment of interest on delayed delivery of possession and/or penalty and interest. The jurisdiction in such matters would not be with the adjudicating officer,it said. As of power of the HC to intervene in the cases of pre-deposits, the court said a statutory provision or enactment cannot oust the jurisdiction conferred upon the HC by the Constitution of India. However, as a part of the fulfilment of the statutory object, it is only desirable that the high court exercises judicial restraint while invoking its powers.“The legislature has consciously provided for a mandatory pre-deposit without exceptions in order to ensure due completion of projects to avoid undue appeals,” it said, adding that a developer seeking indulgence of the HC to seek exemption from statutory mandate must establish that the discharge of statutory obligation would be ‘onerous’ and that the court must come to the rescue out of statutory mandate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/refund-penalty-powers-lie-with-rera-not-adjudicating-officer-101642101662096.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | PAU signs MoA for commercialisation of tractor operated seeder||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) signed a memorandum of agreement (MoA) with Rajarh Agricultural Works in Mullanpur Dakha for the commercialisation of technology of tractor operated mat type nursery seeder.The MoA was signed between PAU officials and Gurdeep Singh from Rajarh Agricultural Works.Additional director of research (farm mechanization and bioenergy) Gursahib Singh Manes explained that all the mechanical paddy transplanters use mat type nursery for transplanting paddy seedlings. Manual method for raising mat type nursery requires a number of operations, whereas tractor operated seeder accomplishes all the operations in one go, he added. The machine lays the polythene sheet and prepares one-metre-wide soil bed with simultaneous uniform seed placement and covers it with soil.Head, department of farm machinery and power engineering, Mahesh Kumar Narang said the machine will help in saving of cost by 64.3-67.9 percent and labour by 93.8-94 per cent as compared to conventional manual method of mat type nursery sowing. In a single day, the machine can sow mat type nursery which is sufficient for transplantation in paddy field area of 150-200 acres .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pau-signs-moa-for-commercialisation-of-tractor-operated-seeder-101642101601973.html
14-01-2022||Other||Active Covid-19 cases cross 15,000-mark in Gurugram||The active Covid-19 caseload in Gurugram crossed 15,000-mark on Thursday as the district recorded 3,031 fresh cases with a test positivity rate of 24%, according to the district health bulletin. Of the total 15,175 active cases, only 112 are hospitalised in the district and the rest are in home isolation, the bulletin shows. On Thursday, 1,109 patients, including one infected with the Omicron variant, also recovered in the district. The health department on Thursday collected 12,576 samples for testing, which takes the total test numbers to 2,426,433, according to the health department data. The daily test positivity rate increased to 24% on Thursday, which was 21% on Wednesday. Meanwhile, on Thursday, a total of 21,157 doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered in the district, including 9,082 first doses, 10,135 second doses and 1,940 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.59 million doses have been administered in the district till now. On Thursday, 2,934 children in the 15-18 age group were vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-covid-19-cases-cross-15-000-mark-in-gurugram-101642101485367.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Govt school teachers struggle to juggle election duties with online classes||With election duties taking up much of their time and final exams also nearing, teachers in Ludhiana government schools are caught in a race against time for syllabus completion. Of around 11,200 teaching and non-teaching staff in Ludhiana government schools, over 5,000 are deputed on duty for the Punjab assembly elections slated for February 14.According to education department officials, mostly male staff has been deputed on election duties. Their responsibilities include registration of new voters through door-to-door surveys, preparation of electoral rolls among others. Many have been appointed as supervisors and booth-level officers (BLO).A language teacher, who has been appointed a BLO, said, “I remain busy with voter registrations through the day so I hardly get any time to take online classes. Students need us more at this time as their final exams are just about a month-and-a-half away, but it becomes physically and mentally taxing for teachers to juggle the two.”He added that he tries to manage by requesting his students to call him at a particular time during the day. A principal of a government senior secondary school said, “The problem is more this time around due to the suspension of physical classes. Earlier when we had physical classes, we could easily get a substitute teacher. The substitute teacher would merge her classes with that of the teacher on election duty and take a combined class. With online classes, that is difficult as most teachers are struggling to adapt to the new way of teaching, and giving them the additional responsibility of another class will add to their burden.” Meanwhile, a senior official in the education department said that mostly computer teachers along with non-teaching staff have been deputed on election duties. “Teachers are trying their level best to manage both. Mostly, non-teaching staff has been deputed, but computer teachers have been appointed for feeding data of the voters online,” said official. 
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panipat residents protest demolition of temple, houses on irrigation land||A high drama was witnessed in Panipat on Thursday when hundreds of residents stopped the officials from demolishing houses and a temple illegally constructed on the land of the irrigation department.The protesters alleged that the temple and houses were built around 30-years-ago and now the administration has declared it illegal. Officials, led by irrigation department executive engineer Suresh Kumar, began the drive and damaged a wall of the temple. This agitated the locals and women lied down before the earth-mover.There were reports that the locals also pelted stones at the officials as the woman protesters did not allow the officials to continue the demolition. After a high drama of hours, heavy police deployment was made to control the protesters but later, the officials agreed to suspend the demolition drive for a day and the locals agreed to hold a meeting with the deputy commissioner.Officials of the irrigation department said they have orders to demolish the illegal structures in which around 200 families were living here for past couple of years. The protesters said why were they allowed to construct hundreds of houses and get electricity and water connections for more than a decade.The executive engineer told HT that the 2km-long and 50m-wide stretch belongs to the irrigation department and the houses were constructed on a 700m stretch.He said the demolition drive was launched after court orders as all these structures are illegal and did not have any legal document. This is because there is a plan to construct a road as per the chief minister’s announcement.He said the drive could not be completed due to protests by locals and they will take up the issue with higher authorities.Panipat SDM Dheeraj Chahal said the demolition drive has been postponed for a day as residents have sought time to meet the deputy commissioner. The notices have already been served to the residents who had illegally possessed the said land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-residents-protest-demolition-of-temple-houses-on-irrigation-land-101642101423849.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Magh Mela begins today, thousands to take holy dip in Sangam on Makar Sankranti||PRAYAGRAJ: The 47-day annual religious fair ‘Magh Mela-2022’ will formally start with the first official bathing of Makar Sankranti on the banks of the Sangam—the sacred confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati—on Friday. Being seen as the toughest edition of the fair till date due to the rising Covid cases and the increased level of water in the Ganga, the mela officials are striving to do their best to conduct the fair in a smooth manner. Pilgrims, saints and seers started arriving for the occasion in large numbers on the eve of the first bathing festival, amidst unprecedented precautions. As per the astrologers, the auspicious timing for the bathing on Makar Sankranti will start at 9.13am and last till 4.29pm on Friday. Ten main bathing ghats have been set up for the pilgrims this time. These would stretch from Nagvasuki to Quila Ghat near Sangam to divert devotees and avoid overcrowding at one place. There would be five sectors in the vast mela area, apart from an additional sub-sector (of sector number 1) which would be inhabited towards Arail side of the Sangam area. This would be called sector 1A. “We have made all the preparations for the seers, kalpwasis and devotees coming to Magh Mela. The ghats have been prepared and the needed infrastructure is in place. We will ensure that the mela does not become a platform to spread Covid-19 for which thermal scanning would be done at all the entry points”, said Mela Adhikari Shesh Mani Pandey. He informed that the changing rooms for women devotees were in place and there would be strict compliance with the norms of wearing facemasks. Sanitisers and masks would be given to devotees found without one. “All the organisations and seers camping in the Magh mela have been asked to provide help desk in their respective camps”, said Pandey. The Sangam city hosts the annual Magh Mela every year, Ardh Kumbh once every six years and Kumbh once every 12 years. The annual fair this time will conclude with Maha Shivratri bathing on March 1. Though officials are not sure exactly how many pilgrims will arrive this year in view of the Covid resurgence, they expect around 5-7 lakh pilgrims for the first bathing festival itself. For proper hygiene and cleanliness, 15,000 toilets have been built in the mela area. There are around 1500 pre-fabricated steel toilets, 3,000 tent toilets, 300 urinals, 9,000 institutional toilets and 900 toilets at camps of government institutions. There would be proper health care facility too, for which two hospitals, each of 20 bed capacity, have been set up. Besides, there will also be 10 first aid centres spread in the five sectors and a sub-sector of the Magh Mela-2022. There are 13 police stations and 38 police outposts in various sectors of the mela area this time. Apart from these, there are 13 fire stations and the entire mela area is being watched from 13 watch towers. CCTV cameras have been installed on these towers. Entry of heavy vehicles has been restricted for January 14 and 15 in view of the first bathing festival of the fair. Besides, entry of two and four-wheelers has also been restricted inside the mela area on all six major bathing festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/magh-mela-begins-today-thousands-to-take-holy-dip-in-sangam-on-makar-sankranti-101642101421816.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Class 12 student among three held for Panipat trader’s murder||Nine days after a 45-year-old edible oil trader was shot dead by unidentified miscreants in Panipat’s Samlakha town, police have arrested three youths for the murder.Police said the accused have been identified as Prashant Kumar, of Panchwati Colony, Vansh alias Vishu, of Matapuli Road, and Anshul, of Shashtri Colony in Samalkha town. Prashant and Ansul are ITI students and Vansh is a student of Class 12.The fourth accused Deepak Kumar, of Samalkha, is still at large. Police had announced ₹1 lakh award for any information about the accused.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused were involved in murder of trader Raj Kumar, who was shot dead on the evening of January 4.He said the investigators had got a clue about the accused after inspection of CCTV footages of cameras installed near the crime spot.According to police, Deepak and Parshant had committed the crime and Vansh, who is a friend of the deceased’s son, provided them information of his location. The accused were arrested by a team of CIA-III from near Pawnti village in district on Wednesday.On the motive of the murder, Sawan said the accused had come to loot the trader, but when he opposed them, the accused fired at him and looted his cash bag.Sawan said accused Deepak has a criminal record as he was most wanted in a double murder case registered at Gohana police station in Sonepat.The SP said the accused were produced in court and sent to five-day remand. Efforts are on to arrest the fourth accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class-12-student-among-three-held-for-panipat-trader-s-murder-101642101243954.html
14-01-2022||Other||Over 8,500 people, 100 establishments fined for Covid violations in Gurugram||At least 8,510 persons and 100 commercial establishments have been fined across Gurugram for violating Covid-19 norms in the first 12 days of this month, officials from the district administration said on Thursday. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, said that these fines were issued to violators between January 1 and January 12, a period during which the district started witnessing a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. From nearly 5% at the start of this month, the test positivity rate spiralled to 24% on Thursday, with the district recording 3,031 fresh cases.The officials said that various enforcement teams under seven incident commanders have started visiting markets and shopping areas in the district to enforce Covid-19 protocols and ensure safe behaviour. In a bid to better management of the Covid-19 situation, the administration has divided the district into seven zones with each being headed by an incident commander. Garg said that the enforcement of Covid norms has improved after the appointment of incident commanders. “We can prevent the spread of Covid-19 by wearing masks and maintaining social distance. It is also important that the used masks are disposed of correctly,” said Garg. The officials also said that they will be conducting more inspections particularly in markets to enforce mask discipline. Referring to the preparedness of the health department and other agencies in managing Covid-19, Garg said that the situation is under control as only 1-2% patients are under hospitalisation. The district, he said, has adequate number of Covid beds, and the oxygen supply has also been augmented in the last one year. Sharing details of the oxygen availability, the authorities said that 11 government hospitals and health centres have set up oxygen plants with a total production capacity of 4,150 litres per minute. These include the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, subdivisional hospital Pataudi, subdivisional hospital Sohna, ESI hospital in Sector 9, ESI hospital Sector 3 Manesar, polyclinic in Sector 31, community health centre (CHC) Ghangola , CHC Bhangrola, and CHC Farrukhnagar. Besides, a number of private hospitals with more than 50 beds have set up oxygen plants, said the officials. The Haryana government on January 1 had imposed more restrictions in five districts of state, including Gurugram, whereby theatres, multiplexes, and stadiums were closed. Restrictions were also imposed on malls, restaurants, and markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-8-500-people-100-establishments-fined-for-covid-violations-in-gurugram-101642101242038.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana doctors call of strike||The Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) doctors on Thursday called off their agitation after a meeting with state officials.An official spokesperson said a consensus was reached on multiple issues between the government and the doctors in the meeting and the doctors decided to withdraw the agitation.The government had on Tuesday imposed the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) to check the strike during the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The spokesperson said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had recently given in-principle approval to creating a specialist cadre for MS or MD doctors.Further, the doctors will not be given any administrative work and will practice only in their respective specialisation. In addition, the specialist-cadre post for experts will be designated as consultant or senior consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-doctors-call-of-strike-101642101121486.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana achieves 48.5% target of vaccination in 15-18 age group||Ten days after the Union government started a vaccination drive for children in the age group of 15-18 years across country, Haryana has achieved 48.5% of its target by inoculating 7.49 lakh children of the targeted 15.43 lakh by Thursday evening according to the COWIN portal.The vaccine option for this age group will only be Covaxin, according to the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry on December 27.CM’s district tops tallyHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home district Karnal topped the tally in the vaccination drive in children of 15-18 age group by administering jabs to 79% (50,580) of its target of 64,090, followed by Kaithal which achieved 63% target by inoculating jabs to 38,271 kids of 60,792, and Charkhi Dadri bagged the third spot by finishing its 58% target.Meanwhile, the Muslim-dominated Nuh has given jabs to 16,774 children of 1.16 lakh and has achieved 14% of its target, followed by Fatehabad which achieved 37% target (20,346) of its target of 55,000. Rohtak has given jabs to 24,279 children (39%) of the eligible population of 61,726. The state government had directed the health officials to inoculate all kids by January 10 but failed to achieve the target.Karnal civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said they had carried out vaccination drives by targeting all schools and called only 250 children per school where vaccination was carried out.“Block education officers, SDMs and health workers carried out joint efforts to achieve this target. NGOs and other groups helped in the inoculation process in urban areas. We had sought a list from schools of children who missed the vaccination process. We are hoping to give the first dose to all children in the 15-18 age bracket group in the next ten days,” the Karnal CMO added.Nuh district immunisation officer (DIO) Dr Basant Dubey said there is a vaccine hesitancy among a sizeable section of Mewat residents and another reason is closure of schools.“Earlier, children were not turning up for vaccination. Our asha workers, ANMs, and trained staff have been going to villages to persuade people and doing on the spot online vaccine registration. We have also taken locals in confidence. They have appealed to people to inoculate their children,” he added.“Less number of students’ are coming for vaccination even after their teachers’ appeal but now the situation is changing. Illiteracy and hesitancy among parents is another reason. We want to achieve the maximum target in the 15-18 age group. Had the schools opened, we would have achieved more targets,” he said.“Moreover, we are unable to fill our registration on the COWIN portal for the last three days due to poor internet connectivity in villages,” Dubey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-achieves-48-5-target-of-vaccination-in-15-18-age-group-101642101001806.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid surge: Lucknow University reschedules semester exams||Lucknow: A day after several Lucknow University hostellers tested positive for Covid-19, the university administration announced to reschedule the semester exams scheduled between January 15 and 30. A notice issued by the exam controller on January 13 said the even semester exams were being rescheduled amidst rising cases of Covid-19. The new dates of the exam would be uploaded on the website of Lucknow university soon. This comes after the LU administration advised students living in hotels to vacate them on Wednesday. While the University officials refused to comment on the number of hostel inmates who tested Covid-19 positive, according to students at least 10% of inmates in all hostels tested Covid positive. Many of the students are also running high temperature and have cold-like symptoms. The Lucknow university also extended the last date for filling examination forms for students of odd semester. The last date for filling the examination form for such students has been extended till January 25, according to a notice. The students will then have to submit the completed examination form in the departments concerned by January 28. Lucknow University spokesman Durgesh Srivastav said, “The decision to extend the date of examination and filling of examination form was taken keeping in mind the current Covid-19 situation. The university is also making efforts to ensure complete vaccination of all its staff and students. “ While students’ groups have been demanding cancellation or postponement of exams since last week, the members of Lucknow University Associate College Teacher’s Association (LUACTA) wrote to the state government on Thursday demanding cancellation of scheduled semester exams of the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-surge-lucknow-university-reschedules-semester-exams-101642100881476.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana pvt job quota law takes effect from tomorrow||The Haryana government’s controversial private sector quota law which comes to force from Saturday (January 15) requires domiciled persons to have the family identity card, Parivar Pehchan Patra, for being eligible to register for employment under the law. Requirement of the Parivar Pehchan Patra for domicile persons has been spelled out in the rules framed by the state government under the quota law.The controversial piece of legislation – the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill – passed by the assembly on November 5, 2020 and assented to by the governor on March 2, 2021, provides for 75% reservation in private sector jobs to those having a resident certificate (domicile). The law will be applicable for a period of 10 years.The state government has also relaxed the residency (domicile) requirement from 15 to five years for a person to get a bona fide resident certificate in the state to provide flexibility to the private companies in hiring.The law modelled the lines of a law enacted by the YS Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has been termed ‘regressive’ by the industry. The Andhra law has also been challenged on the question of constitutional validity in the high court.As per the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Rules notified on January 10, local candidates seeking employment under the Act will have to register on a designated portal https://local.hrylabour.gov.in/.“Private sector hiring comes to a halt from January 15, the date of commencement of the Act. Now, every employer in the state will first have to register employees receiving gross monthly salary or wages not more than ₹30,000 on the designated portal within three months of coming into force of the Act. No person will be employed or engaged by any employer till the registration of all such employees is completed on the designated portal,” said an official quoting the law.Exemptions for the industry, corporatesDeputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had said start-ups and new information technology (IT) companies will be exempted from the provisions of the Act for two years. Officials said this primarily meant that start-ups, companies, firms and establishments which come into being or are set up after January 15 will be exempted for two years from hiring 75% local candidates by the state government.Also, any internal hiring (from within a company or an establishment) is likely to be exempted from the law.In a measure to placate the industry, the state government had reduced the upper limit of gross monthly salary for jobs which will come under the ambit of private sector job quota law. Now, jobs having a gross monthly salary of not more than ₹30,000 will be up for hiring from among local candidates.The Bill passed by the assembly last year had capped the gross monthly wages for jobs available for hiring at ₹50,000. However, after getting feedback from industrial houses and entrepreneurs, the state government decided to reduce the salary cap.The law said employers can seek exemption from hiring local candidates on the grounds that adequate number of local candidates of the desired skill, qualification or proficiency are not available. Any exemption granted under the rules will, however, be valid for maximum one-year period from the date of grant of the exemption.A vacancy unfilled after granting the exemption beyond the period of one year will be treated as new or fresh vacancy unless the exemption is granted subject to training of local candidates to achieve the desired skill, qualification or proficiency.Employers will have to furnish a quarterly report pertaining to local candidates employed and appointed during the previous quarter. Local candidate aggrieved by the action of any employer in violation of any provision of the law can file a complaint through electronic mode on the designated portal.The law also provides for imposition of penalty on the employer ranging from ₹10,000 to ₹two lakh, coupled with a per day penalty in the range of ₹100 to ₹1,000 per day for violations.‘Law may not pass legal scrutiny’Legal experts said the new law is in contravention of the Constitution and will not withstand judicial scrutiny. Former Haryana advocate general Ashok Aggarwal had said domicile can never form the basis of employment.Aggarwal said if public employment cannot be given on the basis of domicile how can private jobs be. The government is not the employer in private sector jobs, he said. He added that only a small percentage of low-end jobs can be reserved and that too for special reasons.While tabling the Bill in assembly, the government had modified its Section 23 to provide the law an overriding effect on any other state law.The same provision provided an overriding effect to the law over any other law when an ordinance was approved by the cabinet. Since the provision had the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament its wording was changed in the Bill.However, issues raised by the law and legislative secretary during vetting of the proposed law still holds good, legal experts said. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana, experts said, was in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before the law and Article 19 (1)(g) which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.
14-01-2022||Pune||Stricter Covid check of passengers at Pune railway station||Pune: Following reported rise in Covid cases, Pune railway administration has intensified checking of incoming passengers from other states at the station. Along with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, it has set up a team of ticket checkers and other staff at the station premises to carry out rapid test, thermal screening and check double dose certification of passengers. Outgoing and incoming train operations had increased since last two months with rush of passengers seen at the Pune railway station. For better movement of passengers, entry to station premises is made from the front side of the railway station while exit for incoming passengers is from the Raja Bahadur Mill road side exit gate through the newly build foot overbridge (FOB), where PMC health department staff is checking passengers. Pune district administration officials are checking vaccination certificate and giving out universal passes if required. “Passengers coming from outside the state are undergoing thermal checking, their vaccination certificates are checked and PMC officials are doing rapid antigen tests. Also, action is taken against violators of face mask and social distancing norms,” said Suresh Jain, Pune railway station director. However, the five-six PMC health staff deployed are not enough to check the rush of passengers coming from trains arriving from outside the state. Vikrant Shah, a passenger coming from Gujarat, said, “The checking system of passenger coming from outside the state is important to stop the spread of virus. There may be many people who are positive and carriers of the virus, so strict checking and rapid tests should be done of all incoming passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stricter-covid-check-of-passengers-at-pune-railway-station-101642100041468.html
14-01-2022||Lucknow||Congress releases first list of 125 candidates, with 50 women||Lucknow: The Congress on Thursday released its first list of candidates with 125 names, including 50 women, many of whom are known voices of ‘struggle’ and ‘fight’ against injustice in Uttar Pradesh. Unnao rape victim’s mother Asha Singh (from Unnao), Shahjahanpur Aasha worker Poonam Pandey(from Shahjahanpur), who was badly beaten up by the police and Lakhimpur Kheri’s Ritu Singh (from Mohammadi) who was disrobed in the recently concluded panchayat elections in Lakhimpur Kheri are some of the names in the list that Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra released at a video conferencing with media persons on Thursday. Priyanka called the list a “historic initiative” for taking the party’s announcement of giving 40 percent tickets to women to the ground and said her party was in favour of going for a positive campaign only. “Efforts have been made to field candidates who have been struggling and fighting for a cause and who can work to bring about a new way of politics. We will not go for any negative campaign. We will go for positive campaigns only,” she said. Lucknow’s Sadaf Jafar, who was kicked in the stomach during the anti-CAA protests in the state capital and Adivasi (tribal) activist from Umbha Ram Raj Gond (from Obra), who fought for the cause of victims of the massacre claiming 13 lives in Sonebhadra are also among the Congress candidates, besides journalist Nida Ahmad (from Sambhal) and Tamil cinema actress Archana Gautam from (Hastinapur SC). Jafar has been fielded from Lucknow central seat. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ (from Rampur Khas, Pratapgarh), former union minister Salman Khurshid’s wife and former MLA Louise Khursheed (from Farrukhabad), former CLP leader Pradeep Mathur (from Mathura), former Bareilly mayor Supriya Aron (from Bareilly, who was in news for her comments of stampede in Bareilly marathon are also there in the list. Other women given Congress ticket include Urmila Sonkar Khabri, a retired PCS officer who has been fielded from Orai, Pratima Pal an NSUI leader who will contest from Sirsaganj, Firozabad, Santosh Bharati a Valmiki given ticket from general seat, Pankhuri Pathak, a vocal social media activist who has been given a ticket from NOIDA and Vinita Shakya, who defeated the SP candidate for district panchayat member’s post in Mainpuri. A documentary depicting the fight of victims in Unnao rape case and other major incidents was played on the occasion to describe how the Congress candidates had been fighting for justice and why they had been picked as candidates. “We have a mixed list. We are hopeful of bringing about a new way of politics now,” Priyanka said. “The Congress list is giving a message of giving the victims power to fight. They should come forward and take power in their hands,” she said. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu (from Tamkuhi Raj), Congress spokesperson Akhilesh Pratap Singh (Rudrapur Deoria) and former MP PL Punia’s son Tanuj Punia (from Zaidpur SC) seat of Barabanki also find a place in the first list of candidates. Asked whether winnability was a criterion for tickets, Priyanka said, “We have seen the ability of winning and fighting.” She said those who fought and served the society and who fought the election in the past had also been made party candidates. She said the Congress had brought the issue of women empowerment to the fore ahead of the 2022 polls. “We have worked very hard and brought our party to centre-stage. We will fight with all our might. The UP government is dictatorial today. We want to bring about a new way of politics.” About the ‘aya ram gaya ram’ phenomenon with leaders of different political parties switching over loyalties ahead of the polls, she said “We feel bad when our colleagues go.” On whether or not finding women candidates was difficult, Priyanka said “We received a lot of applications. We had a lot of women who were doing good work and have never been given opportunity. We are doing something new.” On the Congress campaigns she said “We will be embarking on door to door campaigns. We will be doing Facebook live, hold competitions online and do Google hangouts etc.” Asked if the Congress was working with an objective that no government would be formed without the party in 2022 polls she said “Yes, we have this objective. Our objective is also to strengthen the Congress.” “Why are they not talking about unemployed youth? Why the victimized women are not an issue? We will continue with other issues and bring them to centre-stage. These include development and social empowerment as well,” she said. On whether or not she would contest 2022 assembly elections she parried a direct reply and said, “I will continue my efforts in Uttar Pradesh. I will continue to work after this election. If the Congress wants me to go elsewhere, I will do that too in between as I have done in the past.” 
14-01-2022||Pune||Report if found Covid positive after self-kit test: PMC||Pune: As Covid cases are on the rise and many citizens are using rapid antigen test (RAT) kits at home, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department plans to collect Covid positive data from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief, PMC health department, said the department urges residents to contact their nearest ward offices if they test positive. “Residents using these kits should contact their nearest ward offices if they test positive. FDA will also provide us with the details of citizens who have bought these test kits. It is crucial that the virus infected approach us so that proper care and treatment is provided to them to manage Covid situation,” said Dr Wavare. As per PMC health department, 19,868 samples were collected by private, PMC-run Covid case centres for RTPCR and RAT test on Thursday. State additional chief secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas has written to divisional commissioners and collectors on Wednesday to ensure labs update positive results via RAT on the district portal. “Citizens testing themselves using home kits have also been asked to declare and upload positive results to ensure adequate monitoring by local authorities during the home isolation period,” said Dr Vyas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/report-if-found-covid-positive-after-self-kit-test-pmc-101642099741664.html
14-01-2022||Pune||Remove illegally dumped debris in Salim Ali Bird sanctuary by Jan 31: Aaditya Thackeray tells PMC||Pune: State cabinet minister of environment and tourism Aaditya Thackeray during a meeting held on Wednesday asked Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to remove the illegally dumped debris at Salim Ali Bird sanctuary by January 31. The meeting, held via video conferencing and attended by local MLA Sunil Tingre, PMC authorities and Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary Action Committee members also discussed various initiatives to restore the park along with protecting the natural area where birds lay their eggs by putting nets along it. According to Tingre, the meeting focused on the illegal dumping of debris at the sanctuary which is a hindrance to its beauty as well as to the survival of the bird species. “The debris will be removed by the end of this month. Fence will also be put around to restrict human entry,” said Tingre, adding that patrolling will be carried out in the area of eight hectares to curb illegal activities. “People play cards, discard plastic bottles and cut trees without the permission of authorities,” Tingre said. The members of action committee and locals have demanded that it is crucial to safeguard the sanctuary for its beauty and the natural habitat of rare species. “The municipal commissioner has offered PMC’s services to clean the debris, restore the flow of nallah,” said Thackeray. On the issue of illegal entry, the minister has ordered fencing and installing CCTVs. “I’ve requested him to ring fence it and have CCTVs’ put to ensure there’s no further encroachment,” said Thackeray. Once popular among birdwatchers within and outside Pune as the ‘Yerawada Birding Point,’ the spot, in its heydays, used to feature different species of birds including ruddy shelduck, red wattled lapwings and black headed ibis. However, due to massive garbage dumping and polluted river water, it is no longer frequented in large numbers by birds or bird watchers. “Numerous complaints were filed for the debris dumped and illegal activities prevailing in the sanctuary. After years of complaints, finally, minister Aaditya Thackeray along with MLA Sunil Tingre have taken action for the same,” said Meghna Baphna, a volunteer at Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary Action Committee, who was part of the meeting with Thackeray. Sameer Nikam, environmentalist and a volunteer at Salim Ali Pakshi Bachao Samiti said, “In reality, the dumping is more than 30-35 ft high. We have lodged complaints several times, either individually or through our organisation but no action has been taken. This is the first time there has been a meeting of this sort when our team reached out to Aditya Thackeray.” There has been various litigation on the three plots that exist and a status quo order has been issued by the high court for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/remove-illegally-dumped-debris-in-salim-ali-bird-sanctuary-by-jan-31-aaditya-thackeray-tells-pmc-101642099380655.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Poisar River rejuvenation plan finally set to see the light of day||Mumbai After a long hiatus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is once again taking steps to start the rejuvenation of the Poisar River.The civic body has finalised the Poisar River rejuvenation plan and will table the proposal for approval in the civic standing committee scheduled to be held on Friday. Once approved, the BMC will issue work orders on an immediate basis.The need for rejuvenation of the Poisar River, which is one of the four rivers in Mumbai city, was first floated after the 2005 floods. Despite several discussions, the project never really took off.The move comes after the civic body last year initiated the Mithi River and Dahisar River rejuvenation project in November.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects), said that the primary objective behind this project is to control and minimise untreated waste discarded into the river. “We will be creating a dedicated Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) on the river bank. These bridge-like structures will have membrane-based reactors which are more efficient than usual STPs,” said Velrasu.The Poisar River is 11.15 kilometres long and around 10 metres wide. The river, which originates from Sanjay Gandhi National Park, flows into the Arabian Sea via the Marve Creek in the western suburbs. Over the years, the Poisar River turned into an urban stream with toxic and contaminated water due to waste from nullahs, drains, buffalo stables and residential sewage being discharged into the water body.According to Velrasu, Poisar River water can be improved to bathing quality by controlling the disposal of pollutants.He said that a service road will be constructed on the river bank to provide access for regular maintenance. “In addition to installing STPs on the river, we will also ensure that the river water is cleaned regularly. Besides, solid waste accumulated on the surface of the water will also be removed manually,” he said.Velrasu further said that the Poisar project is more challenging in comparison with the ongoing Dahisar and Mithi River rejuvenation. “There are many encroachments on the banks of this river. These people may resist the project and BMC may have to give them rehabilitation which is a challenge,” he added.The BMC had in 2020 floated tender for the project and the cost was pegged at ₹752 crore. However, due to the pandemic, the prebid meeting was postponed 13 times and after two years, the cost for this project has nearly doubled to ₹1,482 crore.However, Velrasu said that cost for construction is around ₹1,000 crore, excluding taxes.In its proposal, the BMC said that the contractor will be given the responsibility for the maintenance of the river for seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/poisar-river-rejuvenation-plan-finally-set-to-see-the-light-of-day-101642099321397.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Shiv Sena plans to contest UP polls, seeks Tikait’s support||Mumbai Shiv Sena on Thursday reached out to prominent farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait to test the pulse of the ryots as it plans to contest upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to Tikait as Sena leader Sanjay Raut met the farmers’ leader at Muzaffarnagar to seek the “blessings” of the farmers in its fight in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.The Shiv Sena, which is planning to field candidates on around 50 to 100 seats in Uttar Pradesh, is banking on farmers’ support. Raut, who is on a tour of New Delhi and UP to mobilise the party workers and chalk out its plan, said that it will contest elections at Mathura, Varanasi and against UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Ayodhya. Despite its thin presence in UP, Raut said that the Sena will win seats in the upcoming election, as a “change of power” is expected in the largest state in the country.Calling the meeting “apolitical”, Raut said that they discussed the farmers’ issues. Thackeray in his phone conversation with Tikait spoke about the Maharashtra government’s policies to support the farmers. Thackeray also invited Tikait to visit Maharashtra, Raut said.“Both Uddhav ji and Rakesh Tikait had a long conversation and both the leaders discussed farmers’ issues. We will never ask Tikait ji to enter electoral politics. But this country’s politics cannot function without the support of the farmers. Farmers decide who sit on the throne, and history has shown that once people come to power, they forget the farmers, but two months after coming to power, Uddhav Ji wiped out the loans of the farmers,” Raut said in a press conference along with Tikait.Meanwhile, the farmers’ leaders said that he would visit Maharashtra soon. “He invited me to Maharashtra and said that we will discuss Maharashtra’s policies for agriculture and farmers. We will see their policy and spread it elsewhere in the country. We are not connected to politics. It is a political party’s job to contest an election. Maharashtra government has always supported the farmers’ movement in Delhi. Whenever there was a bandh announced, it was followed in Maharashtra,” said Tikait.Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP added that the party will not enter into an alliance with any political party in UP. The Sena leader said that it will win seats in UP in the upcoming election, “We are confident that we will have a representation in the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly.” At the legislative assembly level in Uttar Pradesh, apart from getting one MLA elected in 1991, all of Sena’s previous attempts have drawn a blank.The party will field a candidate in Ayodhya opposite CM Adityanath. “We are not here to contest against any one person alone. We are here to do our brand of politics and contest elections. Does it say in the Constitution that we cannot contest against some particular person? Yes, we will contest election in Ayodhya,” said Raut when asked if Sena will field a candidate against the UP CM Yogi Adityanath, who could contest from Ayodhya instead of Gorakhpur seat. The Shiv Sena is also expected to take up the Hindutva agenda in its campaign in Uttar Pradesh. Raut said that the Ram temple in Ayodhya is built after the court’s verdict and no political party can take its credit. “If they take the credit, Shiv Sena has a major role in it... We have never abandoned Hindutva. Now even Rahul Gandhi speaks of Hindus and Hindutvawadis,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-plans-to-contest-up-polls-seeks-tikait-s-support-101642099201304.html
14-01-2022||Pune||Online video proctoring to be used for first time in SPPU semester exam||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) examination and evaluation department has started preparations to hold first semester exams scheduled next month. Post Covid outbreak, SPPU has been holding semester exams online since March 2020. After addressing the issues faced in the online format, the varsity has decided to raise the ‘difficulty level’ of questions for students taking part in the forthcoming semester. “We are planning to make the proctored method of monitoring students’ movement while appearing for online exams stricter, as video proctoring will be used in this semester. But it requires huge space for storing the recorded video data and if all things go well, then it will be used for first time in this semester exams,” said Mahesh Kakade, head, SPPU examination and evaluation department. “As we chose the online format for exams after the pandemic struck, there was less time to prepare question sets and we kept it relatively easy to crack. Now, with two years of conducting online exams with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method, we will increase the difficulty level of paper sets for the forthcoming exams,” said Kakade. “There are faculty, deans, paper setters, moderators and other people involved in this process. This time it would be the same MCQ method examinations with 50 marks and a total of 60 questions. The timing would be of one hour and for disabled students it would be 20 minutes extra. The questions will be more difficult for this semester’s exam and students should be prepared for it,” he said. Around 6.15 lakh students from various streams will appear for the exams from more than 350 affiliated colleges to SPPU from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar district. With 284 courses in post-graduate and undergraduate, there are 6,862 subjects. For 1,600 subjects there are two mediums of appearing for the exams with English and Marathi. The university examination department had used proctored method to conduct exams online. Through this proctored method students can appear for exams using smartphones, tablet, laptop or desktop computers and even from internet cyber cafes. In this method when a student login to give the exam through a smartphone, laptop or tablet, all the minute movements of students are captured and monitored by the system. Student found cheating would be given three warnings, and would be disqualified for committing the error again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/online-video-proctoring-to-be-used-for-first-time-in-sppu-semester-exam-101642099081556.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks 9 million jabs, urges Centre to make vaccination mandatory||Mumbai: Maharashtra on Thursday urged the Centre to allot additional stock of 9 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to end the shortage of jabs. The state government also demanded that inoculation be made mandatory for all to boost the vaccination rate.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray did not attend the meeting due to health issues. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope submitted the list of demands to the central government during the Covid-19 review meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers of 30 states on Thursday.Modi chaired the Covid-19 review meeting in the wake of the massive uptick in cases across the country.“We have demanded an additional supply of 4 million Covaxin shots and 5 million doses of Covishield. Maharashtra is facing a shortage of jabs since vaccination drive for the 15-18 age group and booster doses for eligible categories began recently,” Tope said after the meeting.The state health minister further said that the government has urged the Centre to make vaccination mandatory for all. “There is vaccine hesitancy among the people either due to misconceptions or resistance to the jab causing a drop in the rate of vaccination. We have requested the Centre to make the vaccination mandatory,” Tope added.Further, Maharashtra also asked the Centre to bring in a mechanism to keep a tab on the rapid antigen tests done at homes by making it mandatory for pharmacies to keep a record of sales. “Due to the absence of any record of at-home Covid-19 tests, the actual number of cases go unaccounted,” Tope said, adding that the Centre should intervene to ensure strict monitoring of the infected people.“In Maharashtra, we have started monitoring self-tests done at home by directing health officers to be in touch with pharmacies,” he added.Tope further said that of the 4,000 samples sent for the genome sequencing, 2,700 or 70 percent tested positive for the Delta variant, while the remaining were of Omicron.He said that the Centre has been informed about the large scale prevalence of the Delta variant among the 2,50,000 active cases in the state. 
14-01-2022||Pune||Visitors flout Covid curbs at PMC main building||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) main building is witnessing a huge turnout of citizens despite additional commissioner (administration) making double dose certificate mandatory for visitors. A spot visit found no checking mechanism in place for visitors despite the official order amidst rising number of Covid cases in the city. Citizens are found not wearing mask, maintaining social distancing or carrying fully vaccinated certificate and allowed entry by guards. Additional commissioner Ravindra Binawade said that the circular has been issued to prevent overcrowding of the civic main building, ward and zonal offices. “We had asked all departments to initiate correspondence via email with citizens to avoid coming into direct contact with the people due to the rising Covid infections. The heads of departments have been instructed to issue entry passes to only the most important visitors to the main building,” he said. According to the senior administrative officials posted at the building, the PMC office sees an average of 200 to 300 citizens on a daily basis. Social activist Rohit Pagare said, “PMC staff are frontline workers and there must be necessary precautionary measures in place to prevent the spread of Covid amongst the civic employees and public,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/visitors-flout-covid-curbs-at-pmc-main-building-101642098781297.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||28,867 Covid-19 cases: Delhi sees highest ever single-day tally||Delhi registered 28,867 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the city’s biggest ever single-day tally, as the third national wave of the pandemic -- the fifth wave in Delhi -- eclipsed a record set 269 days ago, even while a relatively small number of patients continue to occupy hospital beds.Before this, the Capital’s highest one-day case spike was on April 20 last year, when the city registered 28,395 infections -- the peak of the devastating fourth wave.The data showed that Thursday’s case rise came on the back of nearly 99,000 tests, of which 29.21% returned positive results, an increase from 26.2% positive samples a day earlier. This number, known as test positivity rate, is at its highest since May 3 last year, when it touched 29.5%.The city also added 31 deaths of the infection, showed Thursday’s state government numbers, fewer than the 40 fatalities recorded the previous day, and still far lower than the numbers recorded during the heights of the fourth surge of infections between April and May last year.For instance, on April 20 last year, as the fourth wave hit its crescendo, the infection claimed 277 lives. In fact, the daily death toll, even at its highest during the fifth wave so far (40 on Wednesday), has been lower than that during the peak of infections during the third wave of infections in November 2020. On November 11 that year, Delhi added 8,593 Covid-19 cases, which was the highest daily count at that point, but logged 85 deaths.This is largely because the Omicron variant of the coronavirus (that is responsible for a majority of the infections during Delhi’s ongoing wave), is far less virulent than previous iterations of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. Most patients infected by the Omicron variant develop milder symptoms, which do not necessitate hospitalisation or medical oxygen support. As a result, Delhi’s hospital admission numbers have remained comparatively low during the ongoing wave of the infection, with just over 2,400 patients occupying beds in the city’s facilities, leaving over 13,000 vacant.In all, over 94,000 people in the city are currently battling Covid-19.Health department data showed that 2,424 Covid-19 patients in Delhi were hospitalised as on Thursday, up marginally from 2,363 the previous day, and 2,209 on Tuesday.Further, of those hospitalised with Covid-19 in Delhi currently, 768 patients were on oxygen support, 628 were in intensive care, and 98 were on ventilators.A recent analyses by the Delhi government has also shown that a majority of those who have died of the infection over the past or so have been unvaccinated, or had other serious illnesses.Only eight of the 97 Covid-29 patients who died in Delhi’s hospitals between January 9 and 12 were fully vaccinated, and only 19 had got one jab of the vaccine, according to the latest analysis. It mirrored similar findings from earlier in the month – of the 46 who died between January 5 and 9, 76% were unvaccinated.Dr KK Talwar, former head of the Medical Council of India, who was also heading the Punjab government’s expert group on Covid-19 during the second wave, said, “The next two weeks will be crucial. If you follow the trends of South Africa, it seems like after cases and hospitalisations stabilise, the infections should also start falling. But we will have to see how trends behave in our cities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/28867-covid-19-cases-delhi-sees-highest-ever-single-day-tally-101642098613783.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 13,702 fresh cases, test positivity rate dips marginally||MUMBAI Mumbai’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) dipped further on Thursday as the city recorded 13,702 fresh infections in the past 24 hours taking the total case tally to 969,989 and six deaths taking the total death toll to 16,426.The BMC conducted 63,031 tests on Wednesday and the TPR stood at 21.73%. Earlier this week, the TPR was around 24.3% on January 12 (Wednesday); 18.75% on January 11 (Tuesday); and 23% on January 10 (Monday). Besides this, the bed occupancy also recorded a marginal fall on Thursday with 17.3% out of the total 36,979 beds staying occupied in Mumbai. Experts however maintained that it’s too early to conclude whether the ongoing third wave has started to ebb in Mumbai.Dr Rahul Pandit from the national and state Covid-19 task force said that even if the daily case figures are lower than what they were last week, it is too early to make any concrete conclusion on the overall trend. “If we see the numbers closely, one can say that the figures are not yet consistent and they are fluctuating. If today, less number of cases are reported then there are chances that tomorrow, the tally may increase slightly and the day after, it may again fall. We have already seen this trend before. We need to wait for a few more weeks and then compare the weekly trends in order to understand the overall picture and arrive at a conclusion,” said Dr Pandit.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state Covid-19 task force, however said that there are still thousands of unreported cases in the city which is a matter of concern. “Like we know now that people have started taking tests on their own and we will not be able to know the bigger picture unless we get clarity on the number of self-tests that the citizens are taking daily in the city. Even if the cases are going down, we need to keep this factor in mind that we must stay prepared at least for the next one month. At present, the focus should be on systemic treatment of symptomatic cases over case numbers because the delta variant is still here and many of the severe symptoms are being caused because of it,” said Dr Joshi.Dr Vasant Nagvekar from Global Hospital, who is also a member of the state taskforce, said that it could be possible that by the middle of February, the number of cases may start receding. “We have now started to see fewer patients seeking treatment at the family physician level which is a good signal and it is possible that the TPR may start declining from the end of this month,” said Dr Nagvekar.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of public health, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said that the civic body collected approximate data of self-testing kits sold in the last 24 hours and analysed the reports. “Many buyers were tracked by the BMC war rooms and it was revealed that nearly one lakh kits were sold in the past 24 hours out of which only 1 or 2% of patients were positive,” said Kakani. Earlier on Wednesday, Kakani had said that the civic body will be writing to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asking them to urge all chemist shops to provide data of patients who buy Covid-19 self-testing kits from them. “We are working towards getting the day-to-day data of all the patients who are taking Covid-19 self-tests in every 24 hours. We will be adding these figures in the daily case report, which will also give us clarity about the ongoing situation,” said Kakani. He said that so far the situation in Mumbai is much better than the BMC had predicted it to be last week. “Considering the figures that we saw at the end of last week, we are in a much better position and the bed occupancy level also hasn’t risen very much. Still, less than 20% of the beds are occupied and many of the occupants are also high-risk contacts and mildly symptomatic patients. At the same time, testing is happening at maximum capacity and the civic body is also monitoring all pathological laboratories to submit reports within 24 hours,” said Kakani.Out of the total patients that were reported on Thursday, 84% are asymptomatic and at present, there are 95,123 active cases in the city and the recovery rate of Mumbai is 88%.Maharashtra continued to record a high number of Covid-19 cases at 46,406 infections on Thursday.The state logged in a positivity rate of 21.38 per cent as 46,406 citizens tested positive of the total 2,16,970 tests conducted. On Wednesday, the state had recorded 46,723 cases.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that the situation seems to be stabilising. “Contrary to the initial expectations of exponential growth in the transmission numbers, we are seeing that we are inching towards a peak. We expect the virus to peak in a week or two and even the decline will be equally sharp,” said Dr Awate.No Omicron cases were reported in the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-13-702-fresh-cases-test-positivity-rate-dips-marginally-101642098612375.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: In 25 days, containment zones in city rose from 205 to 24,000||The number of Covid-19 red zones sealed by the city’s district administrations has jumped from just over 200 on December 20 to nearly 24,000 in fewer than 25 days, showed data from the state government, as authorities work to cut off channels of spread between infected and uninfected residents in Delhi.The spurt in the number of such sealed areas, known as containment zones, has come amid a spiralling fifth wave of infections for the city, which has seen the daily case load hit record levels in Delhi, pushed by the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus.On December 20, Delhi reported a test positivity rate of 0.20%, with 531 active cases in the city. On Thursday, over 29% of all collected samples returned positive results, with 94,160 patients battling Covid-19.
14-01-2022||Other||GMDA draws up plan to improve living standards in Gurugram||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has issued a list of 42 key performance indicators under 11 themes, keeping which as base, the authority will work on how better services can be provided to the residents of the city, said officials on Thursday. Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer of GMDA, said, “The main idea is to improve the services and facilities provided by the authority and live up to the expectations of the citizens of Gurugram. We have formed these indices after consultations and interactions with the residents as to what all changes are most critical for them. For every parameter, we will conduct a baseline survey to understand where we stand and then work towards achieving the desired level.” The GMDA chief said that by the end of this month, an agency will be hired to conduct the baseline survey, but no timeline has been set by when the survey will be completed. The 11 different themes include mobility, water supply and sewage, drainage, power and clean energy, urban environment, waste management, affordable housing, affordable health, educational and skill development, safety and emergency services, and government responsiveness. An official document released by the authority in this regard states, “In order to develop common framework for Gurugram Metropolitan Area to assess existing status and their pathway towards providing a better quality of life to the citizen, GMDA has developed the standards of livability through a consultative mechanism for Gurugram Metropolitan Area (GMA) that can form the basis for development of the plans and resource allocations.” Under the parameter of mobility, for example, authorities will ensure that 38% of the vehicles on the road are public transport to give more people access to transport facilities. Under the parameter of water, the authority will track key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure the city’s liveability like percentage of households that receive up to 135 litres of clean water per person, percentage of sewerage treated to levels set by the Central Pollution Control Board, percentage of properties connected to sewerage, and percentage utilization of tertiary treated wastewater. Under the parameter of ‘urban environment’, the KPIs include percentage of sectors covered by functioning air quality monitors reporting PM2.5 and PM10 air quality publicly, number of annual days of ‘good’ air quality, per capita availability of green spaces within the city, among others. For affordable health, the authority will focus on number of hospital beds available per 10,000 residents and percentage of affordable hospital beds in the city. The authority is aiming to ensure availability of 25 beds per 10,000 population. “With these parameters, the authority has set a living standard for people of Gurugram, the basic necessities that must be available in the metropolitan area. Based on these parameters, plans for different departments will be published and that will be used as a framework for future development work. The plans will be followed in a phase-wise manner and the departments will have their own timelines for achieving the targets,” said Bhuvnesh Kumar, chief town planner, GMDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmda-draws-up-plan-to-improve-living-standards-in-gurugram-101642098601230.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Home isolation for at-risk groups only after checks: Delhi govt||With senior citizens and people with co-morbidities constituting most of the Covid-19 deaths in the past few days, the Delhi health department has directed all district officials to ensure home isolation for vulnerable patients is allowed only after a thorough medical examination. On Thursday, HT reported that there were 97 Covid deaths reported in the national capital between January 9 and January 12, out of which 71 were found to be above 40 years of age and had some kind of co-morbidities. A senior health department official said that looking at the fatalities over the last few days, district officials have been asked to ensure that the vulnerable sections that test positive for Covid-19 are put in the government’s “priority list” and home isolation for these patients is allowed only after a complete medical examination. “We have been stressing that senior citizens, co-morbid patients, pregnant women and unvaccinated people, are at risk and while the Omicron symptoms are usually mild and do not require hospitalisation in a healthy, below 60-year-old adult, these sections are at risk. We have asked our teams at the district level to be extra vigilant of cases in this category,” said the official. A district official said that once a patient tests positive and the information is received by their office, a team visits the patient to assess their health status. Their vitals, existing medical conditions and medication history are assessed and accordingly, the patient is given a go-ahead to continue home isolation or advised to be shifted to a hospital or a Covid care centre. During the home isolation period, officials said government teams routinely monitor the health of the patient and, if needed, they are also provided with phone consultations with doctors. Data shared earlier by the government also showed this segment being at risk. The Delhi government said that of the 46 patients who died due to Covid-19 in the city between January 5 and 9, 21 were admitted for other reasons before they were detected as infected with coronavirus. In all, 34 patients had comorbid conditions known to raise the risk of severe Covid-19, and 23 (50%) of the deaths were recorded within a day of the patients being admitted, suggesting their condition was already critical when they received medical attention.The health department had also issued a special advisory on Tuesday, directing all government and private Covid hospitals to ensure that all patients with co-morbidities are duly attended to by specialists and they are treated with extra care. 
14-01-2022||Delhi||‘Fully vaccinated’ label brings respite for under-fire Sarojini Nagar market||New Delhi: The New Delhi district administration issued a fully vaccinated market certificate to all four market associations in Sarojini Nagar on Thursday, officials said. The document certifies that all the eligible traders and helpers in the commercial area have been fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The sub-divisional magistrate of Vasant Vihar, Ankur Prakash, handed over the certificates on behalf of the New Delhi district administration on Thursday.The popular South Delhi market was recently embroiled in a controversy when pictures of crowds violating social distancing norms at the market went viral on social media.Ashok Randhawa, who heads the Mini Market Traders’ Association (one of the four constituent market associations), said that all shopkeepers submitted vaccination proof of their workers and traders over the last week. “We submitted the list of workers and proofs to the district administration over the last week. Now, only the approved, vaccinated staff will be allowed to work in shops and checking will be carried out at entry points,” Randhawa said.The Sarojini Nagar market comprises the main market (200 shops), Babu Market (120 shops), Sarojini Nagar Mini Market (32 shops), Thareja street vendors (104 outlets) and other professionals. Randhawa added that the four shops in the main market and one shop in Babu Market, which were sealed on Tuesday due to violation of Covid norms and social distancing were reopened on Thursday.Ashok Kalra, general secretary of the Main Sarojini Nagar Market Association, confirmed that all staff members in the 200 shops of the main market were doubly vaccinated. “We submitted the undertaking regarding vaccination status to the district administration, and held a special camp last week for people who had still not received their second shot. We believe the move will help make the market safer for customers,” Kalra said. The market associations have also asked the respective shops to display the fully vaccinated certification. Kalra added that while the bigger shops in the main market have five workers besides the traders, smaller shops have two helpers each. “We will deploy some staff members to ensure everyone wears masks,” Randhawa added.Last month, Delhi high court had come down heavily on the authorities for allowing crowding at the popular South Delhi market. The state of affairs, be it Covid or non-Covid, is “frightening” as people are “flowing like a river” which could lead to stampede and the deaths of hundreds, the Delhi high court had said on December 24,2021, while taking note of overcrowding in Sarojini Nagar market. It also asked the Delhi Police and Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to work out a movement plan for the public and asked the NDMC and other authorities to ensure there is no overcrowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fully-vaccinated-label-brings-respite-for-under-fire-sarojini-nagar-market-101642097941521.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Water supply to be normal as Yamuna ammonia levels drop||The levels of industrial pollutants and ammonia have started receding in the Yamuna river after reaching five times the maximum treatable limit during the day, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) said Thursday.Till late Thursday evening, the ammonia level recorded at Wazirabad pond was one part per million (ppm), affecting 10% of operations of the water treatment plant.“The situation is getting better. The ammonia level was 5ppm and we have been observing a reverse trend, leading to the recovery of operations at Wazirabad, Chandrawal, and Okhla water treatment plants. The plants are operating at 90% level and if the same trend continues, the water supply will be restored to normal by Friday morning,” the DJB spokesperson said.Throughout Thursday, 50% of operations of the water treatment plants were observed, he said.In an advisory issued Wednesday evening, DJB had said that due to continuous discharge of a high level of pollutants from Haryana, the ammonia level in the Yamuna river at the Wazirabad barrage had increased and water production had been curtailed.On Thursday, water supply was impacted in several areas including Civil Lines, Kamla Nagar, Karol Bagh, Kalkaji, Model Town, and several south Delhi localities.Chetan Sharma, a resident of GK1 in south Delhi, said that the area witnessed disruption in the water supply on Thursday. “The water supply was very erratic. We have been hearing about the rising ammonia levels affecting the water supply for so many years. This issue is not heard of in other major cities. It is high time we expedite the technological upgrade of the water treatment plants,” he added.DJB currently has the capacity to treat ammonia levels up to 0.9ppm, but a further rise leads to the generation of toxic Chloramine compounds, DJB officials said.Manmohan Jha, a resident of the Shakkarpur area, said that the water supply in their locality was curtailed on both Wednesday and Thursday. “We did not get any water supply on two consecutive days and no prior warning was issued. How do we manage water in such a situation?” Jha asked.Residents of Uttam Nagar, Kalkaji, Matiala, and Paharganj made similar complaints.Out of the total 935 MGD [million gallons per day] of Delhi’s daily water supply-- over 230MGD is supplied by Chandrawal and Wazirabad plants--both of which draw water from the Wazirabad pond, which is fed by the Yamuna river.While DJB has announced that it will install advanced ozonation plants at the water treatment facilities to increase the ammonia treatment capacity up to 4ppm, the project is still a work in progress.An interstate dispute, the rise in ammonia and industrial pollutant levels in Yamuna water coming from Haryana has been a persistent problem in the Capital, with the matter being taken to the apex court annually. While DJB has alleged that the source of pollution lies upstream in Panipat industrial area, Haryana has denied these allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ammonia-levels-start-receding-in-yamuna-after-affecting-water-supply-in-parts-of-delhi-101642097705208.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Dense fog disrupts 100 flights, Delhi shivers as minimum temperature drops||Around 100 flights were delayed as dense fog engulfed the runways at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport, dropping visibility to around 50-100 metres between 4.30am and 9.30am on Thursday. Officials, however, said no flights were cancelled or diverted during the day.On Thursday, the minimum temperature in the Capital also dropped to 5.8 degrees Celsius (°C) – two degrees below normal -- from 8.2°C on Wednesday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast the minimum temperature to hover around 6°C for the next two days, amid a likelihood of moderate to dense fog.The IMD classifies fog as ‘shallow’ when visibility is between 500 and 1000 metres, ‘moderate’ when it is between 200 and 500 metres and ‘dense’ when it drops below 200 metres.IMD scientist RK Jenamani said this was the first dense fog spell of the season witnessed at Safdarjung, with visibility remaining below 200 metres between 7am and 9.30am. At Palam, the impact lasted for around five hours, he said. “CAT-III procedures (precision steps to help flights land) were initiated at the Delhi airport as visibility ranged between 50 and 100 metres since 4.30am. There was a slight improvement only after 9.30am,” he said, adding that low wind speed and sufficient moisture in the air were aiding fog formation.“There is a good chance we see dense fog over the next two days too. This is the first such spell where we are regularly seeing moderate to dense fog,” he said.An airport official said that despite low visibility, flight operations remained smooth. “Like Tuesday’s spell, low visibility procedures were in place, but no diversions or cancellations were reported on account of the adverse weather. Slight delays were recorded till the afternoon,” the official said.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality has deteriorated in the last 24 hours, touching the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin, Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) was 321, up from Wednesday’s 191 (moderate).The Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) has predicted further deterioration in air quality, owing to low temperatures and high moisture, in the next three days.“Wind speed has dropped and there is enough moisture in the air to trap pollutants. Low temperatures are also making it difficult for pollutants to disperse...The air quality will deteriorate further in the next few days, but is expected to remain within the ‘very poor’ range,” said Gufran Beig, founder project director, Safar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dense-fog-disrupts-100-flights-delhi-shivers-as-minimum-temperature-drops-101642097521119.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s green cover up over 5%, but forest area dips marginally||The Capital recorded an increase in its green cover by 17.6sqkm--with 342sqkm (23.06%) of Delhi’s total geographical area of 1,483sqkm now under green cover--according to India State of Forest Report (ISFR) 2021.The report, released on Thursday by Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav, showed while Delhi recorded a slight decrease of 0.44sqkm in its forest cover, it recorded an increase of 18sqkm in total tree cover – a result the forest department said is due to large-scale plantation drives.A senior official of the forest department said despite a drop in the total amount of forest cover, Delhi still had “quality” forest cover. “We have actually seen an increase in moderately dense forests, which are denser than open forests. There has been a slight reduction only in open forests. But this means the quality of our denser forests has increased,” said the forest official, attributing annual tree plantation drives to an increase in Delhi’s overall tree cover.
14-01-2022||Delhi||Residents say new liquor vends in Delhi ‘hard to find’||Delhi has opened swanky liquor shops under its new excise policy, but several residents who were finding it difficult to locate these vends have suggested to the Delhi government that it should consider creating a “store locator” feature on the excise department’s website or launch a mobile application.For Sumanth Kumar, a resident of Ashok Vihar, the go-to place to procure alcohol was a store located at the corner of the community centre in their block. But under the new regime, all old private liquor shops were shut from October 1 last year and new ones, mostly coming up at different locations, opened from November 16. Since then he has been unable to locate a liquor store, not just in his locality, but in the entire district. After feedback from people, the state excise department on Thursday uploaded the updated list of the new liquor vends in Delhi on its website along with their addresses. The list can be viewed on www.excise.delhi.gov.in by clicking the “liquor vends” option. This will prompt the user to a new window where one should click on “license” and choose “private vend” in the drop down list. The list of all private vends will then appear, a senior excise official explained.However, several users who tried to locate the stores on the website did not find it useful. “It is a very shoddily curated list. All the vends are not tagged with the districts in which they are located. Also, one has to keep clicking page after page. It is ancient. Nowadays, there are more user friendly ways such as geotagging the stores or creating a simple store locator. The Delhi government can surely make it happen. It is basic IT skill,” said Pritam Goswami, a resident of Mayur Vihar. HT also used the portal and found that of the 11 districts in Delhi, the portal did not show any results for stores located in Southeast and Shahdara districts. The south-east district covers localities such as Jor Bagh, Lodhi Road, Khan Market, Sunder Nagar, Nizamuddin, Defence Colony, Lajpat Nagar, New Friends Colony, Nehru Place, Kalkaji, Chittaranjan Park, Govindpuri, Greater Kailash, Alaknanda to Jamia Nagar, Okhla, Sarita Vihar, Jaitpur and Badarpur. Shahdara is a relatively smaller district covering areas such as Dilshad Garden, Tahirpur, Yamuna Vihar and others. According to government records seen by HT, until Thursday, a total of 543 liquor shops out of a target of around 850 had begun retail sale of alcohol in Delhi. The new retail stores in Delhi no longer have the iron grilles, which earlier was a trademark of all government-run liquor vends in the Capital. The new stores allow buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice. According to the benchmark laid by the new policy, shops are supposed to be spacious, well lit and air-conditioned to allow customers a walk-in experience under camera surveillance.The new excise policy is aimed at revolutionising the consumer experience as stylish liquor stores will replace the government-run shops. Under the policy, new liquor vends will be set up in 32 zones across the city. Some liquor outlets will also have tasting facilities to enhance users’ experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/residents-say-new-liquor-vends-in-delhi-hard-to-find-101642096981420.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Over 1 million in Delhi missed window for second Covid vaccine dose||Over a million people who got their first doses of a coronavirus vaccine in Delhi have missed the window to take their second shots, according to data compiled by district authorities in the Capital, who have now launched a massive reminder campaign through direct phone calls.A full vaccination course is crucial for adequate protection from Covid-19, according to experts and real-world evidence from many countries. According to the data, 1.15 million have missed their window for the second doses, and another roughly 678,000 are at present due for their second shots.Districts are now reaching out to these people, with some making up to 13,000 people a day, asking them to take their doses as soon as possible.Viswendra, the district magistrate of South East district, said 40 teams have been set up in the district, working from a call centre in the DM’s office complex. “We have a master list of people whose second dose is overdue and due. The teams working in the call centre call up nearly 5,000 people from the list every day. All those contacted are clustered on the basis of their location and mapped with the nearby Covid vaccination centres operating in the district and they are convinced to get the second dose immediately,” he said.“We have achieved 71.1% coverage for second dose vaccination. Every day up to 8,000 calls are made to those whose second dose is overdue or due. We are trying to cover all the overdue and due cases as soon as possible in a campaign mode. We have found that many people got first dose in North West district and the second dose outside the district and in many cases outside Delhi. It also ends up increasing the number of overall second dose pendency,” said the official not willing to be identified. The highest number of people with overdue doses are in North West district – 164,518 -- and lowest in North East district – 61,228. With 138,583 overdue cases, West district has second-largest number, followed by South West with 122,589 people. East district DM Sonika Singh said a call centre running from her office complex has 150 people calling between 12,000-13,000 people every day. “We have achieved 81% second vaccination target in the district and only 19% are left. The teams are closing the overdue cases very fast by ensuring that they get second dose. It is our priority to ensure that 100% of all eligible for second dose get the second dose at the earliest,” said Singh. According to documents, seen by HT, first dose vaccination coverage against target in North West district is 119% (as on January 12) which means that many people who are not resident of the district also got the jab in the centres running in the district. This is one of several why many doses were pending – many said they got their second doses in other districts and towns (their cases are closed after they give the reference number verifying they indeed got their second doses), while some said they were ill when they were due for their shots. Viswendra, who goes by a single name, added that additionally the list of those contacted is shared with officials engaged in ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign to ensure vaccination at doorstep (both first and second dose). “Under the campaign, lanes and streets with high number of overdue cases are identified. Civil defence volunteers visit these places and carry out awareness, inform people that a vaccination camp in the lane is going to be set up and urge them to get vaccinated the camp,” he said. Vaccinators from nearby Covid vaccination centres visit the area and set up a camp where many whose second dose is overdue get jabbed. “On Thursday, 14 such camps were organised in South East district,” said Viswendra, adding that nearly 2,000 names were struck off from the overdue list after that.A Delhi government official, who did not want to be identified, said people give various reasons for not taking the second dose on time. “People blame lack of time due to various reasons like family issues, work overload, absence of SMS intimating about the second dose due date, or because they shifted out of Delhi for time being or forgot the due date,” said this person. Another district official said other technical reasons too were involved. “Some people used a different phone number for first dose and a different number for second dose. In all such cases, the second dose is shown as pending. When we reach out to them, we learn that they are already vaccinated with second dose. In such cases we close the pendency of that particular case,” this person said. The call centres are pulling out a very extensive exercise. A call centre in-charge, who is not authorised to talk, said around 20-25% people turn out to be unreachable. “We segregate such names and put them in a repeat call list. We keep trying to get to them,” said the call centre in-charge. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said: “Complete two doses of Covid-19 vaccination have improved chance of lesser mortality and severity as compared to single dose or no vaccination. All those whose second dose is overdue or due should complete the due dose as soon as possible. Those who missed the second dose due to any reason still they can get and it will prevent them from severity. If everyone in the country is vaccinated with all the due doses, then the next Covid-19 waves may not be severe and may not create havoc.” Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in ICMR, said the first doses create only some amount of antibodies, which can be short-lived. “The second dose greatly increases the number of immune cells and their ability to make antibodies against the virus. The vaccines reach their full effectiveness about two to three weeks after the second shot,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-1-million-in-delhi-missed-window-for-second-covid-vaccine-dose-101642096801105.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Child rights body, Delhi govt tussle on ‘Desh ke Mentors’ programme||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has written to the Delhi government seeking suspension of its ongoing ‘Desh Ka Mentors’ programme for school students, citing concerns over children being exposed to unknown persons even as the Aam Aadmi Party hit back at the central child rights body saying it was just another attempt by the BJP to “hinder another path-breaking programme”.In a letter dated January 11, the commission alleged that the programme, under which school students are provided career guidance by eminent citizens, “exposes them to certain dangers”, and asked Delhi government to suspend the programme till the loopholes are “overhauled”.The ‘Desh Ke Mentors’ programme was launched in October 2021, and is meant to connect 900,000 students of classes 9 to 12 in Delhi government schools with noteworthy citizens who will offer them career and general guidance. The mentors will engage with students over the phone for 10-15 minutes daily to guide them on various aspects of life, the government said while launching the programme.The commission said that it also wrote to the Delhi chief secretary last month, raising the matter and recieved a response from Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE) on January 3. The commission alleged that the response was “ineffectual”.“It has been stated in the response that ‘to protect against violation, mentees are assigned mentors who are from the same gender’, it is imperative to place here that abuse or assault, sexual or otherwise, is not gender biased. Same gender does not necessarily assure safety of any child in any terms,” it said.Atishi, AAP MLA and chairperson of standing committee on education (Delhi Vidhan Sabha) said the letter yet again betrays the “shallowness” of the BJP and its government machinery. “Putting hindrances in the implementation of a path-breaking scheme like ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ shows the shallowness of the BJP and its government machinery. The BJP has left government schools all over the country to rot. Under the BJP rule in UP the percentage of students aged 11-14 decreased from 56% to 39% in 2019. In Gujarat, there is a shortage of more than 18,000 classrooms and 1700+ government schools have shut down. On the other enrolments are at an all time in Delhi government schools. The students score better than those from private schools.”The programme could be yet another potential sticking point between the AAP government in Delhi and the BJP-led central government. The two governments are already engaged in a legal tussle over the former’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme.The commission said the fact that the interactions are done over the phone does not guarantee any protection from crime. “It may be noted that child related crime can be initiated through phone calls as well. For instance, children are susceptible to probable child trafficking through phone calls. Is there any mechanism to prevent origin of cybercrimes and child trafficking?,” the commission said.The commission also alleged that the personnel involved with the programme “does not seem to be gender sensitised”. “They also seem to lack knowledge about the nuances of child sexual abuse nor are they aware about the laws related to children, including Pocso Act, 2012 and the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015,” it said.The commission recommendation that the scheme should be suspended immediately till the time “when all the loopholes pertaining to the safety of children are overhauled”, and provide a complaince report with the commission within seven days.Atishi said that due to the background of Delhi government school students, they lack the support of mentors who could help them take decisions in their life. “This is where the programme comes in and plugs the gap. Educated youth from good colleges, successful entrepreneurs and professionals come together to mentor underprivileged students. Does the BJP not want these students to get guidance? BJP’s biggest fear is to see the poor get empowered and educated and that’s why they’re placing roadblocks in their progress,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/child-rights-body-delhi-govt-tussle-on-desh-ke-mentors-programme-101642096501017.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Civic polls: Delhi EC to release list of reserved wards before R-Day||The State Election Commission (SEC) of Delhi will release the list of wards reserved for women and candidates from the Scheduled Castes (SC) in the upcoming municipal polls before Republic Day this year, a senior commission official said on Thursday.A meeting between the poll panel and leaders of different political parties held on Wednesday discussed issues related to delimitation and reservation criteria, said the official quoted above who asked not to be named.Elections to the three municipal corporations in Delhi are due to be held in April. Delhi has a total of 272 wards, and the BJP rules all three civic bodies with the Aam Aadmi Party being the principal opposition.A second SEC official said representatives of the three major political parties -- Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress -- participated in the meeting. “The panel apprised them of the preparations made for the upcoming civic polls. They were also told about the possibilities of delimitation and changing the reservation criteria for women and SC for different wards. All the political parties have been asked to give their suggestions in writing by Monday (January 16). The panel will release the list of reserved wards in all three municipal bodies by January 26,” he said asking not to be named.The official added that the SEC has already released the revised electoral rolls on January 5. “During the period of Special Summary Revision-2022, a total 103,610 electors -- 50,562 male, 52,964 female and 84 third gender -- have been added. The total electors in final electoral roll published stand at 14,899,159, comprising of 8,138,593 male, 6,759,534 female and 1,032 third gender electors... Also, the number of polling stations have been increased from 13,789 to 13,820, and the number of polling locations (a polling location can have multiple polling stations) has decreased marginally from 2,690 to 2,684, as compared to previous electoral roll,” he said.AAP MLA Atishi, who attended the meeting with her party colleague Adil Ahmed Khan, said that they asked the SEC to take decisions in a phased and systematic manner. “The reservation quota must be rational and proportional, unlike the old formula in which some assembly constituencies saw all reserved seats. We also requested them to quickly deal with any issues that crop up so as not to create confusion among the aspirants and voters,” she said.Echoing similar views, senior BJP leader Harsh Malhotra, who represented his party with Subhas Sachdeva at the meeting, said that they requested the poll panel to fix the quota for women and SC on the basis of population. “We have requested them to reconsider the quota in some assembly constituencies like Sultanpuri and Gokulpuri. Both these seats have four wards each and all of them are reserved for SC. Such disparities should be corrected before the polls,” he said.Congress leader Murari Lal Jatav said that his party also asked the poll panel to ensure compliance of Covid-19 protocol during polls. “We have requested the SEC not to allow any party workers, other than the polling agents, at the polling booths. If the poll panel is able to distribute polling chits door-to-door for every voter, what is the need to allow the supporters of different political parties? They can cause chaos and ignite the Covid-19 infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/civic-polls-delhi-ec-to-release-list-of-reserved-wards-before-rday-101642096261180.html
14-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Saket mall shop owners write to LG over DDA nod for extra floor||A group of shop owners of a south Delhi mall have written to Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal requesting cancellation of the permission given by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to the builder to construct additional floors. They allege that DDA has given the permission to the builder who is no longer the owner of the property, as it was sold on a freehold basis to 117 shop owners in 2007.Last year, DDA granted permission to the builder (Fargo Estates Pvt Ltd) of Square One mall in Saket to construct additional floors as per the amendment in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021 in 2018 which increased the Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for properties in district centres developed by the land-owning agency.The mall, which mostly has offices, was constructed in 2006 and the builder got DDA to convert the property from leasehold to freehold in 2007. The shops and offices were subsequently sold to people/entities on a freehold basis. In February last year, the builder received permission from DDA to construct additional floors as per the new policy. The Square One Mall Owners and Occupiers Association (association of office space owners) claim that they are the owners now as the shops/office spaces were sold to them on a freehold basis.Pushpendra Singh, spokesperson of the association, said, “The company (Fargo) has misrepresented and concealed the status of their ownership while obtaining the permission to construct additional floors from DDA. When Fargo sold and transferred all their rights, title, and interests in respect of the entire FAR sanctioned to them in favour of shop/office space owners, then how can they be considered owners of the property? If this entire property was sold to another builder, then the new builder would have got the benefit of the DDA’s policy for additional FAR. In this case, we (association) are the new owners.”Refuting the ownership claim of the shop owners’ association, Sunil Kunj, manager of Fargo Estates Pvt Ltd, said, “We have not concealed any facts from DDA while obtaining the permission. As per DDA’s policy for giving additional FAR, only individual lessee/ auction purchaser, that is, we, can avail the additional FAR. In this case, our company is the original allottee as auction purchaser.”He added, “These people have been sold only the inside space of the units in the building and all the common areas have been given to them for the right of ingress and egress only without any ownership right, which continues to be vested in us. All our sale deeds very clearly mention that in future if DDA allows us to do further construction, their proportionate land apportioned to them in the building will get reduced proportionately. This clause is there in every sale deed.”HT has seen the copy of the sale deed agreement. Refuting the claim, Singh said, “How can the builder reduce the proportionate ground area and the super area already sold?”Singh said, “The builders have sold and transferred super area including covered area and common area absolutely and forever. The Association members are accordingly paying municipal taxes and maintenance charges on the super area and not just on covered area. The common area is vested in them only for the purpose of maintenance….The builders mischievously added some contradictory conditions in the sale agreements to profit even after selling the entire property. If the builders build additional floors then the common area of all the existing owners gets reduced. Can the builders reduce the common area after charging for it completely and acknowledging the same? It’s legally untenable.” He added, “Further the clause in the agreement reads that in case of construction by them in future only the ground area will get reduced proportionately. Nowhere it says that common area will get reduced. Further where is the parking provision for additional construction. Why they have lied in the new sanctioned plan that automated deck car parking exists. The shop in the agreement has been defined as covered area plus proportionate common area.” A senior DDA official, aware of the development, said, “As per the current policy, DDA recognises only the builder/ original owner, who got the plot in the auction. Therefore, the benefit of the additional FAR is given to the original allottee. If the property is further sold to other people, then the division of additional FAR is a matter between the original allottee and others. DDA has no role to play in this.”The association members allege that the builder is carrying out construction on the property in a bid to legalise illegal construction. Singh said, “The builder is now constructing shops on the fourth floor, which till recently was an open terrace. We have written to Delhi Lieutenant governor in this regard and requested him to cancel the permission granted to the company and take appropriate action against people.”Singh further said that the DDA sanctioned the plan without approval from the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC). “The building plan was sanctioned in February but till then they didn’t have permission from DUAC…The existing parking space in the upper and lower basement is barely sufficient to park 40-45 cars as against 117 sanctioned shops. What is the provision for additional parking kept by the builders to meet the additional demand on account of additional sanctioned FAR? This was clearly pointed out by DUAC in their observations. DDA has sidelined this observation of DUAC and has sanctioned additional FAR without the approval of DUAC,” said Singh.DUAC didn’t comment on the matter. Kunj said, “There is some construction happening at the site, which is essentially strengthening the foundation and similar works, which has been paused for some time for some strategic reasons. The plan has been sanctioned by DDA and an inspection was conducted recently, which has found everything to be in order.”DDA carried out an inspection of the site last week and the matter regarding the building plan being sanctioned is being examined. The senior DDA official said, “There was no problem found at the site. But we are examining the matter.”In a letter to Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on January 4, 2022, the association requested him to intervene in the matter and cancel the sanctioned plan. “In the plan for addition approved by DDA, M/S Fargo Estates Pvt Ltd are now showing shops constructed on the back terrace on the 4th floor. A blatant lie again, as this was an open area till now as per the sanctioned plan of 2004….This is an attempt by the builders to illegally construct additional shops based on falsified plan submitted to DDA,” read the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-saket-mall-shop-owners-write-to-lg-over-dda-nod-for-extra-floor-101642095961104.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Republic Day: Punjab governor to attend parade at Ludhiana||Punjab governer Banwari Lal Purohit will attend the Republic Day function at Ludhiana on January 26, while chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will attend the function at Jalandhar. Deputy chief ministers OP Soni and Sukhjinder Randhawa will attend the parades at Amritsar and Bathinda, respectively. Speaker Rana KP Singh will be at SBS Nagar whereas the deputy speaker will be in Fazilka. All other cabinet ministers have been assigned duties of attending the parade in different districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/republic-day-punjab-governor-to-attend-parade-at-ludhiana-101642183989651.html
14-01-2022||Mumbai||Bed occupancy at ICU goes up by 10 percentage points||Mumbai: Since January 4, the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) bed occupancy has gone up nearly 10 percentage points and ventilator bed utilisation has increased by nearly 11 percentage points in Mumbai. The oxygen bed occupancy in the city has doubled in the same 10-day duration. However, the oxygen usage in the past week, senior civic official say, has only increased by an estimated 5% indicating that patients on oxygen beds seem to be recovering with mild oxygen therapy. Data collated by the civic body shows that on January 4, there were 11,998 oxygen beds, 2,577 ICU beds and 1,368 ventilator beds. On that day, 1,374 oxygen beds, 507 ICU beds and 320 ventilator beds were occupied — 11.5%, 19.67% and 23.39%, respectively. On January 13, the city’s oxygen bed strength was 11,854, ICU beds were 3,053 and ventilator bed strength was 1,547, of which 2,806 (23.67%), 897 (29.38%) and 538 (34.77%) were occupied, respectively. What this indicates is that while there is still a large share of such beds available in the city, Covid-19 cases requiring critical care are on the rise. To be sure, based on case curves seen in the earlier waves, oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds typically start filling up seven to 12 days from the onset of infection as an infected person would only start to display serious symptoms — which require critical care — only from the seventh day onwards. What’s more, civic authorities said that city’s oxygen usage has not increased drastically despite an increase in the number of patients requiring oxygen therapy and intensive care. “Currently, the city is using about 40-45 Metric Tonnes (MT) of oxygen every day,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu, who oversees Mumbai’s oxygen supply and distribution, said. “This is only 25% of what we required during the peak of the second wave. Even if the oxygen bed occupancy has doubled over the past few days, oxygen usage is likely to have increased by a marginal 5%. It would have been around 42 to 43 MT last week,” he said. This includes oxygen usage in Covid ICU beds as well as for non-Covid related treatments. According to Velrasu, this is also an indication of how the disease is being manifested in the third wave of the Covid pandemic, where more patients seem to be improving with mild oxygen therapy compared to the previous wave. Mumbai’s total oxygen capacity is 900MT with more than 40 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants with a capacity of 300 MT and Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) storages tanks with varying capacities in hospital premises. “We have not yet started using the PSA plants, because the LMO capacity is sufficient at the moment,” said Velrasu. “Medical experts have predicted that we are already in the peak. So, it unlikely that our oxygen usage will go up further,” he added. Dr V Ravishankhar, chief executive officer of the Lilavati Hospital in Bandra said that none of the 100 Covid-19 patients admitted in their wards is on oxygen support. “But we have 38 patients in our ICU, including four on ventilator support, who are requiring some amounts of oxygen,” he said. According to Ravishankar, all patients in ICU and on oxygen support are with co-morbid conditions or are senior citizens with existing ailments. “We have a mix of people, some are breakthrough infections, some are partially vaccinated and some are unvaccinated,” he said adding that 90% of their ICU beds were full on Thursday. The ongoing third wave has been driven by the Omicron variant, which is known to impact the upper respiratory area, thus causing symptoms like runny nose, scratchy throat and cough. But the Delta variant, that drove the second wave, is still in circulation in the city. Delta, doctors said, was a much deadly variant impacting lower respiratory areas, causing lung damage and serious disease. But not all samples are sent to genome sequencing to confirm the variant of the virus. “We are seeing a faster turnaround from the ICU, with many patients coming out of the ICU within five days,” said Ravishankar. Physician Dr Pratit Samdani, who consults at Breach Candy Hospital said doctors can only assume that a particular patient has the Omicron variant going by the clinical symptoms. “When the number of infections is this high, there will be some percentage of patients who will land up getting serious disease. Most of my admissions have been in the wards, but there are some patients with co-morbid conditions and age-related risk factors who are in the ICU and on oxygen support.” Dr Prince Surana, chief executive of Mumbai’s Surana Group of Hospitals said that ward admissions were higher during the first week of January. “But now, we are seeing an uptick in the ICU admissions. A majority of these patients are in advanced age and have serious comorbid conditions,” he said. Of the 15-bed ICU facility in the Chembur branch of Surana Hospital, 14 were full on Thursday. Their eight-bed ICU facility in Navi Mumbai was full. Thane has also seen an uptick in serious patients. On January 4, the oxygen bed occupancy was 1.4%, ICU occupancy was 5.2% and ventilator bed occupancy was 6%. On January 12, the oxygen bed occupancy had jumped to 6.3%, ICU bed occupancy had gone up to 15.9% and ventilator beds occupancy had increased to 12.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bed-occupancy-at-icu-goes-up-by-10-percentage-points-101642159687920.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s green cover crosses 50%||The green cover of Chandigarh has increased from 46.25% in 2019 to 50.05% in 2021, according to the recent India State of Forest Report (ISFR).The Forest Survey of India, Dehradun, brings out the biennial report on the forest cover map of the entire country using remote sensing data and ground truthing on field. As per the report released by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, there is an 85 hectares jump in the green cover of Chandigarh since 2019. The open forest area has also increased by 158 hectares, signifying more non-forest area has been brought under green cover. To increase the city’s green cover, a Greening Chandigarh Action Plan (GCAP) is prepared every year by various agencies, including the forest department, and horticulture wings of UT engineering department and municipal corporation, for maintenance of the city’s green cover and setting an annual target of plantation. Chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai said the credit went to city residents, who had been working with the administration and helping with greening initiatives. He said the UT forest department had also been making sustained efforts in improving the quality of forests by planting indigenous species, such as shisham, shahtoot, khair and babul, adding that no exotic species had been planted over the last couple of years. Free saplings are also distributed among residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-green-cover-crosses-50-101642107966168.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Concrete around trees: Chiefs of Ludhiana MC, LIT & GLADA told to appear before court on Feb 1||For failing to comply with the National Green Tribunal’s orders to remove concrete and interlocking tiles from one metre radius of trees in the city, the court of civil judge (senior division), Ludhiana, Harsimranjit Singh, has directed the municipal corporation commissioner, Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman and the chief administrator of Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority to appear before the court on February 1. Earlier, the Council of Engineers (CoE) had approached NGT for execution of its order dated March 10, 2021 wherein the MC, LIT and GLADA were directed to remove concrete and interlocking tiles installed around trees. The case was transferred to the civil judge by the tribunal.CoE president Kapil Arora stated the trees absorb water, oxygen and other nutrients essential for growth through the roots, and when restricted by concrete and tiles, the trees begin to get weak. “Such obstructions around trees can be witnessed in different parts of the city, due to which we have been forced to approach the tribunal for execution of its earlier orders.”In the order dated January 12, the court of civil judge said that no official of the MC, LIT and GLADA appeared before the court as directed earlier. In view of the directions of NGT, it is evident that the respondents are blatantly violating the directions of the tribunal.Further, it has ordered that in order to ensure meticulous compliance of the orders, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and GLADA chief administrator Sandeep Kumar are to appear in person on February 1, failing which the court shall be constrained to adopt coercive methods to ensure their presence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/concrete-around-trees-chiefs-of-ludhiana-mc-lit-glada-told-to-appear-before-court-on-feb-1-101642104902064.html
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | After MC action against a shop of his supporter, AAP’s Gurpreet Gogi cries foul||Two days after joining the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Gurpreet Gogi, a sitting councillor and former district president of Congress, said a certain cabinet minister was “victimising” one of his supporters by getting the shutters of his under-construction shop demolished through the municipal corporation (MC).Gogi said the shop is located near Saggu Chowk and there are many others shops in the area, but action has been taken only against his supporter’s shop. The AAP leader said the MC has demolished the shutter of the said shop under pressure from the cabinet minister. Gogi further said the action has come as he has been blowing the lid off the corrupt acts of the cabinet minister. Shop owner Mangat Ram said no notice was served by the MC before the action was taken. “The MC team came and demolished the shutters without prior notice. I have been targeted for supporting Gogi,” said Ram.Assistant town planner (ATP), Zone D, MS Bedi said there is no political pressure on MC officials and the shop was being constructed illegally. The shutters have been removed following a complaint by area residents. Two more illegal buildings were demolished by the MC at Char Khamba road in Model Town and BRS Nagar. These shops were being constructed in violation of building bylaws. Former chairman of Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC), Gogi joined AAP in presence of its state president Bhagwant Mann in Chandigarh on Tuesday. He had accused a minister of large-scale corruption. Gogi has been aspiring for a party ticket from Ludhiana west constituency, which is represented by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-after-mc-action-against-a-shop-of-his-supporter-aap-s-gurpreet-gogi-cries-foul-101642101541680.html
