15-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow reports a Covid death after 6 months||LUCKNOW: The state capital reported death of a Covid patient on Saturday, after a gap of six months and 11 days, taking the total number of deaths to 2652 since the pandemic began, while 2769 new Covid cases were reported during the day. The patient who died was an 82-year-old woman under treatment for liver ailment. She got admitted to the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences Covid facility on January 9 after she tested positive, said a senior health official. The woman was a resident of Alambagh area.Another death was reported from King George’s Medical University of a woman who was a native of Gonda district. Among the new cases, 771 are contacts of people who tested Covid positive recently and 237 had travel history. As many as 441 were those who got themselves tested following mild symptoms and the report came positive. Also 62 new cases were from educational institutes in the city, said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer. “Statistics reveal over 27% of the fresh cases are contacts of positive cases. This means the infection is spreading fast. Hence people need to adhere to Covid protocol right from the moment they feel symptoms and not just when the test report comes positive,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Among the new cases, 63 are health workers who tested positive while 39 patients tested positive before they could be admitted for surgical procedure. The 24 hours’ test positivity rate in Lucknow is about 11%. In all, 423 fresh Covid cases were reported in Aliganj, 326 in Chinhat, 309 in Alambagh, 273 in Indira Nagar, 234 in Silver Jubilee, 229 in Sarojininagar, 154 in NK Road and 126 in Red Cross.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-reports-a-covid-death-after-6-months-101642271354958.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Azam Khan’s son released from Sitapur jail after 23 months||Lucknow : Abdullah Azam, son of senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan, was released on bail from Sitapur jail on Saturday evening, after almost 23 months of imprisonment. “I will only say one thing that oppression will end after March 10 and the oppressor will also be removed from the throne,” Abdullah told reporters outside the jail, signalling towards the defeat of the BJP in upcoming assembly elections. Abdullah waved to his supporters waiting outside the gates of Sitapur jail before entering his vehicle. Azam’s younger son Abdullah was booked in 43 cases, ranging from theft to extortion and forgery, along with his father. Abdullah has been granted bail in all of these cases by lower courts in Rampur. The release orders following bail were sent to Sitapur jail by late Saturday afternoon that cleared the way for Abdullah’s release. Azam’s wife Tazeen Fatima, who is also a co-accused in many of these cases, was released from Sitapur jail in December 2020. Meanwhile, Azam Khan, who has more than 70 cases lodged against him on similar charges, is yet to get bail in all of them. Abdullah won from Swar constituency on SP ticket in 2017 assembly election. However, hearing a case against him, the Allahabad high court in 2019 annulled his election as an Uttar Pradesh MLA on the ground that he was underage and not qualified to fight the poll in 2017. The troubles for Azam Khan and his family started in 2017 when the BJP came to power in UP. Just a few months after the election, 10 cases were lodged against Azam Khan in revenue board by the then district magistrate of Rampur for procuring 104 acres of land belonging to people of Schedule Caste “against rules”. In 2019, over 70 cases were lodged against Azam Khan and his family members for forgery, theft, extortion and other crimes within a few months. Majority of the cases pertained to encroachment of land that was usurped in the construction of the Jauhar University, of which Azam Khan is chairman. Azam Khan was also accused of stealing old books from a government school and keeping them in his library. Acting on the compliant, police raided Mumtaz library located inside Jauhar Ali University and recovered over 2000 old books from there. Considering the number of cases against him, the district administration also named him as land mafia in Rampur. Khan criticised these cases at first but later succumbed to the mounting pressure and repeated court notices. He also tried to get anticipatory bail in many cases but in vain. Eventually in February 2020, Azam, his wife and son Abdullah Azam surrendered before an MP-MLA court in Rampur. On the court’s order the trio was later shifted to Sitapur jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/azam-khan-s-son-released-from-sitapur-jail-after-23-months-101642270934805.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||One year of vaccinations: 92.50% UP population armed with first shot||In one year of vaccination, Uttar Pradesh covered over 92.50% of the eligible 18-plus population with the first dose and completely vaccinated over 57.32% of the population.Vaccination began in Uttar Pradesh on January 16, 2021 and the state is leading the country with the maximum doses administered in a state. A total 22,84,89,786 doses of the vaccine have been administered till now.“In all 47,25,939 individuals between 15 and 18 years of age have been administered their first dose of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine which is 33.72% of their estimated population in Uttar Pradesh,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press statement.According to the data from the state health department, 14,23,54,400 people have got their first dose in the state and among them 8,57,49,721 their second dose as well. Also 3,85,665 precautionary doses have been administered to health workers, frontline workers and people above 60 years of age since January 10.Among the districts, Lucknow is leading with 66,01,927 doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine administered till now which includes 38,84,209 first doses and 26,87,974 second doses.“Initially, Lucknow had a target of administering 37.40 lakh eligible 18-plus people according to the voter list and it successfully crossed the mark. Now those who shifted to Lucknow recently but were not enrolled as Lucknow residents, are also being given the vaccine,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.Lucknow has administered 1,33,702 individuals between 15 and 18 years of age their first dose of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine and about 30,000 precautionary doses.“We should now quickly ensure all the eligible get their first dose so that all have vaccine coverage. This is significant as Covid-19 cases are rising these days and the vaccine will help fight the virus,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director Healthcity hospital.Even after vaccination, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be followed to avoid infection, said Prasad.Vaccination had begun with health workers on January 16, 2021, then opened for frontline workers on February 2, followed by the 60-plus age group and those above 45-years and comorbid from March 1 and for all above 18 years from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/one-year-of-vaccinations-92-50-up-population-armed-with-first-shot-101642270634570.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Election Commission notice to SP over poll code violation||Lucknow: The Election Commission of India issued notice to the Samajwadi Party on Saturday over violation of model code of conduct (MCC) and Covid-19 guidelines in an event organized by the party on Friday. The poll panel has directed the Samajwadi Party to explain its stand regarding the violation of MCC and Covid- 19 guidelines within 24 hours of the receipt of the notice, failing which the Commission will take appropriate decision in the matter without further reference to the SP. In a letter to the general secretary of the SP, ECI secretary Ajoy Kumar said the Commission had announced the schedule for UP assembly election on January 8. The Commission had also issued a broad guideline with regard to conduct of the election during Covid-19 pandemic, imposing ban on physical rallies, road shows, pad yatras, cycle/bike/ vehicle rallies and processions till January 15, he said. Taking cognizance of the media reports of violation of the Commission’s Covid guidelines in a public gathering in the office compound of Samajwadi Party on Vikramaditya Marg, Lucknow the Commission sought report from UP Chief Electoral Officer (CEO). The UP CEO in his report sent on January 14 informed that the existing Covid protocol had been violated by organizing public gathering in the SP office premises in the name of virtual rally. An FIR under sections 188,269,270 and 341 IPC, 1860, section 54 of Disaster management Act, 2005 and section 3 of Pandemic Act, 1897 had been lodged against 2000-2500 political functionaries of the SP on Friday, he said. Political parties were important stakeholders in the electoral process and they always cooperated with ECI in carrying out its constitutional duties of conducting election during challenging times. The available reports prima- facie suggested that the SP had violated the lawful directions of the Commission, Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/election-commission-notice-to-sp-over-poll-code-violation-101642270334897.html
15-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Drive-through sessions, special camps planned to increase vax pace||In a bid to increase the pace of Covid-19 vaccination for the 15-18 age group and administering booster dose to senior citizens, the district health department has planned initiatives such as drive-through vaccination sessions and special camps at various societies. On Sunday, two drive-through vaccination sessions will be conducted in the district from 10am onwards at Cyber Hub and Ambience Mall, officials from the district health department said. Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “In the drive-through vaccination session at Cyber Hub, booster dose of Covishield will be given to health care workers, frontline workers and senior citizens. Covaxin doses will be administered to the children in the 15-18 age group. For both categories, 300 doses each will be available and registration on the CoWIN portal is mandatory.” The officials said that a drive-through vaccination will also be conducted at Ambience Mall where both Covishield and Covaxin would be available for booster dose, while only Covaxin for vaccination of teenagers.The vaccination pace for the 15-18 age group, which started on January 3, has reduced since the first week due to a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the district. The administering of booster dose to senior citizens has also been slow since it started on January 10. In the 15-18 age group, in the first week daily average vaccination was close to 10,000 doses which has now reduced to 2,000 doses, according to an official data. For booster dose, the daily vaccination has not gone beyond 2,000 despite double the slots being available, the data shows. The officials said that they have asked health care workers to visit various societies to find out the teenagers in the 15-18 age bracket and senior citizens who are eligible for booster dose, and motivate them to come to the nearest vaccination centres. “We are also planning to set up special camps at some societies to increase the vaccination pace for these two categories. We are hoping that with these measures, the pace may increase in the coming days,” said Singh.“For vaccination of children, we have found that as all schools are not open, it is impacting the vaccination pace. We have asked our teams to conduct mop up rounds to cover maximum possible children. We are also trying to reach out to children who come under the category of persons without identity,” said Singh. On Saturday, a total of 16,620 doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered, including 6,978 first doses, 7,935 second doses and 1,707 precautionary (booster) doses. With this, over 4.63 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now. On Saturday, 2,121 children were vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-drive-through-sessions-special-camps-planned-to-increase-vax-pace-101642270094804.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||North MCD likely to de-seal over 2,000 factories shut before Covid||NEW DELHI: The Standing Committee of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has asked the factory licensing department to submit its updated report on over 2,000 factories, which were sealed before the Covid-19 outbreak due to technical and revenue issues, with officials saying that it will consider de-sealing them.North MCD officials said the issue was discussed during a meeting of the standing committee -- chaired by its chairman Jogi Ram Jain -- on Thursday, where councillors noted that sealing has added to the woes, especially since many businesses have suffered losses due to the pandemic.A senior North MCD official said that the 2,000 factories were listed as “illegal factory clusters”, mainly involved in garment manufacturing, jeans dyeing, plywood work, furniture making, cardboard work and engineering/welding work, in December 2019. “These units were running from residential areas despite the fact that the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) had allotted only three hubs in the city as ‘notified industrial areas’, i.e. Narela, Bawana and Wazirpur,” he said, on condition of anonymity. Standing committee member and BJP councillor from Pitampura, Anju Jain, was among those who pushed for de-sealing the factories. “Even those factories, which have been shifted by their owners to the alternative plots allotted to them by the Civic body in the notified industrial areas, should also be de-sealed. Granting them permission to run the factories will help bring the economy back on track,” she said. Echoing similar views, AAP councillor Vicky Gupta also said that the factories must be de-sealed if they have adhered to the norms. “Many such units have applied under the household industries category to get relief. The power of granting household industry licence has been devolved from the high-powered committee chaired by Delhi government officials to respective municipal bodies after necessary changes in the Master Plan 2021. The civic body must initiate the disposal of their applications,” he said. Meanwhile, an officer from the licensing department of the North MCD said that since these units have been sealed by monitoring committee, the same panel has to take a call on the issue. “Orders from any other department will be null and void. The chairman of our standing committee has asked us to submit a report about sealed and opened industrial units within 15 days, we are already on it,” said the offical, asking not to be named. When contacted, Jogi Ram Jain said that a decision on de-sealing the factories can only be taken after getting the detailed report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-likely-to-de-seal-over-2-000-factories-shut-before-covid-101642269256016.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Mission UP: Rakesh Tikait to visit Lakhimpur Kheri for three days from January 21, may stage protest||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait and his supporters will visit Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh for three days from January 21 as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) Mission UP, the union’s media incharge Dharmendra Malik said on Saturday.Rakesh Tikait will remain there for three days to meet the family members of the victims in the Lakhimpur Kheri case and, if demands are not taken care of, then a “dharna” would be started there, Malik said.He further said farmers will observe “Vishwasghat Diwas (Day of Betrayal)” on January 31 on the call of SKM because the government initiated no action on forming a committee to resolve the MSP (minimum support price) issue, withdrawal of cases against farmers and fulfilling other assurances given to SKM for withdrawal of the farmers’ movement.As far as Lakhimpur Kheri is concerned, farmers’ organisations are demanding the removal of Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni from the Union council of ministers. His son Ashish Mishra, the prime accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri case, faces murder and other charges. A charge sheet has been filed against Ashish Mishra and 13 others in the case in which four farmers and a journalist were mowed down by vehicles in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3, 2021. In the violence that erupted after the incident, two BJP workers and a driver were also killed the same day. Ashish Mishra has been in jail since October 9, 2021. SKM held a meeting to review the government’s action taken on the assurances given to farmers to end their movement on the Delhi borders on December 9. The farmers had suspended their year-long agitation after three contentious farm laws were repealed.It was also decided to launch a “pakka morcha” against insensitivity of the government in Lakhimpur Kheri case.Malik said, “We have been demanding to sack the minister and arrest him.” He further said that eyewitnesses in the case are bring targeted and made accused in cases in an attempt to harass them.Malik said Rakesh Tikait’s visit to Kheri Lakhimpur Kheri is part of SKM’s Mission UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mission-up-rakesh-tikait-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-for-three-days-from-january-21-may-stage-protest-101642269254642.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: SP-RLD alliance announces second list of seven candidates||The alliance of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Saturday announced its second list of seven candidates for the upcoming UP assembly elections. All these seven seats have been given to Jayant Chaudhary-led RLD.With this, the RLD has so far got to contest 26 seats while the SP will field its candidates from 10 seats. The alliance had announced its first list of 29 candidates on Thursday (January 13). Sources in the SP said although most of the seats of the RLD’s share had been given to it, a few more might go their way.The alliance has given a lion’s share of seats to Muslim and Jat candidates. Of the 36 seats, the alliance has fielded Muslims on 10 seats and Jats on seven. The alliance also gave tickets to a total of five Brahmins—two of the SP and three of the RLD. All the 36 candidates declared by the alliance so far would in the fray in the first three phases of UP assembly polls beginning from the western UP region on February 10.In the second list, the alliance has fielded Ashraf Ali from Thana Bhawan in Shamli, Rajpal Baliyan from Budhana and Chandan Chauhan from Meerapur seat, both in Muzaffarnagar district. Surendra Kumar Munni has been fielded from Muradnagar in Ghaziabad district and Kiran Pal Singh from Shikarpur in Bulandshahr. Pramod Gaur will be in the fray from Barauli and Birpal Singh Diwakar from Iglas, both in Aligarh district.“We have taken care of all castes and communities. The party president has taken care of Brahmins also. Brahmin inclination towards RLD is a new thing in the party that had Jat dominated orientation. So, the lists have Muslims, Jats, Brahmin, backwards and Dalits,” said RLD national spokesperson Anupam Mishra.Elections to the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly will be held in seven phases. The polling will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.The SP has fielded Muslim candidates from Kairana, Kithore, Meerut City, Dhaulana, Kol and Aligarh seats while the RLD has filed Muslims from Bulandshahr, Syana, Baghpat and Thana Bhawan seats. While the SP has fielded a Jat candidate from Charthawal seat, RLD has fielded Jats from six seats namely Sadabad, Govardhan, Fatehpur Sikri, Shamli, Budhana and Shikarpur. So far as Brahmin are concerned, the SP has fielded two from Sahibabad and Bah seats while the RLD has fielded Muslims from Modinagar, Muradnagar and Barauli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppolls-sp-rld-alliance-announces-second-list-of-seven-candidates-101642269194762.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||UP registers slight fall in new Covid cases||Uttar Pradesh recorded a slight fall in new Covid cases on Saturday when 15,795 people tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus as against 16,016 a day before (on Friday). “The number of active Covid cases in the state reached 95,148,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement.In all, 2,58,904 Covid samples were tested in the past 24 hours and the test positivity rate in this period was 6.10%. Lucknow reported a maximum 2,769 new Covid cases. Gautam Buddh Nagar reported 1,873 new Covid cases, Ghaziabad 1,371 and Meerut logged 1,135 cases. Four deaths, including one each in Lucknow, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Mainpuri districts, were also reported in the state in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-registers-slight-fall-in-new-covid-cases-101642268834938.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Pune forest cover expands by 5.63 sq km in last two years||Pune: Pune district has seen a rise in forest cover by over 5.63 square kilometre during 2021 as compared to 2019, according to the biennial Indian State of Forest Report (ISFR) 2021, released by the Forest Survey of India (FSI) on Thursday. Of the addition in green belt, 5.57 sq km is open forest cover in the district since the last survey carried out in 2019, the report said. “A major reason for increase in open forest is the ‘environmentally-sensitive’ citizens of Pune who are taking initiative to plant on their own,” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest. “Pune district also follows ‘Tri+Party’ agreement, where the forest department along with a non-profit organisation and a private organisation undergoes an agreement to plant trees under their annual CSR programme. Recently, we have planted 100,000 trees in Pune,” he said. Union environment minister Bhupendra Yadav released the report, which is the 17th edition of ISFR. In the last two years, the moderately dense forest in Pune district has seen a slight increase. According to the FSI, all land with a canopy density of 40 per cent or more, and less than 70 per cent is considered a moderately dense forest. In 2019, Pune district had 760.93 sq km of moderately dense forest which has increased to 760.99 sq km in 2021. Open forest contributed the most to the total increase of forest cover in Pune district. All lands with a canopy density of 10 per cent or more and less than 40 per cent are considered open forests. In 2019, Pune had 949.93 sq km of open forest, which in 2021 has reached 955.5 sq km. Pune district ranks fifth among the 36 districts of Maharashtra in terms of increased forest cover in 2021 as compared to the last survey. Pune has the ninth highest open forest cover and ranks 11th in total forest cover in the state. With 451.606 million tonnes of carbon stock, Maharashtra ranks fourth highest in the country, contributing 6.27 per cent of forest carbon to the country. The state also accounts for 50,798 sq km of forest cover, according to the latest FSI report. The report has stated that Maharashtra’s forest cover increased by 20 sq km, equal to about 3,737 football fields, in two years between 2019 and 2021. As per ISFR, mangrove cover in Maharashtra increased by 4.02 sq km in two years, with Raigad district singularly accounting for the spurt. Mangroves currently occupy an area of 324 sq km in Maharashtra, of which about 53 per cent are given reserve forest status under the Indian Forest Act (1927).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-forest-cover-expands-by-5-63-sq-km-in-last-two-years-101642268774585.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Meerut seat: Young BJP leader replaces veteran Dr Laxmikant Bajpai||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded young party leader Kamal Dutt Sharma from Meerut assembly constituency to carry forward the three decades’ old political legacy of Dr Laxmikant Bajpai who refused to contest election.The ruling party on Saturday released the first list of 107 candidates for the first and second phases of the upcoming seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. While the polling for the first phase will be held on February 10, the second phase will take place on February 14.Dr Bajpai, a former UP BJP chief, contested eight previous elections and won in 1989, 1996, 2002 and 2012. The BJP won 71 out of the 80 Lok Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh in the 2014 general elections when he was the state BJP chief. Later, he limited his political activities.Confirming that he did not wish to contest election anymore, Bajpai said, “I have contested eight elections and do not wish to contest polls further.” He also claimed that he did not seek party ticket for any of his family members. On Sharma’s candidature, Dr Bajpai said, “The party has taken the decision and I would work wholeheartedly to ensure the victory of the party candidate.”In the past, Kamal Dutt Sharma has served as party general secretary of party’s Meerut mahanagar unit, president of Mahanagar unit of Yuva Morcha and as a “mantri” in the regional unit. A video purportedly showing Sharma threatening a cop and advising him to take care of “Hindus” went viral on social media in December 2018. In another video, which went viral in July 2017, he was purportedly seen slapping a woman at his home. Repeated attempts to contact Sharma for his comments on the issue failed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/meerut-seat-young-bjp-leader-replaces-veteran-dr-laxmikant-bajpai-101642268534603.html
15-01-2022||Bangalore||Two rowdy-sheeters held for extortion bid in Karnataka||Puttur rural police in Dakshina Kannada district have said they have arrested two rowdy-sheeters for allegedly threatening an entrepreneur and trying to extort money from him. The arrested have been identified as Kalander Sharief alias Shafi from Bantwal and Hasanabba, a resident of Manjanady in Mangaluru taluk, police sources said. The two had called the entrepreneur up from Puttur demanding ₹13 lakh to release their associate who is lodged in jail. They used different mobile numbers to make the call and threatened the businessman of dire consequences if he did not pay the money, the sources said. The accused had asked the businessman to arrange ₹3.5 lakh within two days and even threatened to kill him and his children if he failed to pay the amount.On the basis of his complaint, police registered cases under various sections of the IPC against the accused. The two were arrested in a swift action by the police when they were returning after collecting money from the entrepreneur. Puttur rural circle inspector Umesh Uppalige, SI Uday Ravi, Ameen Saab M Attar and other police personnel carried out the operation to arrest the duo under the guidance of Dakshina Kannada superintendent of police Rishikesh Sonawane and Puttur sub-division DSP Gana P Kumar, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/two-rowdy-sheeters-held-for-extortion-bid-in-karnataka-101642267902216.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Magh Mela: Over 4 lakh more take dip in Sangam on Makar Sankranti||Over four lakh devotees took the holy dip at Sangam at the Magh Mela on Saturday on the occasion of Makar Sankranti—a festival spread over two days owing to its auspicious timing. As around 6.5 lakh pilgrims had taken the holy dip on Friday too, the total number of people who took the dip rose to over 10.5 lakh.As per the mela officials, of the over four lakh who took the dip, around 2.25 lakh devotees did so by 12noon. The figures increased to 3 by 2pm and by the end of the day, a total of around 4 lakh people had taken the holy dip in different ghats, said Magh Mela adhikari Sheshmani Pandey.As per Hindu astrological calculation, since the sunrise of Saturday was the auspicious timing of Sankranti, all prominent seers, their disciples and large numbers of devotees took the dip on Saturday. The 47-day religious congregation had formally begun with the first official bathing of Makar Sankranti at Sangam ghats in Prayagraj on Friday. However, an equal number of devotees arrived at the ghats of river Ganga and Sangam, on Saturday as well. Devotees, who had started arriving in large numbers from Thursday onwards continued coming all through Saturday also. Defying the winter chill and overcoming the fear of Covid-19, the devotees arrived from different UP districts and neighbouring states too.In view of the rush, traffic diversions were put in place at all the entry points of Prayagraj district. Railways and UP State Roadways Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) had made special arrangements for devotees. Despite efforts and repeated appeals to the pilgrims to observe social distancing and wear masks to prevent spread of Covid-19, many were seen violating the norms. To check the spread of coronavirus in mela area, the authorities kept on announcing the importance of wearing masks.“On the second day of the holy bathing, around 1,25,000 facemasks were distributed in the mela area by 12noon. Out of these, about 55,000 masks were distributed at Sangam nose itself. Through about 25 Covid help desks in the mela area, awareness is being spread about the compliance of Covid protocol and people are being helped as per their need,” said the mela adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/magh-mela-over-4-lakh-more-take-dip-in-sangam-on-makar-sankranti-101642268120015.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Covid cases make a move towards rural areas||Mumbai The surge of Covid cases has now shifted to the rural and semi-urban parts from big cities like Mumbai. Cases in Central, north Maharashtra and Vidarbha, the regions with the dominant rural population, have reported an almost two to four-fold surge in the last one week, while the cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have reduced to 50% of the daily caseload.Meanwhile, keeping its trend of reporting a daily caseload of over 40,000 cases for the last four days, the state clogged 42,462 new infections on Saturday taking the tally to 7,170,483, and the death toll to 141779 after reported 23 deaths n the last 24 hours. Mumbai logged 10,661 new cases and 11 new deaths taking the tally to 9,91,314 and toll to 16,446. 125 new Omicron cases were reported on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,730. Of the total Omicron cases, 879 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.Similar to the trend witnessed in the first two waves, the third wave surge initiated in Mumbai, other cities in MMR and Pune has shifted to the smaller cities and rural parts. The contribution of these areas in the total caseload three weeks ago, on December 31, was more than 92% (7,440 of 8,067), while it fell to 74.24% (32,084 of 43,211) on January 14. The contribution of cases in MMR dropped substantially to almost half of the state tally in a week as MMR tally on January 14 was 22,037 of state tally of 43,211 from over 80% or 33,235 of state tally of 40,925 on January 7. While Mumbai and other MMR cities such as Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira-Bhayander, Kalyan-Dombivali have reported a substantial drop in the cases over the last seven days, other states cities including Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and rural areas reported markable surges. Cases in districts like Pune (4,437 to 10,047), Nagpur (697 to 1,698), Nashik (810 to 1,939), Aurangabad (158 to 657) rose significantly in the last one week between January 7 and 14. On Saturday, Pune district logged 10,197, the second-highest in the state after Mumbai. Nagpur and Nashik districts reported 2,134 and 1,915 cases respectively.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the union government-appointed task force said that the cases in the rural parts of the state will keep rising over the next few weeks. “As seen in the first two waves, the surge will shift from the metropolis to other parts in phases. It started from Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru and spread to other smaller cities. I do not think Mumbai has attained its peak and it could be in the next 8-10 days.”Dr Salunkhe said that there could be more migration to cities during this wave because the cases and hospitalisation in rural parts will be more than in urban parts. “The vaccination rate in cities like Mumbai and Pune is fabulous, so is the ramping up of the health infrastructure. On the contrary, many rural areas lag on both fronts. This will result in more hospitalisation in rural areas, though severity will remain low compared to the earlier wave. As such there will be migration of the patients for the hospitalisation from rural areas where the health infrastructure has been augmented significantly,” he added.According to an official from the health department, even the rural areas have been prepared to tackle the third wave surge. He said that all the district collectors have been directed to increase the vaccination rate and simultaneously get the health machinery prepared. The officer said that the staggered surge in the cases will help them in handling the pressure on health infrastructure by concentrating on areas with high cases.The daily positivity rate in the state stood at 21.21% while the daily case fatality rate reported was 0.054%. State’s overall CFR stands at 1.97%, while recovery rate stands at 94.28%.
15-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengal's daily Covid tally down by over 3,500 in 24 hours, Kolkata's drops too||West Bengal's Covid-19 case tally declined for the second consecutive day on Saturday after the eastern state logged as many as 19,064 infections in 24 hours, according to state health bulletin data. In 24 hours, more than 3,000 fewer (3,581 to be exact) coronavirus cases were recorded in the state. On Friday, Bengal reported 22,645 cases, down from Thursday's 23,467.Fresh deaths due to the virus, however, took a tumble as Saturday's figures rose to 39 from 28 on the day before, the health bulletin data revealed. The death toll of the state has now shot up to 20,052.Despite logging more fatalities that the preceding day, Bengal saw more of its Covid-19 patients recuperating from the disease on Saturday. As many as 9,132 new recoveries were recorded as opposed to Friday's 8,687, thereby maintaining the positive trend. A total of 17,07,333 patients have recovered from coronavirus so far, according to the health bulletin data.The decline in single-day case count in 24 hours has also taken the case positivity rate of Bengal down from 31.14% on Friday to 29.52% on Saturday. The fatality rate, on the other hand, remains at 1.07%.In Bengal's capital city Kolkata, which reported a slight rise in daily coronavirus cases on Friday, the numbers have come down by as many as 2,036. On Saturday, the City of Joy logged 4,831 new infections, down from 6,867 recorded on the day before.The drop in single-day cases come on a day when West Bengal government extended the Covid-related restrictions in the state till January 31 in wake of the Omicron variant, which has primarily contributed in the third wave across the country.The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in the state, however, have provided some relaxations in the ongoing curbs. These include allowing a maximum of 200 attendees or 50 per cent of venue capacity for marriage ceremonies, and fairs at open grounds in a restricted manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-daily-covid-tally-down-by-over-3-500-in-24-hours-kolkata-s-drop-too-101642264848072.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Airport in Pune district will be reality, don’t want to speak about site: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday expressed confidence of Pune district getting an international airport despite the ministry of defence (MoD) cancelling the no objection certificate (NOC) for the proposed new airport site of Purandar that was finalised by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “Airport will be constructed in Pune district. I do not want to speak anything regarding the site because it will be assumed in a different way. The state government is focussed on constructing an international airport in the district. I can tell you with total belief that we will build an international airport for Pune residents,” said Pawar, who was in the city for Covid review meeting on Saturday. “The airport plan will also be useful for the residents of Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar. It will have two runways – one for landing and one for take off, and the central government will also play its role in setting up the airport,” Pawar said. Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia in a written response to MP Girish Bapat on December 31, 2021, said, “The MoD had given the NOC (no objection certificate) on August 12, 2021, with certain conditions for the new proposed site, later it cancelled the NOC vide their communication dated September 29, 2021.” However, leaders from opposition party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – MP Girish Bapat, Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil — have also given thumbs up for the airport at Purandar. “The airport is still possible in Purandar if the MVA government decides to opt for the original site. The proposal of the old site had lapsed after the current government wanted a new site,” Patil had told reporters on January 8. Bapat had said “The letter only states about withdrawing clearance to the resubmitted proposal with changes. The old proposal still stands and all the clearances obtained so far are also valid. If everyone pushes for the original proposal then, it will happen.” The ministry of defence is yet to make any comment about the site. Meeting between the state government officials, the Pune Airport Advisory Committee and the ministry of defence is expected to take place soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/airport-in-pune-district-will-be-reality-don-t-want-to-speak-about-site-ajit-pawar-101642267814483.html
15-01-2022||Pune||No reduction in Pune’s water quota: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Despite demand from the irrigation department and elected members from the rural areas, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar decided not to reduce the water quota for Pune and said that the municipal corporations can lift the required water from Khadakwasla reservoir.Pawar said, “This year the rainfall was good. Dams have enough water so we decided to keep water supply as it is for rural areas, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune city.”“Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar have promised to take various steps to save water and we will support their efforts,” he said.Mohol said, “Guardian minister has accepted our demand and did not cut water supply for the city. PMC has conveyed that additional villages got merged in the city. Even PMC is taking enough steps to stop leakages. The 24x7 water scheme is in progress and once it is complete, PMC will require less water.”The irrigation department was aggressive and had put its views before the canal committee. The irrigation department blamed that PMC is using additional water than its limit.Even by considering the existing population of additional villages, PMC consumes more water, said officials of the irrigation department.“We have denied all the allegations,” said Mohol.Pawar, meanwhile, said, “We want to add Mulshi dam’s water for drinking purposes for both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Earlier electricity was generated through hydro energy, but now there are various options to generate electricity than water. Urban areas are increasing and so is the water demand. By considering that the water from Mulshi dam should be utilised for drinking purpose than electricity generation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-reduction-in-pune-s-water-quota-ajit-pawar-101642267157704.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Two arrested in ₹15 crore Barshi stock scam; lookout notice issued against main accused||Pune: The Solapur police are investigating a stock market fraud which they believe could go up to more than ₹15 crore, involving Fate family in Barshi. The police have arrested the main accused Vishal Fate’s father Ambadas and brother Vaibhav in connection with the fraud. The other family members identified as Vishal, his mother Alka and wife Radhika are absconding even as teams of Economic Offences Wing (EOW) have been sent to nab them from their hideout. Vishal’s close friend Deepak Babasaheb Ambare (37), a resident of Barshi, lodged an FIR against him at the Barshi police station. Taking into consideration the large number of investors being duped, the Solapur police have decided to form a special investigation team (SIT) to arrest the culprits and eight squads have been formed to investigate the case. According to the police, a number of prominent personalities, including mediapersons, doctors and professionals have been duped with promise of attractive returns on investments reportedly thrice the amount invested. Vishal’s father, a retired professor from Barshi college, along with Vaibhav was produced before the local court which remanded them into four days of police custody. Ambare in his FIR stated that he had met Vishal in 2019 after which both became friends. Vishal used to do stock trading and showed him the attractive returns he earned while investing in the stock market. He later established three companies in the name of his father, mother and brother for stock trading and accepted huge amounts from different investors in Barshi promising them exorbitant returns. He accepted the money in the form of RTGS, cash and cheque basis. Addl SP Himmat Sonawane said, “We received a complaint on January 13 regarding Vishal Fate, the main accused who promised thrice the amount as returns to customers. Based on the complaint, we have booked him and four of his family members under IPC 409, 417 and 420 and 34 and MPID Act 1999 section 3. Currently, the scam involving over ₹5.65 crore has been detected and we believe it could run into crores of rupees more. There is a possibility of a large number of persons being duped by the accused. Vishal Fate disappeared with the money on January 9 and all his accounts have zero balance. A lookout notice has been issued against him and his wife,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-in-rs-15-crore-barshi-stock-scam-lookout-notice-issued-against-main-accused-101642266858203.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Pune physiotherapist in custody for allegedly raping college student||PUNE: A 30-year-old physiotherapist from Lonikalbhor has been arrested by Pune police for allegedly raping a 20-year-old college student in Pune. The incident happened on Thursday night after the two were returning from dinner at a restaurant in Kharadi. The man was driving and stopped the car at a secluded spot where he assaulted her. The man was produced in court on Saturday. “They knew each other for the past 10 days. We have arrested the man and he is in police custody till Wednesday,” said senior inspector Sunil Jadhav of Chandannagar police station. A case under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chandannagar police in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-physiotherapist-in-custody-for-allegedly-raping-college-student-101642266674718.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Theft at temple in Purandar days after temple thieves’ gang was busted||PUNE: Jewellery from a temple in Purandar area of Pune was stolen on the night intervening Thursday and Friday. The theft was reported four days after Pune rural police issued a statement of recovery of jewellery of around 25 temples across Maharashtra after nabbing a three-member gang. The latest theft happened at Siddeshwar and Jogeshwari goddess temple located in Naigaon area of Purandare. Popat Jagannath Jagtap, 64, who works as priest at the temple filed the complaint. Two heavy ornaments and equipment from the sanctum of the temple was stolen. One of them weighed 7.25 kg and is estimated to be worth ₹3,98,750, while the second stolen item wait 1.25 kg and is estimated to be worth ₹68,750, according to the police. A case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house building tent or vessel et cetera) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Jejuri police station. Meanwhile, the three persons arrested for committing thefts at around 25 temples across Maharashtra are in judicial custody. The arrested were identified as husband-wife Shahrukh Raju Pathan, 24, a native of Purandar in Pune, Pooja Kaidev Madnal, 19, a native of Junabidi Kumbhari in Solapur, and residents of Gopal Shirgaon in Kolhapur and the woman’s sister Anita Govind Gajakosh, 19, who lives with the couple and is a native of Vijapur in Karnataka. The three have allegedly confessed to have stolen jewellery and valuables from around 24 temples in Nagpur, Wardha, Latur, Beed, Osmanabad, Satara, and Kolhapur along with Pune, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/theft-at-temple-in-purandar-days-after-temple-thieves-gang-was-busted-101642266494768.html
15-01-2022||Pune||MPSC aspirant found dead in rented room in Pune||PUNE An aspirant of the state public service commission (MPSC) examination was found dead in his rented accommodation in Pune on Saturday afternoon. The 33-year-old man had recently been ousted from the selection process after being declined based on medical grounds. He had been living in a hostel in Sadashiv peth and preparing for selection into the state police force as a sub-inspector, according to the police. “He has been in Pune since 2010. There were some familial issues from what we have gathered,” said Police inspector (crime) Kundalik Kaigude.In July 2021, another 25-year-old MPSC aspirant was found dead by suicide in Hadapsar area of Pune city. In December 2021, 25-year-old state job aspirant was found dead in Daund area. The Maharashtra public service commission (MPSC) examination has been delayed multiple times during the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpsc-aspirant-found-dead-in-rented-room-in-pune-101642266314658.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports over 10k new Covid cases for second consecutive day||PUNE According to the state health department, Pune district reported 10,179 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Saturday. This took the progressive count to 1.24 million out of which 1.17 million have recovered, 20,236 deaths reported and 49,917 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.On Friday, the district reported 10,047 new Covid cases and no deaths. Pune also saw 58,077 vaccinations on Saturday.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 5,739 new cases which took the progressive count to 571,383 and the death toll stood at 7,054 as one more death was reported.Pune city reported 5,739 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 571,383 and the death toll stood at 9,303.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 2,483 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 289,202 and the toll stood at 3,529.Pune district also saw 58,077 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Saturday and in total, 16.08 million doses have been registered in the district. Out of which 9.20 million are first doses, 6.84 million are second doses and 41499 are precautionary doses. A total of 631 sites saw vaccination out of which 443 were government centres and 188 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-over-10k-new-covid-cases-for-second-consecutive-day-101642265840187.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Karnal man’s kin seek govt support to bring his body back from Greece||Almost a week after they got information about the death of a 30-year-old man under mysterious circumstances in Greece, family of the deceased held protests at Karnal mini-secretariat to seek government support to bring his body back to India.They told the media that they have already taken up the issue with Haryana home minister Anil Vij.Harpreet Kaur, mother of the deceased, said either the government should make arrangements to bring his body back to the country or allow her to die.The family gave an ultimatum till Monday to the district administration and threatened to resume protests if they fail to take action.The family said Vikram Singh went to Greece on August 17, 2021. He was in contact with his family for a couple of days. But after that, he could not be contacted.Thus, the family had filed a police complaint against Vikram’s sister, travel agent Narwair Singh, and others for hatching a conspiracy for money on pretext of sending him abroad.On complaint of the family, police have registered an FIR under Sections 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against agent Narwair Singh, Vikram’s sister and others.Later, when the family came to know that he died in Greece, they demanded inclusion of Section 302 (punishment for murder) in the FIR.Police had arrested two persons Narwair Singh and Vikram’s sister last week. They were sent to judicial custody.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said they have sent the demand of the family to the Union ministry of external affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-man-s-kin-seek-govt-support-to-bring-his-body-back-from-greece-101642265834599.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Cases in Mumbai move towards one million mark||Mumbai As the Covid positivity rate has settled around 20% and the hospitalisation rate is showing a decline, the total cases is inching towards the 10 lakh-mark. On the other hand, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that the city could get into a safe zone if the same trend continues till Wednesday.However, people will have to remain vigilant and not lower their guard despite there being a downward trend, added BMC officials.Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “There is no doubt that the cases are going down and the hospitalisation rate is going down too, but we will have to monitor the situation till Wednesday. If we have this trend till Wednesday, we might later call the city in the safe zone. But we will have to remain alert and take all necessary precautions.”Kakani added, “We will continue to conduct around 50,000 to 60,000 tests in the city in the coming days to ensure that testing is not falling drastically in the city.”On Saturday, the city reported 10,661 cases and 11 deaths taking the total case tally to 9,91,314 and toll to 16,446. The recovery rate in the city is 8,98,726 with 90.26% recoveries and the mortality rate is 1.65%. There are 73,518 active cases in the city, and 19.54% was the daily positivity rate on Saturday. Further, 24 cases of Omicron variant were detected in Mumbai on Saturday.The hospitalisation rate on Saturday was 15.7% - continuing the downward trend. The asymptomatic load out of the total cases reported on Saturday was 84%.With this, the city is also likely to cross the one million mark by Monday or on Sunday itself. The 0.5 million mark was crossed in April 2021 and the 0.1 million mark was crossed in July 2020.Overall, since February 2020, a total of 14.56 million tests have been conducted in the city and the overall positivity rate is 6.74%.Meanwhile, experts have cautioned that citizens need to be alert about the Delta variant amid the fast-spreading Omicron variant. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid task force of the state, in a Twitter post on Saturday said, “Don’t miss lung Covid and Delta. Most suspect of Omicron is Nose and Throat. Stay connected with your doctors and be safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cases-in-mumbai-move-towards-one-million-mark-101642265780563.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||UP chief secretary goes on inspection spree, issues directions to officials||Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief secretary DS Mishra went on inspection spree here on Saturday visiting the integrated command centre, smart city office, sugarcane research institute and a government paddy procurement centre at Sitapur Road.He also met farmers in a village panchayat under the BKT development block. The CS had a long interaction with the staff and doctors in the integrated Covid command centre trying to understand its functioning. He made random calls to two Covid patients from there through Dr Seema Singh and knew about their well-being. He asked officials to ensure that not only medicine kits were delivered to Covid patients at their home but they should also be briefed properly as to how to take medicines. During inspection of the smart city office in Lalbagh, the CS obtained information about the integrated traffic management system (ITMS) running the city’s traffic system. He asked officials to organise events aimed at making children aware of the hi-tech traffic management system. “Organise study tours of school students,” he told officials. Visiting the Sugarcane Research Institute, Telibagh, Mishra inspected the hybrid agriculture model that seeks to increase farmers’ income. The scientists there told the CS that the hybrid model had immense potential to bring qualitative change in the income of farmers. The CS laid emphasis on the need for linking farmers directly to the advance farm technology for better results. In the afternoon, he made surprise inspection of a paddy procurement centre in the Naveen Galla Mandi on Sitapur and checked records pertaining to the paddy purchase and payments to farmers. He also interacted with some farmers there. Later, he went to the Chak Prathvipur village panchayat under BKT and met farmers running self-help groups. He also inspected a make-shift cow protection centre in the village and issued necessary instructions to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-chief-secretary-goes-on-inspection-spree-issues-directions-to-officials-101642265775224.html
15-01-2022||Other||{Kerala nun rape case} Outrage mounts over acquittal; activists launch online campaign||Thiruvananthapuram A day after a Kottayam court acquitted former Bishop of Jalandhar, Franco Mullakal, 57, the lone accused in the Kerala nun rape case, women activists, activists and legal experts have criticised the verdict, claiming that it casts aspersions on the victim. Former Kerala high court judge, justice Kamal Pasha, said the verdict was a clear case of “miscarriage of justice”; he has also questioned some of the verdict’s findings. He added that the Supreme Court has clearly stated that an accused can be convicted on the testimony of the victim, if she is found to be credible and trustworthy.The case surfaced in June 2018 after a 43-year-old nun, also a mother superior belonging to the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab, filed a police complaint in Kottayam saying Mullakal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The complaint was filed in June 2018, but it took the police three months to arrest Mullakal in September.PROSECUTION TO MOVE HCThe prosecution team is mulling its options, including filing an appeal against the verdict in the high court. A part of this team, former superintendent of police S Harishankar, who supervised the investigation for three years, said, “We will approach the high court in a couple of days.” In an outburst against the verdict on Friday, he had said that “it was unprecedented in legal history”. A defence lawyer said this statement would be brought to the notice of the HC registrar. Some activists have started an online campaign “Avalkoppam” (with her) to vent their anger and outrage. While asking the government to move the HC, activists say the Covid situation is preventing them from carrying out candle-light protest marches. Mullakal visited his relatives and Kerala Congress leader PC George on Saturday. George, who has been backing Mullakal, said, “A move to dent the powerful church was foiled by believers.”WHAT THE COURT HAS SAID“There are exaggerations and embellishments in the victim’s statement. Police failed to seize the mobile phone of the victim, as it would have given some input into alleged messages sent by the accused. The in-fighting... of the nuns and desire for power and position to control congregation is evident,” additional district and sessions judge G Gopakumar says in his 289-page order; the victim’s statements were contradictory and corroborative evidences were missing, the judge added.“This is a case in which grain and chaff are inextricably mixed up... she made every attempt to hide certain facts. It is evident that the victim was swayed under the influence of others, who had vested interests in the matter,” the order says, adding, “This court is unable to place reliance on the solitary testimony of the victim and hold the accused guilty of offences charged against him.”“The court has agreed to all contentions put forward by the defence; the prosecution was also overconfident. It is a disappointing verdict for all suffering women,” said Joemon Puthanpurakkal, who had fought Sister Abhaya case for 28 years, where Abhaya’s body was found in a convent well; finally, a nun and a priest were convicted. “Soon after she filed a police complaint, there was a concerted social media attack on her by people close to the church. Many theories and stories were floated, once she filed a complaint. Sad, the court also fell into the defence trap,” said Sister Jesme, who came out of the congregation questioning the alleged ill-treatment by church authorities. She claimed that according to the court’s interpretation the relationship between the victim and accused was consensual, which was shocking.
15-01-2022||Pune||Omicron cases: 51% fully vaccinated, only 37 reported symptoms||PUNE As the district continues to report a surge in Covid-19 cases, the administration has stated that out of the 332 confirmed cases of Omicron variant that have been reported in the district 51% or 172 patients were vaccinated. However, out of these only 37 showed mild symptoms and the rest did not show any symptoms at all.Expressing concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in Pune and the rest of Maharashtra, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday said that as of now no new restrictions will be brought in but a decision will be taken next week depending upon the scenario. Pawar was chairing the weekly Covid review meeting.Pawar also said that more police personnel from both Pune and Mumbai are also reporting to be Covid-19 positive as recent events like at Bhima Koregaon saw many police personnel on duty for safety and vigilance. As of Saturday, Pune saw a total of 465 Covid-19 positive cases among police staff who have all been vaccinated. Out of the 465, 47 were senior level officers, and also a few have been hospitalised. Pawar also said that the policemen are now preparing to take the third dose also known as the precautionary dose which has already started in the city.Pawar reiterated that although the number of new cases is rising the rate of hospitalisation remains low. However, as per the data from the district health office, in the past week between December 30 and January 5, out of the over 11.000 active cases, 905 were hospitalised between January 6 and 12, out of the 38,000 active cases the number of hospitalisations has also gone up with 1,752 admitted due to Covid-19 . Out of these 1,752, 1,492 are on isolation beds without O2, 146 are on oxygen beds, 65 are on ICU beds and 49 are on ventilators in Pune district. However, 95% of the active Covid-19 cases currently in the district are under home isolation.BOXNew restrictions if state oxygen consumptions go beyond 700 mt dailyPawar said, “The only reason why cases are surging is because people are not following the Covid-19 protocols. We have also released funds from the state disaster response force for the pending payments if any towards the staff of the jumbo hospital in the city. If required, we will reopen the jumbo facilities. However as of now, despite the surge in cases, the rate of hospitalisation remains low. However, if the cases continue to surge and the oxygen consumption in the state goes beyond 700 metric tons daily, there will be new restrictions.”As of now, in the past week, the district’s oxygen consumption is close to 80 metric ton daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-cases-51-fully-vaccinated-only-37-reported-symptoms-101642265656462.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||25,000 smart LED streetlights to illuminate Karnal||Less than a month after ₹153 crore Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) for round-the-clock vigil on traffic movement in Karnal was made operational, now 25,000 smart and energy efficient LED streetlights will illuminate chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home constituency.This will be one of the 56 projects of over ₹1,171 crore approved under the Karnal Smart City Limited. The exact cost of this project was not disclosed yet but the officials associated with the project said the expected cost will be around ₹35 crore and the project has been awarded to a private company, HPL Electric and Power Limited.The company has already started survey of the city and the work will be completed in the next six months, officials said.Karnal deputy commissioner and CEO of the Karnal Smart City Limited said 25,000 smart LED streetlights will be installed in the city and the work order has already been issued.Yadav said the lights will be a fully-integrated system for light paired with smart-feeder panels and radio frequency-based individually-controlled lights.“Besides providing better lighting, this new technology will help save 50-70% energy as compared to conventional lights, besides automatically switching on and off in the daytime and night respectively, energy meter to record and analyse energy consumption, prevent theft, and fault monitor for reduced turnaround time.”He said this smart streetlight project will not only uplift the image of the city but will reduce the maintenance time and cost.Officials said traditional streetlights will be replaced with LED streetlights of 40 and 70 watt, and smart LED streetlights of 90, 150 and 200 watt.LED lights of less than 150 watt will be connected to the feeder-based panel and will be connected to separate connectors. The agency will be responsible for mapping of streetlights.Besides installation of new streetlights at multiple locations, all old streetlights will be replaced with new energy-efficient luminaries, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25000-smart-led-streetlights-to-illuminate-karnal-101642265416197.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Bangladeshi man missing after release from lucknow jail, another illegal immigrant deported||A Bangladeshi national, who was released in December 2021 after completing his 4-year jail term for illegally staying in India, has been missing for the past one month, said UP anti-terrorism squad (ATS) here on Saturday. A press note by the ATS said Yusuf Ali alias Nazrul was lodged in Lucknow district jail and was to be released on December 19, 2021. The jail authorities were supposed to hand him over to the ATS team so that he could have been deported to Bangladesh.However, he went missing as he was released a day before on December 18, 2021 due to negligence of some jail staff. The ATS has written to senior jail authorities demanding strict action against the erring jail staff. The ATS officials have also appealed to the public to inform the ATS team on its helpline number 9792103156 and email ID controlroom.ats-up@gov.in about any information about the elusive Bangladeshi. Meanwhile, another Bangaldeshi national Zaheer Khan, who was arrested from Kolkata with a fake Indian passport, was deported on Friday after completion of his four-year jail term. He was released from Lucknow jail on December 24, 2021. The press note stated that Khan was handed over to authorities of Border Security Force at Nadia, West Bengal for sending him back to Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bangladeshi-man-missing-after-release-from-lucknow-jail-another-illegal-immigrant-deported-101642265414798.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||48.69% crop area in Haryana registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’||As many as 6.45 lakh farmers in Haryana have registered their rabi crops on the state government’s ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal, a step mandatory for procurement of crops.According to the government portal, of the 89 lakh acre under cultivation of various crops during this rabi season, nearly 43.33 lakh acre have been registered on the portal, which is 48.69% of the target.Moreover, total 4.83 lakh farmers have registered wheat crop on 30.05 lakh acre area while 3.18 lakh farmers have registered mustard crop on 12 lakh acre. Rest of the farmers have registered barley, gram and vegetables.Registration of 184 villages in Haryana is zero so far. Farmers can get their crops registered by January 31 by visiting Atal Seva Kendras located in villages.Mahendergarh tops the tallyOf 3.62 lakh acre under cultivation, 2.40 lakh acre under cultivation of various crops, which is 66.31% of the total cumulative area, was registered in Mahendergarh.Followed this, Yamunanagar achieved 66.26% target by registering 2.09 lakh acre area of 3 lakh acre and Karnal bagged third spot by finishing 64.69% of its target.Hisar remained poor in the tally by achieving just 35.69% of its target, followed by Rohtak with 36.88% of the total target of 3.33 lakh, and Sonepat covered 1.53 lakh acre of total 4.14 lakh acre and achieved 36.98% of its target.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal’s home district Bhiwani achieved 41% target by registering 2.94 lakh acre land of total 7.10 lakh acre.Rohtak deputy director (agriculture) Wazir Singh, who also holds additional charge of Mahendergarh district which achieved the highest of its target in Haryana so far, said farmers of southern Haryana are getting habitual to registering their mustard and bajra crops since last two to three years.“Farmers of Rohtak cultivate wheat crop and nearly 70,000 acre under it in district are facing waterlogging problems. The farmers have been showing less interest in registering their crop on the portal,” he said.“Farmers of Mahendergarh are encouraged by the state government as it purchased their bajra and mustard crop at the minimum support price (MSP),” he added.On being asked about steps being taken to improve registration in Rohtak, Singh said he has directed the staff to organise camps in villages and register farmers’ crops on the portal.“We have been sending vans to villages to make farmers aware of the government’s decision to register crops on the portal so that farmers can sell their crop at MSP,” the Rohtak DDA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4869-crop-area-in-haryana-registered-on-the-meri-fasal-mera-byora-101642265234686.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||UP elections: Minister among five sitting BJP legislators denied tickets in Agra||Five of the nine sitting BJP MLAs, including a cabinet minister, in Agra district were denied tickets for the upcoming UP assembly elections as the saffron party declared its first list of candidates on Saturday.Polling in Agra will be held on February 10.BJP has fielded five new faces at Etmadpur, Agra Rural, Fatehpur Sikri, Fatehabad and Kheragarh.BJP had enjoyed huge success in 2017 UP assembly elections in Agra and won on all 9 seats, including the two reserved seats of Agra Cantt and Agra Rural. BJP dented the dominance of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) that had won 6 seats out of 9 in 2007 and 2012.BJP retained its sitting MLA at Agra Cantt (reserved), Agra North, Agra South and Bah assembly constituency. In the three urban seats, Purshottam Khandelwal has again been fielded from Agra North, Yogendra Upadhaya from Agra South and Dr GS Dharmesh, who is minister in Yogi cabinet- from Agra Cantt.Amongst rural seats, it is only Bah where sitting MLA Pakshalika Singh has again been given the ticket.In place of Chaudhary Uday Bhan Singh, presently a minister in state cabinet from Fatehpur Sikri, party has banked upon former BJP MP Chaudhary Babulal. Mahesh Goyal in Kheragarh has been replaced by Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha, former MLA for BSP and Hemlata Diwakar, sitting MLA from reserved seat of Agra rural was replaced by Baby Rani Maurya. Maurya had been governor of Uttrakhand and presently is national vice president of BJP. She had earlier contested from Etmadpur as BJP candidate but lost.Ram Pratap Singh, the sitting MLA from Etmadpur had defeated Dr Dharmpal (BSP) in 2017 assembly election but BJP has this time given ticket to Dr Dharampal replacing Ram Pratap Singh.Fatehabad seat also saw change with sitting MLA Jitendra Verma being replaced by former MLA Chotey Lal Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-elections-minister-among-five-sitting-bjp-legislators-denied-tickets-in-agra-101642264995763.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kaithal girl joins as consultant at UNESCO headquarters||Divya Sharma, 28, the daughter of a lab technician of Kaithal’s Kalayat town has been selected as an education policy and research consultant at the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) headquarters in Paris.Divya, a postgraduate of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Mohali had left the country in 2016 as she did her PhD in mathematics from Germany.She was doing internship at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris after completing her doctorate.“After a wonderful experience at @OECDEduSkills @OECD, I am excited to share that I joined @UNESCO HQ Paris as an education policy and research consultant this year. #newbeginnings I’ll be working with the global education monitoring @GEMReport team ad supporting the development,” Divya tweeted.Talking to HT, her father Mukesh Sharma said his family is overjoyed and she has made the country proud.Mukesh, chief technical officer at the government civil hospital in Kalayat, Kaithal, said, “Divya is my eldest daughter. My younger daughter has completed her postgraduation and their brother is doing graduation from IISER, Mohali.” Divya’s mother Sunita is a homemaker.Kaithal deputy commissioner Pradeep Dahiya congratulated Divya for her achievement and urged parents to provided equal opportunities to their daughters.
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Truck breaks down on railway tracks, train services disrupted between Kalyan and Vitthalwadi||The local train services between Kalyan and Vitthalwadi stations were hit after a truck broke down on the railway track during the evening peak hours on Saturday. The services were delayed by 30 minutes.As per the Kalyan railway officials, at around 5pm on Saturday, a call was received from railway (CSMT) control room that a truck broke down on the railway track between Kalyan and Vitthalwadi railway stations.The staff and workers of the Kalyan railway station reached the spot and began clearing the truck from the tracks. As per the railway officials, the truck was moved from the track by 5.45pm.“The services were delayed by half-an-hour due to the incident. However, after removing the truck from the track, the services were resumed,” said an officer of Kalyan railway station. 
15-01-2022||Mumbai||2 persons arrested for running fake call centre in Bhiwandi||The Chitalsar police in Thane have arrested two accused for running a fake call centre.Chitalsar police officials were searching a stolen mobile in a shop at Ganesh building, New Tawre compound, Narpoli in Bhiwandi, when they found three SIM boxes (a device that uses the internet to route international calls through local numbers, helping the callers evade international calling charges), 195 SIM cards, a WiFi router, two UPS and one laptop all amounting to ₹2.57 lakh.“A salesman was present at the shop and after digging deeper, we realised that the accused used the specific SIM box and a WiFi router to divert the international calls on Indian numbers that led to a revenue loss for the government. Following this, the two accused in this case were arrested and a case was registered at the Bhoiwada police station,” said an officer of Chitalsar police.As per the police, they were booked for causing losses to the department of telecommunications by helping people to evade international calling charges. 
15-01-2022||Ranchi||Jharkhand extends Covid-19 restrictions till January 31||The Jharkhand government on Saturday extended the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions in the state till January 31, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh said.Under the existing restrictions, which are in place since January 3, educational institutions will remain closed, and bars and restaurants and other business establishments shall down their shutters after 8pm, while a maximum of 100 people will be allowed to attend events such as weddings and funerals.The restrictions have been extended keeping in view the Covid-19 situation in the state, a notification issued by Singh, also the chairman of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), said.Parks, swimming pools, gymnasiums, zoos, places of tourist interest, stadiums and educational institutions shall remain closed till January 31.Classes will be held in the online mode, but administrative work can be done at schools, colleges and coaching centres with half the workforce.Cinema halls, restaurants, bars and shopping malls shall remain open till 8p with 50 per cent capacity. Government and private offices shall function with 50 per cent attendance.The spread of Covid-19 cases continued unabated as 3,749 more people tested positive for the infection, while three more patients succumbed to the disease, a health bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-january-31-101642262381565.html
15-01-2022||Patna||Bihar reports four Covid deaths in 24 hours||Bihar on Saturday reported four Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours and 6,325 fresh cases, which took the total number of active cases in the state to 35,916, according to the health department bulletin. In Patna, the number of active cases stood at 14,131, with 2,305 new cases found on January 14. As per the bulletin, the four deaths were reported from AIIMS, Patna, and one private hospital in Motihari. Of the deceased, two were female patients and two male in the age group of 54-68. Three of them had comorbidities. The recovery rate of patients slipped at 93.85% from 97.20% on January 7. The number of patients having recovered in the last 24 hours stood at 4489, as per health department’s data. Tests for Covid-19 have been ramped up. On January 14, total number of tests done both in government facilities and private facilities stood at 172,539 while on January 13, the number was 182,538.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-reports-four-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-101642262358615.html
15-01-2022||Other||Lock-up unlikely for 84-year-old man who took multiple shots of Covid vaccine||The 84-year-old man, who has been absconding since an FIR was lodged against him after his claim that he had taken 12 shots of Covid -19 vaccine, is unlikely to spend time in a lock-up, police said, adding that they have instructions from their superiors to go easy on him considering his age.The man, Brahmadev Mandal, in a recent video clip in circulation on the social media, had threatened to eliminate him if arrested.Deepak Chandra Das, station house officer (SHO) of Puraini police station, said, “The SHO has powers to grant a bail at the police station itself. The offence of the old man is not serious enough. It seems to be his ignorance and not a deliberate action.” Police sources said Madhepura’s superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kumar has directed the police station concerned not to send the old man in judicial custody and grant him bail at the police station. SP Kumar could not be contacted for his comment on the issue.Mandal, a resident of Orai village under Puraini police station of Madhepura district, had claimed he had taken 12 shots of Covid-19 vaccine at various camps by showing his Aadhaar card and that of his wife. He had also claimed the doses had benefited him immensely and cured his joint pain and helped him increase his appetite. He had also shown the paper in which he had jotted down the time and dates of the vaccination.Later, on the basis of his claim, an FIR (first information report) was lodged by the medical officer of Puraini primary health centre (PHC) under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty) and 188 (violation of government order) of the Indian Penal Code. Later, police visited Mandal’s house, but he had gome missing by then.Two days ago, RJD MLA from Madhepura,Chandra Shekhar, had written to Madhepura SP, pleading for leniency for Mandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockup-unlikely-for-84-year-old-man-who-took-multiple-shots-of-covid-vaccine-101642262357314.html
15-01-2022||Patna||8 die in Nalanda hooch tragedy||In yet another suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar where total prohibition on liquor was imposed in April 2016, eight people died and two fell critically ill allegedly due to consumption of illicit liquor late Friday evening in the chief minister Nitish Kumar’s home district of Nalanda, police said on Saturday.The toll could go higher, a local police officer said, requesting not be identified. Nalanda superintendent of police Ashok Kumar confirmed the deaths. “We are verifying details of the incident.” The deceased were identified by the local police as Bhago Mistri (55), Manna Mistri (55), Dharmendra alias Nageshwar Mistri (50) and Kalichanra Mistri (48), Sunil Kumar (24), Arjun Pandit (51), Jaipal Sharma (49) and Rakesh Kumar (45), all of them from Chhoti Palari and Pahar Talli areas under Sohsarai police station limits. Shivaji Chauhan and Ram Swarup, also from the same locality, are being treated at Bihar Sharif Sadar hospital. Their condition is stated to be serious. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Sadar, Sibli Nomani, under whose jurisdiction the incident occurred, said reasons for the deaths were not clear as yet. “Statements of the bereaved families are being recorded. Autopsy reports of the deceased are awaited to ascertain the exact cause of the deaths,” said Nomani. Director general of police SK Singhal could not be reached for his comment. More than 40 people had died allegedly after consuming spurious liquor in a month since Diwali last year in four districts of north Bihar — East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur. Allies trade fireMeanwhile, state BJP chief and West Champaran MP Sanjay Jaiswal on Friday once called for a review of prohibition law, saying the legislation may be “well intentioned but its implementation had brought shame to the state”. He was reacting to a social media post of by JD(U) spokesman Abhishek Jha, who had questioned Jaiswal’s visit to the houses of victims hooch tragedy in the latter’s home constituency. BJP and JD(U) are constituents of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar. JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan sought to blame those opposing the liquor ban. “Such incidents are abetted by elements who are utterly disappointed by the liquor law. So far as the state BJP chief’s assertion is concerned, I hope leaders of alliance abide by the coalition dharma and help the government enforce the law with full firmness. After all, they too have taken a pledge to make Bihar liquor free,” he said. Congress leader and former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh it was high time the liquor law is reviewed to save the poor who generally fall prey to spurious liquor. “Leaders of the ruling parties have openly said good brands of liquor are easily available in black market to those who can afford it. But the poor mostly resort to the illegally produced cheap country liquor,” he said. 
15-01-2022||Mumbai||CM faces heat over absence from office, BJP says he should handover charge||Mumbai Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is recuperating after spine surgery, is again facing the heat of his long absence from office from the opposition BJP. After Thackeray skipped an online meeting convened by Prime minister Narendra Modi on Covid on January 13 citing health reasons, the BJP has remarked that the state does not have a full-time chief minister for the past 70 days and he must hand over charge to someone else till he recovers. Thackeray’s absence from the recently concluded winter session of the state legislature has also been cited by the BJP.Thackeray, who had spine surgery in the second week of November 2021, has been recuperating since. Though he started virtual meetings (besides charing cabinet meetings in December) from January 1, his daily meetings or reviews of various departments have not restarted so far. “The state does not have a full-time chief minister for the last 70 days. The chief minister could not attend the meeting convened by prime minister Narendra Modi through video conferencing on the Covid-19 situation in the country. The health minister Rajesh Tope said that he (Thackeray) cannot sit for two or two-and-a-half hours at a stretch in a place. Therefore, till he recovers, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray must hand over the responsibility of the post,” Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said in Kolhapur.Thackeray, according to party insiders, has been advised by his doctors to not sit at a stretch which could strain his neck and back again. Patil said that when the third wave of Covid infections is in Maharashtra, missing such “crucial” meetings is not appropriate. Reacting to the criticism, Shiv Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that Thackeray’s health is much better now. “Yes, he did not participate in the meeting. Someday even the prime minister will not attend meetings. There may have been some other work. Health minister, who heads the department, was present in the meeting,” said Raut.Last month during the winter session, the state BJP chief had said that he won’t be surprised if Thackeray’s wife Rashmi’s name crops up for the chief minister post. The statement invited ire from the Shiv Sena leaders. Subsequently, a BJP functionary Jiten Gajaria posted a photo of Rashmi Thackeray, who is inactive in politics, with a caption that said ‘Marathi Rabri Devi’. The Mumbai Police called Gajaria over the objectionable social media post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-faces-heat-over-absence-from-office-bjp-says-he-should-handover-charge-101642261814490.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Air at 6 junctions in Thane city polluted with AQI 201-240||The air you breathe in at six of the major junctions in Thane city is polluted, revealed the annual pollution report for the year 2020-21 published by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).The air quality was measured at 21 junctions in the city. While six were in the polluted category with Air Quality Index ranging from 201-240, 14 others had moderate air quality ranging from 101-200. The data was measured in 2021 and states the closing down of local trains leading to increase in road travel as one of the major reasons for the air pollution. Apart from this, the ongoing construction works of bridges, road widening and Metro line 4 are also some of the reasons cited in the study.The annual pollution data revealed that while the air quality was better during the lockdown, the quality deteriorated after the unlock. Teen Hath Naka, Shilphata, Retibunder, Castle Mill, Balkum and Mumbra Fire Centre are some of the most polluted junctions in the city. The Air Quality Index of these junctions is between 200 and 240. An officer from TMC said, “With the train services hit in the lockdown, most people chose to travel by roads. Even after the train services resumed, many still preferred private vehicles or road travel to the crowded locals. This has led to traffic jams at some of the major junctions like Teen Hath Naka, Shilphata and Castle Mill, increasing the air pollution levels.”As per the RTO records, the vehicular population in Thane city has increased by around one lakh vehicles, from 22,17,699 in 2019-20 to 23,13,941. Out of these 13,41,544 are two wheelers while 4,77,797 are private cars and 45,512 are jeeps.The officer added that apart from an increase in vehicles on the roads, the ongoing bridges, road widening and metro projects too are adding to the city’s pollution. The dust on the roads, vehicular emissions, industrial emissions, diesel generator burning of farm stubbles, construction waste and domestic fuel are some of the other causes of pollution, as per the study of the pollution department.The corporation claimed that it has made a plan to reduce particulate matter by 20% to 30% till 2024.Nagesh Tekale, a city-based environmentalist, said, “Most of these junctions also have high rises adjoining the highways, so the air has no place for movement. Thus, the particulate matter and the pollution remain at the junction for long. There is also a need to change the signal system as people should get some warning when the signal turns green so they can switch off the vehicles instead of keeping them on. Regular misting or spraying of water on the roads also should be undertaken as it reduces the particulate pollutant in the air.”He added that the potholes and bad conditions of the roads also add to air pollution.57% increase in particulate pollutants during DiwaliThe level of Repairable Suspended Particulate Matter (RSPM) has increased by 57% during Diwali, as per the report. While the RSMP level was 133ug/m3 in Diwali 2020, the levels were as high as 233ug/m3 in Diwali 2021. The reason, claimed the pollution department, must be the increase in use of noise-free crackers as the noise emitting crackers are banned by the government.Most polluted junctions in Thane city Junctions: Air Quality Index Teen Hath Naka 236 (Polluted) Shilphata 230 (Polluted) Retibunder 227 (Polluted) Castle Mill 220 (Polluted) Mumbra Fire Centre 218 (Polluted) Balkum Naka 201 (Polluted) Shastri Nagar Naka 199 (Moderate) Waghbil Naka 197 (Moderate) TMCs plan to reduce pollution by 2024 •More e-buses and e-charging stations•Wider roads which will reduce traffic and emissions•Green buffer zone and cycle tracks along the traffic corridors •Water fountains at 20 junctions to generate mist in the air •Seven new dust sweeping machines added to the fleet
15-01-2022||Delhi||Disabled, pregnant women employees of Delhi govt to work from home: DDMA||Amid a Covid surge in the national capital, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority has exempted persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees of the city government's departments and agencies from attending office.Such employees will work from home, the DDMA said in an order issued on Friday.Considering the health and safety of people, persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees will be exempted from attending duties related to essential as well as non-essential services in offices of departments, PSUs, corporations, autonomous bodies, local bodies of the Delhi government, it stated.Such employees will have regular communication with their offices through mobile phone or email while working from home, the order stated.Earlier, the DDMA had directed all Delhi government employees associated with non-essential services to work from home. However, employees associated with essential services may work from their offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/disabled-pregnant-women-employees-of-delhi-govt-to-work-from-home-ddma-101642260928822.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Kharegaon ROB in Kalwa inaugurated; motorists heave sigh of relief||Thousands of commuters and pedestrians who have been forced to cross the Kharegaon level-crossing can now heave a sigh of relief. The Kharegaon Rail Over Bridge was finally inaugurated on Saturday after missing several deadlines.The inauguration, however, was surrounded by a lot of political drama with both NCP and Shiv Sena leaders taking credit for the work.The issue of the bridge was stuck for over two decades owing to several permissions from various authorities. The bridge was first proposed in 2000, approved in 2008 and the work began in 2014.The ₹38Cr ROB was proposed to close the railway gate at Kharegaon, which the residents of Kalwa had to cross to reach Kalwa Railway Station, leading to accidents. The motorists, too, had to wait for a long while to cross this railway line. The ROB is constructed by Thane Municipal Corporation and the Railway authorities together.The bridge was inaugurated by Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde, and State Housing Minister, Jitendra Awhad. Awhad said, “The real development in Kalwa began in 2009 when I was elected as an MLA here. Till then, there was not even a proper road in Kharegaon. Now there are no potholes on the roads in Kalwa. We have set an example through the development in Kalwa.”Shinde added, “Taking the credit of the bridge should be avoided as every party and every agency has worked towards completion of the bridge. The important thing is people now have the bridge which will save hundreds of lives every year. We have never stopped funds for the development of Kalwa and Mumbra. Funds were provided without thinking about who is in power in these suburbs.”
15-01-2022||Pune||Delta still dominant strain, Omicron slowly gaining pace: health dept||PUNE Based on the genome sequencing of over 4,200 RT-PCR positive samples, the state health department officials and experts believe that Delta still continues to dominate the infection while Omicron is slowly gaining pace.Despite the surge in cases, rate of hospitalisation has been low which could possibly be because the vaccines could be preventing severity of symptoms, experts have said. However, with Delta still in dominance, better planning with regards to availability of beds, oxygen and further vaccination strategy is crucial.The state in its letter dated January 14, to all district collectors and administrators noted that in the last three weeks the surge in the new Covid-19 cases was reported mainly in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Pune and Nagpur. The state has also observed of the 2,40,133 active Covid-19 cases reported as of January 12 this year, only 9.1% or 21,783 had to be hospitalised while the rest are in home isolation. Among the hospitalised patients, 74.2% have mild symptoms and only 2.3% needed ICU/ Oxygen support and 700 patients or 0.29% are on ventilators.The state has also stated that since November 1, 2021, out of the 4,265 RTPCR positive samples that have been sent for whole genomic sequencing, results are available in 4,201 cases. Out of available results Omicron has been detected in 1,367 cases which is only in 32% of the cases while in 68% cases reported Delta variant of Covid is still prevalent. Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary wrote that low rate of admissions show that better vaccination is preventing serious illness in Covid infection, and so above observations should be taken into consideration with proper perspective of circulating Delta variant and vaccination cover.Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, head, Microbiology Department at BJ Medical College said, “As per the latest data slowly and steadily Omicron is replacing Delta and its variants. However, this is not the case for all of Maharashtra. Most of the samples that are being sequenced at BJ Medical College, which are mostly samples that are from Pune and Mumbai. Soon enough we will also be sequencing samples from across all the districts, at least 100 samples, the results of which will be published by the end of January as it takes time to run the samples for genome sequencing.”The state wrote that “…But still above observations can help us in our planning and strategy to fight Covid. The availability of good quality data to know actual bed occupancy and utilisation of oxygen beds, ICU and ventilators becomes very important. We need to have a clear plan with a clearly scalable strategy, if the need arises. Till that time, we can probably use our energy and resources to better monitor the cases under home isolation and create awareness about signs & symptoms, when the home isolated patient should seek the care in hospital and rapidly increase coverage of Covid vaccination.Earlier this week, Commissioner Pune division, Saurabh Rao during an interview with Hindustan Times said the fatality rate of Covid-19 is very low right now as most positive thing of the current wave is that the infection is not affecting lungs. One reason, according Rao, has been that in the present scenario, both Omicron and Delta are affecting people. “As per the virus behaviour, it is predicted that in the later part of the wave, Omicron will replace Delta completely and the fatality rate may again go down,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/delta-still-dominant-strain-omicron-slowly-gaining-pace-health-dept-101642257680118.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||More than 55,000 beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid in ‘har ghar dastak’ campaign in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has, till now, vaccinated more than 55,000 beneficiaries through ‘har ghar dastak’ (door-to-door) programme.The ‘har ghar dastak’ programme was initiated by Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, from November 11, 2021. According to Bangar, upto 11,000 Covid tests are being performed daily and emphasis is being placed on increasing the scope of vaccination using various means to achieve 100% coverage of both doses of Covid vaccination as soon as possible.A total of 55,296 people have been vaccinated near their homes since November 11 in the ‘har ghar dastak’ campaign. The campaign has been implemented via 859 sessions and 18,481 citizens above 18 years of age have been vaccinated with the first dose while 36,780 citizens have been vaccinated with the second dose. In the same campaign, 35 citizens have also been vaccinated with booster dose.Similarly, from December 20, 2021, a similar campaign was initiated in ambulances and buses converted into vaccination booths at strategic places like markets, railway stations and bus depots in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation area. A total of 13,204 citizens have been vaccinated in 623 places under this innovative initiative.Apart from this, Covid vaccination centres have also been set up at five railway stations – Vashi, Nerul, Ghansoli, Airoli and Koparkhairane. In a total of 208 sessions at these five railway stations, 17,831 citizens have received vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-55-000-beneficiaries-vaccinated-against-covid-in-har-ghar-dastak-campaign-in-navi-mumbai-101642256354005.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Three ATM machines targeted in two days in failed theft attempts in Pune||PUNE In two days, two separate cases of attempted ATM thefts were reported from two areas of Pune city, said officials on Saturday.According to police, a man entered an ATM kiosk in Sainagar area of Kondhwa and cut off the CCTV and motion sensors’ wires at 3 am on Friday. Unaware of the security alarm, the man tried to steal cash from the ATMIn another case, two men entered a kiosk in Khadki and tried to bust open two ATM machines using metal rods and thin rulers of steel on Thursday at 1.15 pm. The men damaged the outlet that dispenses money in an attempt to reach the cash, said officials.“In the Kondhwa case, we received information from the security company that handles the security. The accused entered the kiosk and cut all connection wires of the CCTV. The security alarm tripped and the Hyderabad-based security company got an alert. He got scared and ran away,” said police sub-inspector Samadhan Machale of Kondhwa police station.While the Khadki incident was reported by an official working at the Baner-branch of a Thane-based company that manages the ATM. The thieves could not break open the machine but managed to cause damage to the machines. Assistant police inspector Amar Kadam of Khadki police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-atm-machines-targeted-in-two-days-in-failed-theft-attempts-in-pune-101642255814019.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||HC to state: Respond to PIL over shortage of stamp papers in Mumbai||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the state government to respond to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), raising concern over shortage of non-judicial stamp papers in Mumbai, primarily due to lesser number of vendors. “The issue of dearth of stamp vendors raised by the petitioner, prima facie, is serious and requires to be examined further,” said the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik, directing the government to file in two weeks it’s reply to the PIL filed by advocate and activist Swapnil Kadam.Kadam has moved HC through advocate Uday Warunjikar, highlighting that while there are 3,556 licensed stamp paper vendors across Maharashtra, the city has only 13, resulting in acute shortage of stamp papers across Mumbai. In his PIL, Kadam has stated that in the year 1999, the city had more than 250 licensed stamp vendors, but the number drastically went down after many of them surrendered their licenses and stopped vending stamp papers, as they were either prosecuted or apprehended prosecution for selling counterfeit stamps in the fake stamp paper scam involving Abdul Karim Laadsab Telgi.In the backdrop of the scam, in March 2004, the government took a policy decision to grant stamp vending licenses only to institutions like banks, post offices. The PIL, however, points out that while hardly any license was issued to any such institution in Mumbai, the Additional Controller of Stamps in Mumbai closed down 8 government-run stamp selling counters, resultantly today the city has only 13 licensed vendors - 12 individuals and a bank run by Mantralaya employees.Kadam has alleged that the union of the 12 licensed vendors have “influenced” the office of the Collector of Stamps and brought about the situation in order to keep the income from 3℅ commission on sale of stamped papers and adhesive stamps, especially the stamps of denomination of ₹100 and ₹500, which are frequently required and used by the general public.According to the PIL, the sale of these two stamped papers have gone to the extent of ₹100 crore annually, but in 2020 - being a Covid pandemic year, the sale was limited to ₹65.68 crore. Alleging that the sale of stamp papers in Mumbai has been deliberately kept in limited hands, the petitioner lawyer has also stressed upon the need for an independent inquiry in the entire episode.The PIL also highlighted that under the high court’s directives of December 2014, 13 stamp papers vends were started by advocates associations at various courts in Mumbai, but those counters have also been indirectly compelled to close down since 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-to-state-respond-to-pil-over-shortage-of-stamp-papers-in-mumbai-101642255573960.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||From Tambola to Ludo: #WeekendCurfew scene just got exciting!||As you wonder how to keep yourself upbeat while you stay indoors during the weekend curfew and wait for the number of Covid-19 cases to come down again, here’s some inspo from your neighbouring societies. Utilising the time to interact with each other on a playful note, many society groups and Residents’ Welfare Associations are reviving their game sessions that had become a hit during the last two Covid-19 waves too. From Tambola to Ludo, there are quite a few options that are adding thrill to the otherwise boring evenings. “In our Attraction Family Group, we’ve started virtual Tambola and Ludo sessions. We have reserved the slot from 5pm to 6pm, but if the curfew continues for longer, we might start a late night slot too,” says Shikha Ahuja, a resident of Shalimar Bagh.Explaining how they play virtually, among the society members, Ahuja adds: “For Ludo, we make different chat rooms on an online app, which is accessible for four players to play at a time. For Tambola, we have a WhatsApp group where I take pictures of the tickets and send them for a nominal price to those who want to play. Once the players have saved their tickets, we start the game. To draw the numbers randomly, I use an app, and as soon as the number appears on my screen, I write it on the group. Anyone who manages to scratch the numbers in one row or crack a full house first, is asked to upload the picture. The prize money is transferred to the winner then. ” Pitampura-based Kriti Singhal, who runs a youth community, is also organising a number of exciting activities for residents of her society. “Besides games, we have also planned some other activities such as virtual satsangs. And weekend curfew is the best time to play treasure hunt virtually! This is arranged in a way that it becomes possible to play within the house, by hunting for items based on the clues we give online. Recently, we also played a Lohri-themed game where the families competed to show who possessed the maximum number of Lohri essentials such as rewari, peanut, dhol, etc,” says Singhal.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-tambola-to-ludo-weekendcurfew-scene-just-got-exciting-101642254915402.html
15-01-2022||Pune||District collectorate completes hearing in Hadapsar Masjid land case||PUNE The Pune district collector’s office has begun hearing in connection with the sale of 63.05 acre of land belonging to Hadapsar Masjid in Hadapsar The High Court had ordered Haveli Tahsildar to conduct a hearing of all the parties in the case in its order on December 8, 2021.The Haveli tehsildar accordingly had summoned all the stakeholders including the Maharashtra Wakf Board for hearing on December 30, 2021, however, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh did not comment on the case.Recently, the Maharashtra State Wakf Board conducted a meeting wherein the board members have instructed the district administration of formulating policies for protecting state waqf land from encroachment and unauthorised sale.The Maharashtra Wakf Board is in the process of constituting a special committee to look into ways and means in increasing revenue generation from waqf properties across the state. The wakf committee will look into avenues for increasing revenue generation from properties and will look into prospects of increasing the revenue through fresh survey and evaluation of the properties which are currently fetching rents as low as ₹200 per month.The urban development department officials including revenue officials at the district collectorate levels will be roped in to ensure that the process is made smooth for the waqf board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/district-collectorate-completes-hearing-in-hadapsar-masjid-land-case-101642254914039.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Sarvodaya Enclave lost 143 trees in 7 years, Delhi forest dept finds||An inspection by the state’s forest and wildlife department in south Delhi’s Sarvodaya Enclave has found that 143 trees went ‘missing’ between 2012 and 2019, nearly double the originally estimated figure of 77 trees that locals and activists cited after a tree census over the two years.The inspection was carried out using a combination of satellite imagery and a physical re-census, following orders issued by the Delhi high court on October 11 last year, asking the forest and wildlife department to take action within six weeks’ time.The inspection report found that the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and Public Works Department (PWD) as the land-owning and maintenance agencies responsible for the areas the trees went missing from.While the forest department has in its inspection report recommended a fine of ₹1 lakh per tree for SDMC and PWD for each tree that either went missing or was illegally felled in their jurisdiction, along with being made to plant 10 saplings for each tree, the Delhi high court will take a final decision in the matter on January 19.Amit Anand, the deputy conservator of forests (south), who was part of the inspection process, said field sheets for the 2012 and 2019 censuses were acquired from the Compassionate Living NGO, which was involved in the original count, as per court orders. HT has seen a copy of the inspection report.According to the 2012 census, Sarvodaya Enclave had 787 trees, with the figure dropping to 731 trees in 2019, despite 21 new trees being planted. The field sheets had information on each street of the neighbourhood, along with characteristics of the trees, including the species, girth, location, height, health, as well as ground and soil conditions.“The field staff of the south forest division verified the field sheets of the 2012 census report by conducting a physical re-census on the ground and also using satellite imagery to aid in the process. The field sheets of both censuses [2012 and 2019] were acquired from the aforesaid trust. The ground verification revealed that instead of the earlier number of 77 trees allegedly missing/alleged felled as per a complaint dated December 8, 2020, 143 trees were found to be missing on site,” said the inspection report, which found 94 missing trees on land under the South Delhi civic body, and 32 trees under PWD’s jurisdiction. The remaining were part of private properties.The species of missing trees include Gular, Amaltas, Shahtoot, Ashok, Gulmohar, Peepal, Harsingar, Belpatra, Champa and Kadi patta species.The HC last year ordered the South Delhi municipal body to free trees in Vasant Vihar of concrete. HT in December 2020 reported that of the 4,993 trees on the streets of Vasant Vihar, 3,859 were heavily concretised. A tree census conducted by local residents showed over 450 trees had nails, tree guards, barbed wires in or around them, 764 trees were lopped off and at least 793 trees were infested with termites.The report also said that during the first hearing in the high court on December 9 last year, SDMC and PWD failed to submit affidavits regarding the trees going missing, after which each agency was given an additional seven days to submit the details.Separate notices were again issued to the horticulture directors of SDMC and PWD on December 24, with the list of missing trees. However, in his report, Anand said neither of the agencies was able to justify the trees going missing.The report said that on a hearing on December 30, the PWD officer appearing for the department was ‘completely unaware’ of the missing trees and was given 15 days to submit a list of all civil work carried out in the areas the trees went missing. Failing to do this, the Delhi high court said, will result in a fine of ₹1 lakh per tree, along with directions to plant 10 trees for each one missing.The Delhi high court will hold a final hearing in the matter on January 19.Similarly for the SDMC, a submission made before the forest and wildlife department said that between 2011 and 2019, the civic agency received 28 calls regarding trees that were impacted by or had fallen due to the rain. Of these, three were marked as ‘dangerous’ trees. The forest department in its report said no permission was sought to fell the three dangerous trees, which is another violation under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994.The inspection report states the civic body also does not know the present status of these trees.During this period, the SDMC also received 13 letters, seeking permission to cut or prune trees, but the report says the south corporation is yet to furnish details about the status of the trees. A similar fine of ₹1 lakh per tree has been recommended.“It is needless to remind the concerned officials of the SDMC that in case no specific information is submitted on duly sworn affidavit containing their submission with regard to the list of missing/illegally felled trees, it will be presumed that the SDMC that the SDMC has no submission to make and the matter would proceed in accordance with the law. Further, a fine of ₹1 lakh per tree shall be imposed, along with a direction to plant 10 trees for each missing/illegally felled tree,” the order states.Bhavreen Kandhari, an environmental activist, who filed the initial complaint with the forest and wildlife department in December, 2020 and a subsequent complaint in the Delhi high court, says the 143 trees going missing is a figure linked to just one Delhi neighbourhood, with similar problems occurring across the entire city. “Trees are going missing and only when public citizens and acting and carrying out a census on their own, are we finding about the problem. This also shows how satellite imagery can be used to find out about missing trees,” says Kandhari.Padmavati Dwivedi, an activist who carried out the original 2012 and the subsequent 2019 tree censuses in the neighbourhood, said even more trees may have been lost in the years after the second census.“The second census began in 2016 and we were able to finish it by the end of 2017. By the time this census report came out in 2018 and 2019, we still had relatively older data. If we factor in the years following the second census and carry out a third census now, we will find even more trees would have vanished.” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sarvodaya-enclave-lost-143-trees-in-7-years-delhi-forest-dept-finds-101642253653316.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Flamingoes spotted in Kharghar wetlands after 2 years and 7 months||After two years and seven months, the flamingoes are back in the Kharghar wetlands, creating a lot of buzz among the bird watchers and nature lovers in the area. Many residents in the area spotted these winged wonders on Friday evening and passed on the message so that more people could spot them.“As we were strolling in the joggers’ area off Vastu Vihar society, we noticed these avian guests,” said an elated Naresh Chandra Singh.Other nature lovers, Seema Tonk and Jyoti Nadkarni, also spent over a couple of hours till beyond the sunset on Friday enjoying the scenery and taking pictures.Bird watchers and activists celebrated the development as a ‘Sankranti Day’ gift from Nature and exchanged notes on social media, Singh said. “Instead of flying kites, we had these lovely birds flying in,” he said.“This reinforces the point that the mudflats, mangroves and wetlands of the area need to be protected for maintaining nature’s balance,” said NatConnect Foundation director BN Kumar, who has earlier complained to the government and the High Court-appointed mangrove committee about the destruction of mangroves and mudflats in Kharghar.Kharghar has witnessed golden jackals earlier and researchers like Tarang Sarin have been spotting a host of butterflies and birds in the area. “It is this natural heritage and biodiversity that we have to protect and conserve,” Sarin said.Kumar tweeted to Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray that being a lover of biodiversity, “he must make sure that the flora and fauna of Navi Mumbai and the entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region is protected”. The government must look beyond South Mumbai, he said.“Mangrove ecosystem not only hosts the sea forests but also other elements such as sparse mangroves, intertidal grasslands, mudflats, water bodies that are all of a great significance to the entire ecosystem,” said Nandakumar Pawar of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.NatConnect, which is working with BNHS on Project MMR Biodiversity, said the latest developments will be highlighted in the documents to be submitted to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/flamingoes-spotted-in-kharghar-wetlands-after-2-years-and-7-months-101642253474001.html
15-01-2022||Bangalore||Karnataka's daily Covid cases near 33,000; over 22,000 in Bengaluru alone||Daily Covid-19 cases in Karnataka breached the 30,000-mark and were recorded at 32,793 on Saturday, as against 28,723 a day ago, state health minister Dr Sudhakar K informed. Bengaluru, the state capital, alone accounted for 22,284 fresh infections, up from 20,121 on January 14, data shared by Sudhakar showed.
15-01-2022||Delhi||Covid waste collectors run pillar to post, receive gratitude for their work||Bimit Vishwakarma, a Covid-19 waste collector from Gurugram doesn’t deny the fear that he and many of his colleagues still overcome on a daily basis while on duty. “Darr toh lagta hai, but we do our job while ensuring that we’re wearing PPE kit and maintaining social distancing,” says this executive, who is one among the many collectors visiting homes and RWAs to collect Covid waste. “Jo location di jaati hain, hum wahan pahunch jaate hain aur Covid waste collect karte hai. We have to ensure that we pick the medicines, disposable items, PPE kits, and masks from Covid-infected families or individuals. Jaise cases badhte hain, we divide our work. We park our vehicle near the house and use a stick to ring the door bell. We ask the residents to come and throw the waste in the vehicle,” adds Vishwakarma. Bhagwati Prasad Sharma, a Gurugram-based retired Border Security Force personnel, who had recently called for waste collection from his house, recalls, “We were very grateful for the collectors. Woh apni life ko risk kar rahe hain is kaam mein. And, we, as responsible residents, need to ensure a smooth disposal of biomedical waste by segregating the waste. Ghar ka garbage nahin dalna chhaiye iske saath.”Harsh Bhagat, another Covid waste collector from Gurugram, shares how despite taking all precautions and maintaining transparency, people are still afraid. “People message us when they test Covid positive, and then we inform them specifically that we’ll pick only the Covid waste and not the regular garbage. We follow protocol and take all precautions. Lekin log ghabrate hain. Aaj kisi ka phone aya aur woh ghabrahat mein humse kehne lage ‘Kal mere pitaji theek ho jaayenge toh aaj mat aana, kal aana waste lene’.”Sharing what a normal day during the influx of cases looks like, Ajay Kumar, a Covid waste collector with New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) says, “Main dhai saal se Covid waste collect kar raha hoon. Hum subah 4 baje assemble hote hai. Main PPE Kit pehen ke, aur sir ka face shield pehen ke nikalta hoon. Din ke 500-700 ghar cover karte hain hum. Kabhi toh 1,000 ghar bhi ho jaate hai. Ghar jaake nahata hoon ache se. Har roz ek nayi PPE kit pehente hai. Alag toilet bhi milta hai. Mujhe abhi tak Corona nahin hua hai .”Explaining the rigours of the process, Dr Rahul Singh, Nodal officer for Covid-19, Medical Services Department, NDMC informs, “The list of people who have turned positive is divided according to their locality and given to the collectors and drivers. They are sent fully sanitised in PPE kits. I also give them extra gloves. My prime responsibility is their safety as they go to collect the trash, which is brought to a nodal point and segregated further.” The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday began special arrangements to lift bio-medical waste from homes of Covid-19 positive patients in its jurisdiction and has lifted nearly 750 kilograms of bio-medical waste from all four zones from January 1 to 13. The helpline numbers for the same are 011-40988800 (South Zone), 011-49506548 (West Zone), 7290041009 (Central Zone) and 8010863863 (Nazafgarh Zone).Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
15-01-2022||Delhi||Traffic advisory issued in Delhi ahead of Republic Day Parade rehearsal||The Delhi Police on Saturday issued a traffic advisory ahead of Republic Day Parade rehearsal next week.According to the advisory, rehearsals of Republic Day Parade-2022 shall be held on Raj Path on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday from Vijay Chowk to India Gate.During rehearsal, traffic will be restricted at Rajapth-Rafi Marg, Rajpath-Janpath, Rajpath-Man Singh Road and Rajpath-C-Hexagon from 9 am to 12 pm, it said, adding that Rajpath from Vijay Chowk to India Gate will also remain closed for traffic.The parade will start from Vijay Chowk and go to C-Hexagon via Rajpath.The traffic will be diverted. Commuters are requested to observe traffic rules, road discipline and follow directions of traffic police personnel deployed at all intersections, the advisory said.It suggested the commuters to take alternative route from north to south and vice versa using Ring Road (Ashram Chowk-Sarai Kale Khan-I P Flyover-Rajghat), from Lajpat Rai Marg-Mathura Road-Bhairon Road-Ring Road, from Aurobindo Marg-Safdarjung Road-Kamal Attaturk Mar-Kautilaya Marg-Sardar Patel Marg- Mother Teresa Crescent-RML-Baba Kharak Singh Marg, from Prithvi Raj Road-Rajesh Pilot Marg-Subramaniam Bharti Marg-Mathura Road-Bhairon Road-Ring Road and from Burfkhana-Azad Market-Rani Jhansi Flyover-Punchkuian Road-Hanuman Murti-Vande Matram Marg-Dhaula Kuan.Similarly, from east to west and vice versa, the commuters have been advised to take Ring Road-Bhairon Road-Mathura Road-Subramaniam Bharti Marg-Rajesh Pilot Marg-Prithvi Raj Road-Safdarjung Road-Kamal Ataturk Marg-Panchsheel Marg-Simon Boliver Marg-Upper Ridge Road-Vande Matram Marg, etc.The commuters coming to Central Secretariat and Connaught Place from south should take Mother Teresa Crescent-Park Street-Mandir Marg/Baba Kharak Singh Marg or Ring Road-Vande Matram Marg-Link Road-Panchkuian Road or Ring Road-Sardar Patel Marg-11 Murti-Mother Teresa Crescent-R/A RML-North Avenue or Baba Kharak Singh Marg, the advisory stated.Those coming to Vinay Marg, Shanti Path and going to New Delhi and beyond should take Sardar Patel Marg-Mother Teresa Crescent-R/A RML-Baba Kharak Singh Marg or Park Street-Mandir Marg and proceed further, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-advisory-issued-in-delhi-ahead-of-republic-day-parade-rehearsal-101642251384758.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi records 20,718 new Covid-19 cases, 15% less than yesterday||Delhi on Saturday reported a further 15 per cent dip in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case numbers, recording 20,718 new cases in the past 24 hours. This is the second day in a row that the daily Covid-19 tally in the national capital has continued to decrease after it showed a hike for four consecutive days earlier.With this, the cumulative tally of total Covid-19 cases in Delhi has reached 17,11,268, according to numbers provided by the Delhi state health bulletin on Saturday.On Thursday, Delhi had recorded 28,867 cases, its biggest-ever single-day count since April last year when the dreadful second wave was active across the country.In the past 24 hours, the disease claimed the lives of 30 people in the national capital, also a decrease from the 34 fatalities recorded on Friday and the 31 on Thursday. The overall death toll has now reached 25,335, the health bulletin data revealed.The positivity rate of the national capital remains above the 30 per cent-mark, up from 29.21% two days ago. At the same time, as many as 19,554 patients had recovered from the coronavirus infection and were discharged from hospitals after being treated for the same.The number of patients admitted to hospitals due to coronavirus climbed to 2,618 on Saturday, up from 2,446 on Friday and 2,369 on Thursday.A total of 2,620 people are currently hospitalised in Delhi and barring the 2,518 patients who have confirmed Covid-19 infections, as many as 102 are suspected cases of the virus.Delhi is currently under night curfew between 11pm and 5am along with weekend curfew. Schools, colleges, gyms, cinemas, and restaurants are also shut.The current surge in Covid-19 cases across the country is owing to the Omicron outbreak. Delhi is one of the top three most-hit regions by Omicron variant in the country. A new study into Delhi Covid-19 samples between November 25 and December 23 last year has also indicated that there was an eventual community spread of the Omicron in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-20-718-new-covid-19-cases-15-less-than-yesterday-101642249507183.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal govt lifts ban on social, religious gatherings with riders||The Himachal Pradesh government has lifted the ban on social and religious gatherings imposed after the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. However, such congregations would be subject to strict riders. Also read: Can you get Omicron twice? Possible, say epidemiologistsAccording to the latest orders issued by chairman of the state executive council and chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh, all social and religious congregations, including marriages, are permitted up to 50% of the capacity, subject to a maximum of 100 people in indoor/built-up/covered areas (whichever is lower). In open spaces or outdoor areas, such congregations are permitted up to 50% of the capacity, subject to a maximum of 300 people (whichever is lower). Prior intimation of gatherings shall be given to the district or sub divisional administration and the local administration can impose additional conditions upon the organisers, as deemed fit, in context of the local Covid-19 situation. “The district administration shall develop a mechanism to monitor permissions granted for such events and there shall be strict observance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and safety protocols during these gatherings,” the order says. Earlier, in an order issued last Sunday, the government had prohibited social and religious gatherings. However, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, political and other congregations were allowed up to 50% of the capacity and subject to a maximum of 100 people in indoor and 300 people outdoor. Kangra administration revises guidelines for Sunday The Kangra district administration has issued revised guidelines for marketplaces and bazaars for Sunday and the shops which are exempted from the restrictions. Kangra deputy commissioner Dr Nipun Jindal said all shops and markets will remain closed irrespective of the weekly holiday observed by the respective market. However, chemist shops, medical laboratories, nursing homes and other medical services/institutes, fuel outlets which shall be allowed to open without any time constraint. Shops dealing with essential supplies will be allowed to open till 7pm. He said that the dhabas and eateries may remain open till 10pm with strict adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and adherence to capacity restrictions. Takeaway, home delivery shall be preferred and authoriaed liquor vends shall be governed by the orders of the excise department, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-govt-lifts-ban-on-social-religious-gatherings-with-riders-101642249878854.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||178 Navi Mumbai police personnel test positive for Covid, all barring 3 home quarantined||In the Navi Mumbai police commissionerate, 178 police personnel have been affected by Covid during the third wave. Of these, 36 are officers and 142 are employees.All the 36 officers are fully vaccinated and hence suffering from mild symptoms and are home quarantined. Of the 142 employees, three are hospitalised while the remaining 139 are home quarantined. Among the 142, 139 have taken both the vaccination doses while three others have taken only one dose.The institutional quarantine centres, Savali in Nerul and Nivara in Kalamboli, are empty as the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters), Abhijeet Shivthare, informed that all the infected are in good health and none are facing any severe infections.During the first wave, 824 police personnel were infected, of which 11 died. In the second wave, 181 were found positive of which one died.“About 98% of the police personnel in Navi Mumbai Police have been fully vaccinated and preparations have begun to give booster doses to the police personnel who have taken both the doses and completed 39 weeks. So far, 477 have received booster dose. We have also started providing masks and sanitisers to the police on duty as per the instructions given by the State Government to prevent them from getting infected with Covid,” Shivthare said.When found positive, the wellness team looks into the admission and record keeping of the patients. “During the second wave, the challenge was in getting admission in hospitals. Navi Mumbai police have a tie up with 16 hospitals in Navi Mumbai, so we used to help the patients and their families in getting admission in one of those hospitals. The biggest worry then was lack of oxygen. Fortunately, this time, there is no requirement for admission,” police inspector Jagdish Kulkarni, one of the members of the wellness team, said.The police have also started sanitising all the police stations and police headquarters within the limits of the Navi Mumbai police commissionerate.“We are making sure that 55 years and above staff are given office duty and all the staff work in rotation in shifts,” Deputy Commissioner Of Police (Special Branch), Rupali Ambure, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/178-navi-mumbai-police-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-all-barring-3-home-quarantined-101642249877332.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Digambar Durgade elected as president of Pune District Co-operative Bank||PUNE Digambar Durgade has been elected as the president of Pune District Central Co-operative (PDCC) Bank on Saturday. Sunil Chandere is appointed as the vice-president.PDCC Bank is dominated by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The elections were held for 21 seats on January 2 and NCP had won 16 seats.Three state ministers, Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister; Dilip Walse Patil, home minister and Dattatray Bharne, minister of state for forest are the directors of PDCC among 18 other directors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/digambar-durgade-elected-as-president-of-pune-district-co-operative-bank-101642248673649.html
15-01-2022||Kolkata||West Bengal extends Covid restrictions till January 31, allows marriage events with 200 people. Check details||West Bengal on Saturday extended coronavirus-related restrictions till January 31, news agency PTI reported citing an official order. While most curbs remain in place according to the earlier order released on January 2, the Trinamool Congress-led state government has provided certain relaxations.The government has permitted marriage events to be held with a maximum of 200 people or 50 per cent of the venue's capacity - whichever is lesser, the official order revealed. Furthermore, fairs have also been allowed on open grounds with rigid restrictions in order to maintain adherence to safety norms.The order was issued by Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi. It has directed police, local authorities and district administrations to make sure strict compliance with the norms are followed.The state government in its fresh order stated that the decision to extend Covid-related restrictions has been made in view of the Omicron variant of the virus. India has detected 6,041 Omicron cases so far.Notably, the earlier issued restrictions in Bengal were supposed to end on Saturday (January 15).The latest announcement comes as West Bengal on Friday witnessed a marginal decline in its single-day Covid-19 tally after 22,645 individuals tested positive for the disease, down from Thursday's 23,467, according to the state health bulletin data. The dip came after the state has been recording a massive spike in its daily Covid-19 caseload over the last few days.Here's a better insight into what will be allowed and what won't be following the latest order by the West Bengal government.Will outdoor activities be allowed?It is permitted but with restrictions. The government imposed a night curfew in Bengal from January 3 in which all forms of outdoor activities along with movement of people and vehicles will be prohibited between 10pm and 5am. However, essential and emergency services are exempted.Will marriage functions be allowed?Marriage events can be held with a maximum of 200 attendees or 50 per cent of the venue's capacity, whichever is lesser. In the earlier issued circular on January 2, the state government capped attendees for marriage related ceremonies at 50.Are offices going to be operational?All government offices in the state will continue to function at 50 per cent capacity, and so will the private ones. The state government has asked to encourage work from home “as far as possible.”Are schools, colleges and universities going to open?All educational institutions, including schools, colleges and universities will continue to stay shut. However, administrative activities are allowed only with 50 per cent capacity at a time.Will restaurants and cinemas be open?Restaurants and bars, and cinema halls and theatres can function with 50 per cent capacity at a time. However, all these establishments need to close for the day by 10pm before the night curfew kicks in every day.Will entertainment places, markets and shopping malls stay open?In the previous order dated January 2, the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC government in Bengal ordered closure of all swimming pools, spas, beauty parlours, saloons, wellness centres, zoos, tourist locations, among others.However, market places and shopping malls can run with entry capped at 50 per cent capacity at a time up to 10pm in adherence to the night curfew timings.Will metro and local trains be available?Metro services will be available with 50 per cent seating capacity according to the usual operational time. Local trains will also follow the similar protocol and can run up to 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-extends-covid-curbs-till-jan-31-allows-marriage-events-with-200-people-101642242984109.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||SDMC to collect biomedical waste from homes of Covid patients||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday began special arrangements to lift bio-medical waste from homes of Covid-19 positive patients in its jurisdiction.SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said that the civic agency has deployed auto-tippers in all 104 wards to lift bio-medical waste. “These vehicles will collect bio-medical waste from the residences of Covid-19 positive patients and will take it to the Okhla waste-to-energy plant for proper disposal. The SDMC has also appointed nodal officers in every zone and has issued helpline numbers... People can dial these numbers for collection of bio-medical waste from their homes,” he said. The helpline numbers are 011-40988800 (South Zone), 011-49506548 (West Zone), 7290041009 (Central Zone) and 8010863863 (Nazafgarh Zone).Noting that the civic body has lifted nearly 750 kilograms of bio-medical waste from all four zones from January 1 to 13, and ensured its proper disposal at Okhla waste-to-energy plant, Suryan also appealed to people living in the SDMC area not to put bio-medical waste along with normal waste as it may spread infection. “We have requested the families of Covid-19 positive patients to dial helpline numbers for collection of Covid waste from their homes so the same could be disposed of in a proper manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-to-collect-biomedical-waste-from-homes-of-covid-patients-101642246333767.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Bits’n’ bytes: Know about startup news in Pune||Tech start-up Un1Feed raises $1 million pre-seed fundingTech start-up ‘Un1Feed’ received a pre-seed fundraising round of $1 million, led by Silicon Valley-based community-focused venture capital fund ‘Neo’. Other investors include Tribe Capital, Great Oaks, Global Asset Capital, Ali Partovi (serial entrepreneur and early investor in Airbnb, Facebook, Uber, Dropbox) and other notable angels like Shutterstock founder Jon Oringer, Misfits Market founder Edward Lando and social media entrepreneur Cory Levy.Founded by Hardik Patil from Pune and Ansh Nanda from Delhi, Un1Feed is a platform that allows users to override and edit the social feed algorithm. Un1Feed plans to focus on product development and is now looking to hire engineers to ramp up the pace.Hardik Patil said, “Un1Feed’s mission is to help Gen Z be more intentional about the 3+ hours/day they spend on social media by allowing them to fully customize how their social feed is displayed, ranked, and contextualised on any existing social network. Un1Feed makes use of newly popularized blockchain technology to securely store and handle user data. The platform lets users transfer their digital social identity seamlessly across different apps.”“Unfortunately, the blockchain/crypto space is still too technical for most of the world. We want to allow the majority of users to easily gain the many benefits of web3, like the ease through which they can monetize almost everything they do for free in Web 2.0, without any technical experience”, said founder and co-CEO Ansh Nanda.ZF India dedicates traffic signal system to traffic policeZF India has dedicated a traffic signal system to the traffic police department at Chakan, Pune as a part of the Traffic Safety Week. These traffic signal systems, placed at two critical junctures in Chakan, will help alleviate the burden on the commuters and the traffic police. The HP square and the Endurance square often needed traffic wardens to spend up to 3 hours every evening regulating traffic manually as these are infamously the bottleneck areas for commuter traffic into and out of Chakan Industrial area.Assistant Commissioner of Police Prerna Katte, Assistant Commissioner of Police Nandkishor Bhosale Patil, Inspector Arvind Pawar and Macchindra Adling graced the dedication ceremony. KV Suresh, President ZF India, said, “ZF values safety of commuters and pedestrians. A part of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) endeavour is to promote safety, and the loss of person-hours caused at these two major junctions in and out of Chakan was a key driver for this dedication.”YNOS Venture Engine raises $350k in fundingYNOS Venture Engine, a business intelligence and analytics platform for India’s innovation and startup ecosystem raised $350k in seed funding. The funding received will be used to further scale technology investments and strengthen ongoing business development activities.YNOS received seed funding from distinguished business leader in the Indian entrepreneurship ecosystem including, Arun Jain, Lakshmi Narayanan, Sarath Naru, Prashanth Prakash, Madan Padaki, M. Srinivasa Rao, Shalini Chhabra, Prof. Rishikesha T. Krishnan, Samit Jain, Praveen Joseph, ZAR Business Partners LLP, Rickson Rodricks, Ajit Thyagarajan, Siddharth Ram Athreya, and Naresh Ranwah.Prof Thillai Rajan A., Professor-IIT Madras and co-founder YNOS Venture Engine said, “We target the big systemic challenges at the bottom of the startup pyramid. The versatility of our smart platform makes it a relevant solution not only addressing the pain points faced by early-stage entrepreneurs but also investors, institutions and all stakeholders who want to be engaged with the startup economy in the country.”“As one of India’s leading incubators with over 240 deep-tech startups, we are keenly aware of the challenges faced by early-stage technology entrepreneurs, especially in raising investment and finding matched mentors. Services offered by YNOS are addressing some of these critical issues,” said Dr Tamaswati Ghosh, CEO, IITM Incubation Cell.FPL Technologies raises $75 million funding at $750 million valuationFintech start-up FPL Technologies has raised $75 million as part of its Series C funding round, led by its existing investor - QED Investors along with Janchor Partners, Sequoia Capital India, Matrix Partners and Hummingbird Ventures. Fresh equity is raised at a post-money valuation of $750 million.The current funding comes in within 10 months after the company raised its Series B funding of $35 million. The latest round of investment brings FPL Technologies’ total funding since launch to approximately $125 million. FPL will use the fresh infusion of capital to strengthen their consumer value proposition, scale up its product teams, to grow the issuance of OneCard & expand its consumer base aggressively.Anurag Sinha, cofounder & CEO, said, “The growing customer inclination towards digital and contactless payments in our country has presented a promising opportunity to introduce mobile-first credit consumption products. The young digital-savvy customer is increasingly seeking simple, seamless, smooth yet heightened experiences in their lives and this is exactly what we offer through our products.”Workshop for defence startupsThe Army Regional Technology Node (RTN), Pune organised an online workshop to acquaint the start-up industry with the Army’s procurement process. The event was attended by more than 275 participants from the Defence Industry and the Army. This interaction was focused on incorporating start-ups in the defence procurement chain, thereby widening the Army’s equipment acquisition base.Lt Gen JS Nain GOC-in-C Southern Command opened the webinar and exhorted all industries to work relentlessly towards achieving the goal of indigenisation. It was followed by presentations by Army Design Bureau (ADB) giving out the organisation and procedures of the ADB and an overview of the RTN by its chairman. Abhishek Jain, vice-president, Strategic Partnerships for Zeus Numerix, other representatives of industry, SIDM Start-up Forum and MICCA also addressed the participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsn-bytes-know-about-startup-news-in-pune-101642243933808.html
15-01-2022||Pune||Startup Mantra: Getting a life to function with your diet||Mugdha Pradhan, 43, is not a doctor and has no medical training of any sort.Pradhan identifies herself as a nutritionist and is the founder of a health and wellness startup iThrive – Healing and Beyond (previously known as ThriveFNC). Pradhan’s resume hinges on the words “functional medicine” and she was her own index case study that allowed investors to buy into her vision.The vision? A one-stop shop’ for anything to do with health and in Pradhan’s own words, “My life is now dedicated to making diseases disappear from this planet”. It would perhaps be wise to reference Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos here. An aggressive startup founder with a sales pitch that sold Silicon Valley a similar “vision” – a medical revolution based on a single drop of blood.Holmes will be sentenced shortly after she was convicted for fraud, with her claims to investors being proven fake.It certainly muddies the water for Pradhan and her belief in “functional medicine”. And the claims she is making.Taking on the issue head on, Pradhan says, “If it was truly an unethical business practice, then I strongly condemn it,” with reference to Theranos. “However, there’s no regulation around these devices and shortcut testing mechanisms. I know of companies in India too that claim to perform such tests and detailed reports based on five minute scans. How do they work is anyone’s guess. I am not for such shortcut methods.”Pradhan remains quietly confident and the fact that she has raised $100k in a seed round in March 2019 and $350k in a pre-series A in August 2020, suggest her investors are buying the “functional medicine” cure.As are customer, with turnover for iThrive at Rs31 lakh in 2020-21 and Rs70 lakh (till date) in 2021-22. Because this deals with lifestyle and medicine, two highly flammable substances in terms of cause and effect versus claim, Pradhan start at the end. The bottom line. If she is not a doctor how can she prescribe anything to anyone?Pradhan starts with supplements and all other solutions offered by iThrive. “They do not create side-effects. Supplements are just nutrients that one is not getting from food. They do not adversely affect anyone. If a customer suffers an injury or faces any other problem or acute condition while undergoing the course, we ask them to consult their physician. We only work on chronic diseases. In some cases, we may partner with the customer’s doctor for a particular time period.”“When a customer joins iThrive, they sign up on the clauses which clearly state that iThrive is going to partner with them only for nutrition, food and lifestyle changes. Customers are made aware and made to agree that if they have any acute condition, then they need to consult their physician. We also have a disclaimer saying that customers will see results only if they adhere to our recommendations,” says Pradhan.Recalling an incident, Pradhan said, “There was one person who came onboard and then after one week he didn’t want to make any changes. He wanted us to give him the diet that he wants to do. But we don’t do that. So we gave him a refund, but he still left us a nasty Google review.”The Institute for Functional Medicine defines functional medicine as “a systems biology–based approach that focuses on identifying and addressing the root cause of disease.” Explaining this Pradhan says, “Usually a blood test report mentions the reference ranges of various parameters. These reference ranges are average of lab data of sick patients from previous decades. So, it may not truly represent the range of healthy people which is why some of us feel sick even if the reports are normal. In functional medicine, we consider ‘optimal ranges’ which are based on latest research and updated every few years. These ranges are derived from the Functional Medicine University and the Institute of Functional Medicine.”“iThrive is affiliated to US-based Institute of Functional Medicine (IFM). As per Indian laws, which govern iThrive, nutritionists cannot prescribe medicine or change medications. That is why iThrive partners with the customer’s family doctors in some cases where required. IFM certified doctors, however, can use IFM guidelines for diagnosis, as the lab reports are just act as guideline. Which is why diagnosis of doctors vary even if it is based on same lab report,” stated Pradhan.“Reference ranges in lab reports are regularly updated based on global studies. For example, American Heart Association has revised or updated the guidelines for normal cholesterol levels from above 220 to 150. These ranges are not an average of lab data, but based on disease-specific research findings. In India, it is expected that medical practitioners should follow guidelines of medical council which is the regulatory authority,” says Dr Avinash Bhondwe, a top medical analyst.Pradhan, four years ago she struggled with her own personal health issues, but learning the nuances of “functional medicine” transformed her health. Her startup focuses on reversing chronic health conditions and lifestyle diseases through functional nutrition using root-cause analysis. It is backed by a team of highly qualified functional nutritionists that aim to help people reverse a multitude of health dysfunctions through “science-backed functional nutrition coaching and real-time response”.Pradhan spent her early days in Bengaluru. In 2001, after her graduation, she worked as a visiting faculty for two years at a college in Mumbai. She married, and moved to Bengaluru again in 2004. She pursued a career in corporate HR and joined Flipkart’s team. Then, due to personal problems, she went through a bout of clinical depression. Says Pradhan, “By 2016, I weighed 97kg and always looked sick. I had no energy and was not happy with my life. I realised something was very wrong and I should go back to nutrition. In early 2017, I did not have any entrepreneurial background or experience. Finances were becoming an issue and the only answer I knew was to fix my health first.”“While researching, I discovered ‘Functional Medicine’. I borrowed money from my friends to survive. I did my blood tests and learnt to interpret the report. I realised that I had many underlying issues like a lot of deficiencies. Whatever symptoms your body shows, like excess weight, there is an internal reason. So, I started fixing things for myself and by July 2017 I had lost 37kg. It was such a visible difference, that everyone said whatever you did for yourself do for us too. That’s where I got my first client who was one of my friends, whom I charged ₹2,000 for a month.”As a solopreneur, Pradhan started thinking about helping more people. She says, “In August 2018, I helped a woman in a wheelchair. Her uncle, Rajesh Ranavat contacted me in December 2018. I was not aware that he was the executive director at Fung Strategic Investments. I was leading a ‘nomad life’ and he asked me what I wanted to do and I told him that I have a vision of healing a million people. That’s when he introduced himself as an investor.”iThrive was formally registered on June 25, 2019. Pradhan recalls, “We started hiring people and Avinash Deshmukh, who looks after operations, was one of the key persons to join us. Initially we got weight loss, diabetes cases but later, we started getting more complicated cases. People trusted us as we had a science-based approach to looking at any disease and we use a specific strategy to deal with it. By February 2020, we grew to about a six-member team. In March 2020, the Covid-19 outbreak started and since lockdown was we took a pause.”“Since people were not spending in the first few months, it became difficult for us to survive the lockdown. We had made some early entrepreneurial mistakes like spending on advertisements, outsourcing digital marketing. In July we had no money left. Funding was coming in two tranches and we had not met our revenue goals. I was worried whether I would be able to pay the salaries of our employees. I had given two options to my team. Close the company or stay and share whatever profit we make. Since the team was aligned with my vision of creating a healthier, happier and lifestyle-disease free community, they stayed back. August 2020 onward our trajectory turned positive in terms of signups and referrals.”Pradhan believes that once someone’s physical health is taken care of, their mind opens up to do good things. She launched a three-month programme ‘iThrive Alive’ as a premium payment model. It is a preventive healthcare programme. While scaling, Pradhan faced the problem of recruiting and training nutritionists herself. To solve this problem, she started the ‘iThrive Academy’ in January 2021. She says, “We are actually teaching functional medicine to doctors, nutritionists, homeopaths, physiotherapists, nurses and others. Then, there are the supplements. ‘iThrive Essential Supplements’ launched in November 2021. “Due to supply chain disruptions during lockdowns and unforeseen circumstances otherwise, clients were facing problems while purchasing supplements. If somebody is with us for three months, we want to make sure that their nutrition is fixed, else they are not going to see results,” said Pradhan.Rajesh Ranavat commented that iThrive has gained significant traction in the last 12 months and is now well positioned for its next phase of growth with the launch of the online iThrive Academy and the supplements’ verticalNeelesh Bhatnagar added, “In the last two years iThrive has uniquely become a category creator in the functional nutrition space in India, and is rapidly growing into becoming India’s leading Functional Medicine ecosystem with consulting services, online academy and supplements vertical. The brand is full of life and opportunities.”iThrive received its second funding of $350K in August 2020. “It was like a bridge round – pre-series A. Our first investor Ranawat brought in the second round of HNI investors too. We will be looking at an institutional Series A round late this year or early first Q of 2023. Now we are working on a tech app for Alive and we will soon be launching a sports nutrition programme, iThrive Juniors for children. We want to be the said Pradhan.“We have partnered with some labs globally. With a special research and development setup, we are doing a lot of intensive testing. We have also got ethical approval to run clinical trials, because we have a lot of patients’ clinical information,” she claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-getting-a-life-to-function-with-your-diet-101642243575265.html
15-01-2022||Kolkata||West Bengal civic polls deferred by 3 weeks to February 12. Thank you, says BJP||KOLKATA: Amid rising cases of Covid-19 cases in the state, the West Bengal state election commission on Saturday postponed elections to the four civic bodies by three weeks, even as the Mamata Banerjee administration relaxed some of the restrictions imposed by the government earlier.According to a notification by the poll panel, voting for the four bodies will take place on February 12 instead of January 22. The commission, however, is yet to announce when the votes will be counted. A senior poll panel official said counting may be done on February 15. The Calcutta high court on Friday told the state election commission (SEC) to consider postponing civic elections by four to six weeks. A division bench headed by chief justice Prakash Shrivastava also told the commission to take a decision within a period of 48 hours. “We welcome the (state) election commission’s decision. The Calcutta high court directed the panel to consider postponing the polls. The state government informed the commission that it has no objection if polls were deferred keeping in mind public safety. The poll panel postponed it. We will abide by the decision,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP. Elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation were held on December 19. The state election commission earlier scheduled polls to four civic bodies, Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri and Chandannagar for January 22, Counting was scheduled to be held on January 25. But with Covid-19 cases rising alarmingly, a petition was filed in the high court to seek directions to the state election commission to put off the polls.“We had appealed to the commission to defer the polls as Covid-19 cases have risen alarmingly in the state. In this situation, free and fair elections can’t be held as people would be scared to go to the polling station. Later many other (political parties) echoed us. The Calcutta high court directed the poll panel to postpone the elections by four to six weeks. It has been postponed by three weeks. We thank the commission,” said Sukanta Majumdar, president of the BJP’s state unit.According to union health ministry data on Saturday, Bengal has 1,45,483 active Covid cases.On Thursday the state government told the court that once the election dates were announced, the state government has no role and only the poll panel could defer it. The poll panel, on the other hand, informed the court that the commission does not have the power to defer the election dates once the dates have been notified unless the state government declares such a disaster or an emergency which will make it impossible to hold such election. “This could have been announced earlier. But instead, the state government and the poll panel pushed the ball to each other’s court. Now that the high court has ordered they were left with no option,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-civic-polls-deferred-by-3-weeks-to-february-12-thank-you-says-bjp-101642243333544.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Congress relies on old hands, 58 MLAs in first list of 86 candidates||The Congress on Saturday released its first list of 86 candidates, including 58 sitting legislators, for the February 14 assembly elections in Punjab. Also read: ‘Suggest CM face’ initiative logs 8-lakh responses: AAPChief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Pargat Singh and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa are among the prominent party leaders on the list and have been repeated from their present seats. Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra’s son Mohit Mohindra has been fielded from Patiala Rural, which the veteran leader represents in the present assembly. Four sitting MLAs denied ticket The party has denied the ticket to four of its sitting MLAs – Harjot Kamal Singh from Moga, Balwinder Singh Laddi from Hargobindpur, deputy speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti from Malout and Nathu Ram from Balluana. Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika from Moga, Moosewala from Mansa Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika Sood Sachar has been fielded from Moga. Singer Sidhu Moosewala is also on the list of candidates from Mansa. Both are new entrants to the party. Punjab has 117 assembly constituencies. Screening committee differed on Sujanpur, Moga, Garhshankar The Congress central election committee headed by interim president Sonia Gandhi finalised the names of candidates on the basis of recommendations made by the screening committee set up under party national general secretary Ajay Maken. The candidate selection was not without its usual set of hiccups with Sidhu, Channi, Jakhar and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary pushing their own favourites. The screening committee had made its recommendations to the CEC after half a dozen meetings but these members voiced their differences when these names came up for discussion on Thursday for final decision. The CEC confirmed the names of most of those recommended and asked the screening committee to hold discussion on five seats, including Sujanpur, Moga and Garhshankar, on which there was no consensus among the state leaders. The screening committee held fresh discussions and recommended a single name for these seats, paving the way for the party to release the list after approval after the Congress president’s nod. Sidhu, Channi push for CM face beforehand Since the party has not named any chief ministerial face and is going into the elections under the “collective leadership” of Channi, Sidhu and Jakhar, all three have been jockeying for the lion’s share of party tickets, which might come into play in deciding the new CM if the party is able to get the numbers required to retain power in the state. Both Sidhu and Channi are pushing for declaring the chief ministerial face beforehand, pitching themselves for the position. 
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai residents need to show Aadhaar cards to chemists to buy Covid self-test kits||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Saturday said that people purchasing self-test kits for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will now need to provide their Aadhaar card details to the chemists in order to maintain a record.She further stated that if anyone tests positive for Covid-19, the information must be conveyed to the authorities and also updated online for the purpose of maintaining records.
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Mayawati releases list of 53 candidates at birthday event, shares her wishlist||LUCKNOW: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati released the first list of the 53 party candidates for the first phase February 10 assembly elections to be held on 58 assembly constituencies in western Uttar Pradesh in a programme organized in the BSP state unit office to celebrate her 66th birthday on Saturday.Addressing a press conference, the BSP chief called upon party leaders and workers to give her a birthday gift with making BSP government in the coming assembly election and ensure the victory of party candidates in the election. Hitting out at the Samajwadi Party and BJP defectors who joined the SP on Friday, Mayawati said the Samajwadi Party (SP) is not a well-wisher of the Dalit, backward and Muslim community. Rather under the SP government, only the Yadav community was promoted and enjoyed access to resources. Under the BSP government, she said, members of all community got share in the power, government schemes and resources. Mayawati called upon her party workers to celebrate her birthday at home in view of the implementation of the model code of conduct (MCC) after the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the schedule for assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, on January 8 and surge in the Covid-19 cases across the state. The BSP will celebrate her birthday as “Jankalyankari Diwas” (public welfare day). Party workers have been directed to assist the poor people and family members of the Covid pandemic victims. The BSP chief released the 17th edition of her book “A Travelogue of My Struggle Ridden Life and BSP Movement” at the party’s state unit office on the occasion. “The travelogue will generate self-respect among the party supporters and guide them to take the movement launched by the BSP forward,” she said.
15-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi seeing Covid plateau? Health minister’s latest prediction may indicate so||Daily cases of coronavirus infections are expected to be reduced by 4,000 in the national capital on Saturday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said, adding the positivity rate is expected to be around 30 per cent.The Delhi minister said hospital admissions in the capital have not risen in the past five to six days as cases may have begun to plateau.“This indicates that cases are going to be fewer in the coming days. 85 per cent of hospital beds are vacant,” the Delhi health minister said.Jain's statement comes on a day when the department of clinical virology at the Institute of Live and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), that has been conducting genome sequencing for Covid-19, found evidence of early community transmission of the Omicron variant in the national capital.On Friday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had told citizens that there was no need to worry even though the cases were rising as hospitalisations were low."Cases are rapidly increasing and there are no two ways about it. We all know that the Omicron variant is quite transmissible and infectious," Kejriwal had said on the sidelines of an event.Delhi on Friday registered a slight drop in new infections with 24,383 fresh cases, while the positivity rate surged to 30.64 per cent. However, at 34 fatalities, Delhi’s death toll remained the highest among all states.The previously recorded biggest daily jump in the national capital was 28,395 cases on April 20 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-seeing-covid-plateau-health-minister-s-latest-prediction-may-indicate-so-101642231126886.html
15-01-2022||Other||ED attaches north-west Delhi house of journalist accused of spying for Chinese||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached the Delhi house of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma who was arrested in September 2020 for allegedly supplying sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers.The residential property in the national Capital’s Pitampura worth ₹48.21 lakh has been attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, a statement by the central agency said on Saturday. Sharma was granted bail by Delhi high court last week. He was arrested by Delhi Police in September 2020 under Official Secrets Act (OSA) for alleged links with Chinese intelligence officers and receiving funds from them in lieu of sharing information on national security and foreign relations. Based on the Delhi Police case, ED launched a money laundering probe against him in February 2021 and arrested him under PMLA in July 2021.“Investigation under PMLA revealed that Rajeev Sharma had supplied confidential and sensitive information to Chinese Intelligence officers, in exchange for remuneration thereby compromising the security and national interests of the country. It was revealed that such remuneration to Rajeev Sharma was being provided by a Mahipalpur-based shell company that was run by Chinese nationals - Zhang Cheng alias Suraj, Zhang Lixia alias Usha and Qing Shi along with a Nepali national Sher Singh alias Raj Bohara,” ED said in its statement on Saturday.The company involved in the case has been identified as M Z Pharmacy. ED further said “the Chinese company was acting as a conduit for the Chinese Intelligence agencies to provide remuneration for persons like Rajeev Sharma indulged in criminal activities. The remuneration was being paid in cash through carriers as well as through cash deposits. Sharma also received money using the bank account of his friend in order to conceal his involvement in criminal activities. In addition to obtaining remunerations in cash, he also received remuneration in kind in the form of various paid foreign trips which were arranged by the Chinese intelligence agents”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-attaches-north-west-delhi-house-of-journalist-accused-of-spying-for-chinese-101642231993069.html
15-01-2022||Jaipur||Alwar rape case: Doctor treating minor says no injury in private parts||A senior doctor in Jaipur treating the specially abled minor girl who was allegedly raped and abandoned near a flyover in Rajasthan’s Alwar said there was no injury in her private parts.Dr Arvind, superintendent of JK Lone Hospital, Jaipur, said only police or a medical jurist can confirm whether there was any sexual assault. “We are only treating her… Yes, why not. It could be that (accident),” Dr Arvind was further quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, the Rajasthan police said no evidence had so far been found in the incident and the possibility of a sexual assault is less.The minor girl was found bleeding in an abandoned condition on the Tijara flyover in Alwar, following which she was admitted to a hospital. The girl underwent surgery after which she was declared healthy and stable.The Alwar Police has decided not to consider it as rape on the basis of the forensic report. A case was registered in this matter at the Malakheda police station.Meanwhile, the Opposition has accused the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government of suppressing the case.In a series of tweets with a video shared by Union Minister of Jal Shakti and Loksabha MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the collector of Alwar could be seen questioning girls who came to his office to protest against the rape case."The collector of Alwar is threatening the daughters who have come to protest against the cruelty that has happened to an innocent. Trying to scare them by asking for their father's mobile number. Collector sir, who is sitting above you, from whom we can complain against you, please tell his number too!" Shekhawat wrote."Any senior officer will try to suppress such a sensitive matter only when the order is received from the government. Gehlot ji is trying to cover up this episode through the administration because now questions are being asked to Priyanka Vadra," he further wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/alwar-rape-case-doctor-treating-minor-says-no-injury-in-private-parts-101642231393192.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||DU college societies reset their calendars virtually||The joy of students upon the phased reopening of Delhi University (DU) and the resumption of offline activities for various college societies seem to have been short-lived. With Omicron and the surging Covid-19 cases in the city, activities of college societies have been forced back to the virtual world. Until some time back, members of Verbum – the English Dramatics Society of Sri Venkateswara College — were holding regular physical meet-ups. Now, they have transitioned to a virtual calendar for the next few months. “We have shifted to conducting virtual workshops and training,” says Arya Ray, the president of the society, adding, “Besides the improvisational games for acting, we have scriptwriting workshops as well as sessions on technical (lights and sound) and production (set design, costumes, props) aspect of plays. As of now, we are not working on any virtual plays.” The Finance and Investment Cell of Shri Ram College of Commerce has also resorted to digital support sessions. Sanya Madan, president of the society, shares, “After an online induction, we have the mentor group’s meeting, where juniors will find their mentors. Instead of physical interactions, they will connect over video calls. We have already started the sessions on Shri Ram Financial Forum, where speakers from the field will conduct virtual sessions with our members.”Not to be held back by the virus, students engaging in social work have also taken a digital detour. Mansi Rathore, a final-year student from Miranda House, says, “Students in Connecting Dreams Foundation — an NGO affiliated with Miranda House — were earlier going out for field work, such as distribution of sanitary pads and teaching the underprivileged. But their outings have had to be halted due to the pandemic situation. Currently, they are planning a virtual fundraiser. So what if we can’t go outside? We can still do our bit for the society.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-college-societies-reset-their-calendars-virtually-101642231573427.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||#TeenVaccination: Get teens vaxxed, enjoy perks online!||Covid-19 vaccination for teenagers began recently, and over 50,000 youngsters from Delhi between the ages of 15 and 18 have received their first dose. But, if you’re among those who are still in need of motivation to get vaccinated, we have good news. A number of online stores are now offering discounts to teens who have taken their first jab. “We are giving ₹150 off on each article,” says Mansi Chawla from Rajinder Nagar, who owns an online clothing brand, Nikstwine. She adds, “I wish we could do more, but we are a small company ourselves. However, this is such a positive movement. We must try and participate in whatever way we can.” Sleep in Style, a sleepwear brand based in west Delhi, is giving 10% off on their collection. Neha Sethi from the brand says, “Our purpose is not to drive sales but a reminder for all parents and teens who happen to come to our page, to get vaccinated. We are also personally messaging our regular clients to inform them about this offer and encouraging them to make a selection from our products that can be bought at a discount, after presenting their kids’ vaccination certificate. In fact, some of them have promised us that they will soon get their kids vaccinated and come back!” And Buzzie Books, a Gurugram-based educational brand, will be launching a special family game, keeping the significance of vaccination in mind. It plans to arrange a giveaway for the same and 15% discount on the rest of the collection. Tanu Sharma from the brand says, “The game is called Grab It and has been designed for a family to play together. People who show the vaccination certificates of the entire family will also be able to avail the family discount. This means parents need to show their certificates, and kids need to show theirs. We also have a giveaway planned for the same, wherein only vaccinated individuals can participate.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/get-teens-vaxxed-enjoy-perks-online-101642229714792.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Accessories get a personalised touch this #shaadiseason||Take a stroll down Old Delhi’s Kinari Bazaar and one can spot brides to-be and their families running pillar to post to shop for all they need for a perfect wedding. But this season, shoppers are going all out to give their requirements a personal touch — be it customised maang tikkas, kaleeras and even wedding decor. Lehenga LatkansLehenga latkans are common, but long customised velvet ones are in demand now, say shop owners. One can get their name or any text embroidered in gold/silver thread. “Yeh latkan ₹500- ₹700 ke beech hain. Yeh nayi cheez bech rahe hain iss baar, bahut zyada bik raha hai. And everyone wants customised ones,” says Praveen Jain, shopkeeper at Deep Industries. He adds, “We also have kaleere bangles ( ₹75/pair).” Haldi decor done right!Colour themes are passe as original and funky texts is what Delhiites are opting for! “Personalised decor has become a huge favourite among customers. Be it the name of the function or labels such as ‘Ladkiwale’ and ‘Ladkewale’ or even the name of the couple,” says Pradeep from Chanda Singh and Sons. “The wall hangings made of artificial flowers ( ₹800- ₹1,000) are being bought by people for their haldi functions. Aur baaki functions ke leeye bhi leke jaate hain. Ispe aap kuch bhi likhwa sakte ho, ghar ke functions mein yeh bahut use ho rahi hain aaj kal kyunki chhote level be shaadi hai toh decor log khud hi ghar pe kar rahe hain,” he adds. Potlis, Belts and Choodha coversLooking for something unique to gift your bridesmaids? Customised potlis and belts are totally apt! “Yeh potli ( ₹250) kaafi fashion mein hai. Ismein log dulhewale, ladkiwale likhwa dete hai, ya dulha dulhan ke naam. At least 9-10 pieces le jaate hain aur sabmein baat dete hain,” says Sanjay Goyal from Prabha Collections. “Customised chooda covers ( ₹350/pair) are also in demand. Shaadi se pehle dulhan ko chooda dekhna nahi hota, aur yeh cover fancy lagta hai toh photos achchi aati hain!” adds Goyal. Customised earrings, Bangles and Mang TikkasEarrings ( ₹50/pair), bangles ( ₹100/pair), maang tikkas ( ₹50) that have ‘Ladkewale’ or ‘Dulhan ki Behen’ written on them, make for lovely gifts. “People are buying 100-200 pieces of earrings and bangles at a time,” says Monu, who sells these on a cart here. “Jo bhi ladies sangeet ya mehendi pe aati hain, unhe ye pehenne ko milta hi hai!” he adds. Badge of HonourThose looking for something out of the box to create a groom or bride squad, are opting for innovative crystal badges ( ₹180/dozen), to give a give a cheerful twist to the attire. Dev Kashyap from Mishra Crystal House says, “Bahut saare log yeh le ja rahe hain aur humare paas maal khatam ho gaya hai.” Author tweets @anjuriFollor more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/accessories-get-a-personalised-touch-this-shaadiseason-101642228777659.html
15-01-2022||Patna||Bihar to grow apples in 7 districts on a trial basis, project launch on Jan 19||PATNA: Inspired by the success of some farmers to grow apples, Bihar’s horticulture department has decided to launch a pilot project to grow the fruit in seven districts of the state.Horticulture director Nand Kishore said that seven districts including Vaishali, Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Aurangabad, Samastipur, Katihar and Muzaffarpur have been identified to launch the pilot project to grow HRMN-99 variety of apple, which is fit for cultivation in sub-tropical and low altitude plains. “We have arranged a sufficient number of the plants of HRMN-99 variety at the state’s centre of excellence nursery of Vaishali from the National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad, to launch the pilot project on January 19. To begin with, the plantation would be done on 10 hectares in all the districts after formal training to the farmers,” said Kishore. One Ranjit Kumar Singh of Vaishali planted a few saplings of HRMN-99 apple, which he brought from Himachal Pradesh three years ago, along with his other friends of Begusarai, Bhagalpur and Aurangabad districts.“The saplings planted by Ranjit Kumar in Vaishali have borne fruits, which would be ready for plucking by May-June,” said deputy director, horticulture, Rakesh Kumar, adding that plants in other districts too are in different stages of fruiting.A plant scientist of Rajendra Prasad Agriculture University (RAU) in Samastipur said that a molecular study had been performed for the characterization of HRMN-99 apple in comparison with check varieties by Gujarat State Biotechnology Mission, Gandhinagar.“The study confirms its diversity and superiority over other low chilling varieties Anna and Dorsett golden,” the scientist said, adding that this variety of apple could be grown even at 40deg C. The state government has also decided to offer a subsidy of up to ₹1.23 lakh per hectare for the apple plantation to the farmers, nearly half the estimated cost of ₹2.46 lakh. The pilot project envisages imparting training to at least five farmers in each district before offering them the saplings to grow. The directorate will also cultivate apples on 0.2 hectare of land at Vaishali’s centre of excellence for training and demonstration purposes. The HRMN-99 variety of apple was developed by farmer Hariman Sharma from Bilaspur district in Himachal Pradesh. Sharma.
15-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's air quality deteriorates to 'very poor', fog predicted for next 4 days||The air quality in Delhi deteriorated to the ‘very poor’ category as the national capital recorded an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 339 on Saturday morning amid foggy conditions, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). Delhi’s humidity stood at about 93% at 7am, making pollutants heavier and subsequently dispersion difficult.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Friday was the "longest foggy day of the season" and predicted similar conditions for Saturday."Today, was the longest foggy day over Delhi for this season. It also caused a cold day due to the absence of sunlight in the day and also a little windy from northwest of 8-12kmph towards noon," IMD said.A Met department official said that a layer of dense fog on Friday morning and moderate fog during the day over Delhi-NCR, Punjab, Haryana, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan prevented the sunlight from reaching the surface. Foggy conditions along with light north westerlies blowing over the region led to a cold day, the official added.Meanwhile, cold wave conditions continue to grip Delhi as the temperature dipped to 8 degrees Celsius at around 7am, with a wind speed of 5 kilometres per hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-deteriorates-to-very-poor-fog-predicted-for-next-4-days-101642213643109.html
15-01-2022||Bhopal||Actor Raza Murad dropped as cleanliness ambassador on minister's order||Noted film actor Raza Murad was removed as brand ambassador of the Bhopal Municipal Corporation's 'swachhata abhiyan' on Friday on the order of Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Minister Bhupendra Singh, a day after the announcement of his appointment was made. In a letter to the Bhopal civic chief, Singh said Murad should be dropped as brand ambassador as his contribution in the field of cleanliness was not known. "A brand ambassador should be such a person who has contributed in a major way in the field of cleanliness or who is well-versed with Bhopal's culture. Therefore, the order in this regard should be cancelled with immediate effect. Instead, nominate a prestigious person/institution who has made noted contributions in the field of cleanliness," the minister's letter said. However, Murad told PTI he was well-versed with the city as he had kin hailing from here and had also completed his schooling in the state capital. "No one can be a bigger Bhopali than me as my mother, wife and many other members of the family belong to Bhopal. I did my schooling from the Cambridge School here. I am well versed with the city, its roads, its typical language, its tea, paan and gutkha, so the charge that I don't know the culture of the city holds no ground," Murad said. "Secondly, the minister also said the brand ambassador should be such a person who has done commendable job in 'swachhata'. But, when you do not give me an opportunity to prove (my credentials in the field), then how can you decide I have not done anything," he asked. Murad also said he had already started work on the subject on Thursday in the city's Chowk area by telling people to segregate solid and liquid waste, adding that "if the minister doesn't want my services, so be it, as they (powers that be) are maalik (all powerful)". BMC public relations officer said the 100-150 people chosen as cleanliness ambassadors on Thursday were those had made a name in their respective fields. Meanwhile, the Congress hit out at the BJP government in the state and said Murad being dropped from the brand ambassador list was "Sanghi thinking". In a tweet in Hindi, Congress spokesperson KK Mishra said Murad was removed as he was Muslim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/actor-raza-murad-dropped-as-cleanliness-ambassador-on-minister-s-order-101642205064623.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Non-essential activities on hold for next 55 hrs as weekend curfew starts||The weekend curfew, imposed in the national capital to check Covid spread, kicked in from Friday night putting on hold all non-essential activities for the next 55 hours.The weekend curfew has been imposed from 10 pm of Friday till 5 am of Monday by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) through its order on January 1.Metro train services will continue to be regulated on the weekend (January 15 -16) in compliance with the DDMA guidelines issued last week, said an official spokesperson of the Delhi Metro.Metro services and public transport buses will operate with full seating capacity during the curfew but no standing commuters will be allowed.Trains will be available at a frequency of 15 minutes on the 'Yellow Line' - HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli-and 'Blue Line' (i.e. Dwarka Sec-21 to NOIDA Electronic City/Vaishali, the spokesperson said.On all other lines, trains will be available at a frequency of 20 minutes during the weekend curfew.The e-passes issued last week for essential services will be valid during the curfew.Markets will be closed during the weekend curfew barring those dealing in essential goods and services like groceries, vegetables and fruits, medicines, milk among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-non-essential-activities-on-hold-for-next-55-hrs-as-weekend-curfew-starts-101642199538008.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Peddler held with ₹18L charas, ₹32L drug money in Jammu and Kashmir’s Reasi||Police on Friday claimed to have recovered charas worth ₹18 lakh and drug proceeds of ₹32 lakh in cash from a drug peddler in Reasi district. The accused was identified as Bashir Ahmed of Chak Bhagta in Katra tehsil. “On January 9, we arrested the accused and recovered drug proceeds of ₹14.35 lakh along with 26 packets of charas from his possession,” said Reasi SSP Shailendra Singh. In this regard, an FIR under Sections 8, 20 and 25 of the NDPS Act was registered against the accused at Katra police station. During the further course of investigations, accused Bashir Ahmed confessed that he had hidden more packets of charas at his residence. “In the presence of an executive magistrate we recovered charas weighing 5.97 kg worth ₹18 lakh,” he added. “Bashir is a notorious drug peddler and earlier remained involved in drug peddling cases and was facing trial,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/peddler-held-with-18l-charas-32l-drug-money-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-reasi-101642192870955.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir sees 2,456 Covid infections, 5 deaths; Srinagar logs 464 cases||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed another record daily surge in Covid-19 in the past seven months after reporting 2,456 infections and five deaths on Friday, an official health bulletin said. The number of active positive cases crossed 10,000 mark. However, officials said only 5.4 percent hospital beds are occupied.The officials said 68,803 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, around 3,000 less than yesterday, when more than 71,000 tests were conducted since the start of the pandemic.Of the total infections on Friday, 934 cases and three deaths were reported in Jammu division while Kashmir valley saw 1,522 infections and two fatalities.Jammu division’s Jammu district reported the highest 588 cases. Kashmir valley witnessed 464 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 457 in Baramulla and 139 in Budgam. Jammu district has the highest number of Covid active cases at 2,898 followed by Srinagar and Baramulla districts with 2202 and 1347 active cases, respectively.The union territory is witnessing a steep rise in novel Coronavirus cases since January 05.As many as 1,966 were found on Thursday, 1,695 cases were detected on Wednesday and 1,148 on Tuesday. From January 5 to 0, the union territory saw between 400 to 700 cases daily.The first four days of January had recorded daily cases ranging between 165 and 199 while in December the union territory had reported 143 average cases daily.This is the first time after the last week of May that the UT has witnessed infections above 2500.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 380 with active positive cases reaching 10,003The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 72,309 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.974 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,38,063 prompting the recovery rate to reach 95.93%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,52,623 and the death tolls reached 4,557.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,166 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 885 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-sees-2-456-covid-infections-5-deaths-srinagar-logs-464-cases-101642192510363.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: BJP to bank on senior leaders to bring home its traditional seats||Not willing to take any risks in the high-stakes Punjab assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party is planning to field its top senior leaders on the seats traditionally contested by the party.The party’s 25-member state election committee is set to meet on Saturday to chalk out names of probable candidates.The names doing the rounds include BJP’s party affairs in-charge for Himachal Pradesh and former MP, Avinash Rai Khanna, party’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh, Union minister Som Parkash and chairman of the National commission for scheduled castes, Vijay Sampla. Khanna, is currently the senior-most leader of the party, has represented Garshankar assembly constituency of Hoshiarpur district once. A former national vice-president of the party, he has also served as the Lok Sabha member from Hoshiarpur seat and is widely respected among the BJP rank and file, especially in Doaba area. Chugh had unsuccessfully contested from Amritsar Central twice. Though Chugh is busy with national assignments in Delhi, the party is not able to find a suitable replacement for him in the Amritsar Central segment, currently represented by Congress’s senior leader and prominent Hindu face, OP Soni. Som Parkash has twice represented Phagwara assembly constituency of Kapurthala district before being elected as Member of Parliament from Hoshiarpur assembly segment. The general feeling in the party is that Parkash or his wife, are the best bets from the seat, which has a high number of scheduled caste and Hindu votes. Here, BSP’s state president Jasvir Singh Garhi is the candidate of SAD-BSP. Sampla, also a former state BJP chief and a former member of parliament from Hoshiarpur reserved constituency, is the seniormost scheduled caste leader of the party in Punjab at present. His son, Sahil Sampla, a lawyer, is actively nurturing Sham Churasi constituency of Hoshiarpur district for the family. Sampla, who had remained a Union minister of state during the previous tenure of Modi government, was elevated as chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Caste with Union cabinet minister rank in February last year. Since then, he has been actively taking up issues related to scheduled castes in Punjab and was actively criss-crossing the state during farm protests as well. “With Congress planning to field chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi from Adampur seat of Jalandhar apart from his own Chamkaur Sahib seat with any eye on scheduled caste votes, fielding senior leaders like Som Parkash and Sampla can make a difference for the party,” said a senior party functionary. Som Parkash said he has always abided by the party’s directions and will follow whatever is being told to him. Sampla, however, denied contesting polls, claiming that his son was already contesting from Sham Churasi. “Why would the party give tickets to two people in a family,” said Sampla. Khanna, meanwhile, said he will do what the party high command tells him to.
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||MeT predicts fresh rain, snow in Jammu and Kashmir; Pahalgam shivers at -10.3°C||The meteorological department on Friday issued a fresh advisory about back-to-back western disturbances that could result in fresh rain and snowfall across Jammu and Kashmir.The MeT office, Srinagar, Friday said that fresh western disturbances are likely to affect Jammu and Kashmir region from January 16 and another western disturbance from January 18.“These back-to-back western disturbances could cause light and moderate scattered to fairly widespread precipitation.”Earlier this month back-to-back western disturbances resulted in heavy to moderate snowfall across Kashmir and rainfall in the Jammu region. The fresh western disturbances could also result in snowfall in the upper pockets of Kashmir.All the weather stations in Kashmir recorded sub-zero temperatures during the night with mercury plunging to a lowest of -11.6°C on Wednesday.The J&K and Ladakh centre of the Indian meteorological department said all the seven weather observation stations in the Kashmir valley recorded sub-zero temperatures during the night.The lowest temperature of -10.5°C was recorded in Gulmarg while another tourist resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir shivered at -10.3°C. The mercury settled at -3.4°C in the summer capital Srinagar during the night while it was -7.8°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu.Leh recorded minus 13.9°C. Kashmir is under the grip of Chilai Kalan, the valley’s harshest over 40-day winter period which started on December 21.J&K witnessed widespread rains and snowfall between January 4 and 8 leading to closure of the Srinagar-Jammu highway and cancellation of hundreds of flights at the Srinagar International Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-predicts-fresh-rain-snow-in-jammu-and-kashmir-pahalgam-shivers-at-103c-101642192091540.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Human rights activist Ahsan Untoo arrested in Srinagar||The police on Friday arrested human rights activist and former militant Ahsan Untoo blaming him for “inciting violence through social media platforms”.Police confirmed the arrest of Untoo and said that he was involved in spreading false propaganda and disinformation campaigns on social media. “It was reliably learnt that Ahsan Untoo of Diver Lolab, Kupwara, a proactive secessionist, is an active participant and speaker at Twitter spaces titled “Radio Resistance Kashmir” led by two known secessionists namely Muzammil Ayyub Thakur and Dr Asif Dar. These known secessionists, who are accused in several cases along with Ahsan Untoo, are actively spreading hatred against the Union of India on the social media platform,” the police spokesman said in a statement.The spokesman said that by spreading false propaganda, disinformation campaign and hate speech through these social media spaces, Untoo is not only threatening to disturb the prevailing peaceful atmosphere of UT of J&K but spreads disaffection, ill-will and disharmony against the Union of India.“He is also actively spreading the terrorist secessionist agenda and is thus inciting youth to resort to violence and indulge in unlawful activities. As the aforementioned activities by Untoo amounts to the commission of cognisable offence by him, accordingly, the Srinagar Police while taking the cognisance matter registered a case against him under relevant Sections of the law. The investigation into the matter has been initiated and the accused has been arrested who is on police remand. Further action under law shall follow,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/human-rights-activist-ahsan-untoo-arrested-in-srinagar-101642192090445.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh resident shot in leg during fight with sisters||An unidentified man shot at a 29-year-old man during his altercation with his two sisters at their Dadumajra house on Thursday night.The victim, Gursewak, told the police that he worked as a security guard in Sector 8, and lived in Dadumajra with his mother and two sisters. On Thursday night, he had a fight with his sisters, who are facing marital issues and therefore living with him. During the altercation, one of his sisters called her friend, who arrived with some unidentified men. Amid the melee, one of those men shot at his knee and fled. While the incident happened at night, Gursewak was taken to GMSH, Sector 16, only on Friday. His condition is stated to be stable. A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered at the Maloya police station. No arrest has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-resident-shot-in-leg-during-fight-with-sisters-101642191920358.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s air quality deteriorates to ‘very poor’||A day after Chandigarh celebrated Lohri, the city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) crossed the 300 mark at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 22, entering the “very poor” bracket.At 8pm on Friday, the average AQI for the past 24 hours was recorded at 314 here. Prolonged exposure to “very poor” air conditions can lead to respiratory illness. The situation was better at the monitoring station in Sector 22, where it was recorded at 113 (moderate). But it can still cause breathing discomfort among people with lung and heart diseases.An official at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, “Fog formation and temperature inversion contributed to the rise in AQI. It will improve if it rains or winds start blowing.”According to IMD, fog will continue for the next few days. While two western disturbances (WD) are expected in the region in the coming days, these are unlikely to bring rain in the city. Meanwhile, the day temperature continued to dip, dropping from 16°C on Thursday to 14°C on Friday, six degrees below normal. On the other hand, the night temperature went up slightly from 10.7°C to 11°C, six notched above normal. In the next three days, the maximum temperature may rise to anywhere between 15°C and 17°C, while the minimum temperature will stay in the same ballpark.Three flights cancelled, three delayed
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two friends robbed at gunpoint near Chandimandir Toll Plaza||Two friends returning from an excursion to Timber Trail in Parwanoo were assaulted, and robbed of cash and gold at gunpoint near the Chandimandir Toll Plaza, police said on Friday.One of the victims, Raj Kumar, 37, a resident of Zirakpur, told the police that he and his friend Sarvpreet Singh were driving back home in the latter’s Maruti Suzuki Ciaz on January 12.“Around 7.30pm, a car bearing a Mohali registration number waylaid us near the Chandimandir toll plaza. Two men came out of the car, brandishing a pistol and a belt. As they started walking towards us, I got scared and ran to save myself,” Raj said.But one of them managed to nab him and started hitting him. He snatched his gold bracelet and the other youth tried to take off his karha, but failed. They also snatched his mobile phone and around ₹60,000, before fleeing.When he returned to find his friend’s car, he could not locate it and went back home, following which his family took him to a hospital.A few hours later, Sarvpreet called him and informed him that the robbers also damaged his car and snatched ₹11,000 from him. Sarvpreet claimed the robbers were five in number. Three attacked him, while two ran after Raj.The victims told the police that they were attacked on a busy road and many vehicles passed by, but no one stopped to help them.On their complaint, police registered a case under Sections 148, 149, 323, 341 and 379-B of the Indian Penal Code, and Arms Act on Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-friends-robbed-at-gunpoint-near-chandimandir-toll-plaza-101642191916686.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||7% staffers at Chandigarh PGIMER currently infected with Covid||As many as 382 more healthcare workers were found infected with Covid-19 at PGIMER in the past three days, taking the proportion of active cases among the hospital employees to 7%. Of the 382 healthcare workers, 126 (32%) are doctors, including junior residents, senior residents and faculty members.Around 13,000 people, including doctors (students and faculty members), healthcare workers (nurses, sanitation staff, lab operators, etc) and clerks are employed at PGIMER. Of them 857, including 324 doctors, are still infected and isolated either at home or at the institute’s isolation centre.Since December 20, a total of 1,209 healthcare workers, including 481 doctors, have been found Covid-positive at the institute. While on January 1, nine staffers tested positive, the number rose to 195 – a 22-fold spike – on January 10. Since then, though the number decreased to 91 as of January 13, it is still a cause of concern for the hospital authorities.“The healthcare workers, especially doctors and nurses, come in direct contact with hundreds of patients daily. Not only Covid or emergency wards, but staffers all departments are being found infected,” said Dr PVM Lakshmi, professor, community medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER.95% infected employees fully vaccinatedPGIMER officiating director Dr Surjit Singh said as 95% of the infected employees were fully vaccinated, most developed only mild symptoms. “So far, three persons, a faculty member from the hematology department, a resident doctor and a para-medical worker, have required hospitalisation due to other medical conditions. Two of them have been discharged and the condition of the faculty member is stable. No fatality has been recorded,” Dr Singh added.He further said the infected workers were re-joining duty on the eight day of testing positive, as the staff was limited to cater to the hospital’s overall patient load and no contractual staff had been hired for the current Covid situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-staffers-at-chandigarh-pgimer-currently-infected-with-covid-101642191915397.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||1,834 positive, Chandigarh sets new 24-hour record for third straight day||The daily Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh hit a new record for the third consecutive day, as 1,834 people tested positive on Friday.While the city’s highest single-day tally in the pandemic’s second wave was 895 on May 9, 2021, it surpassed that record on January 10 with 967 cases.A day later, the case count dropped to 801, but ever since, the city has been witnessing new highs daily, including 1,114 cases on January 12 and 1,338 on January 13.In more worries, the city also recorded two Covid-related deaths on Friday.Among them was a 44-year-old man, who was brought dead at GMSH, Sector 16, and later found positive for the virus. The man was a chronic alcoholic, and suffering from diabetes mellitus and kidney disease. He was not vaccinated against Covid.The second fatality was a 50-year-old woman from Sector 32. She also tested positive after being brought dead at GMCH, Sector 32. Though she was fully vaccinated, she was a hypertension patient.Mohali’s positivity’s rate shoots up to 36%With 1,215 fresh Covid cases on Friday, Mohali district’s positivity rate soared to 36%, highest since the infections started climbing in December.The daily tally was also only second to the district’s record-high of 1,382, reported on May 10 last year.Chandigarh’s positivity rate also climbed to 25.2% from 20.8% a day ago. However, the figure dropped from 27% to 17.5% in Panchkula, a relief for the district that had recorded a 30% positivity rate on January 12.This was aided by the 441 infections reported on Friday, lower than 701 the day before and its all-time high of 734 on Wednesday.Tricity’s daily tally crosses 3,000 markDespite lower cases in Panchkula, higher infections in Chandigarh and Mohali pushed tricity’s daily case tally to 3,490, highest so far.With 2,822 cases on Wednesday and 2,956 on Thursday, the daily figure stayed above the second wave’s peak of 2,612 for the third day in a row.With this, tricity’s active caseload also climbed from 13,324 to 15,662 in the past 24 hours.Chandigarh alone has 7,257 infected patients, followed by Mohali with 5,811 and Panchkula 2,594. At the beginning of the month, only 457 people had the virus in the tricity.Since the pandemic broke out, as many as 74,475 people have contracted the virus in Chandigarh. Among them, 66,132 have recovered, but 1,086 have died, highest in the tricity.In Mohali, the caseload of 76,197 comprises 69,307 recoveries and 1,079 deaths.Panchkula has recorded 35,327 cases till date. While 32,351 have beaten the virus, 382 have succumbed to it.45% oxygen beds occupied in ChandigarhWith the rising cases, the number of beds occupied by Covid patients in government and private hospitals of Chandigarh is also increasing.On Friday, 303 of the 672 oxygen beds, 29 of the 159 ventilator beds and three of the 15 ICU beds were occupied by patients from Chandigarh and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1834-positive-chandigarh-sets-new-24-hour-record-for-third-straight-day-101642191913693.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dadumajra landfill: Administrator wants legacy waste cleared in three months||Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit has directed the Chandigarh Smart City Limited and municipal corporation to prepare a plan to completely clear the legacy waste from the Dadumajra dumping ground and upgrade the solid waste processing plant within the next three months.On his first visit to the legacy mining site and the compost plant at Dadumajra, the administrator directed the officials concerned to remove refused derived fuel (RDF) within one week. He also directed them to prepare a detailed plan to clear the rest of the legacy waste with additional processing, and deploy more manpower and machinery, if required.The administrator directed UT adviser Dharam Pal to take up the matter of clearing the accumulated RDF in the mining area with power plants of Haryana and Punjab.MC commissioner Anindita Mishra told the administrator and adviser that bio-mining in one part of the garbage dump is currently ongoing and will be completed soon. The administrator directed that the processing machinery be upgraded immediately to ensure that fresh waste does not end up at the dumping ground directly. He also directed that the proposal for the bio-remediation of the 7.67 lakh MT legacy waste that has been submitted to Centre under the Swachh Bharat Mission, be pursued and efforts be put to get it cleared at the earliest.At the compost plant, he directed the officials concerned to upgrade its capacity and make adequate use of the manure generated.Local AAP councillor Kuldeep Dalohar met Purohit at the plant and demanded that the ward residents be freed from this mountain of garbage soon.Stating that most people in the area were falling sick because of the massive amount of waste, Dalohar said medical examination of all locals should be conducted through regular medical camps, and that they should be provided employment by upgrading the plant with new technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dadumajra-landfill-administrator-wants-legacy-waste-cleared-in-three-months-101642191911741.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Speeding biker claims 52-year-old man’s life in Mohali’s Lalru||A 52-year-old motorcyclist was killed in a hit-and-run accident near Malikpur village in Lalru on Thursday evening.Police said the victim, Pal Singh, a resident of Agarpur village in Lalru, worked as a security guard for a local private company. “On Thursday evening, he was headed to work, when a speeding motorcycle hit him and sped away. He was later declared brought dead at the Dera Bassi civil hospital,” investigating officer Baljinder Singh said.The accused motorcyclist was identified as Rohit Kumar of Ballopur village. “He has been booked under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC, and will be arrested soon,” the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-biker-claims-52-year-old-man-s-life-in-mohali-s-lalru-101642191910440.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Gurnam Charuni, Balbir Rajewal fail to break deadlock over seat-sharing||With Gurnam Singh Charuni-led Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP) demanding 25 seats in the seat-sharing agreement with Balbir Singh Rajewal’s Sanyukt Samaj Morcha(SSM), and the latter unwilling to part with more than seven seats, the stalemate between the two parties continues ahead of Punjab assembly elections slated for February 14.Both parties held a series of meetings in Ludhiana on Friday. As per information, Charuni’s party demanded 25 seats, but Rajewal’s side agreed for 13, then went down to nine and finally gave them seven seats, and that too, those which were not the ones SSP was hoping for. Giving the example of Sardoolgarh, a close aide of Charuni said, “SSM withdrew the seat that was earlier promised to SSP.”The aide further said, “We formed our party six months ago and since then, have been working hard. Our workers have also spent a lot, so going back is difficult.”Rajewal has formed a three-member committee to deal with seat-sharing matters. He had formed the SSM last month, taking along 19 of the 32 farm bodies from Punjab who were part of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation that led the agitation against the now repealed agriculture reform laws. Rajewal had announced candidates for 10 seats two days ago and is expected to make the announcement for 25-30 more seats on Saturday. A meeting between Charuni’s group and Rajewal’s committee is fixed for Saturday. In a video message released earlier, Charuni had threatened to go solo in case a respectable seat-sharing formula is not arrived at for the 117 seats in state. “We will be left with no option but to contest the polls alone in case a formula suited to both sides is not reached,” said Charuni’s aide. Differences narrowed, don’t want to split farmers’ votes: SSMAddressing a press conference in Ludhiana, SSM parliamentary committee member Prem Singh Bhangu said differences between both sides have been narrowed. Responding to a question regarding Charuni’s displeasure, Bhangu said, “We were together during the farm agitation and don’t want farmers’ votes to be split. Everything is fine and the differences have been narrowed. Soon, both outfits will make a combined announcement.” The SSM had organised the press conference to announce candidates for six seats of Ludhiana city and others. But the announcement was put off till Sunday, stating that more applications have been received and the SSM wants to go through those. Bhangu said candidates for six seats of Ludhiana city will be chosen from the group of industrialists, who are part of SSM.1,273 ticket aspirants have applied: SSM Bhangu said SSM had set January 14 as the deadline for accepting applications from aspiring candidates and as many as 1,273 applications have been received from the state. He said some Arjuna awardees and Olympians also figure in the list of applicants. The party leaders said all the applications will be thoroughly scrutinised and candidates will be finalised on merit basis. “SSM will not entertain any application sent after 5pm on January 14. We will also not give tickets to those who leave their party at the eleventh hour, aspiring for a ticket,” said Bhangu. The SSM leaders further said they will release the manifesto for the upcoming election in 2-3 days. They refuted the allegations leveled by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that BJP is helping SSM in getting registered with election commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-gurnam-charuni-balbir-rajewal-fail-to-break-deadlock-over-seatsharing-101642191851991.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir admn directive for ‘Surya Namaskar’ on Makar Sankranti sparks row||A government order asking faculty members and students of colleges to perform Surya Namaskar has drawn sharp criticism from two former J&K chief ministers and city mayor as they termed this order as undemocratic.Director colleges, higher education department, Yasmeen Ashai in an order had directed nodal principal, Jammu division colleges, and nodal principal, Kashmir division colleges, for organising a large-scale Surya Namaskar on Friday on the occasion of Makar Sankranti.“The Government of India has desired that on the occasion, a large-scale virtual Surya Namaskar be organised under the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations to make it a people-centric successful programme with a tag line “Surya Namaskar for vitality”. Kindly ensure that all faculty members and students actively participate in the programmes,” reads the government order.“Why should Muslim students be forced to do anything, including yoga, to celebrate Makar Sankranti? It is a festival and to celebrate it or not must be a personal choice. Would the BJP be happy if a similar order was issued to order non-Muslim students to celebrate Eid,” asked NC vice-president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah in a tweet.Another former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also criticised the decision. “GOIs PR misadventures aim to demean and collectively humiliate Kashmiris. Forcing students and staff to perform Surya Namaskars by issuing orders despite their obvious discomfort with the imposition of something laden with religious connotations gives an insight into their communal mind-set,” Mufti tweeted.Srinagar city mayor and Apni party leader Junaid Azim Mattu termed the order as “undemocratic”.“No activity with origins in religion, mythology or faith should be forced upon anyone. Such broad-brushed, undemocratic directives are violative of the very basic principles of our constitution,” tweeted Mattu.Muttahida Majlis-e-Ulema (MMU), the amalgam of several religious organisations of J&K, in a statement took strong exception to the government order.The MMU said, “To deliberately force them to do so by issuing directives is mischievous. The rulers should be clear that this is completely unacceptable to the Muslims of the state who will never yield to such highhandedness.”The statement further said that Muslims of J&K are respectful of all religions and believe in harmonious coexistence but will never yield to any pressure, if and when there is any interference in matters related to their faith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-admn-directive-for-surya-namaskar-on-makar-sankranti-sparks-row-101642191553179.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal cabinet approves new sports, energy policies||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Friday approved the Swaran Jayanti Energy Policy, 2021, which envisages expeditious development of green energy sources and adds an additional 10,000 MW of green energy by 2030.It is also aimed at developing an adequate and efficient transmission network in the state by creating a transmission master plan to facilitate planning and timely execution of hydro and solar projects.The policy lays stress on renewal energy sources, including solar, wind, biomass and other non-conventional energy sources.The cabinet also gave approval to the Himachal Pradesh Swarnim Jayanti Sports Policy, 2021, which lays emphasis on developing, maintaining and optimally utilising high-quality sports infrastructure, encouraging public-private participation in creating sports infrastructure, coordinating with educational institutions for the promotion of sports and to encourage, train and support sportspersons for participation and excellence in national and international championships with high standards of ethics.The policy aims at introducing scientific research in training for long-term sports development and recognising and honouring talent in sports and rewarding young women and men who have achieved excellence in sports. The cabinet further decides to do away with the process of 15 marks evaluation and enhancement of weightage of written test from 85 to 100 marks for direct recruitment to Class-III posts to ensure transparency in the selection of candidates. The cabinet gave ex post facto approval for 100 percent waiver/ exemption of token tax, special road tax and passenger tax of various categories of vehicles to provide relief to the transporters keeping in view the effect due to the pandemic.It decided to waive of remaining 50% token tax on stage carriage, taxi, maxi, auto and contract carriage buses, institutional buses and 100% token tax on contract carriage buses and special road tax on stage carriage with effect from August 2020 to June 2021. it also decided to waive off 100% token tax on stage carriage, contract carriage and institutional buses and special road tax of stage carriage with effect from July 2021 to November 2021. Passenger tax on contract carriage and institutional buses has also been fully waived off from April 2020 to November 2021.The cabinet gave its approval to create a new division of public works department at Shahpur in Kangra district and a sub-division at Drini.Approval was also given to restructuring of state taxes and excise department. Creation and filling up of posts would be carried out by the department in a phased manner in consultation with the finance department and in sync with the restructuring proposal.It also gave its consent to open a new section of jal shakti department at Darwar in Mandi district under Tihra sub-division. A new section Jal Shakti Department will be opened at Kelodhar in Mandi district.The cabinet gave its approval to fill up 108 posts of different categories in revenue department; 42 posts of silk inspectors in the industries department on a contract basis; 13 posts of different categories in the printing and stationery department and three posts of statistical assistant in the revenue department on contract basis.The cabinet gave its nod to provide relief to flood-affected farmers of Lahaul-Spiti district for agriculture and horticulture losses caused due to extensive rains from July 27 to 30, 2020. The farmers would be provided ₹2,000 per bigha for 20-25% crop loss; ₹2,500 per bigha 50 to 75% crop loss and ₹3,000 per bigha above 75% crop loss.Besides, ₹3,000 per bigha would also be provided to farmers whose land was damaged in landslides, flash floods and avalanches and ₹1000 per bigha for desilting of land.It gave its nod to rename Chamarla village in Kullu district as Dharabag, Chamarkad in Hamirpur district as Dhaned-I and Bandoor in Shimla district as Viktadi. The cabinet also reviewed the Covid situation and a presentation was made on the current situation and measures being taken to deal with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cabinet-approves-new-sports-energy-policies-101642191551952.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal education minister Govind Thakur, state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap test positive for Covid||Himachal Pradesh education minister Govind Singh Thakur and state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Suresh Kashyap were among the record 1,975 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.With this, Himachal’s total case tally has reached 2,40,330. This was also the highest single-day spike in the state. Earlier, the highest single-day tally was on Wednesday when the state recorded 1,804 cases. The death toll mounted to 3,872 after one patient died due to the infection.“I was not feeling well for the past two days and had isolated myself. I have tested positive for Covid-19. Apart from mild symptoms, my health is fine. Those who met me are requested to monitor their health and undergo the test,” the education minister wrote on his Facebook page.State party president Kashyap also shared news of being tested positive on social media. “After initial symptoms, I got myself tested for Covid-19, which is positive. I am in self-isolation and strictly following the doctor’s advice,” he wrote.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed concern over his cabinet colleague and state party chief testing positive for the virus and prayed for their speedy recovery. He also prayed for speedy recovery of co-in-charge of party affairs in Himachal Sanjay Tondon, who also has been tested positive.Meanwhile, the highest 584 cases were reported from Shimla followed by 387 from Solan. As many as 220 cases were reported from Kangra, 210 from Una, 169 from Sirmaur, 143 from Mandi, 83 from Chamba, 71 from Bilaspur, 45 from Kullu, 41 from Hamirpur and 22 from Kinnaur. No case was reported from Lahaul-Spiti.Active cases have shot up to 9,529 while the recoveries reached 2,26,892 after 558 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district as its case tally reached 55,077 followed by 33,013 cases in Mandi and 29,656 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-education-minister-govind-thakur-state-bjp-chief-suresh-kashyap-test-positive-for-covid-101642191550679.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mini Covid care centre inaugurated at Sector 34 sports complex||UT adviser Dharam Pal on Friday inaugurated a 50-bed mini Covid centre at the sports complex in Sector 34. The centre has been set by Kandhari Beverages Private Limited. Vikram Kandhari, joint managing director of Kandari Beverages, said that all beds at the centre are oxygenated and qualified medical and para-medial staff have been appointed to take care of the patients. He added that a dedicated ambulance is available and arrangements have been made for music, yoga and nutritious food.Pal showed his appreciation towards Kandhari Group for coming forward and associating with the administration during the ongoing crisis. He said that during the second wave also, a care centre had been successfully operated by the Kandhari Group. The adviser also made an appeal to other NGOs and organisations to come forward and associate with the administration for this noble cause.Any individual, association, voluntary organisation, NGO, religious organization or private firm or trust can come forward to set up a mini Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients. All facilities at the centre will be provided for free.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSNGOs donate blankets to the needyThe NGO, Feed the Soul, celebrated Makar Sankranti and Pongal by organising blanket distribution drives in 10 cities including Chandigarh, Mohali and Ambala. Founder of the NGO, Lakshmi Devi from New Delhi, said, “The smiles on the faces of the people whom we tried to keep warm this winter inspires us to carry out more such operations and give back to our society through our small but constructive efforts.” Also, the Society for Divine Reiki Meditation in association with student for sewa wing of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) distributed around 200 blankets to the homeless people in the markets of Sectors 27, 19 and 18.CCPCR organises training for teachersChandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) has been organising week-long online orientation programmes to improve the communication skills of school teachers under its ongoing “Girls India Project”. Under this virtual training programme, Nirmal Datt,former head Of English department, DAV College, Sector 10, has introduced the “vernacular bridge course To learn English” for the English teachers. FCI celebrates foundation dayThe regional office of Food Corporation of India celebrated the corporation’s Foundation Day in Panchkula on Friday by organising a plantation drive. Amit Bhushan, FCI regional general manager, Haryana, marked the day by planting fruit plants. Pradeep Singh, deputy genenral manager (DGM), regional and Manjeev Goyal, DGM,operations, also participated in the plantation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mini-covid-care-centre-inuagurated-at-sector-34-sports-complex-101642191253174.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||SAD (Sanyukt) delegation meets home minister Amit Shah, seeks release of 20 Sikh prisoners||A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) led by president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa met Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday and gave him a list of 20 Sikh prisoners languishing in different jails across the country for the last several years and demanded their immediate release. Dhindsa also demanded a debt waiver and economic package for farmers and farm labourers of Punjab. MLA and party leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa said the home minister has assured to look into the demands. He added that the need for boosting the industry in the state was also discussed during the meeting.BJP’s Punjab affairs in-charge and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was present during the meeting. “People of Punjab, especially Sikhs, made an immense contribution for the liberation of the country, but the governments of the time never appreciated it,” said Parminder, while stating that he hopes the BJP government would accept their age-old demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-sanyukt-delegation-meets-home-minister-amit-shah-seeks-release-of-20-sikh-prisoners-101642191250665.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||ITF tennis tournament: Darja-Lanlana clinch girls’ doubles title||Darja Suvirjonkova of Serbia and her partner, Lanlana Tararudee of Thailand, played top-class tennis to outplay Vaishnavi Adkar of India and Rutuja Chaphalkar of USA in a close contested three-setter 3-6, 7-5, [10-5] in the girls’ U-18 doubles final during the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-2) at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10 on Saturday. In the boys’ U-18 doubles final, Aayush P Bhat of USA and his partner Rushil Khosla of India beat Fadi Bidan of Lebanon and Thanaphat Boosarawongse of Thailand in straight sets 6-3, 6-2 to walk away with the title.Playing in the boys’ U-18 singles’ semi-finals, qualifier Manas Dhamne of India and seventh seed Aayush P Bhat of USA won their respective matches to enter the final. Qualifier Manas Dhamne knocked out Lucas Phanthala of France in straight sets 7-5, 6-1. Aayush P Bhat defeated qualifier Bushan Haobam of India 6-4, 6-2. Manasa Dhamne will clash with Aaysuh P Bhat in the boys singles final to be played on Saturday.In the girls’ U-18 singles’ semi-finals, Vlada Mincheva of Russia upset second seed Meshkatolzahra Safi of Iran 6-3, 7-5. While fifth seed Lanlana Tararudee of Thailand beat seventh seed Vaishnavi Adkar of India 1-6, 6-2, 6-2 to enter the final.ResultsBoys’ U-18 semi-finals: Aayush P Bhat (USA) [7] bt Bushan Haobam (IND) (Q) 6-4, 6-2; Manas Dhamne (IND) (Q) bt Lucas Phanthala (FRA) 7-5, 6-1.Girls’ U-18 semi-finals: Lanlana Tararudee (THA) [5] bt Vaishnavi Adkar (IND) [7] 1-6, 6-2, 6-2; Vlada Mincheva (RUS) [6] bt Meshkatolzahra Safi (IRI) [2] 6-3, 7-5.Boys’ doubles final: Aayush P Bhat (USA) and Rushil Khosla (IND) bt Fadi Bidan (LBN) and Thanaphat Boosarawongse (THA) 6-3, 6-2.Girls’ doubles final: Darja Suvirjonkova (SRB) and Lanlana Tararudee (THA) [4] bt Vaishnavi Adkar (IND) and Rutuja Chaphalkar (USA) 3-6, 7-5, [10-5].||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itf-tennis-tournament-darja-lanlana-clinch-girls-doubles-title-101642190951732.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||2019 Tarn Taran blast: High court grants bail to one accused, says allegations prima facie not true||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to Amarjeet Singh, an accused linked with the 2019 Tarn Taran blast and alleged pro-Khalistani group member, observing that the accusation is not prima facie “true”. Two of the accused — Vikram Singh, alias Vicky, and Harpreet Singh, alias Happy — were killed on the spot when an explosion took place at Pandori Gola village of the district in September 2019. The third accomplice, Gurjant Singh suffered injuries. Initial probe suggested that the trio was trying to retrieve ammunition concealed underground to unleash terror activities in the state. Later, the case was taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Amarjeet in his appeal had said that he was in custody since September 2019 and nothing has come on record that he was a member of any terrorist organisation and involved in any unlawful activity. Hence, bail be granted. The NIA had argued that the mastermind in the case Bikramjit Singh is absconding and Amarjeet was in touch with him and had participated in the training organised by him to make and test bombs. The court observed that the NIA has not been able to collect incriminating material against the petitioner. However, data recovered from his social media accounts show the appellant’s inclination towards Khalistan. “Mainly because there are some Khalistani mentions in his social media account which are of offending nature ……would not as such be conclusive proof that the appellant is a member of a terrorist group,” it said, allowing his bail further observing that trial is not likely to be concluded in the near future. “.. (from the evidence on record) it can be safely recorded that the accusation is not prima facie true and he is entitled to the benefit of regular bail during the pendency of the trial,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2019-tarn-taran-blast-high-court-grants-bail-to-one-accused-says-allegations-prima-facie-not-true-101642190950327.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||National Commission for Women chief Rekha Sharma terms Bishop Franco Mulakkal’s acquittal shocking||National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday said she was shocked to hear the acquittal of Kerala nun rape case accused Franco Mulakkal and promised to support the victim and fellow nuns. “Shocked at the judgment of the district sessions court. The victim must go to the high court. NCW is with her in her fight for justice,” she tweeted after the verdict. Kerala women’s commission chairperson P Sathi Devi also expressed concern over the verdict. “We are with the suffering nuns. We will help them,” she said. While political parties are guarded in their reaction, for shocked activists and others it took time to sink in. “The verdict is really painful. But it is not over. In Sister Abhaya murder case, it took 28 years for long arms of the law to punish the offenders,” said Sister Lucy Kalapura who was expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation for openly supporting nuns who staged a sit-in protest in 2018 in Kochi, seeking the arrest of Franco Mulakkal. She said the verdict will give a wrong message to those who want to come out against such atrocities. Former SP of Kottayam S Hari Shankar, who supervised the investigation, said the verdict will be unprecedented in Indian judiciary. “We can look at the verdict only with shock. There have been a lot of corroborative evidence and enough witnesses. There were medical evidence as well. We have to check what kind of message this verdict is giving to the society as a whole,” he said. Activist Joemon Puhtanpurakkal, an activist who fought more than 25 years to ensure justice for Sister Abhaya, who was found murdered in a well of the convent, said it was only a temporary setback and nuns should continue their fight for justice. State fisheries minister Saji Cherian, also hailing from Kottayam, said the government will take a decision after taking legal opinion. But a senior lawyer with the defence team CS Ajayan said the verdict was a natural outcome. “You can raise charges easily but you will have to corroborate these with evidence. The prosecution failed to come up with proofs to substantiate its charges,” he said. Catholic Youth Forum leader Kennedy K said truth prevailed with the verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-commission-for-women-chief-rekha-sharma-terms-bishop-franco-mulakkal-s-acquittal-shocking-101642190650255.html
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram reports two Covid-19 deaths, logs over 3800 fresh cases||Gurugram reported two deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, along with 3,897 fresh cases, according to the district health bulletin. So far, four deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported from the district this week. Officials said that a 61-year-old fully vaccinated man and a 63-year-old woman who was unvaccinated died on Friday. Both of them were comorbid, officials confirmed. Earlier this week, a 66-year-old man died on Wednesday, and a 67-year-old man died on Monday.Both patients were vaccinated and comorbid, said officials.Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “Both the patients who died on Friday were being treated at private hospitals where they tested positive for Covid-19. The 61-year-old man was suffering from diabetes and chronic liver disease, while the 63-year-old woman was being treated for chronic kidney and liver disease.” On Friday, Gurugram’s active case tally reached 17,539, of which 138 patients are hospitalised in the district and rest are in home isolation. According to official data, 1,531 people recovered in the district. On Friday, the health department collected 13,088 samples for testing. The district recorded a positivity rate of 29% on Friday, a sharp increase from the 24% recorded on Thursday. Meanwhile, the district health department issued new guidelines regarding testing and hospitalisation on Friday, based on the latest guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). According to the guidelines issued by the district surveillance officer, all symptomatic patients with cough, fever, sore throat, and other symptoms must get tested immediately along with at-risk contacts of confirmed positive cases. Emergency procedures including surgeries and deliveries should not be delayed due to lack of testing. The guidelines said, “No need of hospitalisation if you are maintaining oxygen saturation more than 93% and having no difficulty in breathing or high-grade fever persisting more than five days.” The guideline also mentioned that a nodal officer (infection control officer) must be identified in each health institution to address matters related to healthcare-associated infections. Drive-through vaccinationThe district health department will conduct a drive-through Covid vaccination drive for children in the 15-18 age group as well as for booster dose for senior citizens, healthcare workers and frontline workers on Sunday, said health officials. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “As the number of Covid-19 cases has increased in the past few days, many people are scared to come out for vaccination at the centres due to crowding, because of which the drive-through vaccination is being conducted for the 15-18 age group and booster dose for senior citizens, healthcare workers and frontline workers. The drive will start from 10am on Sunday and 300 doses each will be available for booster shots and vaccination of children.” On Friday, 17,209 doses were administered, including 7,603 first doses, 7,924 second doses and 1,682 booster doses. With this, over 4.61 million doses have been administered in Gurugram till now. On Friday, 2,236 children were vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-reports-two-covid-19-deaths-logs-over-3800-fresh-cases-101642190533316.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal braces for fresh spell of snow, rain; Keylong freezes at -13.2 °C||The high and mid-hills of Himachal Pradesh are bracing for another spell of snowfall from January, even as a cold wave continues to sweep across the hill state. A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from January 16 and in quick succession, another western disturbance would affect Northwest India on January 18 bringing more snow and rains, said Shimla MeT Centre director Surender Paul. Meanwhile, the MeT department has also sounded a yellow alert for dense fog at isolated places in the plains on Saturday. Paul said that the weather was dry across the state over the last 24 hours. There was no appreciable change in minimum temperatures and maximum temperatures and night as well as day temperatures were normal. Keylong, the administrative centre of the tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state recording a low of minus 13.2 degrees Celsius while Kalpa in Kinnaur shivered at minus 6.6 degrees Celsius. Famous tourist destination Kufri saw a minimum temperature of minus 3.5 degrees C while tourist town Manali was cold at minus 2.2 degrees C. Another famous hill station Dalhousie recorded a night temperature of 2.2 degrees C and State capital Shimla 2.8 degrees C. Palampur recorded 4.4 degrees and Dharamshala 5.2 degrees C minimum temperature. Over 225 roads still closed Life is slowly limping back to normal in the state though several roads are still blocked for traffic in the remote and electricity is yet to be restored in many remote parts after the heavy snow and rains last week. Director of the State Disaster Management Authority Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said that more than 225 roads, including three national highways, were still blocked for traffic in six districts. Lahaul-Spiti is the worst-hit district where a total of 132 roads are blocked. Thirty-five roads were blocked in Shimla and 27 in Kullu. As many as 119 electricity transformers were yet to be repaired of which 59 in Chamba district alone. A total of 42 water supply schemes are to be restored in Lahaul-Spiti, Chamba and Shimla districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-braces-for-fresh-spell-of-snow-rain-keylong-freezes-at-13-2-c-101642190531976.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali police arrest Nigerian woman with 1kg heroin||The crime investigating agency (CIA) of Mohali Police arrested a Nigerian woman with 1kg heroin from a park in Phase 7 on Friday.The accused, identified as Faith, is a Nigerian national, but has been staying at Delhi and frequently visiting Mohali and nearby districts.“The arrest came based on secret information that a Nigerian woman is coming to supply heroin to her clients in a park of Phase 7,” said Navjot Singh Mahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.He added that during interrogation, the woman disclosed that she had been smuggling heroin for a long time. “She would purchase the drug from Delhi and supply it in Mohali and Kharar at higher rates,” the SSP said.The accused was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Mataur police station. She was presented before a local court and sent to two-day police remand. Police are trying to establish her clientele in the districtThe SSP further said in the last one month, Mohali police had arrested 58 drug peddlers and registered 40 cases under the NDPS Act. With these arrests, 1,83,000 banned tablets, 1.739kg heroin and 159 intoxicating drugs have been seized.A convict, who was out on bail, was arrested with 1.12kg charas on Thursday. The accused, identified as Birbhan, 36, was arrested near his house at Indira Colony in Manimajra. A drugs case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him. Birbhan was previously convicted in a drugs case registered in Manimajra and had received a sentence of 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-arrest-nigerian-woman-with-1kg-heroin-101642190530693.html
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man found dead in car South City-1, relative booked for murder||Gurugram police said Friday 67-year-old man was found seemingly strangled to death in his car in South City-1 area on Thursday night.Based on the complaint of his wife, police have booked one of their relatives on charges of murder.In the FIR, the wife said that when she returned home from work around 7pm, the man was not home.“My daughter-in-law informed me that he had gone to drop her brother-in-law to the Metro station. When I called my husband, he said that he would return home late. I contacted him again later but he did not pick up,” she said in the FIR.She added that when did not return until much later, she called the man he had gone to drop at the Metro station, who allegedly told her that her husband had been found dead in his car. She said she suspected him of strangling her husband.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that they took the man to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. “The victim was found lying in his car in a service lane in South City 1, barely 500 metres from his house. His head was on the co-driver’s seat while his feet were on the driver’s seat. He had injury marks on the neck and according to a preliminary probe, he was strangled to death,” he said.Police said they are questioning the suspect named in the complaint. “No arrests have been named so far. The motive is yet to be ascertained,” said Yadav, adding that a case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 40 police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-found-dead-in-car-south-city-1-relative-booked-for-murder-101642190470802.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kerala nun rape case: Bishop Franco Mulakkal’s supporters celebrate outside Jalandhar diocese after his acquittal||Celebrations erupted outside the Jalandhar diocese on Friday after news of Roman Catholic Bishop Franco Mulakkal’s acquittal in the nun rape case broke out.His supporters exchanged sweets, performed bhangra and pasted posters carrying “zindabad” slogans, on the walls of the diocese. Mulakkal, 57, was accused of raping a nun in Kerala’s Kottayam district multiple times between 2014 and 2016 when he was the Bishop of the Jalandhar diocese. One of his supporters said, “Justice has prevailed. We are very happy and hope that Franco will visit us soon at the diocese in Jalandhar.” Father Peter, the public relations officer of the diocese, said, “We are thankful to the almighty for revealing his power over evil. We are also grateful to those who stood with Bishop Franco during difficult times. We thank the judiciary for upholding truth and justice.” Father Joseph of the diocese said, “We witnessed tough times but we always prayed to God for our victory. Franco Mulakkal will come here very soon and we will give him a grand welcome.” Mandeep Sachdeva, the diocese advocate, said, “We have been saying since the first day that Mulakkal was implicated, which has been proven after the verdict.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kerala-nun-rape-case-bishop-franco-mulakkal-s-supporters-celebrate-outside-jalandhar-diocese-after-his-acquittal-101642190110392.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Zero vaccination at camps: Two Chandigarh schools get show-cause notices||The UT health department has issued show-cause notices to Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 23, and Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, after no student was inoculated at the vaccination camps organised on their premises on Thursday.The camps were organised in line with an order by UT health secretary Yashpal Garg, wherein all principals were told to intimate students about the vaccination camps. They were warned of action under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, in case any violation of order.However, though vaccination teams remained present at both schools through Thursday, no student turned up for the jab. “This not only resulted in wastage of precious human resources, but also prevented the health officials from discharging their duty during the ongoing crisis,” Garg said in the notices sent to the schools.The schools have been asked to explain whether all students enrolled in the school and eligible for the vaccine were informed about the camp set up on the school premises. They have also been asked to explain why the authorities were not informed that none of the students had consented to get vaccinated on Thursday. The schools need to send an explanation to the school education director within three days and no more vaccination camps will be organised there, the notice stated.Schools refute allegationsBoth schools claimed there was no violation of the health secretary’s order. Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School has already sent its reply with a list of all modes of communication used to inform the students. The school shared that even the neighbouring schools in Sector 26 were asked to bring their students for vaccination and staff was also sent to Bapu Dham Colony to invite children. Principal Sister Arti said, “The school falls in an institutional area, so many of our students have already gotten vaccinated at centres closer to their homes. A Google form was sent out on Wednesday regarding the vaccination camp on Thursday and many parents responded that their wards will be getting vaccinated on Thursday.”She added that out of 650 eligible students in the school, around 60% had already received the first dose of vaccine. School authorities added that on Thursday, some students showed up, but were not vaccinated as a vial was to be opened for a minimum of 10 people. At GMSSS, Sector 23, principal Seema Grover said, “Students did not arrive early in the morning due to Lohri and chilly weather. Around 20 students turned up later, but the vaccination team had already left by 11.30 am.”She added that the school had sent numerous text messages, voice notes and utilised other means to inform students about the camp. “These will be shared with the authorities now. Around 67% of our eligible students are already vaccinated, as we took them to the camp at GMSSS, Sector 16, while some others went to GMSSS, Sector 19, as it’s closer to their houses,” Grover said.According to the eligible population projected by the central government, about 72,000 children, aged 15 to 18, are eligible for vaccination in Chandigarh.Since January 3, the UT health department has vaccinated 41,032 (57%) children with the first dose. So far, no side effects have been reported post immunisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zero-vaccination-at-camps-two-chandigarh-schools-get-show-cause-notices-101642190054084.html
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Cold wave likely in Gurugram this weekend, says IMD||Gurugram is likely to witness cold wave conditions as well as dense fog over the weekend, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The city recorded a “cold day” on Friday with a maximum temperature of 14.4 degrees Celsius (°C), five degrees below normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was recorded at 7.5°C--one degree above normal. According to IMD, when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16°C in the plains, it is considered a “cold day”. Gurugram has witnessed four “cold days” this week, including Friday. On Friday, there was dense fog throughout the city with the visibility dropping to around 50 metres at the Palam airport in the morning hours. Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, said, “Cold wave and cold day conditions, along with dense fog, will continue for at least the next three days over Gurugram. A dense fog alert has been issued for the next two days, during which visibility will remain less than 100 metres and can drop to 50 metres in open areas. There is a western disturbance approaching, which is likely to impact the region from January 17, and a slight rise in maximum temperature is likely, but if it gets delayed then cold wave conditions can increase for few more days.” A western disturbance means an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure, moving from the west to the east, carrying with it moisture associated with rainfall, snowfall and fog in northern India.Before Friday, Gurugram had recorded a maximum temperature of 14.4°C on Sunday, the lowest maximum temperature recorded this season. Meanwhile, with an Air Quality Index reading of 383 on Friday, Gurugram’s air quality dipped to the “very poor” category of Central Pollution Control Board’s classification from “poor” on Thursday (with an AQI reading of 282). According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, over the next two days, the air quality is likely to remain in the “very poor” category as the winds are likely to remain relatively slow with poor ventilation conditions till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cold-wave-likely-in-gurugram-this-weekend-says-imd-101642190050262.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Central Tibetan Administration mourns death of last surviving government officer of independent Tibet||The Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), also called Tibetan government-in-exile, on Friday held a prayer service to mourn the demise of Tsedrung Gyaltsen Choden, the last surviving government official of independent Tibet.Choden passed away on 12 January in the United States.The prayer service was held at the Kashag Secretariat and was attended by Sikyong (president of CTA) Penpa Tsering and cabinet ministers Gyari Dolma, Tharlam Dolma and Norzin Dolma.Delivering the eulogy for the deceased, Sikyong said that Choden was the last surviving officers of the independent Tibet before 1959. He served the Tibetan government from a young age and after coming into exile, he served the exile government in various capacities for the entirety of his life, said Tsering. He was one of the longest-serving Tibetan civil servants and we offer our deepest condolences to his family members, he said, adding that Choden lived a truly meaningful life serving the Tibetan people and fulfilling the aspirations of the Dalai Lama.Born in 1920, Choden was selected as an accountant in the Tibetan government in 1946.He came into exile in 1959 and in 1964 was appointed as the education secretary and took charge of editing and printing the biography of the Dalai Lama. In 1967, he served as the cashier-cum-head of the home division at the bureau of the Dalai Lama in New Delhi. In 1969, he was appointed as the secretary of the home department and also served as settlement officer of various settlements and principal of Central School for Tibetans, Mundgod. He retired from active service in 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/central-tibetan-administration-mourns-death-of-last-surviving-government-officer-of-independent-tibet-101642189870204.html
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man arrested for driving SUV with number plate of another car||A 32-year-old owner of an automobile workshop was arrested on Friday for allegedly replacing the registration number plate of his SUV with that of another vehicle, which he had sold to a resident of Palwal last year. Police said last December, Rajesh Sarot, the Palwal resident, received three challans for jumping signal and not wearing seat belt while driving. Sarot, who registered a complaint, said he was shocked as he had not visited Gurugram during this period. “I went to the traffic police and brought the matter to the attention of the officer concerned. By then, I had already paid two challans without realising that someone else was using my SUV’s registration number,” he said. Assistant commissioner of police Sanjeev Balhara said, “We showed him the CCTV footage of his car. He was shocked as someone else was driving the SUV, whose shape and colour was the same as his vehicle. We checked the records and found that the suspect had paid one challan. We took the picture of the suspect and showed it to the complainant, who identified him as Naresh Singh of Hisar.” Balhara said they have a record of all the challans in their integrated command and control centre (ICCC) in Sector 44, where cameras linked to traffic signals detect violations. “We sent a team to the workshop in Wazirabad village and arrested the suspect from the spot. During questioning, he revealed that he had bought two Scorpio SUVs from Bangalore. While he sold one of the SUVs to the complainant, he kept the other one for himself. As there was tax pending and e-challans issued for his Scorpio, he replaced the number plate with the one he sold, after which he drove his SUV to the national capital and to different districts of Haryana,” he said. Police said to evade e-challans for traffic violations, Singh allegedly used the registration number of Sarot’s vehicleto trick traffic cameras and authorities in Gurugram. Police said more than 10 challans were issued against the registration number on Singh’s vehicle. He had been using the fake registration plate for almost a year to avoid paying e-challans for traffic violations.Balhara said they are investigating if Singh has violated serious traffic norms or has been involved in road accidents during this time. If found guilty, more sections will be added. A case under sections 417 (punishment for cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forging document) and 471 (using forged document) of the IPC was registered against Singh at Sector 53 police station on Thursday. Police said they have received 38 similar complaints from Panipat, Gurugram, Farrukhnagar, Nuh and Pataudi since January, 2021. The maximum cases are from Panipat. Balhara said there are gangs using the same modus operandi, where in they attach the original number plates of vehicles obtained in other districts and states to stolen vehicles. “We have identified some suspects belonging to different gangs. The fake registration number plates were used for kidnapping, murder, attempt to murder, robbery and snatching cases. We are yet to arrest the suspects involved in such casesand have written to other districts and states regarding the same,” he said. In April last year, Gurugram traffic police received similar complaints from Panipat and Faridabad. A 38-year-old resident of Panipat received a challan for jumping red signal from Gurugram police in January andreceived another challan from the Delhi police in the last week of March. The victim who had never visited any of the cities met police alleging that they have wrongly sent challans to him. An investigation was carried out, during which it was found someone was using his Enfield Bullet’s registration number plate and had violated traffic rules and regulations 13 times in a span of three months. “The victim was adamant and asked for proof. Police took CCTV footage from a few locations and showed him the clippings, after which it was clear that some unidentified person was using his registration number on a stolen motorbike since January 2021,” said Balhara. After the incident came to the fore, police started receiving similar complaints and the registration number of 13 vehicles, such as Innova, Ciaz, Honda City, Corolla, and Eco Sport, were found in use by criminals to escape police action. Commissioner of police K K Rao said their I-CCC is not only helping in recovering stolen vehicles but also tracking other vehicle-related crimes. “We have written to other districts to share if they have registered similar complaints. We have formed teams to arrest people involved in such cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-arrested-for-driving-suv-with-number-plate-of-another-car-101642189751594.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: Woman accuses three SUV-borne men of kidnapping||Lucknow A 26-year-old woman has accused three SUV-borne men of trying to kidnap her in Vibhuti Khand area when she was returning home in Indira Nagar from Gomti Nagar on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, said police officials here on Friday. An FIR had been registered against Yash Raj Singh and his two unidentified accomplices under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 365/511 for attempt to kidnap and 504 for insult, and further investigation into the matter was going on, said the officials. As per the FIR, Singh intercepted the scooty of Khusbu Singh, the complainant, in front of Wave Cinemas when she was returning home. He and his accomplices tried to push her into their SUV. They fled when two police personnel of night patrolling team reached there. The patrol team later accompanied her till home. On Thursday, Khusbu went to register the FIR and she again spotted the same SUV and caught hold of the main accused, Yash Raj, during the day time and handed over to the police. However, the police released him after making him fill the personal bond to appear before the police whenever required, and further investigating about the accusations made by the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-woman-accuses-three-suv-borne-men-of-kidnapping-101642189750352.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Accomplished mission to make Mohali medical hub: MLA Balbir Sidhu||Former cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said that making Mohali a world-class medical hub was his mission, which he accomplished by ensuring the establishment of Punjab’s fourth government medical college here.The Mohali MLA was campaigning from door-to-door in Phase 3B1, ahead of the Punjab assembly elections. He said,” For the last 40 years, Punjab had only three government medical colleges. The BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences was established so that students of the state can now get quality medical education at affordable fees.”He added that all the necessary equipment has already been provided at the institute and his aim is that students from his constituency and all over Punjab are able to avail medical education in their own state. To further give flip to medical education, the foundation stone of a government nursing college has also been laid, which is being set up under the medical college, Sidhu said.Under the mission to make Mohali a medical hub, a 350-bed civil hospital in Sector 66 has been sanctioned, he said, while adding that a 30-bed community health centre in Phase 3B1 has already been made operational.AAP claims support of Muslim communityThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday claimed that they have the support of the Muslim community in Punjab, especially the 32 imams of Mohali. They declared support for their candidate, Kulwant Singh, at an event.Kulwant said there are people from diverse communities supporting AAP and as soon as they are voted to power, corruption will end in Punjab and people will be provided with all basic amenities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/accomplished-mission-to-make-mohali-medical-hub-mla-balbir-sidhu-101642189630357.html
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Senior sanitary inspector fined for failing to clear waste||A senior sanitary inspector (SSI) of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has been fined by the Haryana Right to Service Commission for failing to clear waste in Sector 12-A area despite being served a suo moto notice by the commission last month and for giving unsatisfactory response in the matter, said a release that the district administration came out with on Friday. It is for the first time that the commission has taken any action against an MCG official. Last week, the SSI, Rishi Malik, was appointed as MCG’s nodal officer for biomedical waste collection.The matter pertains to a complaint raised by a resident of Sector 12-A area, regarding the failure of the MCG in collecting waste from streets and roads in his area.The SSI and a sub-divisional officer (SDO) of the MCG both appeared before the commission via video conference on Tuesday. Both the officials were served a suo moto notice by the commission on December 13 last year. The SDO was issued a notice for a matter pertaining to the flow of drain water in Sector 12-A area and his statement was accepted during the hearing.According to the order shared by T C Gupta, the chief commissioner of Haryana Right to Service Commission, the SSI said that Gurugram district is divided into six sanitation zones and that Sector 12-A falls under zone two, which was under his supervision at the time of the complaint and that he has 1,600-1,700 sweepers at his disposal. Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja also submitted a reply in the matter before the commission for perusal.“The reply given by the SSI is unsatisfactory in view of the fact that there is clear cut demarcation of district Gurugram into zones for sanitation purpose and a fleet of 1,600-1,700 sweepers and also many supervisors...to manage the sweepers have been placed at this disposal. The MCG commissioner has indirectly admitted in his reply that the area was dirty and there was a lot of garbage that had not been lifted or cleaned, and the same was done only after the intervention of the Haryana Right to Service Commission,” said the order. The order further states that the photographs sent by the MCG commissioner clearly proved that the area was not cleaned before the intervention of the commission. “It is evident that he (the SSI) has failed to deliver this notified service within the stipulated timeline by not cleaning the area, including green belts for many days. He had adequate resources at his command and it is painful that he has not utilized these sweepers, supervisory officers, ASIs (assistant sanitary inspectors) and SIs (sanitary inspectors) allotted to him prudently and efficiently,” said Gupta’s order. The commission ordered the senior sanitary inspector to deposit a fine of ₹20,000 in the state treasury within 30 days of issuance of these orders. If the amount is not deposited within the given time, further action will be taken by the commission as per law.Malik declined to comment on the matter.“The area in Sector 12-A has been cleaned and the latest photographs of the area has been submitted before the commission for perusal. The SSI is in the process of submitting the fine amount,” said a senior MCG official in the sanitation wing of the civic body. The commission further found the SSI and the SDO to be “ignorant and lacking sensitization” for being unaware of the services pertaining to MCG notified under Haryana Right to Service Commission and timelines thereof. They directed the MCG commissioner to organize training, either online or through video conference, keeping in mind Covid-19 restrictions, regarding the commission’s services for all MCG employees within 30 days of issuance of these orders and report compliance on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-senior-sanitary-inspector-fined-for-failing-to-clear-waste-101642189510125.html
15-01-2022||Noida||12,609 crime cases registered in Gautam Budh Nagar last year, shows annual data||Nearly 12,609 crime cases were registered in Gautam Budh Nagar in 2021 -- an increase as compared to 9,130 cases in 2020, revealed annual crime data released on Friday. Police, however, said there has been a decrease in heinous crimes like dacoity, loot, murder, and rape among others this year.According to the police, they recorded no dacoity cases, 52 for loot, 79 for murder, 125 for riots, 143 for house-trespass, zero for abduction, 41 for rape, and 110 for sexual harassment in 2021. The data showed that two dacoity cases were registered in 2020, 75 for loot, 81 for murder, 129 for riots, 181 for house-trespass, two for kidnapping, 42 for rape and 143 for sexual harassment.The police have also registered several cyber crime cases, but the data for the same was not provided separately.In 2021, the police also registered 47 FIRs under the Gangster Act and arrested 194 people, against the previous year’s 149 arrests in 31 cases. Meanwhile, 252 suspects were arrested in 140 encounters in 2021, against 211 arrests in 86 encounters in 2020.On January 13, 2020, the Uttar Pradesh government started the commissionerate system of policing in Gautam Budh Nagar.Aok Singh, police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar, said that serious crimes have decreased in the district. “The police have solved several serious crimes in the district last year, and arrested several suspects involved in exam solver gangs. Suspects involved in stealing laptops and cellphones from parked cars were also arrested,” Singh said.The police said that now the priority is to ensure a smooth election process, with proper social distancing to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Providing security to the Jewar airport project is also a priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/12609-crime-cases-registered-in-gautam-budh-nagar-last-year-shows-annual-data-101642189390208.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: LESA starts survey of markets to remove overhead wire mesh||Lucknow The Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA) has started a survey of Aminabad, Nazirabad and Goonge Nawab Park, for removing overhead wire mesh posing a threat to life in these areas. Executive engineer of LESA, SK Varma, said, “The work on underground power supply in Chowk will start within the next 15 days. The survey to remove overhead wire mesh will also begin soon in Medicine Market.” However, Vinood Maheshwari, secretary of Chowk Sarafa Association said, “The LESA has been assuring about underground power supply and removing overhead wires mesh for the last two years, but the work has not started yet. However, if the work starts soon then we will support it.” Meanwhile, due to dangling wires there have been cases of short circuits in several markets of the city, especially, in those which are located in narrow lanes. Jitendra Singh Chauhan, convener of Aminabad Sanyukt Vyapar Mandal said, “There have been several cases of short circuits, sparking in Gwynne road, and Nazirabad markets in past, so if these wires are removed and power supply starts through underground wires like in Hazratganj, then traders would be happy.” He said, there are around 12,000 shops in Aminabad , Nazirabad, Gwynne road and Garbarjhala, all will be benefitted in case the mesh of wires is removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-lesa-starts-survey-of-markets-to-remove-overhead-wire-mesh-101642189330179.html
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram firms asked to register on MSME portal||The industries department has asked all the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) operating in the city to register on the MSME portals as only those firms, which are registered, will be allowed to function even in the wake of more restrictions that may be imposed if the Covid-19 cases spiral out of control. Digvijay Singh, joint director of industries, Gurugram said a drive has been launched for the registration of firms on the portal since December 28 and at least 334 firms have registered till now. He added industrial units operating in the state have to compulsorily register in both the online portals. Singh also said in case curbs are stepped up due to mounting Covid-19 cases, only those firms which are registered with the portal will be allowed to operate. Currently, the district has 34,855 units registered with the MSME portal, which, according to officials, are operating normally even as some curbs have been imposed due to the rising Covid 19 cases. The department has also set up a help desk at the district MSME centre at IDC in Sector 16, to facilitate the registration of new and existing firms, said officials. Singh also said of the 34,855 units, 33,000 units are registered on the Udhyam registration portal of the central government and the remaining are there on the Haryana Udhyam portal of the state government. According to the department, all the medium.and small units would get the benefit of subsidy and other amenities from the government only if they are registered on these portals. The two portals where the firms have to get registered are udyamregistration.gov.in and harudhyam.edisha.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-firms-asked-to-register-on-msme-portal-101642189150223.html
15-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: Fire at Magh Mela; two tents gutted, none hurt||PRAYAGRAJ: Two tents were gutted at the Magh Mela-2022 camp of Jai Shree Mahakal Sewa Arti at Arail after a fire broke out there due to a leakage in a LPG cylinder, on Friday. Fire tenders reached the spot and doused the fire, officials said. However, no one was hurt in the incident, they added. According to reports, a resident of Industrial area of Prayagraj, Bittan Devi, is doing kalpwas at the Magh Mela that formally kick-started on Friday. In the morning, a fire erupted at the tent when Bittan lit the gas stove for cooking food. She rushed out of the tent and saved herself even as fellow kalpwasis raised an alarm. Firefighters and volunteers rushed to the spot and doused the fire. Fire officials said that no one was hurt in the incident but household goods etc., were gutted in the fire. Big and small fires break out at tents of Kalpwasis and religious organisations every year during Magh Mela. Moreover, it also poses threat of panic and chaos among pilgrims in mela area. To control any fire incident, twelve fire stations are functioning in mela area at strategic places including near Akshayvat, Cremation Ghat, Kotwali and even near Daraganj Railway Station. Over 23 big and small fire tenders have been roped in at Magh Mela and they are equipped with all necessary equipment to douse fire. Besides, water mist bikes have also been pressed into service and fire fighters are present at strategic crossings to reach the spot immediately in case of any fire incident. Six fire safety officers (FSOs) and 15 second officers are also on duty at Magh Mela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-fire-at-magh-mela-two-tents-gutted-none-hurt-101642188970441.html
15-01-2022||Noida||Interstate gang of vehicle lifters held in GB Nagar||Noida: Police on Friday busted an alleged interstate gang of vehicle lifters in Noida and arrested two men from Sector 24 on Thursday, officials said on Friday. They also recovered 20 two-wheelers from their possession. According to the police, the gang members used to steal two-wheeler vehicles and sell them in other states. The arrested suspects have been identified as Salman, 27, and Sumit Chand, 29 -- residents of Mathura and Delhi, respectively.“While carrying out a routine checking drive around Noida Sector 12/22 roundabout on Friday, a suspected two-wheeler was stopped. The two failed to show documents of the vehicle, and they were taken into custody. Later, we found out that the bike was stolen,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida.The suspects revealed during interrogation that they have 19 more two-wheelers in their possession.“The suspects told the police that they used to steal motorcycles from different areas in Delhi-NCR (national capital region) and hand over the vehicles to a buyer named Sanjay Arora, a native of Haryana’s Hisar. Arora used to change the chassis number, number plate, and engine number of the vehicles, and sell the vehicles in different states,” Singh said.Police said the gang had been active in NCR since 2012, and had stolen and sold over 100 vehicles.“Apart from Arora, involvement of another accomplice -- identified as Pintu -- has also come to light. The vehicles, which have been recovered from their possession, were also to be handed over to Arora,” Singh added.While accused Sumit has 12 cases against him, Salman has 8 cases in his name. Police have recovered 20 two - wheelers, two fake number plates and three hooks from the possession of the suspects.“They were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Friday. Further investigation is underway,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/interstate-gang-of-vehicle-lifters-held-in-gb-nagar-101642188729464.html
15-01-2022||Noida||Police arrest man for kidnapping, raping 13-year-old girl in Noida Sector 142||The Gautam Budh Nagar police arrested a 23-year-old man from Noida Sector 143 on Thursday for allegedly raping a minor girl in Noida on Sunday (January 9), officials said.The suspect, a native of Sambhal, lives in a village under the Sector 142 police station jurisdiction, and is an electrician by profession. The victim, 13, is a neighbor of the suspect.“According to the complaint filed by the victim’s elder brother, the minor girl was on her way to a shop in the village on Sunday evening when the suspect abducted the minor, and raped her. Later, she returned home and narrated the ordeal to her family,” said Uttam Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 142 police station, on Friday.A case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 376 (punishment for sexual assault) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Sector 142 police station on Wednesday (January 12), police said.A medical examination has been conducted on the girl.“Police teams were formed to nab the suspect who had been absconding since the incident. On the basis of surveillance and a tip, the suspect was arrested from the Sector 143 metro station area on Thursday,” Kumar added.It was revealed during investigation that another kidnappingcase was registered against the suspect in Ghaziabad.“A case was registered against the suspect at the Vijay Nagar police station in Ghaziabad in Februaryfor kidnapping a woman in her 20s. He was arrested in connection with the case, but was later released on bail,” said Kumar.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and sent to jail on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-arrest-man-for-kidnapping-raping-13-year-old-girl-in-noida-sector-142-101642188430522.html
15-01-2022||Noida||All eyes on BJP’s list for Ghaziabad, party may go with sitting MLAs on all five seats||After several major political parties released their lists of candidates for the five assembly seats of Ghaziabad, all eyes are now on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is yet to announce any of its candidates. Speculation is rife that the party may again field its sitting MLAs on all five seats of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar.The Uttar Pradesh assembly elections is scheduled to take place from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases with Ghaziabad going to polls under the first phase on February 10. Under phase 1, candidates began filing their nominations on January 14 and the last date to file nominations is January 21; nominations will be scrutinised on January 24, and the last date for withdrawal of nominations is January 27, as per the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India.While the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress formed an alliance during the 2017 assembly elections, this time the SP and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) are in alliance in western Uttar Pradesh and have fielded three candidates from Loni, Sahibabad and Modingar on Thursday. The Congress, which is contesting by itself, and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have also declared three candidates each in Ghaziabad, while the Bahujan Samaj Party has declared four candidates so far.Following speculations about BJP candidates, some of the party’s former office-bearers took to social media to voice their opinions about candidate selection.“I made a point which should be noted by the leaders about one assembly segment in Ghaziabad where a candidate has been given tickets three times in a row and if another ticket is given this time, how will other party workers take it? Tickets should go to deserving candidates and also to those who work hard for years,” said Ajay Sharma, former BJP president, Ghaziabad.In December 2017, Sharma was removed as district party chief after he allegedly staged a protest against the police in Raj Nagar and publicly opposed the wedding of a Hindu woman with a Muslim man.BJP office-bearers, however, said people raising questions on social media have not said anything against the party as yet.“Speculation is rife as our party has not released its list yet. If the names of any candidate is repeated this time, it will be the party’s decision. The list is likely to be released by Saturday,” said Sanjeev Sharma, Ghaziabad BJP president.Ever since the announcement of elections earlier this week, several BJP MLAs, including three ministers, have resigned from the party. These include ministers Swami Prasad Maurya and Dharam Singh Saini, who have now joined the Samajwadi Party in the presence of party chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow on Friday.“In UP, the chariot of the country’s biggest party is slowing down and people in the BJP are fleeing the party… People should think whether these people or party can provide better facilities for you and your children. The AAP government and Arvind Kejriwal delivered what they promised in Delhi,” said AAP leader Manish Sisodia, who is also the deputy chief minister of Delhi, in a virtual rally on Friday.He reiterated his party’s poll promises for Uttar Pradesh. “You have seen every party in UP but only the AAP can provide all these facilities to people in UP. We are the alternative,” Sisodia said.The BJP officer bearers, however, dismissed AAP as being a major challenge.“They have fielded candidates in the past, too, from Ghaziabad but all of them lost. This party has no presence in Ghaziabad or Uttar Pradesh and they are just contesting the election to make their presence felt. Our main fight is with the Samajwadi Party,” BJP’s city chief Sharma said.Meanwhile, party leaders, requesting anonymity, said anti-incumbency will come into play if candidates in Ghaziabad are repeated. However, the BJP spokesperson disagreed.“On Friday, we held a meeting with our partners in the National Democratic Alliance. Those who have left the party recently have gone on their own as their aspirations (of getting tickets or posts) could not be fulfilled. They joined our party for this reason. However, it will not impact our prospects during this election,” said Chandra Mohan, party spokesperson and secretary of the BJP state unit.“We expect no anti-incumbency in case candidates are repeated. In the 2019 general elections, we all saw that there was no anti-incumbency,” he said.
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Cops probe demat accounts of BSF officer involved in ₹150 crore fraud||Police on Friday said that they were scanning demat accounts of the Border Security Force (BSF) deputy commandant who was arrested with three others this week for allegedly duping owners of four construction firms by awarding them fake contracts to carry out work on the National Security Guard (NSG) campus in Manesar. Police said four other people allegedly involved in the ₹150-crore fraud were on the run and teams had been formed to arrest them from Punjab and Haryana. Police said the deputy commandant, Praveen Yadav, masterminded the fraud, posed as an IPS officer posted to National Security Guard (NSG), Manesar, and claimed to provide construction contracts for various work on the campus. Police confirmed that Praveen was actually on deputation at NSG, Manesar, for three years till May 2021, and misused his ID card to gain access to the campus after his tenure was over. He was in charge of fencing, solar plants and other construction-related work while he was posted to NSG.The NSG is part of the Indian special forces under the ministry of home affairs. According to police, Praveen allegedly duped four owners of city-based construction firms by providing them with letters of intent and copies of fake tender contracts and also made them deposit money in an account with a private bank, in the name of “Office of GC (Garrison), Station HQ, NSG, Manesar”, on the pretext that it was earnest money for tender allocation. Police identified the other suspects as Praveen’s wife Mamta Yadav, sister Ritu Raj Yadav and his friend Dinesh Kumar. Police said Yadav would show his identity card, photograph, designation and visit the campus on multiple occasions with the contractors to win their trust. “He would present his NSG identity card with his photograph and designation as group commander. The contractors believed him as it is not possible to enter the NSG campus without being posted there, and all the security officials knew him,” said Sangwan, adding that he forged NSG seals to issue the allotment letters. Police said the contractors have complained against eight people in total, including Praveen’s father and brother-in-law, who are on the run. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said Praveen had opened demat accounts. “We are scanning his accounts to get exact details of transactions he made. Also, we are scanning other accounts he opened in his relatives’ names to trace the money,” he said. Sangwan said Praveen rented a house in Zirakpur, Punjab, withdrew some cash and kept it at the house. He hired a housekeeper but he was not aware of the cash in the house. “Praveen was planning to flee the country but had applied for premature retirement from the BSF and was waiting for his relieving letter as he wanted his pension. The process took time, due to which his plan got delayed and he was arrested,” he said. Sangwan said Praveen’s sister Ritu’s husband, an assistant commandant posted to NSG, Manesar, is also under the scanner, and is on the run. “We expect to recover more cash from their possession,” he said. NSG and BSF could not be reached for comment despite multiple attempts. 
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 3 lives snuffed out in road mishaps||Three people, including an unidentified person, were killed in separate road mishaps on Thursday. In the first case, a 38-year-old scooterist was killed after an unidentified car hit his two-wheeler near the Grain Market in Sahnewal. His 60-year-old mother, who was accompanying him, also suffered injuries in the accident. The complainant, Amarjit Kaur, said she and her son, Bhagwant Singh of Doraha, were returning from Kohara, when an unidentified car rammed into their scooter. Both of them were rushed to the hospital by onlookers, where her son succumbed to his injuries. Assistant sub-inspector Sadhu Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence), and 427 (damages) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the unidentified driver. Police are scanning CCTVs installed in the area to identify the vehicle.21-year-old killed in hit and run In the second case, a 21-year-old man was killed, while his friend suffered injuries after a speeding car hit their scooter on Hambran road near Ram Sharnam Congregation Centre. The victim,Arjun of Mahavir Jain Colony, Waddi Haibowal, succumbed to his injuries at the hospital. The complainant, Amit Kumar, 32, of Mahavir Jain Colony, who was with the victim, said they were hit by a white-coloured car, after which they fell on the road. A case has been registered at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) station.  Pedestrian mowed down by car In the third case, a speeding car mowing down an unidentified person and then hit a wall.  After a tyre burst, the driver fled, leaving his Bolero on the spot. The car has been impounded and a case registered against the unidentified driver. A case was registered on the complaint of a tea stall owner, Kamal Kumar of Shiv Chowk. Kumar said when he came to his vend behind Mohandai Oswal Hospital, he saw the crashed Bolero and a man lying dead near the wall. Head constable Kuldeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case has been registered against the unidentified driver, and the Regional Transport Authority has been contacted to know the name of the owner of the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-3-lives-snuffed-out-in-road-mishaps-101642187830053.html
15-01-2022||Bangalore||Explain why you missed deadline, SC asks Karnataka on admissions for 633 MDS seats||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday called for an explanation from the Karnataka government for holding counselling for the Master of Dental Surgery (MDS) course long after the cutoff date for counselling prescribed by the Centre and Dental Council of India expired.While the deadline for MDS counselling ended on November 20, 2021, the Karnataka government conducted counselling from December 4 to 18 and filled up 633 MDS seats across institutions in the state. But the future of the 633 post-graduate dental students in Karnataka hangs in balance after the Centre and the Dental Council of India (DCI) refused to recognize the admissions, pointing that the state government did not hold counselling within the stipulated period. They told the court that an exception cannot be made for Karnataka as the academic session for MDS has already begun.The matter reached the top court as one of the dental colleges in Karnataka filed a petition to request that the admissions be regularised.On Wednesday, when the matter was heard by a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna, the Karnataka government washed its hands off by saying that at the time of granting admissions, students were intimated of the consequences of the delayed counselling. 29 affected students also approached the court through advocate Charu Mathur seeking the court’s “compassion” and a direction to the government to retrospectively extend the MDS admission cutoff.The students further told the court that a delay in commencement of the 2021-22 session will automatically delay the next batch, and disturb in the academic cycle. The bench agreed to consider the issue after getting the state’s response.In its order of January 12, the bench said, “We direct the Secretary, Medical Education of the state government to file an affidavit explaining the circumstances in which the state of Karnataka breached the deadline of 20 November 2021. The affidavit shall be filed within a period of one week.” The matter has been posted for January 21. In the meantime, the court has allowed the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) and the Dental Council of India to file their respective responses.Additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj appearing for the Centre opposed the petition filed by the Maratha Mandals Nathajirao G Halgekar Institute of Dental Sciences and Research Centre. He said that MDS counselling across the country was conducted between November 10 and November 20 and all colleges stuck to the deadline. “The state of Karnataka was aware of the fact that the cut-off date was extended only till 20 November. Now classes have also begun. No occasion arises to extend the deadline.” DCI counsel Gaurav Sharma supported this stand, underlining that an exception cannot be made for one state.The petitioner college represented by senior advocate Shyam Divan told the court that the delay was not caused by the college as the responsibility for conducting counselling exclusively rested on the shoulders of the state government. “The state itself has delayed the process and carried out admissions beyond the deadline fixed by the Union Government. In all, 633 students have been admitted and if these admissions are not regularized, the colleges in the state will have no students for three years.”The court noted that Karnataka did not move any application in the Supreme Court for extension of the counselliing deadline. Additional advocate general (AAG) Nikhil Goel appearing for Karnataka stated that the state did ask the Centre to extend the time but the request was rejected. In these circumstances, the court said, “we find it necessary that the Karnataka government must explain the circumstances in which it carried out admissions beyond the deadline of 20 November.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/explain-why-you-missed-deadline-sc-asks-karnataka-on-admissions-for-633-mds-seats-101642187534406.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana private sector job quota: HC dismisses plea seeking early hearing||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday dismissed a plea filed seeking early hearing on the petitions challenging the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, which provides 75% reservation to local youth in private sector. The law, which comes into force on Saturday, was notified in November.The hearing was deferred as Haryana’s additional advocate general Jagbir Malik told the high court bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Pankaj Jain that there is no urgency involved and for next three months, the firms merely have to upload the data with regard to employees on the government mandated website. The hearing will now take place on February 2.The court was hearing a fresh plea by the Faridabad Industries Association, which demanded early hearing. The association had challenged the law in December demanding the Act be declared unconstitutional.In its detailed response to the issues raised by the association and other similar industry bodies, the government has argued that the law merely makes ‘geographical classification’ which is well permitted under the Constitution of India.“It is to protect right to life/livelihood of people domiciled in the state and to protect their health, living condition and their right to employment,” it said, arguing that the plea was not maintainable as the petitioner is “an artificial juristic person”, who cannot challenge a legislation.It further argues that no material facts placed by the association proves that it is prejudiced. Legislation enacted by the state is on a subject that squarely falls within its legislative domain, it has argued adding that it was enacted in compelling situation of increasing unemployment.“Industrialisation and urbanisation in the state has led to huge land acquisition which resultantly has reduced growth and employment opportunities in the agriculture sector,” it said, adding that the law nowhere discriminates any person on the ground of place of birth or residence but it provides employment to the local candidates on the basis of domicile.“…there is a distinction between the expression ‘place of birth’ and the expression ‘domicile’. Both reflect two different concepts. Reservation on the basis of ‘place of birth’ will definitely be hit by the provisions of the Constitution of India but employment on the basis of ‘domicile’ does not,” it claimed.It said the law is for 10 years and it will cease to have affect after 10 years. The 75% employment to the local candidate is restricted to only low paid jobs, the employers are not restricted to employ other higher skilled jobs getting more than ₹30,000 gross salary, it submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-private-sector-job-quota-hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-early-hearing-101642187533238.html
15-01-2022||Noida||2022 UP elections: First-time voters to play key role in Gautam Budh Nagar seats||Nearly 334,000 first-time voters are likely to play a key role in deciding the fate of candidates contesting from the three assembly seats -- Noida, Dadri and Jewar -- in Gautam Budh Nagar in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections, said officials on Friday.As Gautam Budh Nagar comes into the Phase I schedule, out of total seven phases planned in Uttar Pradesh by the Election Commission of India (ECI), the polling will take place on February 10 this year.The nomination filing in the district started on Friday, with the administration putting adequate force and arrangement in place for a peaceful process at the Surajpur district magistrate office, where the nomination papers will be submitted and reviewed. However, none of the candidates filed nomination papers on Day One. There are a total of 2,525,000 voters in the list this time, against the 1,624,000 voters in the 2019 general elections, according to officials.“According to the revised electoral roll, the total number of voters has gone up as compared to the previous electoral roll,” said Suhas LY, district election officer of Gautam Budh Nagar.Since Noida and Greater Noida (Dadri seat) are home to the migrant population who come in these cities for employment, much more compared to Jewar, which is a rural belt so far, as the urbanisation there will take some time, said administration officials. As a result, people keep moving to and from these two cities in large numbers, thereby impacting the electoral roll in every election. “The number of voters has gone up in Noida and Dadri seats because a large number of voters have shifted here into their homes or rented accommodations. However, since Jewar is a rural area, only 7% first-time voters have been added to the list,” said an administration official, requesting anonymity. There are 690,000 voters in Noida -- a 32% increase from 524,000 voters in the previous list of 2019 general elections, and there are 587,000 voters in Dadri -- nearly 33% from 441,000 voters in the previous list.“The first-time voters will play a key role in deciding the fate of the candidates, because they will vote for a party or candidate who will reach out to them strongly with a plan,” said Bhanu Pratap Jha, political science assistant professor at Delhi University.
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | BJP sees four-cornered fight for party ticket in central constituency||The saffron party, which is hoping to dislodge three-time Congress MLA Surinder Dawar from the Ludhiana central constituency in the upcoming assembly elections, is looking at a four-cornered contest for the party ticket with three state body leaders, and the daughter of a former cabinet minister in the fray. BJP state vice-president Parveen Bansal, treasurer Gurdev Sharma Debi, trade cell convener Dinesh Sarpal and former health minister Satpal Gosain’s daughter, district vice-president Rajeshwari Gosain, are likely to slug it out for the BJP ticket. The final decision will be taken by the party high command. The leaders have already started rounding up their troops, and have been mustering residents’ support in the central constituency. Bansal and Debi have gone so far as to opening offices to contest from the central constituency.Debi, who had contested the last election from the central constituency under the SAD-BJP alliance, had lost to Dawar by a whopping 20,000 votes, while Bansal has been losing the last two assembly elections from the north constituency to Congress’ Rakesh Pandey.Posturing himself as a possible candidate, Bansal said, “Since 1997, I have thrice been elected councillor from the central constituency, and have also served as senior deputy mayor from 2007 to 2012. My home has always been in this constituency and even when I contested from the north, I regularly tackled the issues being faced by people here.” Meanwhile, Debi said he had been continuously working for the constituency for the last five years, even when Bansal was busy in the north. “I believe the party will choose the candidate who has been working for the betterment of residents in the constituency.”Putting his best foot forward, Sarpal, who has been affiliated with the party for 15 years, said his involvement with the BJP’s trade cell could give him an edge. “The constituency is the hosiery hub, and I am also the president of the Ludhiana Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association. My forefathers have been living in the central constituency and I have also been active on social platforms.”The lone woman in the fray, Rajeshwari Gosain, says, “I have an edge over others as my father has won the assembly elections thrice from this constituency. I have worked with my father, and have been doing my best to ensure the betterment of people in the constituency ever since. People know us and admire our work.”Whoever gets the saffron party’s ticket will contest against Pritpal Singh Pali of the SAD-BSP alliance, and former Congress leader Ashok Prashar Pappi, who has joined the AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bjp-sees-four-cornered-fight-for-party-ticket-in-central-constituency-101642187350034.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Student exodus starts amid rise in Covid cases in Haryana||Amid the rise in Covid-19 cases and strict curbs imposed by the Haryana government, students, who had been staying as paying guests and in hostels, have started moving back to their villages.The reasons behind the student exodus is the government’s decision to shut down all colleges, public and private libraries and coaching institutes, besides cancelling all advertised jobs which will be now filled through the common entrance eligibility test being conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).Ashish Lather, of Jind, said he had been preparing for the Haryana-based competitive exams for the last three years.“The government is playing with our dreams. First they imposed curbs by closing all educational institutes, and then they cancelled all proposed Class 3 and 4 exams. Now, the HSSC has decided to fill these vaccines through CET and we don’t know when it will be conducted,” he said.“My parents have asked me to come back home as they cannot afford to spend ₹8,000 per month on rent. After coaching institutes are reopened, I will come back to Rohtak,” he added.Pooja Kadyan, of Jhajjar, said she had been preparing for the Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU)’s PhD entrance examination but the authorities have increased the last date to fill the form for three more weeks.“The university has closed its hostel and library. I do not have any other option but to go back home. In villages, we suffer from internet connectivity issues and the atmosphere is also not good for studies,” she added.Rachna Malik, a former teacher, who runs a paying guest accommodation at Rohtak’s Dev Colony, said 60 of 85 youths have moved back to their villages after the government closed all coaching institutes.“The students left for their villages as the state government cancelled all proposed Class 3 and 4 jobs and another reason is the rise in Covid cases. They said they will return after coaching institutes are reopened. I don’t know why the government shut down educational institutes first. Our livelihood is dependent on students and the pandemic has hit us hard,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/student-exodus-starts-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-in-haryana-101642187291327.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Here, there and everywhere||And, for a Saturday, in tribute to the late great Busybee, presenting a few stray thoughts, and a few general observations (all my own work) on how the coronavirus pandemic has upended our lives beyond recognition.Like, it’s been two years since the coronavirus reared its ugly head in our midst and you still feel not a single person has been able to accurately describe the full extent of the ghastliness and horror that it has wrought on our lives.Like, however ghastly and challenging your experience of it has been so far, you know you’re still better off than if you’d been a parent to a house bound toddler or teenager on interminable vacation from their school or college. Like, at a time when everyone appears to have learnt a new skill or language, written a bestselling book or a TV script, or mastered an instrument, you alone appear to have achieved nothing but a new international benchmark for sloth and procrastination.Like, your most enduring relationships these past two years appear to be with your Amazon and Swiggy delivery boys.Like, things are beginning to look promising in this regard, with the lab technician at your local testing agency too.Like, for an outstanding back bencher in chemistry – not to mention biology - during your school days, you never imagined you’d know so much about both subjects in your adult life, all thanks to WhatsApp.Like, now that masks have become such an intrinsic part of our daily lives, you wonder if anyone has noticed that they are one of the only items associated with both Superheroes as well as their counterpart Super Villains - and if there’s any deep meaning in this.Like, you often find yourself marvelling at how little has got done since the pandemic began and conversely, how much too.Like, apocalyptic, doomsday films such as ‘Don’t Look Up’ suddenly don’t seem like satire any more.Like, you’ve lost count of the people you’ve lost in these past two years or the many occasions when you’ve had to type out condolences messages on social media to their loved ones. Like you wonder if you’re the only one who’s reserved emojis to convey them now, because you’re fast running out of words.Like, how the words ‘Hope all is well and safe’ have become auto generated on your phone.Like, the entire pandemic appears to be an endless rerun of March 2020 when the first wave appeared. And March 2021, when the second wave washed over us. And looking at the coming months it appears Shakespeare was right about the Ides of March being ominous from the get go.Like, at this stage, among the blessings you find yourself counting is the fact that you don’t have to hoard toilet rolls any more, or sanitize your vegetables before you bring them into your home.Like, you often find yourself looking at your shoe and handbag collections, wondering who the person was who’d bought them and what she had been thinking. Ditto for lipsticks and earrings. And almost 90% of the rest of the contents of your cupboards.Like, now that the wearing of masks has made sunglasses redundant - who needs that much anonymity and all that fogging up ? - you have nightmares of ginormous landfills piling up with mountains of discarded pairs creating further ecological disasters for the planet .Like, how you finally understand the meaning of First World and Third World when you realize that in some countries political leaders get away with holding election rallies for thousands during the pandemic while in others, a prime minister can lose his job for attending an office Christmas party attended by 30 colleagues and staff members.Like, whatever others say about the advantages of technology bringing the world closer during the pandemic, you cannot help noting that you’ve felt an impending sense of Zoom most of this time.Like, you often find yourself wondering what will be the pandemic’s long term impact on human relations in light of the recent experiment to study the impact of face masks on the readability of emotions, which concluded that people’s emotional reading was strongly hampered by the presence of a mask.Like, whereas you’ve gotten used to the fact that no one recognizes you when you are wearing a mask, leave alone the expressions on your face, the fact that even your cell phone doesn’t recognize you feels like a low blow.Like, you find yourself thinking the trade-off between not having to wear a bra most of the time and having to wear a mask in public is a pretty decent one, all things considered.Like, you watched the recent viral film of ostriches escaping from a Chinese zoo and felt a sudden and unmistakable desire to join them.Like, whereas 76% of Mumbai’s populace is said to follow correct mask protocol, it appears as if you only keep meeting the remaining 24%.Like, there are some people who seem to have found a hundred different highly creative ways to wear their masks – and none of them have to do with covering their noses and mouths.Like, you never imagined that the sight of someone’s exposed proboscis in a public space would drive you to such extremes of irritation and unease.Like, there ought to be a special kind of hell for people who go out in public forgetting to wear their masks, but not their mascara or their eye shadow.Like, there are teenagers all over the world who’ve been in more lockdowns and quarantines today than relationships.Like, you can’t help thinking that there is something sad about the forced buoyancy in most post pandemic shows of revelry.Like, as you keep adjusting to the new normal, you often find yourself remembering that allegory of frogs in a pan being lulled into a false complacency by being cooked over a slow flame.Like, the pandemic has made you realize that ASAP can also mean ‘as slowly as possible’.Like, one of the sadnesses of the pandemic- albeit a very minor one - is that you cannot smile at passing strangers and random kids any more while being stuck at a traffic light on account of your mask. What’s worse is of course that you can’t see anyone else smile back at you either. Like you wish you could be more upbeat about things 24X7 but it’s hard to be positive when everyone around you, including yourself, is testing positive. And this final observation: like, if you think you’ve got it bad, imagine the plight of poor Karan Johar and his extreme levels of FOMO on account of all those cancelled parties on his social calendar, as he is now reduced to tagging along with his twins to theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-here-there-and-everywhere-101642187289433.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi records 24,000 Covid cases, positivity rate at 30%||The Capital’s daily Covid-19 case count dropped by nearly 4,500 on Friday amid a dip in testing the previous day, even as the positivity rate shot past the 30% mark for the first time in over eight-and-a-half months. Delhi added 24,383 cases of Covid-19, down from 28,867 on Thursday, the largest single-day spike in the city ever. However, the city also collected nearly 20,000 samples on Friday, compared to the previous day, a testing dip that authorities attributed to Lohri on Thursday. The city also added 34 deaths of the infection. So far in January this year, 198 in Delhi have lost their lives to Covid-19, and 25,305 have died over the course of the pandemic. “Despite new cases arriving every day for the past few days, the number of patients admitted to the hospital is currently stable. But people should still be cautious and follow all Covid appropriate behaviour,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday.The test positivity rate, however, continued its upward surge, the sampling dip notwithstanding, breaching the 30% for the first time since May 1 last year (soon after the height of the fourth wave of infections). Of the 79,578 samples collected, according to Friday’s health bulletin, 30.64% returned positive results, up from 29.21% a day ago. Just over 92,000 people in Delhi are currently battling Covid-19. This number, known as the active case count, dipped (from 94,160 on Thursday) for the first time in over three weeks, as 26,326 people recovered from the virus, according to Friday’s bulletin, the most in a day since May 1 last year, To be sure, hospitalisation numbers in the city are comparatively low, with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus (which is behind the ongoing infection surge) causing far fewer admissions than earlier configurations of the virus. State government data showed that 2,529 patients in Delhi are hospitalised, up marginally from 2,424 a day ago. Nearly 13,000 of the city’s 15,478 hospital beds are still vacant, with the state in a position to ramp up to 37,000 oxygen beds overnight, if required. Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant (internal medicine), Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, said, “It seems like we are still at the peak of infections but maybe in the coming week we can see cases lowering. But we cannot say for sure. Compared to the last week, I am definitely receiving fewer calls for consultations. This could perhaps be seen as a positive sign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-24-000-covid-cases-positivity-rate-at-30-101642187229983.html
15-01-2022||Noida||GB Nagar reports 1813 new Covid-19 cases, district registers spike in recoveries||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday reported 1,813 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the district’s tally of active cases to 11,942, the highest in Uttar Pradesh. The district also reported a sharp spike in recoveries-- 624--in the last 24 hours, said officials.On Thursday, the number of recoveries was 207. According to officials, the sudden rise in the number of recoveries on Friday is due to the completion of mandatory isolation requirements for Covid patients according to the Central government’s guidelines.WHAT ARE THE GUIDELINES“The patients who tested positive in the district at the beginning of this month are now recovering and hence the total number of cured patients per day has increased. We are expecting more recoveries and the tally of patients who recover every day may cross 1,000 in the coming days,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity.The district health department’s Integrated Command Control Centre (ICCC) has been calling patients in home isolation to enquire about the status of their health.“The ICCC call centre as well as Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) have been making at least 4,000 calls per day to patients in home isolation to enquire about their health. As we receive information about them testing negative, we update the same in our database,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Residents of Gautam Budh Nagar can call the ICCC helpline number --1800-419-2211--to ask for details about testing, hospitals and other information.While the number of recoveries may be increasing, the positivity rate—ratio of samples that test positive from the total number of samples tested-- is still high. On Friday, the district’s positivity rate was recorded at 30% -- a sharp spike from Thursday’s 27.8% .However, district health officials said that the number of hospitalisations and critical cases remains low.“The district has notified 11 Covid-19 facilities, in which there are around 1,800 Covid beds. However, there are only 95 patients hospitalised right now, with one patient on oxygen support, that too as a precautionary measure due to comorbidities. Hence, the high positivity rate indicates that the district is testing and tracking efficiently, but there is no reason to panic,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.Medical experts said that positivity rate is expected to increase as the current wave of the pandemic is yet to pea.“The number of Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar is yet to peak, hence positivity rate has increased. We are expecting the cases will peak in the next five to seven days after which there will be a sharp decline. Meanwhile, the high rate of recovery is also a healthy trend, as patients are not presenting severe symptoms and only 2% of all cases are requiring hospitalisation,” said Dr Sunil Awana, president, Indian Medical Association (Noida chapter).
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Damdama Lake restoration work to start by end of January||The district administration is planning to start the ground study for restoration of Damdama lake by the end of this month after it signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the team of Namami Gange, which will provide the technical support for the project, said officials on Friday. The Namami Gange is a flagship programme of the Union government launched to accomplish the twin objectives of effective abatement of pollution, conservation and rejuvenation of GangaOfficials said the project will be undertaken in two phases. First, a pre-study will be conducted to understand the history of the lake where in the hydrological aspects, such as contour level, quality and level of ground water, catchment area, among other aspects will be taken into consideration. The second phase will be implementation of the results of the pre-study with the technical support from the Namami Gange team. Osho Kalia, a senior member from GuruJal (the district administration’s water management team) who is working on the project, said, “Our main aim is to ensure that the waterbody becomes a perennial lake. Currently, water is available in the lake only for a few months after monsoon. We are likely to sign an MoU with different agencies by the end of this month and start the pre-study, which we are aiming to complete by the end of this year.” Spread across 75 acres, Damdama lake acts as a natural water reservoir in Sohna and is one of the biggest lakes in Haryana. It is the last surviving natural lake of Delhi-NCR. Vaishali Rana, a city based environmentalist, said, “Damdama lake is one of the most crucial lakes for ground water recharge in Gurugram and a source of water for wildlife in the Aravallis. With encroachment and deforestation in the catchment area of the lake, it has been reduced to one third of what it used to be earlier. The restoration of the lake is every important from both a wildlife perspective and for the increasing population of Gurugram.”In the third week of December last year, the district administration conducted a meeting with all stakeholders of the project and set a target of the coming monsoon for the restoration of the lake. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, had said before starting the restoration work, it was important to study other important aspects, such as geographical location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/damdama-lake-restoration-work-to-start-by-end-of-january-101642187112881.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Murder convict, 7 aides held for vehicle lifting||A gang of vehicle lifters was busted with the arrest of eight of its members, which includes a murder convict, on Thursday. Sixteen vehicles were recovered from the accused, including a pickup jeep, an auto-rickshaw, a scooter and 13 bikes. The arrested accused are Partap Singh Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar; Varinder Singh of Basti Jodhewal, who is a murder convict; Jagdish Singh of Focal Point; Manpreet Singh of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar; Sanjit Kumar of Jugiana; Bhajan Ram of Model Town; Jagga Singh of Focal Point and Sandeep Singh of Malaud.Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana Rural) Rajbachan Singh said, “Acting on a tip off, the special branch arrested the accused from a road stretch between Sekhupura village to Chowkimann. The accused were coming towards Jagraon to sell the stolen vehicles. The accused used duplicate keys to steal the vehicles. Inspector Prem Singh, in-charge, special branch, said Varinder Singh was serving a 20-year jail term for murder, but had been out on bail. He is also facing trial in two other cases. Pardeep Singh is facing trial in five cases, including abetment to suicide, dowry death, attempt to murder, drug peddling and liquor smuggling. Manpreet Singh, Sanjit Kumar and Bhajan Ram are also facing charges in a case each.A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged at the Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-murder-convict-7-aides-held-for-vehicle-lifting-101642187112190.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala-Saharanpur railway line blocked for hours in Yamunanagar||Some residents of the Mustafabad (now Saraswati Nagar) area of Yamunanagar blocked the Ambala-Saharanpur railway track near Uncha Chandana village on Friday, demanding stoppage of passenger trains at the Mustafabad railway station.The track remained blocked for at least three hours till an assurance from railway officials, leading to cancellation of the Ambala-Saharanpur passenger train (04532) and delayed many other goods and passenger trains, the spokesperson of the Ambala railway division said.In the morning, the villagers held a panchayat in the area with support of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), pressing for the demand.Sanju Gudiana, unit president of the union, said during the panchayat, the villagers asked the railway employees at the station to call senior divisional officials within two hours but when no official reached, they decided to block the railway track.“From past several years, passenger trains used to halt at this station but the service was discontinued due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But when trains resumed operations, villagers asked for a stoppage due to daily travel issues they faced, but no one paid any heed to their demands,” he added.However, soon after the protesters laid siege to the tracks, additional divisional railway manager (operations) Karn Singh and senior divisional commercial manager Hari Mohan reached the site.Singh said the issue is expected to get clear within a week as it has already been placed before the railway board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambalasaharanpur-railway-line-blocked-for-hours-in-yamunanagar-101642187050151.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||6 of 7 kids who died of Covid in Delhi from Jan 9-12 had comorbidities||Of seven children who died of Covid-19 between January 9 and January 12, six had severe co-morbidities, according to a report by the Delhi government. In those four days, 97 Covid-positive patients died in Delhi’s hospitals, of whom only eight were fully vaccinated and 19 others had got one jab of the vaccine, highlighting the vulnerability of the unvaccinated during the ongoing Covid-19 surge, which has been fuelled by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Of the seven children, five were younger than 15. Vaccines in India are only available to those aged 15 and above.The government report showed that of the seven children who died, three were infants (younger than a year-old). The first infant was previously with disseminated intravascular coagulation, a condition affecting the blood’s ability to clot. The child was admitted to Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital on January 8, after testing Covid-19 positive on January 9. Doctors treating the infant said that the deterioration in her condition was primarily because of the pre-existing medical condition. The second infant was also admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital on January 7 and was tested positive the next day. She died on January 10. The Delhi government report said that the child had a “heart condition”, without revealing any more details of the ailment. The third infant was admitted to Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya on January 6 and tested positive the next day during the mandatory Covid test. The child, however, also had a pre-existing condition— thalassemia major, an inherited blood disorder characterised by less oxygen-carrying protein (haemoglobin) and fewer red blood cells in the body than normal. Of the three others, a six-year-old girl who died on January 12 had a liver disease; a five-year-old patient, who also died on January 12 had a liver disease; and another 16-year-old child who died on January 12 was suffering from extra pulmonary tuberculosis. The teenager was on anti-tuberculosis treatment and had severe anaemia and reportedly died of hypovolemic shock (a severe loss of fluid in the body). “Technically, it would be misleading to term these as Covid-19 deaths because a majority of them [children] had pre-existing medical conditions. It would also create unnecessary panic among people,” said a senior health department official. Health experts said comorbid conditions increase the risk of mortality during an infection. “It is not just Omicron. Any infection among people with pre-existing conditions becomes more risky as compared to a healthy person. Plus, it is also important to note that children below the age of 15 are also the unvaccinated lot,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant (internal medicine), Indraprastha Apollo Hospital.
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Save girl child fight of Haryana suffers eight points dip in sex ratio at birth||The Haryana government’s flagship programme to stop female foeticide has registered an eight-point dip in sex ration at birth (SRB) in 2021, according to official data.It is for the first time that the SRB, a critical indicator of gender equality, has dropped by eight points after the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ programme was launched in January 2015 from Panipat by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The health department data showed that the SRB stood at 914 female births per 1,000 males in 2021 even as it was 922 in 2020. In 2019, Haryana’s SRB at 923 was the highest the state had achieved in a decade.The SRB of Haryana was recorded 833 in 2011, 876 in 2015 and 900 in 2016. In 2017 and 2018, it remained 914 and registered nine-point growth by jumping to 923 in 2019.The first signs of slip in the SRB had emerged when the cumulative SRB till June 2021 had dipped to 911, from 920 in the corresponding period till June 2020.Later, Haryana had registered another dip in the SRB between January and September 2021 as 906 girls were born per 1,000 boys till September in comparison to 915 during the corresponding period in 2020.According to Dr Amit Kumar Agrawal, additional principal secretary (to CM) and nodal officer ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’, one of the key reasons behind this dip are issues related to birth data registration which are causing this variation.“The decline (in SRB) is evident, but it is a minor dip,” said Dr Agrawal, blaming the glitches in the birth registration system for the SRB dip.Health officials attribute the inability to meet the SRB targets to multiple factors, including the touts involved in gender determination tests taking advantage of the challenges the Covid-19 pandemic has been posing to the field staff, besides the steps taken to eliminate possibilities of manipulation in birth registration data.Total 5,27,967 births were registered in 2021 which included 2,75,911 male births and 2,52,056 female births. In 2020, total 5,37,996 births were registered including 2,79,869 male births and 2,58,127 female births.Hence, the number of total births registered in 2021 were 10,029 (6,071 females and 3,958 males) less than the total births recorded in 2020.Officials said steps have been taken to deal with the malpractice of sex determination and female foeticide in the last five years during which about 1,000 raids were conducted. Of these, over 275 were inter-state and about 970 FIRs were registered with regard to sex determination and the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act.Dr Agrawal said the true picture will emerge after the census data is released this year.“We should wait for another three-four months... There is a delay in registration of births as well. Nevertheless, we are doing our best to catch people involved in gender determination tests. We are on our toes and maintaining pressure on the touts,” Dr Agrawal, added.Rohtak leads, Sonepat laggingThe SRB of 10 districts last year ranged between 914 and 945, while the SRB of nine districts was between 903 and 913. The SRB of three districts slipped below 900.Rohtak led the state with an SRB of 945, followed by Panchkula 930, Sirsa 929, Nuh 926, Hisar 925, Jind 923, Kurukshetra 921, Charkhi Dadri 919, Panipat 918, Yamunanagar 914, Kaithal 913, Karnal 912, Gurugram and Ambala 908 each, Palwal 907, Mahendergarh and Bhiwani 904 each, Faridabad and Rewari 903 each, Fatehabad 899, Jhajjar 895, and Sonepat 888.In 2020, Sirsa was leading with 949 SRB, while Charkhi Dadri was at the bottom with 891 SRB.Kaithal, Ambala, Fatehabad and Sonepat districts were among the top 10 best performing districts in 2020, but in 2021 Sonepat and Fatehabad were at the first and third slot from the bottom, while Kaithal and Ambala slipped to the 12th and 14th positions, respectively.Rohtak improved its SRB from 912 in 2020 to 945 in 2021, while Gurugram’s SRB was 921 in 2020 and dipped further to 908 in 2021.In Muslim-dominated Nuh district, the highest 55,293 number of births were registered followed by Faridabad (45,696) and Gurugram (38,241).Haryana’s spirited fight to save the girl child suffered setbacks which became evident when in a recent interaction with journalists in Delhi, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had admitted that the state government could not maintain its focus on improving the sex ratio in last two years due to the Covid-19 outbreak, despite registering around 300 cases against those conducting sex determination tests.
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Ram temple’s main structure to start coming up in April: Trust||The construction of the main structure of Ram temple will start from April at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya, on the festive occasion of Navratri.Engineers are working round the clock to complete laying of raft above the temple’s foundation by January 21. Thereafter, plinth will be laid and it is expected to be completed by the end of March.Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has set a deadline to complete all work related with the temple’s base by March.The Trust has decided to start construction of the main structure of Ram temple from the festive occasion of Chaitra Navratri. The nine-day Hindu festival is starting from April 2, which also marks Hindu New Year.“The main structure of Ram temple will start coming up from April this year. Engineers are working round the clock to complete the work on time,” Champat Rai, general secretary, Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, told media persons on Friday evening.More than 250 labourers and 35-40 engineers are working round the clock at Ram Janmabhoomi to finish the temple’s raft and plinth work by the end of March.Vinod Mehta, project manager, Larsen and Toubro (the company carrying out construction work of Ram temple), assured that laying of stones for the temple’s main structure would start in April.At present, casting of the raft above the temple’s foundation is going on. A raft foundation is used when the soil is weak. It helps distribute the weight of the building over the entire area of the building, reducing the stress on the soil.Plinth is the lowest part of a building and it works as a base for any structure. It is in the form of a rectangular block or slab.The Trust has already set a deadline to enthrone Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram) in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple in Ayodhya by December 2023 to allow devotees to worship the deity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-s-main-structure-to-start-coming-up-in-april-trust-101642186869958.html
15-01-2022||Other||Ludhiana civil surgeon latest among doctors found +ve for Covid||Amid a surge in Covid cases, civil surgeon Dr SP Singh, his wife, district immunisation officer (DIO) Dr Manisha and civil hospital’s pathologist Dr Ramandeep have tested positive for the virus. A few days back, assistant civil surgeon Dr Vivek Kataria too had contracted the virus. Before that, six emergency medical officers deputed at the civil hospital and other staff members had tested positive for Covid. Dr Singh said he has mild symptoms and is in home isolation. A large number of healthcare workers, including doctors, have tested positive not only at the civil hospital but also in private hospitals of the city. “We are in touch with the administration and efforts are being made to stop the spread of the disease. Residents need to take precautions and must avoid crowded places. Also, they should get themselves vaccinated and follow covid-appropriate behavior at all times,” said Dr Singh..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-civil-surgeon-latest-among-doctors-found-ve-for-covid-101642186809897.html
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Guest houses, cyber cafes asked to keep record of visitors||The district administration on Friday issued directions to owners of cyber cafes, paying guest houses and hotels to keep a record of all their customers and ask for their identity proofs from January 20 to 26 as part of the security arrangements being undertaken for Republic Day. Deputy commissioner Yash Garg issued directions that all such commercial establishments, where people come to stay and visit their guests, must maintain a record of the visitors, along with an identity proof, in view of the heightened security arrangements. The directions were issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and will remain in force from January 20 to 26. According to the order, the authorities have also banned all license holders from carrying weapons in public places during this period. “In view of the Republic Day celebrations, directions have been issued to all establishments to keep a record of visitors and also keep their ears and eyes open for any suspicious activity,” said a spokesperson of the district administration.In a related development, the state government on Friday said that in view of rising Covid-19 cases, the district administrations must follow protocol strictly while organising the Republic Day celebrations. The government directed that any large gathering should be avoided and programmes held during the event be webcast so that people can watch them from the safety of their homes. It also directed that there would be no physical training shows by children and that freedom fighters would be honoured at their residences. The government further said weak persons and children below the age of 10 should be kept away from activities such as cultural programmes. Besides, all guidelines and protocols related to Covid-19 issued by the home ministry must be followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-guest-houses-cyber-cafes-asked-to-keep-record-of-visitors-101642186569904.html
15-01-2022||Noida||With 1,963 fresh Covid cases, Ghaziabad records highest single-day spike ever||The district on Friday recorded 1,963 fresh Covid cases -- the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020 -- pushing the tally of active cases across the 10,000-mark to 10,604.According to official records of the district health department, the previous largest single-day spike was 1,788 cases on April 30, 2021, during the second wave.Since January 10, the district has been recording over 1,000 cases daily, and the total number of cases since the start of the pandemic has gone up to 67,366, including the 11,452 cases recorded in January.About 11,047 of 11,452 cases in January were recorded in the last 10 days (since January 5), when the district ramped up daily testing and conducted more than the daily target of 7,400 assigned to it by the government.According to district health officials, 395 patients were discharged between Thursday and Friday, taking the tally of discharged patients to 56,301. The number of patients who died due to Covid so far in the district is 461.“There is an increase in daily cases because we received about 3,000 pending test reports in the past 24 hours from a lab in Lucknow where we had to send the samples, as the labs in the region were overburdened. The present trend of cases indicates that the cases will be on the higher side in the coming days. We expect cases to decline only by the end of the month,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer.“About 395 patients recovered in home isolation and were marked as discharged on Friday. This is due to the effect of changes made to the portal after the government revised the home isolation period from 10 days to seven days. The revision will also increase our recovery rate,” Dr Tyagi added.Officials said that the reduction of the home isolation period from 10 days to seven days will significantly reduce the number of active cases because patients who stay in home isolation are marked as active. However, once they are discharged in a lesser number of days, it will lessen the number of such cases.On Friday, the district health department reported 1,963 Covid cases after testing 9,690 samples, leading to a positivity rate of 20.26% -- the highest single-day positivity rate during the present wave.Positivity rate refers to the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to those who have been tested for it.The district last recorded its highest positivity rate during the present wave on January 11 -- 18.72%.“The present wave is less severe and no deaths have taken place so far. Patients are getting better in 3-5 days. However, if the symptoms persist for a longer duration, it is a cause of concern. So, the present infection could be due to Omicron variant, and if these symptoms persist for a longer duration, it could mean other variants such as Delta, which is more severe and requires extensive clinical intervention,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).“At present, there are 84,440 active cases in Uttar Pradesh, 82,412 of whom are in home isolation. This indicates that the severity of infection is low and only a few people require hospitalisation. Still, everyone should observe all Covid-related precautions,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).
15-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Town planning department demolishes illegal colonies in sectors 93, 94||The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning on Friday carried out a demolition drive in sectors 93 and 94 and cleared illegal constructions from a 10- acre land. Officials said three colonies were being developed in the area without any permission or licence. R S Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said 20 under-construction structures, 59 plinths and 10 boundary walls were demolished. “We had issued notices to the encroachers and property owners but they did not give any satisfactory answer. These colonies are illegal and demolition had to be carried out,” he said. According to the department, Sector 93 is a residential sector while Sector 94 has been designated as an open space. “Any construction or development of a colony in this area requires permission from the state government and license from the department of town and country planning,” said officials. Bhath also said after taking action against the illegal colonies on the eastern and southern side of the city, they have now decided to focus on areas along the Dwarka expressway as they have been getting complaints of encroachments. “We have asked our teams to conduct a survey along the Dwarka expressway and identify illegal colonies. We also appeal to buyers not to invest in such colonies as their all their savings would get stuck,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-town-planning-department-demolishes-illegal-colonies-in-sectors-93-94-101642186511247.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||With 1,808 Covid cases, Ludhiana records highest single-day spike so far||With 1,808 more people testing positive for the coronavirus on Friday, the district registered a triple-fold increase in cases — the highest single-day spike so far. The fresh infections have broken the previous single-day record of 1,729 cases, which had been detected on May 9, 2021. Seven more people lost their battle with the virus – the highest in seven months. Those who succumbed include an 89-year-old resident of Omaxe Residency, a 53-year-old woman of Haibowal Kalan, a 71-year-old man of Basti Jodhewal, a 72-year-old man of GTB Nagar, a 73-year-old man of Narinder Nagar, a 92-year-old woman of Khud Mohalla and a 45-yea--old man from Dhandari Kalan.Now, the district’s Covid count has climbed to 94,619, of which 2,134 patients have succumbed to the virus, and 86,729 patients have recovered. Active cases in Ludhiana stand at 5,756, of which 5,660 people are under home isolation. There are 15 active micro containment zones in the district. Civil Surgeon SP Singh said, “It is concerning that the number of cases have increased from 18 (December 31) to 1,808 (January 14) in two weeks. Residents should take precautions and get themselves fully vaccinated. Carelessness, especially during New Year, contributed to the spike in cases. Most patients who succumbed had comorbidities.” Virus’ trajectoryThe number of cases have increased from 18 (December 31) to 1,808 (January 14) in two weeksJanuary 8: 561 January 9: 509January 10: 806January 11: 678January 12: 724January 13: 670January 14: 1,808||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-1-808-covid-cases-ludhiana-records-highest-single-day-spike-so-far-101642186391818.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC makes it mandatory for buyers of Covid-19 self-testing kits to share reports with BMC & ICMR||MUMBAI To ensure that citizens using Covid-19 self-testing kits maintain transparency about their test results, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday made it compulsory for every resident to share their test results with the civic body and upload the same on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website, irrespective of whether the result is positive or negative.At present, seven self-test kits have been approved by the ICMR, including Coviself by Mylab, Covifind by Meril Diagnostics, and Panbio by Abott amongst others. The BMC said that regularly, 300,000 to 350,000 tests are being taken by citizens in Mumbai and a majority of these tests are going unreported.On Friday, the BMC said that the local BMC ward war room will verify the test results of each and every buyer of self-testing kits by contacting them. The BMC also said that if necessary, staff from the health department will visit the residence of the buyer and scrutinise the situation physically.“At the back of every self-testing kit, there is a QR code which directs the user to the ICMR website where they need to upload the test results along with their credentials. Most of the users were not doing it up until now which is why we have brought these new guidelines to check that these cases don’t stay unreported anymore,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and in-charge of public health in the BMC.Earlier on Thursday night, the BMC issued detailed guidelines for manufacturers, distributors and sellers of self-testing kits. The BMC set up two new email identities, mcgm.hometests@gmail.com and whogmp.mhafda@gmail.com, with each identity to be monitored by the BMC Epidemic Cell and the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) in Mumbai. The BMC instructed buyers, sellers and distributors of these kits to maintain a record of buyers of these kits and share it regularly with the authorities through specified emails. The BMC also said that each seller should issue bills to the customer and in return, take down details such as telephone numbers and addresses from them which will be shared with the authorities mandatorily by 6 pm regularly. Following which, these details will be passed on to the local ward war room which will then verify the details. Kakani said that the BMC has also asked chemists to share their email identities with buyers so that they too can share the test results with authorities. “After the war room receives the details, they will check and verify if the reports have been uploaded on the ICMR website or if they have received any email from them. If not, they will contact buyers of these kits and seek their reports. If they are found to have tested positive, the war room will monitor their condition,” said Kakani. “In case we sense that any person is hiding reports, officials from the local ward office may visit their place to verify the status of their health physically,” Kakani added. He said that in the last 24 hours, 107,000 test reports from Maharashtra have been uploaded on the ICMR website out of which around 3,500 samples have tested positive. He said that the BMC predicts that at least 10% of the daily testing figures include figures of self-testing kits.“The guidelines will come into effect from today (January 14) and in the next one week, we are hopeful that these figures may also be recorded in the daily Covid-19 tally. These numbers will give us more clarity in understanding the present ongoing trend,” Kakani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-makes-it-mandatory-for-buyers-of-covid-19-self-testing-kits-to-share-reports-with-bmc-icmr-101642186274804.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Manish Sisodia: BJP nervous, trying to shut down ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ plan||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was plotting to derail the Delhi government’s ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ programme by asking the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to act against the scheme on a complaint by a party worker from Chhattisgarh. Sisodia’s comments came in response to the January 11 letter by the child rights body to the state government, in which the commission alleged that the programme, under which school students are provided career guidance by eminent citizens, “exposes them to certain dangers”, and asked the Delhi government to suspend it till the loopholes are “overhauled”.“BJP doesn’t want poor children to have a chance to attend world-class universities so it can spread hate and filth through its ‘WhatsApp University’. BJP is terrified of the success of poor children through ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ and is trying to stop the programme using a complaint by a BJP worker,” Sisodia said at a press briefing, asserting that the programme has checks and balances to leave no scope for abuse. Sisodia said that the BJP must keep their political agenda away from education, and let the Kejriwal government work. “Delhi government started a mentor programme. BJP got nervous about this programme and tried to stop it. They have given absolutely ridiculous reasons to stop this programme. We have a well designed process to assess and select mentors for our children of Delhi government schools. All those who apply for being mentors go through a psychometric test and then they are trained on all aspects of mentoring children. On the call of the Kejriwal government, 44,000 youngsters have joined this programme. All the statements and directions from NCPCR are politically motivated and are illogical,” Sisodia stated. Sisodia said that the Delhi government has responded to the NCPCR letter. “We replied to the commission that we are taking all precautions for children’s safety and use specially designed psychometric tests to assess mentors. But they have sent another notice highlighting that mentees (who are students of Delhi government schools) are not undergoing police verification and mentors (who are from reputed colleges and universities) might be involved in crimes related to children,” Sisodia said. The ‘Desh Ke Mentors’ programme was launched in October 2021, and is meant to connect 900,000 students of classes 9 to 12 in Delhi government schools with noteworthy citizens who will offer them career and general guidance. The mentors will engage with students over the phone for 10-15 minutes daily to guide them on various aspects of life, the government said while launching the programme.The programme has emerged as yet another sticking point between the AAP government in Delhi and the BJP-led central government. The two governments are already engaged in a legal tussle over the former’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme. In its letter, NCPCR said the fact that the interactions are done over the phone does not guarantee any protection from crime. “It may be noted that child related crime can be initiated through phone calls as well. For instance, children are susceptible to probable child trafficking through phone calls. Is there any mechanism to prevent origin of cybercrimes and child trafficking?,” the commission said.Sisodia said all students who have got mentors have submitted consent letters from their parents. “Also we have made sure that all female students are guided by female mentors and male students by male mentors. We have even rejected more than 750 people who applied for this programme but failed the psychometric test. Currently, 1.76 lakh children are being mentored under the programme,” Sisodia said. Responding to Sisodia’s comments, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanongoo alleged that the Delhi government is politicising the issue.“I want to ask them: Is this psychometric test a fool proof assessment of a person in terms of potential threat to any child? Is this psychometric test analysed, checked or scrutinised by professional practising experts? Can this psychometric test identify paedophiles or potential paedophiles,” he said in comments to PTI.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said AAP government’s response to the NCPCR’s letter reflects its “anarchic behaviour”. “NCPCR has not banned the mentorship programme, it has just sought suspension of the programme subject to legal clarifications. Why is the AAP government objecting to police verification of mentors. A mentor is like a guide or a teacher, and as per law credentials of every individual employed as teacher are verified by police,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-bjp-nervous-trying-to-shut-down-desh-ke-mentor-plan-101642186211179.html
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Three Covid deaths in UP, but slight fall in positivity rate||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh reported 16016 new Covid cases on Friday, taking the number of active cases under treatment to 84440 on Friday. Three deaths were also reported. “Among the active cases, 82412 are in home isolation, hence very few patients need hospitalisation,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press conference. Prasad said, “The rise in positivity rate has also slowed down as compared to the first week of January. The test positivity rate of the past 24 hours is 6.30% from 254044 Covid samples tested.” Two deaths were reported from Meerut and one from Gautam Buddha Nagar, taking the total number of deaths in the state to 22949. Gautam Buddha Nagar reported 1817 new Covid cases, Ghaziabad 1887, Meerut 1203 and Lucknow reported the day’s maximum 2209 new Covid cases. “Among new cases in Lucknow, 682 are contacts of those who tested positive for Covid recently,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer of Lucknow. “Data shows that 98 patients tested positive on Friday when they gave samples before a surgical procedure. This signifies many aren’t aware of their Covid status and are being tested positive due to some other reason,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Surgeons. Among total cases, 1392 are men and 789 women in Lucknow. Aliganj reported a maximum 397 new cases, Chinhat 385, Indira Nagar 246, Sarojininagar 139 and Silver Jubilee 178.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-covid-deaths-in-up-but-slight-fall-in-positivity-rate-101642186209887.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | GADVASU holds 3-day training programme on scientific pig farming||Department of livestock production management, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) organised a three-day training programme on ‘Scientific pig farming for SC farmers of Punjab’ under the scheme Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY). Fifteen pig farmers participated in the training programme, which was coordinated by Kulvinder Singh Sandhu and Subhash Chandra under the guidance of course director and head of the department Yashpal Singh. The training imparted knowledge on scientific aspects of breeds, housing, nutrition, health and welfare of pigs. Exposure visits of farmers to the university pig farm were made to familiarise them with daily routine practices and other activities such as handling, recording of temperature, needle teeth cutting and others.  Chief guest Satyavan Rampal, Director, student welfare, distributed certificates to the trainees. He said this training aimed to provide technical vision to the farmers to adopt scientific pig farming practices, which will not only improve the economic status of pig farmers, but help them to produce quality meat in the market as well. Rampal said, “Training programmes are necessary to spread scientific knowledge and build a strong bond between farmers and university experts.”University products such as 25kg starter feed and mineral mixture were handed over to farmers to encourage them to adopt scientific feeding practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gadvasu-holds-3-day-training-programme-on-scientific-pig-farming-101642185969919.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | SAD leader inaugurates party’s main election office of West constituency||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) – Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) joint candidate from Ludhiana West constituency Maheshinder Singh Grewal on Friday inaugurated the main election office of West constituency at Malhar Road, Sarabha Nagar.Grewal said people are annoyed with Congress party’s governance in Punjab and they want to bring the SAD-BSP government in power.“The people are upset with the deteriorating law and order condition in the state. They are upset with the ’Gundaraj’, government employees’ bullying, and the scams that are unfolding nowadays,” he said while adding that the Congress government did not fulfill the promises made before last assembly elections. Moreover, they had also withdrawn facilities which were being provided to people during the Akali Dal regime.Grewal said for the past few days while visiting different areas of the West constituency, the residents had complained to him about the oppressive rule of Congressmen and poor law and order situation in the state.Grewal assured people that the next government of SAD-BSP would take the state on the path of progress and prosperity once again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sad-leader-inaugurates-party-s-main-election-office-of-west-constituency-101642185909884.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Consumer forum asks online shopping site to pay ₹63K for not gifting 4 i-phones||Observing that failing to hand out four i-phones as promised despite taking gift tax accounts to deficiency of services, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directed Myntra to return ₹38,160 gift tax along with ₹25,000 compensation to the complainant.Submitting his complaint against Myntra, through its managing director Mukesh Bansal; Sanjay Kumar Garg of Khanna, Ludhiana, accused the company of deficient services.The complaintThe said respondent company floated different schemes from time to time under the name “The biggest shopping festival,” “Diwali delight,” and others with attractive offers that allured the complainant .Sanjay made maximum purchases within the prescribed period. On making such purchases, he received e-mails from the respondent stating him winner of four i-phone 5C mobiles. Company officials further called upon Sanjay asking him to deposit different sum of money as gift tax to which the complainant deposited ₹9,210 each on December 24, 2014, December 27, 2014 and December 27, 2014 and also deposited ₹10,530 on October 30, 2014.Thereafter, the complainant called upon the respondents to deliver him the gift offered by them, but to no avail.However, resisting the complaint, the counsel for Myntra said the company was willing to disburse the gifts upon presentation of proof of payment of gift tax by the complainant and the delay in disbursal of gifts was only due to the non-payment of the gift tax.Meanwhile, the counsel for the complainant submitted the receipts of the gift tax paid to the company with the commission.Commission’s orderThe Commission said, “It cannot be said that the amount of gift tax was not paid by the complainant to Myntra. However, the complaint is of 2015 and the promised model of the i-phone might not be available now.”“Therefore, in our considered opinion, it would be just and proper if the opposite parties are directed to refund the ₹38,160 paid by the complainant to the OPs on account of the gift tax along with interest @6% per annum from the date of filing of the complaint till actual payment and the OPs be further made to compensate the complainant to the tune of ₹ 25,000 in lieu of the promised gifts,” read the order.
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Gurdeep Gosha claims to have received ‘threatening calls’ from Europe||Three days after joining Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), former district president of Youth Akali Dal (YAD), Gurdeep Gosha submitted a police complaint against alleged threat calls being received by him from a Europe based resident.In his complaint submitted with the commissioner of police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Friday, Gosha alleged that the accused, Mandeep Singh called him on January 13 and threatened to kill him and his supporters if he (Gosha) conducts rallies in BJP’s support.Gosha suspects that opposition parties are behind the threat calls. “I am not afraid of these persons and the opposition parties. I have also been receiving threat calls from private numbers and the police have been apprised of the same. The complaint has been made so that I could know which opposition party is behind this. I will continue to work for the society as part of the BJP,” said Gosha.He said CP Bhullar has assured action on the complaint and the case has been forwarded to additional deputy commissioner of police (crime).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gurdeep-gosha-claims-to-have-received-threatening-calls-from-europe-101642185853302.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Thick blanket of fog engulfs Delhi as maximum temperature dips 5°C below normal||Delhi woke up in a blanket of dense fog on Friday morning as visibility dropped to around 200 metres and the air quality deteriorated further within the ‘very poor’ range. Around 50 flights were delayed at Delhi airport due to the fog in the morning.The minimum temperature rose marginally to 6 degrees Celsius (°C) -- from 5.8°C on Thursday -- as the city witnessed a ‘cold day’ with a maximum temperature touching 15.4°C -- five degrees below normal. A ‘cold day’ is declared when the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10°C and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5°C below the normal.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cloudy skies, dense fog and cold day conditions over the next two days.“After the active western disturbance which brought rain to the Capital last week moved away, there is abundant moisture. The cold temperature and northerly winds have together created favourable conditions for formation of dense fog. Due to lack of sunshine, day temperatures are also very low. These features are expected for two more days,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.There was dense fog at Palam between 4.30am and 9.30am, with visibility hovering at around 50 metres, causing around 50 flights to be delayed at the Delhi airport. Visibility was in the 500-1,000 metres range for the rest of the day at Palam, IMD officials said.Delhi’s air quality index was 348 in ‘very poor’ category on Friday as per Central Pollution Control Board.According to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi by the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences, air quality over Delhi is likely to be in the upper end of ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. Subsequently, slow wind speeds with poor ventilation conditions are expected till January 18.Meanwhile, two fresh western disturbances are likely to affect northwest India: the first is likely to cause isolated to scattered rainfall on January 16 and 17; and the second is likely to cause light/moderate, scattered to fairly widespread precipitation over the western Himalayan region, and light, isolated to scattered rainfall over adjoining plains over the subsequent two-three days.Cold wave conditions in isolated pockets are likely over west Uttar Pradesh and west Madhya Pradesh during the next two days. Cold day to severe cold day conditions are likely in some pockets over Punjab and in isolated pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, West Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during next 2 days and Cold Day Conditions in isolated pockets over East Uttar Pradesh during next 2 days and over Madhya Pradesh during next 24 hours.Dense/Very Dense Fog in some/isolated pockets in night/morning hours is likely over Western Himalayan region, Rajasthan, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during next 2 days and over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during next 3 days and over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim during next 5 days, IMD said in its bulletin on Friday.A cold wave is declared when minimum temperature (is less than 10 degree C over plains) is 4.5 to 6.4 degree C below normal or actual minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C. A severe cold wave is declared when minimum temperature is over 6.5 degree C below normal or the actual minimum temperature is less than 2 degree C. A cold day is declared when maximum temperature (is less than 10 degree C over plains) and is 4.5 to 6.4 degrees below normal and a severe cold day is declared when maximum temperature is 6.5 degrees below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thick-blanket-of-fog-engulfs-delhi-as-maximum-temperature-dips-5-c-below-normal-101642185850050.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | CT University takes a dive into Kashmiri culture||CT University organised event ‘Milchaar – A Kashmir Night’ on January 13, hosted by University students.The event commenced with Kashmiri folk dance called Roff, followed by multiple performances including singing, fashion show, rap, poetry, fun games and concluded with serving Kashimiri food and its famous drink Kahwa. Chief guest Harsh Sadawarti, vice-chancellor, CT University, said, “In order to bind whole world as one family, the manifestation of cultural harmony and such activities proves to be useful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ct-university-takes-a-dive-into-kashmiri-culture-101642185671848.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal inducts 100 low-floor AC buses to take fleet size to 6,900||In a big push to Delhi’s transport infrastructure and to further enhance public mobility, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday flagged off 100 low-floor AC CNG buses, taking the public transport bus fleet size to 6,900. Prior to this, Delhi saw 6,000 buses in the fleet of Delhi transport department during the 2010 Commonwealth Games. The new AC CNG buses will run from Ghumanhera depot in outer Delhi to cater to Delhi’s rural areas, on nine cluster bus routes in Delhi. Along with this, the Delhi Government is likely to bring in more CNG and electric buses in the coming days to further strengthen thee public transport system. Flagging off the buses from Rajghat cluster bus depot, Kejriwal said the buses were put to use from Friday. “A new bus depot has been developed in Ghumanhera. The buses will be stationed there and serve rural routes majorly. Overall, there are about 6,900 buses running on the roads of Delhi today. This is the highest number ever achieved by the state transport department. Prior to this, there used to be around 6,000 buses during the 2010 Commonwealth Games,” Kejriwal said. The new buses are Bharat Stage VI emission standard compliant, have foldable ramp for the differently abled, provide step-less boarding and alighting for passengers, CCTV cameras and panic buttons with hooters for women safety, live video streaming in case of an emergency, two way communication with the control room, GPS units for live tracking of buses, fully automatic transmission with rear engine, fire detection and suppression system and other features. The chief minister announced that Delhi will witness the infusion of buses at a larger scale very soon. “Electric buses are about to arrive, CNG buses are in the process, and DTC is getting its own fleet too. The whole process of procuring buses takes two to three years due to the several legalities involved. There was a dearth of buses when we came to power and we initiated the process of procuring buses right back then itself. Ever since then we’ve been seeing buses being rolled out from time to time to strengthen the public transport system. The Delhi government is committed towards taking the bus transport system of Delhi to the highest standards and will provide the best frequency on every single route,” Kejriwal said. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said Delhi’s buses now stand out as an example of safe, accessible and convenient transport system in the country. “A robust, efficient and well connected public transport system is our lifeline and we have huge plans to augment Delhi’s transport this year, be it bus, metro or depot infrastructure. We are also making a huge transition to electric -- the first electric bus is already in Delhi and ready to start operations. We are in the process of expanding our para-transit systems to ensure safe last-mile connectivity to every Delhi resident at any time of the day,” Gahlot said. Transport experts underlined the need to add more buses to strengthen the public transport infrastructure. “Public transport is critical for the sustainable development of the city. This is even more important with the ongoing Covid-19 crisis because cities operate public transport at low occupancy levels. Therefore, cities need to add more buses to maintain the level of service. This is where Delhi has shown leadership by adding more buses-- it has reinforced the importance of public transport in our cities,” said Amit Bhat, executive director (transport), WRI India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-inducts-100-low-floor-ac-buses-to-take-fleet-size-to-6900-101642185432432.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Digital soldiers driving Congress agenda, countering propaganda||On January 5, as all hell broke loose with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launching a full-on attack on the Congress government in Punjab, demanding action for the “serious security lapse” during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s maiden visit to the poll-bound state in two years, the virtual world was flooded by a counteroffensive targeting the saffron party on the poor turnout at the Ferozepur rally that the PM was forced to skip. Short video clips, photos and posts with stinging captions using hashtags such as #70000Kursi700Bande, #Modi_Ka_Jhoot_Sabse_Mazboot and Punjab_Virodhi_Modi started circulating in the social media, and soon #Punjab_Maaf_Nahin_Karega campaign to “bring out the truth” about the incident became trending. The counteroffensive was piloted by a 35-strong team of the Congress, working out of a nondescript office spread over two floors in Sector 70, Mohali. The social media war room has been buzzing with digital soldiers — a mix of young techies, graphic designers, audio and video experts, volunteers and election strategists, who are closely tracking social media, creating crisp posts, putting out video clips and creating graphics to give the party a leg up in the high-stakes battle to retain power in Punjab. They have been putting out positive posts on WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter day after day for the past three-and-a-half months through campaigns such as #LokaanDiSarkar and #PunjabDiChangiSarkar to highlight power rate cut, loan waiver, farmer benefits, pro-women steps, employment generation initiatives, Scheduled Caste benefits and other achievements of the state government. In addition, they keep scrolling social media posts of rival parties to counter their online propaganda, particularly targeting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on its Delhi model and chief ministerial face, and the BJP on farmers’ issues, inflation, communal disharmony and fuel prices. Talking numbersThe digital media team has created “pipelines” for digital outreach on messaging and social media platforms. Gaurav Pandhi, the Congress’ national coordinator, digital communications and social media, said that there are 13,000-odd WhatsApp groups having more than 9.1 lakh members to reach out to party supporters and voters through three messages a day, besides a WhatsApp channel with another 10,000 subscribers who are sent messages daily. The plan is to double the number of WhatsApp groups in the next 10 days. “We have a huge network of party leaders, workers and volunteers on the ground. Once we decide an issue, create digital content and share it with everyone, they all talk about it and take the party’s message to the grassroots,” Pandhi said, juggling the 10-odd mobile phones — his weapons in this digital battle — lying in front of him. On Facebook, the response has grown significantly with the Punjab Congress’ official page having an outreach of 1.9 crore in the past one week and post-engagement of 77 lakh in the form of likes and shares for posts put out in Punjabi, Hindi and English. Punjab Congress’ state social media coordinator Samraat Dhingra said the digital agenda and messaging is decided in the meeting of the strategy group with inputs from senior state leaders, including Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar. “Weekly agendas are set up and content is generated accordingly,” he said. Both Sidhu and Channi also have their own separate teams for their own promotion on social media. The numbers have given a big fillip to the ruling Congress in Punjab in view of the “campaign curfew” imposed by the Election Commission to check Omricon-driven Covid-19 surge. The poll panel has banned super-spreader events, such as rallies, road shows and street corners, making social media the key driver for parties to maximise their voter outreach. Punjab has the highest mobile teledensity of 122.19 mobile phone connections per 100 persons, according to the Niti Aayog Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) India Index 2020-21. The Internet penetration is also the best among the major states with 84.32 subscribers per 100 persons. The Punjab Congress’ social media team was operating from the chief minister’s residence till September 2021 with a staff of five, and being overseen by Nirvan Singh, the grandson of then chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. In October, it moved to Mohali, and has grown in leaps and bounds in both its size and outreach, but its impact will be known on March 10, the day the poll results are slated to be announced. What role do you see for social media in this election? It’s very important. Campaigning is shifting to digital medium. Right now, it’s being pushed by the Election Commission, but this has to happen eventually. Everything, including governance, is going digital, so why not the path to elect the government? We were already preparing, but it is going to be challenging as the entire focus has suddenly shifted to social media. How do you engage with party leaders and voters? We are totally in sync with the thinking of the party leadership. We are fortunate to have leaders who understand social media. As for voters, we reach out to them over WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram. We also do campaigns on Twitter. We are making the best use of social media. Earlier, the AAP was leading, but we are ahead for the past couple of weeks. Are you using influencers? Fortunately, we have not so far, because we already have a huge network and influence on social media. We would need them if our presence is not there and we are just trying to pretend. Can you name your three most successful campaigns? #LokanDiSarkar, campaigns against the BJP’s propaganda on PM’s security, and #Pegwant that was done by our volunteers. Also, #111CongressDubara and #Congress_Hi_Aaugi are doing well. How do you maintain balance between leaders like Sidhu, Channi and Jakhar? I work for the Congress, for the hand symbol, and my leader is Rahul Gandhi. We are very clear on protocols. If you see any of our official campaigns, you will find their photos on it. All the leaders have been cooperative. 
15-01-2022||Delhi||IED at Ghazipur market: Security checks choke traffic at Delhi borders||Already on a high alert ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, security arrangements across Delhi-NCR were further tightened, and checking of vehicles and individuals at city’s border points was intensified following the recovery of explosives at the Ghazipur wholesale flower market on Friday morning.Both the Delhi Police and the Uttar Pradesh police enhanced deployment on the state border points in the eastern part of the capital.A bag containing a nearly 3kg improvised explosive device that is suspected to have RDX among other substances was spotted by a visitor near Gate number 1 of the flower market on Friday morning. In the evening, the Punjab police chief tweeted about recovery of another 5-kg IED being found in Amritsar.Though scanning of the footage from the CCTV cameras installed at the market gate did not give any specific clue, investigators said that some people who were present inside the market has told them that they saw four-five people leaving hurriedly in a three-wheeler goods carrier “around the time when the IED was found. The police are trying to identify and locate the three-wheeler, the investigator said.After the market was evacuated soon after the arrival of the police, fire and disaster management personnel at the spot, the Delhi Police enhanced deployment at border points in Ghazipur, near Anand Vihar and Maharajpur. All cars crossing the border were thoroughly checked by personnel of the police forces of the two states. The checking of vehicles and placement of barricades led to long queues of vehicles at the three border points on Friday evening.Barricades for vehicle checking were also placed at Singhu, Tikri, and other borders connecting Delhi with Haryana. The police personnel were seen checking boots of the cars and two wheeler riders were asked to show their bags.A senior Ghaziabad police officer, who asked not to be named, confirmed enhanced patrolling and vehicle checks along the Delhi border. He said besides the recovery of explosives, the state was already on an alert due to the model code of conduct in place for the upcoming assembly elections.A senior Delhi Police officer, who asked not to be named, said there were no “serious inputs” from the central intelligence agencies regarding any possible terror strike in the national capital around the Republic Day. He added that Delhi Police have already sounded a heightened alert, and the personnel have been asked to stay at maximum vigil.“Security at popular markets and vital installations is being enhanced in view of the Republic Day,” the officer added..
15-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s south civic body orders merger, closure of 29 primary schools||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has issued orders for the merger and closure of 29 primary schools run by the civic body -- mostly double-shift schools -- with officials claiming that the idea is to reduce wasteful use of resources since many of these institutes do not have enough students. The order has elicited sharp reactions from teachers’ unions and several education activists who feel the move raises questions on SDMC’s claims of a rise in student enrolments due to the pandemic.In an order issued by the SDMC education department on Thursday, the additional director (education) stated that the municipal commissioner has accorded administrative approval for merging five schools in central zone, one in South zone, 15 in West zone and eight in Najafgarh zone. The schools are located in places like Ambedkar Nagar, Nangal Raya, Uttam Nagar, Dabri, Madipur, Okhla, Noor Nagar among other sites. A senior education department official said that most of the schools being merged are operating in double shifts. “There is a morning shift school and an evening shift school in most of the 29 cases. The overall number of enrolled students has indeed gone up but in these schools, there are enough rooms to accommodate students in both shifts together. Right now, we are forced to use double the number of workforce -- teachers, principals, etc -- for imparting education to the students. The merger will make the system more efficient and lead to savings,” said the senior official, requesting anonymity.The merger will be operationalised from April 1, 2022, on commencement of the new academic session, and the zonal directors have been asked to submit proposals for transfer of principals, special educators, teachers, school attendants and other staff members who will be rendered surplus after the merger. The number of municipal primary schools across has been on a decline with several mergers occurring over the last five years. Over 300,000 students are currently enrolled in the 568 primary schools run by SDMC, and the corporation has claimed that it has added more than 93,000 new students in the current academic session. Data from SDMC shows that the corporation was operating 605 primary school with 283,737 students in 2016-17. In 2018, North MCD has also decided to merge and close 20 primary schools citing low enrolment numbers.Studies have shown there is an increase in enrolment in government schools across the country due to financial constrains created by the pandemic. Kuldeep Khatri, who heads the Nagar Nigam Shikshak Nyay Manch -- a municipal teachers association, said that the merger of such a large number of schools raises questions on claims of rising enrolment. “The merger clearly shows that the data pertaining to a nearly 100,000 increase in number of students is questionable. The schools are merged only when the number students goes down in double shift system schools. In the past, schools have been merged when the number went down below 150 students in a shift,” Khatri said.Khagesh Jha, an education activist who heads the Forum for Indian Parents, said that while a general shift system is better, the merger clearly shows that the rise in number of students should be audited. “If the number of students is indeed rising, the number of shifts in schools should be increased. The same steps of merger of schools and using the buildings for non-education purposes has been repeated in the past by municipal corporations,” he said. Jha said that thousands of students are out of the school system and many are studying in unrecognised schools. “If corporations have extra infrastructure, they should focus on ensuring the return of these children to the school system under Right to Education,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-orders-merger-closure-of-29-primary-schools-101642185189870.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai’s positivity rate drops marginally, BMC says wait and watch||Mumbai Mumbai’s positivity rate dropped marginally to 20.6% on Friday, as the city reported 11,317 Covid cases against 54,924 tests. The number of tests conducted for Friday also dropped marginally in comparison to the past three-four days.Friday’s figure is in comparison to a positivity rate of 21.7% on Thursday when Mumbai reported 13,702 cases against 63,031 tests; and a positivity rate of 24.3% on Wednesday, when the city reported 16,420 cases against 67,339 tests.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s health department said, “The positivity rate and the number of cases are coming down. We need to wait and watch for the next three or four days to see if the cases are actually declining, or the graph is fluctuating.”The overall positivity rate to date is 6.68%. So far, BMC has conducted a total of 14,510,438 tests.On Friday, 16.8% or 6,432 of the 38,088 beds available for patients across hospitals in the city were occupied. Out of the 11,317 cases reported on Friday, 800 patients had to be hospitalised of which 88 patients needed oxygen beds. 22,073 patients recovered and were discharged on Friday. Mumbai’s recovery rate at present is 89%.The total caseload is now 979,256. There are 84,352 active cases in the city at present. Mumbai also reported nine deaths taking the toll to 16,435, with the case fatality rate for the day at 0.07%. However, the overall case fatality rate in Mumbai is 1.67%.Two new cases of the Omicron variant were detected in Mumbai on Friday, taking the total cases of the Omicron variant to 629 in Mumbai. However, this includes 26 out of state patients, nine foreign nationals, and 12 patients are from other parts of Maharashtra.With information for 95,123 active cases available with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as per data of Friday morning, 84% are asymptomatic, 15% are symptomatic, and 1% cases are critical.There are 65 sealed buildings in the city at present, and no containment zones, which are chawls or slum pockets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-positivity-rate-drops-marginally-bmc-says-wait-and-watch-101642185069855.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Work on new Ring Road to unclog Delhi kicks off||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started the construction work on the much-delayed Urban Extension Road-II (UER-II) project, also referred to as the third Ring Road of Delhi, and is expected to be ready by October 2023, senior NHAI officials said. The highways authority has asked the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to provide land for transplantation of around 4,000 trees which need to be cut of the project.A senior NHAI official said, “Tree transplantation is the foremost activity that needs to be carried out to prepare the site for construction. We have written to the DDA to provide us approximately 6.4 hectares of land, preferably closer to the site, for transplantation of around 4,000 trees.”Conceived in the early 2000, UER-II could prove to be crucial for decongesting the national capital. The 75.71km-long corridor will connect four national highways (NH-1, 10, 8 and 2) and provide seamless connectivity between north, northwest Delhi and IGI airport and Gurugram. The ₹7,715.6-crore-project will also pass through around 25 villages in Delhi, starting from GT Karnal Road.The project, which was to be initially executed by the DDA, was approved by Delhi’s apex traffic and transport planning body, Unified Traffic and Transportation and Infrastructure Planning and Engineering Centre (UTTIPEC), in 2016. But due to delay in land acquisition related issues, the project was transferred to the NHAI in April 2018.The highways authority has got permission to cut and transplant 6,600 trees from the Delhi government, of which 80% will be transplanted along the proposed corridor, according to the state government’s tree transplantation policy. “The work to transplant close to 4,000 trees along the corridor has started. We have transplanted around 700-odd trees so far. The work is going on unhindered,” said a second senior NHAI official who asked not to be named.In addition to this, the NHAI has to carry out compensatory afforestation, since 54.87 hectares of deemed forest land was diverted for the project. The NHAI has got 55 hectares of land from the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) for afforestation.While approving the diversion of deemed forest land under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 last year, the Regional Empowered Committee, under the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, had asked NHAI to transplant trees as far as possible.“Usually, transplantation is not done under compensatory afforestation. But the committee has asked us to transplant as many trees as possible while giving the permission, so we are planning to transplant around 4,000 trees. For this, we need around 6.4 hectares of land. We have written to the DDA in this regard,” the official said.When contacted, a senior DDA official said, “As a policy, it has been decided not to give land for tree transplantation. Land for transplantation has to be managed by the infrastructure agencies. We are anyway struggling to provide land for compensatory afforestation; it is not possible to provide land for transplantation.”Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner in-charge at DDA, agrees with DDA officials and said, “Providing land for compensatory afforestation and plantation is a big challenge. The land available right now is for future development of the city and those land parcels can’t be given for plantation purposes.”Environment expert Diwan Singh says that land must be provided for compensatory afforestation when deemed forest land is being diverted for development, and questioned the need for carrying out such projects. “There is no end to development. We have to decide how much development is required which the city can actually accommodate. This highway project will only result in urban sprawl, as land of villages falling on the corridor will be used for urban development such as commercial, residential and industrial spaces. We are already facing a major air pollution problem. Can the city really afford such development?” said Singh.The projectOf the 75.71 kms, 38.1kms will be constructed in Delhi covering a majority of rural villages, especially on the periphery, in north and south west Delhi and connecting them to the IGI Airport and rest of Delhi. The access-controlled highway will pass through villages such as Narela, Bawana, Alipur, Holami Kalan, Mundka, Chhawla, Najafgarh etc.Though the NHAI invited bids for the project in 2019, it couldn’t start work as it had asked the DDA, which was to execute the project initially, to pay a viability gap funding of ₹4,000 crore. The matter was resolved last year and work for the project was awarded in October last year.“The pre-construction work started in November. The work will be carried out at a fast pace as we have all necessary permissions. We have to complete the project by October 2023,” said a senior NHAI official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/work-on-new-ring-road-to-unclog-delhi-kicks-off-101642184889741.html
15-01-2022||Delhi||Ahead of Republic Day, cops probe ‘attempted terror strike’ in Delhi||The improvised explosive device (IED) containing suspected RDX and ammonium nitrate found at the gate of the Ghazipur flower market on Friday was placed there to “cause maximum damage and casualties” since nearly 4,000 people were present inside the market when the bomb was spotted, senior police officer associated with the investigation said. The officers said that a case under the explosive substances Act has been registered, and they were probing an “attempted terror strike by a terrorist outfit from any neighbouring country”. They said if the explosives would have gone off, it could destroyed everything in the radius of 60 to 70 metres.The IED found near Gate number 1 of the wholesale market had a timer device attached to it. It was destroyed by the bomb disposal squad of the National Security Guard (NSG) through a controlled explosion that was done inside an eight-feet-deep pit dug in the market premises.“The controlled explosion left a two-feet hole which indicates that on the ground it could have damaged nearly half of the market’s buildings. A major tragedy has been averted otherwise hundreds of lives could have been lost,” said a police officer associated with the case.According to the police officials, the IED was assembled in a metal box and kept in a black and grey laptop bag. Some wires and white powder were found inside when the bag was opened, suggesting that ammonium nitrate was also one of the ingredients of the bomb. NSG director general M A Ganapathy told HT that prima facie analysis of samples taken from the bomb site suggests “RDX and ammonium nitrate was used”. The recovery and destruction of a strong IED at the gate of the Ghazipur flower market triggered panic among the shopkeepers and nearly 4,000 people who were present in the market when the explosives bag was spotted by a real estate company’s employee. He found the bag near his scooter that was parked just outside gate number 1 of the market, said Mohammad Salim, who runs a wholesale flower shop there.“The flower market has an average daily footfall of 15,000 to 20,000 between 4am and 7am -- the peak business hours. By 10am, half of the shops are closed and the crowd also recedes. By around noon, the entire market is empty. Our business is usually held between 2am and 10am. Hundreds of people would have died had the bomb exploded between that period,” said Salim, adding that no checking of vehicles or individuals is done at the market despite it being an important wholesale area. Vijay Sisodia, former chairman of Ghazipur flower market, also said that a major tragedy could have taken place had the IED exploded during the peak business hours. Sisodia said the entire market is covered by CCTVs but did not give the exact number of cameras installed there. “There are cameras at the entry and exit gate as well. I am sure the suspect who placed the bag outside the gate was captured in one of the cameras. There are 411 licenced shops in the market. Many unauthorised shopkeepers also run their businesses from the market. Despite the Covid-19 situation, the market has a daily average footfall of nearly 10,000,” said Sisodia.Investigators said the presence of RDX among the explosives indicate the role of a terror outfit from across the border. Some Delhi Police officers, who have probed terror related cases in the past, were of the opinion that RDX was mostly sourced from another country, and smuggled into the national capital through Jammu and Kashmir or Punjab.Besides the explosives found at the flower market, an IED weighing around 5kg was also recovered in Amritsar on Friday. “IED consignment weighing 5kg approximately which includes 2.7kg RDX recovered by STF from Gharinda area in Amritsar just 2.5km from the international border,” Punjab Police chief Viresh Kumar Bhawra tweeted on Friday evening.A special cell officer, who asked not to be named, said the last time RDX was used in any bomb blast in Delhi was during the 2005 Delhi serial blasts in which 62 people had lost their lives and over 200 were injured.“After 2005, RDX was not used in the other blasts that were carried out by terror outfits in Delhi between 2008 and 2011. In all the following blasts, ammonium nitrate was the common explosive because it is easily available. RDX can be sourced only from our neighbouring countries,” the officer added.Officials said that the investigating agencies are also probing a suspected link between the recent Ludhiana blast and the recovery of the IED in Delhi and Punjab on Friday.
15-01-2022||Delhi||Covid: Deaths, admissions low, no need to panic, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Highlighting Delhi’s low Covid-19 hospitalisation rates and fewer deaths compared to previous surges of the infection, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday urged residents not to panic, even as he acknowledged the rapid spread of the virus through the city, as it headed into its second weekend curfew of the fifth wave of cases.Speaking at the Rajghat bus depot, where he flagged off 100 new buses, the chief minister also said the state will tighten curbs only if necessary and relax restrictions if cases begin to trend downwards.“The number of Covid-19 cases is rapidly increasing. The infection rate in Delhi has now [as on Thursday] reached nearly 29%, but there is no cause for concern. The number of patients admitted to hospitals is very low, as is the number of deaths. As a result, there is no need for people to be concerned or panicked,” Kejriwal said.“There is no shortage of hospital beds. There are also plenty of intensive care beds available. We do not need to panic, but we must act responsibly. We are keeping an eye on the Covid-19 situation. We will tighten the restrictions only if necessary, but if cases begin to decline, we will relax the curbs,” he added. State government data showed that 2,529 patients in Delhi are hospitalised, up marginally from 2,424 a day ago. Nearly 13,000 of the city’s 15,478 hospital beds are still vacant, with the state in a position to ramp up to 37,000 oxygen beds overnight, if required. Like last week, the weekend curfew kicked in from 10pm on Friday and will be in place till 5am on Monday, as part of the restrictions to check the spread of Covid-19. E-passes issued on or after January 4 for essential movement and those in exempted groups will continue to be valid throughout the ongoing period of night and weekend curfews. “The weekend curfew and the daily night curfew from 10pm to 5am are in place and will continue to be implemented strictly till further orders,” a DDMA official said. All existing restrictions under the ‘yellow alert’ will continue to be in place, under which educational institutions, gyms, and cinemas are shut. The Metro and public buses are allowed to occupy 100% of their seating capacity, but cannot carry standing passengers. Shops in malls and markets will continue to operate on an odd-even basis between 10am and 8pm. Only 20 people are allowed to attend weddings and funerals. “In case any person is found violating the instructions, they will be proceeded against as per the provisions of section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws, besides imposition of fines,” the DDMA official stated. All district administration and police authorities have been asked to enforce all existing restrictions. The weekend curfew prohibits all non-essential activity, and exempts businesses and individuals engaged in essential services. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, meat and fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals, medicines and medical equipment; dairy and milk booths; banks, insurance offices and ATMs; print and electronic media; telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cable services; IT and IT-enabled services will be open. Delivery of all essential goods including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce is allowed. Those providing essential services will need to produce e-passes or valid identity cards upon request. People coming from or going to airports, railway stations or bus terminals will be allowed travel with valid tickets, as will those who work for services such as grocery shops, internet service providers, banks and petrol pumps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-deaths-admissions-low-no-need-to-panic-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101642184350254.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula achieves 100% double-dose vaccination target||Panchkula district has completed 100% second dose vaccination against Covid-19, becoming the third district in Haryana to achieve the target after Ambala and Gurugram.According to the health department, the district had a target to inoculate 4,44,675 people over 18 years of age. As of Friday, while 110% of the eligible population had received the first dose, 100% had been vaccinated twice. Earlier in September 2021, Panchkula had become the third district in Haryana to achieve 100% first dose vaccination, nine months after the nationwide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16.According to district immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan, initially when the Covid cases were low, they faced a lot of reluctance and misbehaviour from people when they were contacted to get fully vaccinated. The door-to-door campaign also failed to elicit much response.“It was only after December 22, when the Haryana government made it compulsory for people to be fully vaccinated to access public places that people started lining up at vaccination centres. Within 23 days since, Panchkula achieved 100% double-dose target,” she said.She added that apart from first two doses, they had also provided the precautionary third dose to 3,567 citizens since January 10. Besides, as many as 18,241 (45%) children in the 15 to 18 age group had received the first dose in the district.
15-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Cong targets BJP over ‘poor representation of women’||Uttar Pradesh Congress on Saturday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of pursuing anti-women policies in politics and said poor representation of women in the BJP’s first list of candidates released on Saturday was a reflection on this.Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ in a press statement here said the BJP had given only 10 percent tickets to women in the first list of its 107 candidates. She said the Congress, however, kept its promise of giving 40 percent tickets to women and there were 50 women in the party’s first list of 125 candidates. Mishra said the BJP leaders have been targeting the Congress for launching “ladki hun, lad sakti hun” (I am a girl, I can fight) campaign. She alleged that the BJP’s move of sheltering rape accused legislator and handling of the Hathras incident also reflected BJP’s anti-women stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-cong-targets-bjp-over-poor-representation-of-women-101642267644674.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||12 students from PU’s UIET bag ₹32 lakh annual package at Amazon||As many as 12 students of Panjab University’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) have been offered jobs paying ₹32 lakh per annum by Amazon during the ongoing campus placement drive.Among them, nine students are from computer science engineering (CSE), two from information technology (IT) and one from electronics and communication engineering (ECE). This is the highest package offered to a UIET student during a campus placement drive.According to figures shared by UIET, as many as 337 of the 495 eligible students have already secured jobs.Many students have also received multiple offers, taking their total number to 418. During the 2020-2021 session, the total job offers were 303.Harshit Pasrija, 22, a Rohtak resident, is among the students picked by Amazon. A CSE student, he said, “Getting placed in Amazon was my dream. I worked hard for it for the past few years and my parents’ support also helped me achieve my goal.”Among other companies, Samsung recruited 41 students against an annual package of ₹14.5 lakh, while American Express hired nine students at ₹15.4 lakh per annum.Average package goes upAccording to the institute, besides more recruitments this year, the annual average package also rose to ₹7.77 lakh from ₹6.9 lakh last year. More than 90 students bagged jobs with annual packages over ₹12 lakh.Apart from Amazon, Samsung and American Express, top recruiters this year include Deloitte, Accenture, L’Oreal, Zscaler, Cognizant and Hashedin.Besides, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), Paytm, SAP Labs, Policy Bazaar, Locofast, L&T Technology Services Limited and BYJU’S recruited UIET students for the first time.Higher demand for software, IT engineersThe recent recruitments bring a ray of hope for the youth amid a volatile job market due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In fact, it has spurred more demand for software and IT engineers.“Companies have increased campus hiring this year as pandemic has accelerated the infusion of digital technologies into almost all sorts of businesses. Traditional businesses are moving online, with focus on increasing web and mobile presence to attract more customers. This has resulted in increase in demand for software and IT engineers,” said Sarbjeet Singh, training and placement officer, UIET.Institute director JK Goswamy said, “Despite the pandemic situation, the students have performed well and we hope to improve the numbers in future.”
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Former Congress minister Joginder Singh Mann joins AAP||Former Congress minister and Punjab Agro Industries Corporation chairman Joginder Singh Mann joined the Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday. Also read: India records over 2.60 lakh new Covid cases, positivity rate past 16%Mann was inducted into the party by AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the presence of the party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha. On Friday, Mann resigned from the Congress, snapping his 50-year-old ties with the party. “I lost eight family members to militancy yet I remained a loyal soldier of the Congress for five decades. Apparently, now the party doesn’t need us that is why our loyalty is considered as our weakness. But it is not so as we are strong enough to safeguard the interests of residents of Phagwara in general and that of underprivileged sections in particular even without the Congress,” he said. In a letter to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, the three-time former Phagwara MLA said, “I had a dream that when I die, the Congress tri-colour will be wrapped around my body but my conscience does not allow me to stay here after seeing the Congress patronising those guilty of the post-matric scholarship scheme for Scheduled Caste students.” Mann had spoken up against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu recently after he was ignored during a rally organised by local MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal in Phagwara. “Maharajas, landlords, moneybags and opportunist leaders like Captain Amarinder Singh and Sidhu came to the party for their vested interests due to which the party drifted from its core values and the focus shifted merely to contest elections and grab power. For the past few months, I’ve been having sleepless nights because hundreds of SC students’ career has been ruined due to the usurping of money. Instead of punishing the guilty, the Congress sheltered them and the recent Cabinet decision was the final blow,” he said. Citing another reason for quitting, he said residents of Phagwara have to travel 40km to Kapurthala for getting their administrative works done at the district headquarters. He said had been repeatedly flagging the issue of according district status to Phagwara with the then CM Captain Amarinder Singh and later Charanjit Singh Channi. “Instead of paying heed, they ignored this long-pending demand of Phagwara residents,” he said. Mann also claimed that over the past few years, the Congress has been meting out a step-motherly treatment to the Valmiki or Mazhabi Sikhs, while using the community as a vote bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-former-congress-minister-joginder-singh-mann-joins-aap-101642225452516.html
15-01-2022||Chandigarh||IT Park Housing Scheme: CHB officials told to expedite process to get environmental clearance||UT adviser Dharam Pal on Friday directed the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) to speed up the process to get the environmental clearance from the Centre for the general housing scheme that is coming up at IT Park. Most other major clearances are already in place and CHB has already received approvals for revised building plans and drawings.Pal, who is also chairman CHB, reviewed the progress of the report and gave his nod to the project plans.“He directed the officials to submit the environment clearance proposal to the local forest and wildlife department at the earliest so that they can forward it to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change for approval,” said a CHB official.A four-bedroom flat under the scheme is likely to cost nearly ₹2.75 crore, a three-bedroom flat ₹1.90 crore and a two-bedroom flat ₹1.30 crore. The prices will be finalised after all clearances are in place. The CHB is also planning to construct flats for MLAs and officials of the Punjab and Haryana governments.The administration has given the board exemption from constructing EWS houses in this pocket, subject to the condition that it constructs EWS houses equal to 15% of the dwelling units at a separate location. These EWS flats are proposed to be constructed at Sector 54 for which land has already been allotted, but encumbrance free physical possession of land is yet to be handed over to CHB.Know the scheme728 flats of three categories will come up in seven-storey towers on IT Park plots 1 and 2These include 28 four-bedroom, 448 three-bedroom and 252 two-bedroom flatsSpread over 16.6 acres, the towers will have two basements with a provision for parking of two cars for each flat, in addition to surface parking for visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itpark-housing-scheme-chb-officials-told-to-expedite-process-to-get-environmental-clearance-101642190290205.html
15-01-2022||Mumbai||Maha still has 11.19 million unvaccinated residents||Mumbai: Maharashtra still has 11.19 million unvaccinated residents, a majority of whom are in the age group of 18 to 45 years according to data compiled by the state health department. The state has more 95.15 million beneficiaries — including the most recently added set, the 15-18 year-olds — and 11.75% are yet to receive the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, which is proven to stave off the worst of the disease in the ongoing pandemic. Of them, 9.34 million unvaccinated persons are in the age group of 18 to 45 years. Nationally, 96.1% of the adults [18 years and above] have received at least one dose of the vaccine, while in Maharashtra, at least 89.44% of all adult beneficiaries have received the first dose.At least half of the unvaccinated populace belong to the 10 worst-performing districts — 1.02 million are in Thane, 850,000 in Nashik, 720,000 in Jalgaon, 670,000 in Ahmednagar and 650,000 in Nanded. As of January 14, nearly 82 million Maharashtra residents above 18 years have received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.State inoculation officer Dr Sachin Desai attributed the low vaccination rate among the 18-45 age group — only 83.64% of this age group (57.1 million beneficiaries in all) has received their first dose in the state — to a few possible reasons. For one, the Centre only permitted vaccinating this age group starting May 1, after the national vaccination programme had already been rolled out to health care workers, frontline workers, senior citizens, and persons above 45 years with co-morbidities. What’s more, there was also a severe shortage in procuring vaccines from the Centre for the first few months after this age group was included in the national drive.“It may be because the inoculation for this category was added late. There is no specific reason known for the hesitancy in this age group. We have been reaching out to all the beneficiaries under Har Ghar Dastak drive with request to come forward for the inoculation,” Dr Desai said.The number gains significance in the wake of Omicron, the new variant of concern that is driving the third wave in the country. Citing data till January 6, Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC) municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said last week that 96% of the people occupying oxygenated beds (1,900 at the time) were unvaccinated.Dr Gautam Bhansali of the Bombay Hospital, who is also coordinator of all private hospitals in the city, said that the majority of patients occupying oxygen beds were unvaccinated and were in the age group of 40 to 50 years. This drives home the point that full vaccination is singularly important to prevent death and severe disease.Thane district health officer Dr Manish Renge said that the corporation was trying to improve the percentage of first dose inoculation. “We find resistance in parts of rural Thane and Bhiwandi. We have roped in more personnel to reach out to the remaining beneficiaries. Awareness programmes are also being undertaken to convince people,” he said.In Aurangabad, which has 560,625 adults who are yet to take even their first dose of the vaccine, district officials said that they were facing vaccine hesitancy. “Around 150,000 names in the list [of unvaccinated adults] are of the people migrated, dead or with duplicate entries. We have been involving religious scholars and preachers to convince their community members, but the response is low. Even the third wave has not helped,” Dr SS Shelke, district health officer said.According to state health department officials, the emergence of the Omicron variant in November and the resultant surge in Covid-19 cases starting the third week of December ensured that more people went for their jab. The daily average of inoculation in July 2021 was 391,714; in November, it was 538,652 and in December it was 624,642.“Despite efforts, a section of the society has been opposing vaccination. It is going to be quite difficult to convince the remaining percentage of beneficiaries who have not taken even their first dose,” an official of the state health department said, wishing to remain anonymous.However, districts where social schemes required vaccination helped drive up the number of people getting jabs. In Mumbai, for instance, only those with double vaccination certificates are allowed to travel on the local trains, or enter malls, shopping centres and auditoriums. In Aurangabad, the public distribution system and other benefits have been linked to a person’s vaccination status. The Thane Municipal Corporation restricts people who are not fully vaccinated from travelling in state buses. In Nagpur, the municipal corporation does not allow anyone who is not doubly vaccinated to enter government offices.However, vaccination is not mandatory. On Thursday, in a meeting between the prime minister and chief ministers of five states, state health minister Rajesh Tope requested the Central government to make the vaccination mandatory for all. “Some of our districts such as Aurangabad are lagging behind the state average. This has resulted in the state lagging behind the national average,” Tope said. CM Uddhav Thackeray was unable to attend the meeting and was substituted by the health minister.Not all districts of Maharashtra are performing badly. Mumbai and Pune have 107% and 109% single dose vaccination of eligible citizens, according to the figures released by the state health department on Wednesday. At least 460,000 more people have taken their first dose in last three days. More than 35% or over 2.1 million of the 5.5 million beneficiaries in the age group of 15-18 years — whose inoculation was started on January 3 — have taken the jab in the last 10 days.Dr Desai said that the state has a stock of over 10 million doses of Covishield and over 1.6 million doses of Covaxin. “We have been using Covaxin for the youngsters in the age group 15-18 years and in the wake of the response from this age group, we fear that there will be shortage of the jabs,” he said.On Friday the ministry of health and family welfare clarified that there was no shortage of supply in Maharashtra. On Thursday, Tope had raised the demand of 5 million Covishield and 4 million of Covaxin doses citing the potential shortage with the addition of new age group to vaccination drive.Ends 
15-01-2022||Lucknow||Denied ticket, Gulabi gang founder quits Congress||A day after the Congress released its first list of 150 candidates, including 50 women for the UP Assembly elections symbolizing efforts for women empowerment, a section of party leaders questioned the party’s ticket distribution process.Those who raised their voice included Sampat Pal Devi, founder of Gulabi Gang, which derived its name from its pink (gulabi) saree clad members. The gang is known for vigilante justice against those accused of “committing atrocities on women.”“I am resigning from the Congress as my candidature for Manikpur seat in Banda has not been considered. Women who secured lesser votes than me have been fielded from the same seat though I have worked harder over the years to strengthen the Congress. My Gulabi Gang members have supported the Congress not only in Uttar Pradesh but also in other states,” said Sampat Pal Devi while speaking to Hindustan Times on phone.Sampat Pal Devi’s resignation came when the Congress has fulfilled its promise of 40% tickets to women, taking the issue of women empowerment to the centrestage of politics. Those known for raising their voice against any injustice to women have been given party tickets.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ was not reachable for comments on the first list of Congress tickets that party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra released on Thursday.Meanwhile, a party leader Sheela Mishra staged a dharna at UPCC headquarters for some time on Friday to lodge her protest against the Congress’ decision to deny her a ticket from an assembly seat of Lucknow. “Sheela Mishra sat on dharna for some time at UPCC headquarters,” said a party functionary.Another party leader Priyanka Maurya, whose picture has been used on the Congress’ ‘Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon’ (I am a girl, I can fight) campaign posters accused the party of “irregularities in the ticket distribution.”According to party leaders, she was a contender for a Congress ticket from Sarojini Nagar assembly seat of Lucknow. Priyanka Maurya accused a party functionary of asking her to pay money for a ticket and even called the Congress “anti-women and anti-OBC.”“The Congress list is a good gesture for women and every political party should follow the same instead of waiting for enactment of a law. Any resentment against ticket distribution on some seats is routine and an internal matter of the political party,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.
