20-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad polls: Congress declares two women candidates in Sahibabad, Modinagar||With just a day left for filing nominations, Congress party on Thursday issued another list of candidates, which included two women candidates for the seats of Sahibabad and Modinagar in Ghaziabad. The two women candidates are long-time party workers and, with the latest announcement, the Congress has given all five seats in Ghaziabad to long-time party loyalists and workers. Sangeeta Tyagi, wife of late Congress leader and spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi, who died in August 2020 following a cardiac arrest, will contest from Sahibabad, the party said. The Modinagar ticket was given to Neeraj Kumari Prajapati, a Congress worker for the past several decades. Vouching her candidacy, senior Congress leaders said Prajapati has been a dedicated grassroots level worker of the party for decades. “She is a simple woman who has been associated with the party for years now and is dedicated to the party. Sangeeta Tyagi is a science teacher at a private school in Ghaziabad and she is the wife of late party spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi. The family has been Congress loyalists and workers for long,” said Dolly Sharma, member of All India Congress Committee and spokesperson of UP Congress Committee. She said the two tickets went to women candidates, as promised by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who had said that 40% tickets this election will be given to women. “Our leader (Priyanka) has also given the slogan, “ladki hu, lad sakti hu (I am a woman, I can fight)”, and she has urged women to come forward and fight for their rights. Whether we win or lose, the idea is to contest and the party has given a platform to women. In the past couple of days, we received a number of resumes from people of other parties as well and they wanted to contest on a Congress ticket. But the party has decided to give tickets only to party workers and loyalists. There was a delay in declaring the names but our candidates and workers will put all their energy into campaigning now,” Sharma said. She said Arvind Sharma will contest from the Dhaulana seat, a part of which falls in Ghaziabad district. “I will file my nomination on Friday and will connect to people virtually and also through door-to-door campaigns as directed by the Election Commission. I will raise local issues which include the need for better educational facilities, health-care facilities and the problems that people faced during the pandemic,” Tyagi said. The Congress has never won from Sahibabad constituency and this time, Tyagi will take on heavyweights Sunil Sharma of the BJP and Amarpal Sharma of the Samajwadi Party, besides others. The Congress party earlier gave tickets to district president Bijender Yadav from Muradnagar, district president (minority wing) Yameen Malik from Loni, and Sushant Goyal, son of late Congress MP Surendra Prakash Goyal , from Ghaziabad. Like the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party has also fielded a woman from Sahibabad, Chhavi Tyagi. The Bharatiya Janata Party has retained its sitting MLA, Dr Manju Shivach, in Modinagar. The Bahujan Samaj Party has fielded Poonam Garg from Modinagar. The last date for filing of nominations is on Friday and voting under the first phase of elections will be held on February 10. Experts said the Congress is banking heavily on its workers and loyalists and this will benefit the party in the long run. “The decision to offer tickets to party workers and loyalists will benefit the Congress in the long run and it will also reassure the party cadre. The organisational setup of any party will get a boost if workers get to rise up within the party,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history), MM College, Modinagar. 
20-01-2022||Noida||Three deaths in less than a week as Ghaziabad gets 1585 new cases||The district on Thursday reported 1,585 fresh Covid-19 cases, around 500 less than the 2,041 cases reported a day ago, and two fatalities, taking the tally of infections reported in the month of January to 20,706. Currently, there are 7,446 active cases in the district, of whom 78 patients are taking treatment in hospitals.According to official records of the district health department, three Covid fatalities have been reported in the past one week. The first death during the current wave was reported on January 15, six months after the last fatality was reported on June 18 last year during the second wave. Of the two deaths which came to the fore on Thursday, one was of a 79-year-old man from Kavi Nagar, who was suffering from bronchogenic carcinoma-- a sub-type of lung cancer-- and died at a private hospital in Ghaziabad on January 17. The other deceased was identified as a 31-year-old man from Adhyatmik Nagar, who was suffering from chronic pulmonary tuberculosis and tested positive for Covid. He died at Santosh Medical College, an L-3 Covid facility treating critical patients, on January 18. Officials said that both the patients were vaccinated and the deaths were the result of comorbid conditions coupled with the Covid infection. Meanwhile, 10,286 samples were collected on Thursday and a total of 2,346 patients were also marked as discharged from home isolation. “Following a day of lower testing, we increased the number of tests conducted in a day. The fresh cases seem to have stabilised now and in the coming days, there maybe a decline in the daily cases. People having comorbid conditions are at a high risk of developing complications if they get infected. So, we are also going ahead with the door-to-door survey to find out beneficiaries who have been left out of the vaccination programme,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer. “In case our teams find anyone un-vaccinated, they will administer the vaccine at home,” he added. Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, the chief medical officer did not respond to calls despite repeated attempts. Experts said cases seem to have stabilised after reaching the peak. “The trend indicates that the cases have reached a peak and will be stable for some days before declining. People, mostly senior citizens, who have not taken the vaccine are at a high risk. Even those who have multiple comorbidities and are fully vaccinated may also be at some risk as the Covid infection may complicate their medical conditions. So, it is vital that all precautions are taken and those who have still not taken the vaccine get the jab on a priority basis,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). 
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Amit Shah, JP Nadda to fine-tune BJP strategy in western UP||Union home minister Amit Shah and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda will be in western Uttar Pradesh (UP) to fine-tune the party strategy for the first two phases of the seven-phase state assembly elections that will start on February 10. JP Nadda will be in Agra and Bareilly on a day’s visit on Friday. He will hold door-to-door campaigns and meet party functionaries, BJP’s media in-charge Manish Dixit said. Amit Shah is expected in Meerut for planning organisational strategies but his exact itinerary hasn’t been released by the party yet.JP Nadda is to hold meetings with party workers of 20 assembly seats spread across Agra, Fatehpur Sikri, Mathura and Firozabad. He would then hold separate meetings with party workers of 20 other assembly seats spread out across Aligarh, Hathras, Etah and Mainpuri. He is also scheduled to hold meetings with party workers of three assembly segments in Bareilly, party leaders said. Later, JP Nadda is also scheduled to meet influential people of all nine assembly constituencies of Bareilly before leaving for Delhi, party leaders said. The BJP has so far given 110 tickets, majority of them to candidates belonging to the Other Backward Castes (OBCs) and Dalits. The BJP is yet to declare candidates in five of the 113 seats that go to polls in the first two phases on February 10 and 14 in west UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-jp-nadda-to-fine-tune-bjp-strategy-in-western-up-101642702413760.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||UP crosses 24-crore Covid vaccination mark||Number of total Covid vaccine doses administered till now in Uttar Pradesh crossed 24-crore mark on Thursday. By 9pm, a total 24,25,57,499 doses, including 23,43,740 during the day, had been administered in the state.“Uttar Pradesh is the first states in the country to have administered a total over 24-crore Covid vaccine doses,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, UP, in a press conference.“Beneficiaries above 18 years of age have got a total 14,13,20,582 first doses till now, which is 95.86% of their estimated population. The number of second dose administered in this age group is 9,14,90,739, which is 62.06% of their population,” said Prasad while sharing the vaccination data.A total 66,86,070 first Covid vaccine doses have been administered to children between 15 and 18 years, which is 47.70% of their estimated population, according to the data from the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-crosses-24-crore-covid-vaccination-mark-101642702412468.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||BSP, SP change two candidates each in Agra||Agra Even as the nomination process draws close to its end on Friday, political parties continue to have change of mind regarding candidates. The Bahujan Samaj Party and Samajwadi Party made changes on two seats each in Agra district while the situation remained tricky on Mant seat of Mathura where both RLD and SP candidates filed nominations. Shabeer Abbas, the Congressman in Agra, was a surprise inclusion in the BSP on Wednesday and he was declared candidate for Agra North. Abbas replaced Murari Lal Goyal, who is a Vaishya. The Vaishya community dominates Agra North. Another change came on Etmadpur seat where former Zila Panchayat president from BJP Rakesh Baghel was named BSP candidate replacing Sarvesh Baghel. The Samajwadi Party replaced Rajesh Sharma, candidate for Fatehabad assembly seat, by Rupali Dixit, daughter of heavyweight politician Ashok Dixit. The SP also encashed the anger prevailing among the dominating Agarwal community denied ticket by the BJP in Agra. The party replaced Rizwanuddin ‘Prince’ in Agra South with Vinay Agarwal from the Vaishya Mahasabha, confirmed SP city unit president Wajid Nisar. However, confusion prevailed over the SP-RLD candidate from Mant assembly seat in Mathura. Yogesh Nauwahar, the runner up of 2017 assembly elections had already filed nomination as SP-RLD candidate but when Sanjay Lathar, former MLA and confidant of SP president Akhilesh Yadav, filed his papers on Thursday, there was an impasse because Yogesh Nauwahar from RLD appeared adamant on contesting the election. Sanjay Lathar had contested the by-election as SP candidate from Mant seat in 2012. Mant assembly seat in Mathura was in focus after BJP leader SK Sharma was denied ticket. He broke into tears at a press conference and later joined the BSP and was declared candidate from Mathura Vrindavan assembly seat. 
20-01-2022||Pune||On her way to meet 4-year-old released from abduction, aunt dies in accident||PUNE A day after the safe return of Svarnav Chavan, who was abducted by an unidentified man, his maternal aunt was killed in an accident near Ahmednagar on Thursday morning, turning joy into tragedy for the entire family. She along with her family members were on their way to Pune from Nanded to meet Svarnav, after his abductor is believed to have released him. However, the car they were travelling in rammed into the railings of a bridge in Ahmednagar district, police officials said. “Sunita Rathod (36), sister of Svarnav’s mother, died instantly while her two sons are hospitalised and undergoing treatment,” said Manoj Patil, superintendent of police, Ahmednagar. The four-year-old boy was kidnapped from Baner on January 11 by an unknown two-wheeler rider. He was later released in the Pimpri-Chinchwad area on Wednesday. “The family left for Pune last night. Early in the morning, their car rammed into the railings of a bridge. The two sons have been shifted to a private hospital in Pune,” said Bhingar Deshmukh, assistant police inspector. Svarnav, son of a doctor couple, was with a 12-year-old relative around 9:45am on January 11 when he was abducted. The older child was walking the younger one to a daycare when it happened After the boy went missing, social media platforms were flooded with posts praying for his safe return. After he was found alive and well on Wednesday, he was taken to a doctor for a medical check-up. The police are now on the lookout for the two-wheeler rider who dropped the child off near a water tank ijn Punavale. The same person is believed to be the abductor. The police have launched a city-wide manhunt for the kidnapper and have registered a case under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 364(a) (kidnapping or abduction for ransom) of the Indian Penal Code at Chaturshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/on-her-way-to-meet-4-year-old-released-from-abduction-aunt-dies-in-accident-101642702173391.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Give details of candidates with criminal background: ECI to political parties||All political parties will have to publish the criminal antecedents of their candidates in newspapers, television channels and on their websites with reasons for the selection of such candidates, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has said. The Samajwadi Party (SP), the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have furnished details about the selection of 28 candidates with criminal background in the fray in the first phase of poll scheduled for February 10 to the office of the UP chief electoral officer.Uttar Pradesh chief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla in a press statement said, “To maintain purity in the election, in view of the order passed by Supreme Court in the contempt petition number 2192 of 2011 filed in relation to the writ petition number 536 of 2011 by the Election Commission of India, instructions have been issued that if a political party selects candidates with criminal background, then within 48 hours of the selection of candidates, the political party will have to give details in newspapers, social media platforms and on the party’s website about the selection of the candidate.”“The political parties will have to give the information about the selection of the candidates with criminal background to the ECI as well. Notification for the first phase of 2022 UP assembly election had been issued on January 14. The last date for nomination is January 21,” he said.The ECI has developed a KYC app that can be downloaded from play store on both android or IOS phones. The list of all the contesting candidates and the affidavits filed by them is available on the app. That the candidate has a criminal background or not is clearly marked in ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ in the app,” Shukla added.“In view of the order of the Supreme Court, efforts are being made by the ECI and UP CEO to ensure that the general public gets information regarding the candidates. A provision has also been made by the Election Commission of India that all such candidates who have criminal background should publish their details at least three times in newspapers and be carried in electronic channels from the last date of withdrawal of candidatures till the date of expiry of the campaign period,” he said.“The SP, the RLD and the BJP have informed the UP CEO that details of 28 candidates with criminal background have been published by them in various newspapers. The other political parties should also give information of the candidates with criminal background to the UP CEO office, Lucknow,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/give-details-of-candidates-with-criminal-background-eci-to-political-parties-101642701931902.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Priyanka keeps promise, fields Valmiki from Agra Cantt||AGRA At the fag end of the nomination process, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra kept her promise and gave ticket to a member of the Valmiki community from the reserved seat of Agra Cantt on Thursday. Heads of Valmiki community welcomed the step but said that the candidate selected was not of their choice. On Thursday, the Congress declared candidates from the two remaining assembly seats in Agra district which has nine assembly seats. Sikandar Valmiki is the Congress candidate from Agra Cantt reserved seat while Hemant Chahar is the candidate from the Jat-dominated Fatehpur Sikri seat. Congress leaders in Agra claimed that party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi kept her word to Valmikis when she met community heads in Agra on December 29. “After what happened with Arun Valmiki (who died in police custody in Agra) and with the girl from Hathras, I was wondering what could be done so that the community could fight its own battle against such atrocities,” Priyanka Gandhi had said after the meeting. “I want that the message should be communicated that the Valmiki community can fight its battle and can stand on its own. Therefore, I asked heads of the community to suggest a name of someone from the community who could contest on Congress ticket in the assembly elections,” Gandhi had said and in compliance, a few names were suggested by heads of Valmiki community in Agra but the name declared on Thursday was not among those suggested. However, team Priyanka found it appropriate. “At least Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has kept her promise and given ticket to a member of Valmiki community. He might not be the one suggested by us but any way, Valmiki community has found representation,” said Man Singh who is ‘Takht Chaudhary’ (head) and president of Valmiki Mahapanchayat in Agra. “Of the nine assembly seats in Agra, BJP has not given ticket to any Valmiki but to two from Jatav community who in fact vote for the BSP and not the BJP, unlike the Valmikis who had been supporting the BJP,” lamented Man Singh who feels that even the Congress had neglected Valmiki community after independence when the party dominated the political scene. Jhalloram Valmiki, founder convenor of Valmiki Mahapanchayat also admitted that the Congress leader kept her word. He, however, felt ‘betrayed’ because names suggested by them were not entertained. Nand Kishore Valmiki, a prominent Valmiki leader and ‘prantiya sanyojak’(regional convenor) of ‘Dharam Jagran Samanvaya’, a right wing organization, downplayed the ‘words kept by Priyanka Gandhi” and asked as to why Congress was not giving ticket to Valmikis on seats where it could win. The Valmikis had been more inclined towards the BJP in Agra city where they constitute 40% of dalits – second only to the Jatavs who are believed to be 60% of dalits in Agra (also known as the dalit capital because of their widespread employment in the age-old footwear business of Agra). There are about 1.5 lakh voters from the Valmiki community in Agra. The Valmiki community has a say in all three assembly seats of Agra city besides rural Agra. They are in decisive numbers (50,000 voters) in Agra South and have an impact in Agra North with a strength of 20,000 voters and Agra Cantt (15,000 voters). In rural Agra, there are 20,000 Valmiki voters. Aligarh district also has a sizeable number of Valmiki voters –more in percentage than the Jatavs and have a similar hold in Hathras where rape and murder of a Valmiki girl became a major issue. 
20-01-2022||Pune||Pune district records highest-ever 14,113 new Covid cases||Pune: Pune district reported 14,113 new Covid-19 cases, highest ever since the outbreak, and one death due to the infection in 24 hours on Thursday. This took the progressive count to 1.299 million of which 1.205 million have recovered, 20,251 deaths and 73,098 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation While 865 cases of Omicron variant were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), 118 in PCMC and 56 cases in Pune rural district. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,972 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 394,061 and with zero death reported the death was 7,059. Pune city reported 7,252 new cases which took the progressive count to 600,880 and reported one more death on the day and the toll stood at 9,310 while PCMC reported 3,889 new Covid cases the progressive count went up to 304,170 and with zero death reported the toll stood at 3,532.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-records-highest-ever-14-113-new-covid-cases-101642701511920.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||‘Not afraid of trolls, will continue to raise public issues via Bhojpuri songs’||Bhojpuri singer Neha Singh Rathore, who recently came out with the number “UP Mein Ka Ba? (What is there in UP?)” in an apparent response to BJP MP Ravi Kishan’s song “UP Mein Sab Ba” (UP has everything) that chief minister Yogi Adityanath released in Gorakhpur on January 15, has said she is not afraid of trolls and will continue to raise “issues of the common man and the poor” on social media platforms through Bhojpuri songs.“Any government has a complete set-up for publicising its schemes or development works. However, the common man and poor people don’t have such things. I want to raise their issues through Bhojpuri songs ,” said Rathore in Varanasi on Thursday.She claims that her song “UP Mein Ka Ba?” underscores many issues like unemployment and mowing down of four farmers by a vehicle in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, 2021. A total of eight people had lost their lives in the Lakhimpur incident.Rathore, a science graduate from Kanpur University, calls herself a “Jan Kavi” (people’s poet). She loves the Bhojpuri language and says she is inspired by noted Bhojpuri poets, including Bhikhari Thakur and Mahendra Misir.She first hogged the limelight during the Bihar assembly election when she sang “Bihar Me Ka Ba”, raising various issues of the neighbouring state. Her video had become popular on social media platforms then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/not-afraid-of-trolls-will-continue-to-raise-public-issues-via-bhojpuri-songs-101642701452085.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Opposition parties protest against bad roads in Pune’s peth area||PUNE Opposition parties attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the poor state of prominent roads in the peth area. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had given the deadline till January 2022 for completing the roads works but failed to do so and now the deadline is extended to February 15.Members of the Nationalist Congress Party(NCP), on Thursday, agitated at Shivaji road under the leadership of MP Vandana Chavan and blamed BJP for the poor state of roads in peth areas mainly Shivaji road, Bajirao road, Tilak road and other roads.PMC has dug up these roads for laying the water pipelines under 24x7 water project and even carrying out the drainage works.Recently, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and all the department heads visited these roads at the request of standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne.As the roads are dug up it is creating various problems for commuters.When the municipal commissioner visited the sites, earlier they promised to clear the road works by December last year. Later the standing committee chairman promised to complete work by January and now the deadline is extended to February 15.NCP leaders blamed the ruling party and municipal administration for poor management.“Despite having decided that the contractor would do these works from the component of the 24x7 project, PMC is doing it from its budget,” said NCP leaders.Shiv Sena too held an agitation on Wednesday for the same issue. Congress party leaders have also warned to hold protests over the same issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/opposition-parties-protest-against-bad-roads-in-pune-s-peth-area-101642701095002.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||BJP wins Bhandara, Gondia district councils, nagar panchayat tally rises to 419||MUMBAI Improving its tally from the results declared on Wednesday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) registered an impressive victory in the Bhandara and Gondia district councils and nine nagar panchayats in Gadchiroli whose results were declared on Thursday. BJP won the Gondia district council and bagged 419 out of 1,802 nagar panchayat seats (the highest) in the election held in two phases in December and January. The three ruling parties – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – collectively won 1,021 seats in these local body polls. The nagar panchayats govern smaller towns in semi-urban areas.The state election commission (SEC) declared results for 153 seats in nine nagar panchayats in Gadchiroli, 105 seats in the Bhandara and Gondia district councils, and 210 seats in the panchayat samitis in these two districts on Thursday. The SEC had declared the results for 1,638 seats in 97 nagar panchayats on Wednesday. The polls for the 1,802 seats in 106 nagar panchayats, 105 seats in the two district councils, and 210 seats in 15 panchayat samitis were held in two phases on December 21 and January 19 this year.The BJP won 26 out of 53 seats in the Gondia district council (highest) paving the way to form the body on its own. In the 2016 election, the party had won 17 seats, while NCP and Congress had bagged 20 and 16 seats, each. The NCP and Congress jointly ruled the body for two-and-a-half years, but the split between the two parties led to the NCP joining hands with the BJP. The two parties jointly ruled the body for the remaining term. In adjoining Bhandara, the Congress improved its tally by winning 21 seats against the outgoing 19 seats. It might form the body with the help of its ally NCP, which bagged 13 seats.NCP’s defeat in Gondia is seen as a setback for senior party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Praful Patel. “Had the Congress and NCP fought together, they could have retained the council. But the rift between the leaders from the two parties over the last few years has played in BJP’s favour,” said a NCP leader on condition of anonymity.Of the 210 panchayat samiti seats in the two districts, BJP won 93, NCP bagged 36, while Congress and Shiv Sena won 53 and 5, respectively.Madhav Bhandari, Maharashtra BJP vice-president, said that the discontent against the three parties for their failure, including that of safeguarding the Maratha and OBC reservation, has reflected in the results. “These are sort of general elections as they were held in 31 districts across the state. It is a true reflection of the people’s mindset. We have been able to improve our performance despite being in the opposition. We will improve our performance, by retaining the existing bodies, in the forthcoming local body elections,” he said.However, Nationalist Congress Party leader and state minister Nawab Malik said that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi partners have bagged nearly 755 seats. “Eighty per cent of the voters have voted against the BJP despite which they have been claiming to have won most seats in the nagar panchayat elections. NCP will form bodies in at least 27 nagar panchayats on its own,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-wins-bhandara-gondia-district-councils-nagar-panchayat-tally-rises-to-419-101642701092987.html
20-01-2022||Pune||With only 36k of 72k autos plying with new fare meter, Pune passengers complain of costly ride||Pune: After the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) of Pune division approved revised rates for autorickshaws in Pune region, it directed the auto drivers to calibrate meters and get it cleared from Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) before charging new fares. As per the new rates, fare for first 1.5 km would be ₹21 and ₹13 for every kilometres thereafter. Of the total around 72,000 registered autos in Pune, only 36,993 auto meter calibration has been completed by the Pune RTO till date. At least 4,420 autos failed RTO meter calibration test. With January 31 as the deadline for meter calibration and many autorickshaws plying without updated meter, passengers from several areas around the city complain of overcharging. “Yesterday, I travelled from Katraj to Dhayari through the bypass highway and the auto driver charged ₹150. When asked about the high fare, he told that it is the new rate and the meter is not yet calibrated to new fares. This has happened to me for the second time and citing ‘faulty meter’ reason, auto drivers charge extra,” said Poonam Shinde, a passenger. The revised fares for three-seater autorickshaws came into effect from November 22 onwards in Baramati as well besides Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The decision by RTA was taken on the recommendations given by the Khatua committee report as auto unions were also demanding fare hike. “Since December 4 last year, RTO inspectors have been appointed for auto meter calibration checking on seven days and weekends to facilitate autorickshaw drivers to calibrate meters before the deadline. Action will be taken against those overcharging passengers if we get a complaint,” said Sanjeev Bhor, Pune regional transport officer. In Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Baramati jurisdictions, the revised rates of 25 per cent additional charges will be applicable for fares between midnight and 5am. Apart from these three jurisdictions, additional 40 per cent charges will be applicable during night hours for the rest of the district. Autos charging right fare Total registered autorickshaws in Pune: 72,000 Autos checked till now: 41,413 Autos cleared meter calibration test: 36,993 Autos failed meter calibration test: 4,420 Last date for meter calibration: January 31, 2022||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-only-36k-of-72k-autos-plying-with-new-fare-meter-pune-passengers-complain-of-costly-ride-101642701091695.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Ensure 30 lakh Covid vax doses in UP per day: CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said Uttar Pradesh at present was administering 25 lakh Covid vaccine doses each day on an average and asked officers concerned to make it 30 lakh doses per day. The state, so far, has administered a total of 24 crore Covid vaccine doses.At virtually held Covid review meeting with “Team-9”, Yogi said: “In UP, 96% of the people in 18+ eligible age groups have got their first dose of the vaccine while 62% have got both their doses. Till Wednesday, 48% of adolescents between 15 and 17 years have got their first dose while 45% of eligible people got their precautionary dose as well.”Talking about Covid situation in the state, he said: “In the last 24 hours, a total of 18,554 fresh cases of Covid were recorded in the state and the total number of active cases were 97,329. The present strain of the virus is comparatively weak and there is no need for people to get panicky”.The CM asked for making arrangements for at least one dedicated Covid hospital in every district while rest of the medical facilities could function as non-Covid hospitals. He asked for full activation of Integrated Covid Command Centres.
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Congress defends state unit chief Patole over ‘Modi’ remarks||MUMBAI: The Congress has defended its state unit chief Nana Patole over his controversial ‘Modi’ remarks.The party’s national secretary and state in-charge H K Patil sought to downplay the controversy. He also indicated that the Congress may not necessarily enter into pre-poll alliances with the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) that are its partners in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) for municipal and local body elections due early this year. However, the decision whether the Congress will contest alone in Mumbai or in an alliance with the MVA will be taken by the party high command.“Patole has denied this and said that he intended it for some local goonda (and not for the Prime Minister)… there is no need to prolong the controversy,” Patil told Hindustan Times while referring to Patole’s comments. Patil said that since taking charge early last year, Patole has been working actively for the party. Though some of his statements have turned out controversial, Patole has taken immediate corrective action, Patil averred.Earlier this week, Patole was captured on camera at Lakhni in Bhandara district saying, “I can beat Modi, I can abuse him.” Though Patole later claimed he was referring to a local goon who was the Prime Minister’s namesake, the BJP launched protests seeking his arrest.Patil said that while the national leadership of the Congress would take a position regarding the Lok Sabha and state assembly elections, the decision about contesting alone or in an alliance with MVA partners in the local body elections would be left to the state and district units.“The Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) and the District Congress Committees (DCC) will take a proper decision in consultation with the higher-ups for the other elections. (The MVA) will not come in the way, we have authorised the local units… but for Mumbai, that decision will have to be taken by a strategy committee constituted by the All India Congress Committee (AICC),” Patil noted.Senior Congress leaders in Mumbai have admitted that they are in a catch-22 situation of sorts when it comes to strategy in Mumbai. The Congress has seen its social and political base gradually eroded in Mumbai and fighting alone may further expose this drift.On the other hand, an alliance with the Shiv Sena and NCP will send across a strong message on opposition unity against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) but will also mean conceding more space to allies leading to discontent among the ranks. Newer players on the block like the All India Majlis E Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will also attack the party for joining hands with the ‘communal’ Shiv Sena. “We are in a trap,” explained a senior Congress leader.Bhai Jagtap, president of the Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) has however said that the Congress must contest alone in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-defends-state-unit-chief-patole-over-modi-remarks-101642700971757.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Artificial intelligence, machine learning plays vital role in defence: DRDO director||PUNE Director, Research and Development Establishment (R&DE) of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) PM Kurulkar said advanced technology is evolving through artificial intelligence, machine learning and in-depth research is required to be done to meet the changing challenges in the field of security, biotechnology, communication sector among other sectors.“Artificial intelligence and machine learning are playing a vital role in the field of defence. Students need to develop a tendency to do research and innovation,” said Kurulkar while addressing the students and researchers at the inauguration ceremony of the two-day ‘National Conference on Communication, Computational Intelligence and Learning’ (NCCCIL).The conference is jointly organised by the department of information technology of the Army Institute of Technology (AIT), Dighi and the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE).The conference reviewed about 64 research papers (more than 150 participants) out of which 43 papers were selected and 34 were registered.Due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, the conference is being conducted online.Selected research papers will be published in three peer-reviewed journals i.e. The Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), Web of Science Group and CRC Press.Kurulkar said, “The intelligence of Indians is immeasurable. With the right combination of technology and intelligence, we can make impossible things possible. The efforts made by the Indians during the coronavirus pandemic and the three vaccines developed are indicative of this.”“The discovery of three effective vaccines against Covid-19 and its mass production is a guideline for the world. It is a matter of joy for all that India is being looked upon with respect from all over the world. He also expressed the expectation that the curriculum would change with the changing challenges and advancement of technology.” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/artificial-intelligence-machine-learning-plays-vital-role-in-defence-drdo-director-101642700793296.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||ICU, ventilator occupancy rise, hospitalisations fall in 10-day period||Mumbai: Mumbai’s Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and ventilator bed occupancy has gone up in the past 10 days, even as the city’s overall Covid-19 hospitalisations have recorded a dip. The ongoing third wave, driven by the Omicron variant, started in the last week of December, and it is already receding in Mumbai. But the city experienced very high daily cases, with the peak touching 20971 on January 7. Over the past four days, the daily cases have been hovering around 6,000. On January 11, the city had 876 Covid patients in Intensive Care Units and 526 on ventilator support in city hospitals, according to the data collated by the Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC). On that day, the total ICU beds were 2,728 and ventilator beds were 1,541; the occupancy was 32% and 34%, respectively. On January 20, the number of patients on ICU and ventilator beds was 989 and 584, respectively. The total number of ICU beds on Thursday were 3114, and ventilator beds were 1512 (these are dynamic numbers, as the civic body has the capacity to expand the number of hospital beds); the occupancy was thus 32% and 38%, respectively.Interestingly, the overall hospitalization numbers dropped from 7,283 to 4,857, even as the total hospital beds in the city went up from 22,445 on January 11 to 23,911 on January 20.“There is always a lag of a few weeks between regular hospitalisations and ICU and ventilator admissions,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra. “Those who progress to severe disease require intensive care a few weeks later. Thus, ICU and ventilator admissions are more likely to rise a few days after the peak has passed,” he said.Trends as expectedAccording to Joshi, the city’s current intensive care occupancy is largely among the unvaccinated, senior citizens, people with serious co-morbidities and those who are vaccinated but have failed to mount a good immune response. “While Omicron is the predominant strain in the city, the Delta strain also continues to be in circulation. Doctors are seeing some patients with lung involvements which indicates that the Delta strain is very much there,” he said. The city has recorded an average of six Covid deaths every day this month. With the rise in ICU and ventilator occupancy, an uptick in fatalities is expected. “The deaths are likely to go up in the next few days, as serious patients are increasing,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. “However, a large majority of patients have been in home isolation during this wave, and a smaller number has required hospitalisation, compared to the previous waves,” he said, adding that ward war rooms and doctors have been advised to get people to seek medical advice and early hospitalisation to reduce the fatalities. “People who have co-morbid conditions and age-related risk factors should seek timely medical intervention,” he said. Physician Dr Hemant Gupta said that the ICU admissions have not increased at an alarming rate. “A section of patients with serious underlying ailments and those who are unvaccinated are landing up in the ICU,” said Gupta who consults patients at the state-run St George Hospital. He said that the hospital’s 25-bed ICU facility was fully occupied on Thursday, but only 10 patients were on non-invasive ventilator support. “None of the patients was on mechanical ventilator support that requires intubation,” he said, adding that all ICU patients were stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/icu-ventilator-occupancy-rise-hospitalisations-fall-in-10-day-period-101642700791842.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||UPPSC schedule released, PCS (pre)-2022 exam on June 12||Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) has released the schedule of 19 recruitment examinations to be conducted between March and September this year. “The commission has formally released the 2022 annual calendar of proposed examinations on its website http://uppsc.up.nic.in/,” UPPSC secretary Jagdish said.However, officials clarified that in some circumstances, the dates of listed exams could be shifted. As per the calendar, examinations to be conducted for the selection of candidates for the various state-level administrative posts including deputy collector and deputy SP—combined state/upper subordinate services (preliminary) examination-2022, commonly known as PCS (pre)-2022—as well as the assistant conservator of forest/range forest conservator recruitment exam (preliminary)-2022 will be conducted on June 12.The calendar also lists PCS (mains)-2021 that was set to be held from January 28 to January 31 but following postponement in light of the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the state would now to be held between March 23 and March 27.Usually, the commission releases its annual calendar of recruitment exams in December but owing to the state assembly polls, this time the calendar has been released late after scheduling the exams accordingly, UPPSC officials said. As per the calendar, the commission would conduct the computer operator grade-B and programmer grade-B recruitment exam under programmer grade-2/computer operator grade-B/manager (system) recruitment-2021 on March 5 followed by lecturer (male/female) government intermediate college recruitment (mains)-2020 on March 13.Likewise, the assistant professor in government degree college (screening) exam-2020 will be held on March 15 while technical education (teaching) services examination-2021 (remaining subjects) is scheduled for March 22. The combined state/upper subordinate services (PCS)-2021 main exam will be conducted by the commission from March 23.The assistant conservator of forests (ACF)/regional forest officer (RFO) service (main exam)-2021 will be held from April 3 while the commission would hold staff nurse (male) preliminary recruitment examination-2017 (re-advertised in 2022) on April 10.Similarly, combined state engineering services (general/special selection)-2021 exam is scheduled to be held on April 17 and the review officer (RO)/assistant review officer (ARO) (general/special selection) main exam-2021 is to be conducted on April 24. The lecturer (government ashram system schools) main Exam-2021 will be held on May 1. This would be followed by the veterinary officer (screening) exam-2020 set to take place on May 15 and manager (system) exam-2021 under programmer grade-2/computer operator grade-B /manager (system) exam-2021 on May 25.The commission has scheduled staff nurse (male) main exam-2017 to be held on July 24, medical officer (community health) Ayurvedic and Unani services-2021 for July 31 and lecturer homeopathic (screening) exam-2020 on August 14. The assistant radio officer (screening) exam-2018 will be held on August 28 followed by the combined state/upper subordinate services (PCS)-2022 main exam from September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppsc-schedule-released-pcs-pre-2022-exam-on-june-12-101642700612445.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Schools unlikely to reopen in Pune on Jan 24||Pune: After the state government gave its nod to reopen schools from January 24, Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said that the civic administration will not rush into any decision. He cited the increasing number of Covid cases as a matter of concern saying before taking the final call, all stakeholders will be consulted. According to Mohol, a final decision will be taken in the weekly Covid review meet scheduled to be held on Saturday. Though the state government has decided to reopen schools, including pre-primary classes, from Monday, education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said that the government has given the powers to local bodies to take a final decision depending upon the Covid-19 situation in the respective areas. “In Pune, Covid cases have been increasing since last 8-10 days. The number of patients is increasing. I spoke to some paediatricians and they have advised caution for Classes 1-10 as infected kids are showing symptoms such as fever. In this wave around 3,000 kids have been infected and 100 are hospitalised. After considering all these factors, we are unsure whether to immediately reopen schools or not,” said Mohol. According to the mayor, on Saturday, there will be a review meeting in the presence of Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar. “The decision will be taken in that meeting. Before taking any decision, we will discuss the matter with students, parents’ associations and doctors from the task force. increasing caseload in the city is a matter of concern. Our priority will be the health of kids,” he said. The offline classes in schools and colleges had resumed in December as the Covid cases were dropping. However, with a surge in Covid infections in January, the state government had decided to stop offline classes. The Covid situation is varying across the state. “My 12-year-old son suffers from high fever and cough. His Covid test result was negative. The doctor said that it could be some other viral infection. Most of the kids from his group have had such symptoms. Even if schools reopen, he cannot go to school immediately until he recovers. I think it is best to take precautions before rushing into anything,” said Deepali Hatekar, a resident of Kothrud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-unlikely-to-reopen-in-pune-on-jan-24-101642700431981.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Omicron variant can turn serious, experts say||Mumbai: City doctors have started encountering cases of Omicron in the Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and HT has learnt of at least three cases, including the death of an unvaccinated senior citizen, wherein doctors corroborated the presence of Omicron variant through the S-gene target failure test. Medical experts said that co-morbid conditions dictate how the viral infection manifests. Uncontrolled and unmonitored diseases, active cancer therapies such as radiation and chemotherapy, HIV, active steroid treatment and immunosuppressive treatments pose a greater risk of severe Covid-19. In addition, unvaccinated patients or patients who fail to mount their immune response despite vaccination also face a higher risk of getting a severe disease. To be sure, the number of deaths reported daily by the Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC) in the past seven days has hovered between six (January 13) and 12 (January 20). In absolute numbers, this is far less than the peak of the second wave, when the average daily deaths reported was 52 in the months of April and May 2021. Epidemiologists said that severe manifestation of the Covid-19 disease — irrespective of which wave, or variant — affects a section of the population that has co-morbidities, insufficient immunity, and/or is unvaccinated or partially vaccinated. However, experts pointed out that Omicron, which is known to largely affect the upper respiratory tract and thus produce milder symptoms compared to the Delta or Delta plus variant that caused damage to the lungs, can still cause severe disease, and in some instances, death.“The Omicron variant can trigger complications depending on the co-morbid condition of the patient,” said Dr Sanjith Saseedharan, head of critical care at the SL Raheja Hospital in Mahim who has encountered two such cases including one death. In both cases, the patients underwent an RT-PCR test which used specific kits to look for the S-gene deletion —while genome sequencing is considered to be the gold standard for identifying variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, the S-gene target failure is an indirect way to detect the Omicron variant. In the first case, Saseedharan said, a 70-year-old unvaccinated man from Kandivli facing severe breathlessness visited the hospital in the last week of December with a Covid-19 positive report. Medical investigations revealed that he had developed viral myocarditis, an inflammation of the heart muscle triggered by the viral infection. The patient had an existing heart ailment — his heart’s pumping ability was barely 15% of a normal heart. This co-morbidity in addition to his age and unvaccinated status made him vulnerable, the doctor said.“His condition deteriorated rapidly and we had to put him on a ventilator, but he eventually developed a severe pulmonary edema (fluid accumulation in the lungs) and succumbed three days later,” he said. In another case, Saseedharan said, a 71-year-old fully vaccinated man with multiple co-morbidities including a history of stroke, poorly controlled diabetes, hypertension and asthma, spent 12 days in the hospital including six in the ICU. He developed a fever in the first week of January, and underwent an RT-PCR test, which was positive and indicated the Omicron variant. The man’s family members who also had Covid recovered within four days. “Viral infections can trigger asthma exacerbation. We gave him remdesivir, steroids and anticoagulants and he had to be put on non-invasive ventilator support,” he said adding that the patient recovered gradually. Critical care specialist Dr Kedar Toraskar from Wockhardt Hospital said that a 60-year-old fully vaccinated man with a history of hypertension is currently in the ICU with Covid-19 pneumonia and on oxygen support. His test carried out at the hospital showed the S gene deletion. “He has been in the ICU for five days due to severe breathing issues, but he is now recovering,” said Toraskar. “In a group of patients with severe risk factors, close monitoring is important when it comes to Covid-19. Most importantly, we must not ignore the disease by labelling it as mild,” said Toraskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-variant-can-turn-serious-experts-say-101642700373263.html
20-01-2022||Pune||NGT instructs PMC to appoint committee for Ambil Odha work, submit report within four weeks||PUNE The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to form a committee for Ambil odha (stream) diversion work near Dandekar bridge and submit the report within four weeks.The order was issued on January 18 (Tuesday).PMC was carrying out the work at Ambil odha and making it straight which is in U shape near Dandekar bridge. The work was proposed to undertake slum development work in the area.Recently, there was opposition from slum dwellers to the work carried out by PMC and they alleged that the civic body is carrying out the work for benefit of private builders.Anant Ghart of Earth Foundation had challenged PMC work in the NGT.Gharat said, “Without accepting expert opinion, PMC planned the work. If PMC carry out work without proper study, residents will have to face flood like situation in the future.”The NGT on January 18 issued the order and asked to appoint the committee which will have the members from PMC, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and the representative of the secretary of the environment department.The NGT asked the committee members to conduct a site inspection and submit the report within four weeks to the NGT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ngt-instructs-pmc-to-appoint-committee-for-ambil-odha-work-submit-report-within-four-weeks-101642700371932.html
20-01-2022||Pune||330,797 vehicles ‘bypass’ Pune-Mumbai Expressway toll tax; RTI activist demands probe||Pune: The statistics related to toll tax published by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) on its website has revealed that 330,797 vehicles did not pay the mandatory toll tax on Pune-Mumbai Expressway in December 2021. Right to Information (RTI) activist Vivek Velankar in 2016 had complained to the RTI chief seeking publication of toll earning figures and vehicles paying at the toll booths of Pune-Mumbai Expressway on the official website on a regular basis. Following the complaint, the authorities have been regularly updating the website and releasing earnings and vehicle data on their website. According to the official data, 330,979 vehicles did not pay toll tax on the expressway and the same has been attributed in the category of exempt and violators for December 2021. However, how many of them came under ‘exempt‘ and ‘violated the rule‘ categories have not been clearly stated in the chart. “The information regarding the exempt and violators category has been deliberately suppressed. At the most, police, army, MLAs, MLCs, parliamentarians and ministers are exempted from paying toll tax. It is indeed surprising that the heavy vehicles and multi-axle vehicles are being shown as violators when these vehicles most of the time travel at a very slow speed on the highway. Also, the clear demarcation or categorisation of violator and exempt vehicle has not been done which raises suspicion. The authorities need to come clean on this pertinent issue of exemption and violation as citizens are paying toll tax and the entire process demands accountability,” Velankar claimed. He said that an average of 10,000 vehicles were not paying toll as per the information given by the MSRDC authorities on the website and demanded a probe. Velankar had earlier approached the Bombay High Court through a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking an end to toll tax collection on Pune-Mumbai Expressway. The PIL claimed that the toll collected post August 19, 2019, by the company should be declared as “illegal”. Rajesh Patil, superintending engineer, MSRDC recharge for Pune-Mumbai Expressway, could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts. Messages to his mobile phone number went unanswered. Toll tax at e-way Dec 2020 No of vehicles: 1,332,078 Earnings: ₹471,544,440 Dec 2021 No of vehicles: 1,823,369 Earnings: ₹506,178,629||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/330797-vehicles-bypass-pune-mumbai-expressway-toll-tax-rti-activist-demands-probe-101642700251633.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Covid positivity rate at 35%, hospital cases show gradual rise in Pune||Pune: Rise in active Covid cases has also seen more home isolations and hospitalisations since January 1. On January 1, in Pune district hospital isolations stood at 692 which increased to 2,330 whereas home isolations at 2,662 touched 70,768 till January 19. As many patients with mild or no symptoms are advised home quarantine, there is a gradual rise in hospitalisation in the district, according to health officials. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department, said that even though there is a rise in hospitalisations, 95 per cent Covid positive cases are still in home isolation. “All government and private hospitals have vacant Covid beds as of now. In PMC-run Naidu hospital, there are 120 beds vacant and 100 beds are unoccupied in Baner facility. More than 60 per cent beds are vacant in private hospitals. We will acquire more beds if the need arises, but vacant beds are available now. In fact, we have reopened just one Covid care centre (CCC) with 250 beds and have received only 15 admissions,” said Dr Wavare. Along with hospitalisation, the case fatality rate (CFR) on January 18 for Pune city limits was 1.82. The figure was 1.87 on January 12 and 1.90 on December 23, according to the district health department. There has been a gradual rise in weekly positivity rate in the district as well. On December 25, the weekly positivity rate was 2.5. On January 10, it increased to 22.8 and on January 17 it touched 34.2. Dr Kapil Zirpe, member, Pune Covid-19 task force and head of the neurotrauma unit at Ruby Hall Clinic, said that in this wave, the fatalities are less and so are admissions. “Those who require hospital admission are for management for other diseases or comorbidities rather than Covid. Many patients from outside Pune are showing delta variant. However, there is no load on hospitals as of now,” said Dr Zirpe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-positivity-rate-at-35-hospital-cases-show-gradual-rise-in-pune-101642700011745.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Students demand SPPU to interfere in exam form issue||PUNE From February the semester examination of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will start and still, a large number of exam forms have not been forwarded by the colleges to university exam department.As many students have not paid the college fees, college administration is avoiding to inward such forms of students. So, students are demanding the university to issue a circular just like last year instructing colleges to inward exam forms.“I am a second-year commerce student and I am unable to pay half of the fee, so my exam form is not yet forwarded by the college. They are saying to pay the full fees and these instructions have been given to all the students in our college,” said Siddharth Chalke, a student.There are several such students from various colleges, who have not yet paid the college fees, and so their exam forms are not been forwarded by the college administration.Whereas now the SPPU examination department has given a deadline till January 25 to all its affiliated colleges from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar district to inward all the filled-up forms.There are around 6.15 lakh students from various streams who will appear for the exams from more than 350 affiliated colleges to SPPU from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. With 284 courses in post-graduate and undergraduate, there are 6,862 subjects. While for 1,600 subjects there are two mediums of appearing for the exams with English and Marathi.“We are daily getting many complaints from students about the issue. Students and their families are already suffering through the pandemic, many students come from rural areas and somehow manage to stay in Pune. So, university should immediately interfere in the matter and issue a circular to all the colleges like last year instructing to inward all the exam forms on priority,” said Kamlakar Shete a student and vice-president of Yuvak Kranti Dal, Pune division.“We are regularly taking the review of exam forms by the colleges and no one should stop the forms due to non-payment of college fees. The students and their colleges should properly inward the examination forms to the university as we can carry out the further process early and declare the exam schedule,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-demand-sppu-to-interfere-in-exam-form-issue-101642699951565.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||BMC finalises ward boundaries for 236 seats, elections by March end||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said that it has finalised the demarcation for 236 electoral wards in the city. A senior BMC official said that they plan to increase three seats across the city in eastern and western suburbs, followed by the island city. The revised ward demarcation will be submitted by Friday. BMC also said the polls are likely to be held by the March end.“The term of the current elected corporators will get over by March 7. Hence, in this case, we have to take a call whether an administrator will have to be appointed for the time being or not,” informed a senior BMC official.The state cabinet, in November 2021, had cleared a proposal to increase the strength of the Mumbai civic body from 227 to 236 members. Following the decision, the urban development department amended the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, to change the composition of the corporation. The state government said that the move was necessary owing to the growth in the city’s population in the past two decades.According to the procedure, once the BMC submits the list of 236 seats to the state election commission, it will scrutinise the proposal and call for suggestions and objections from the general public. Post this, the BMC will conduct a lottery for deciding the reservation status of the administrative wards.Further, owing to COVID-19, in the current upcoming polls, the BMC is also going to increase polling booths from the current 8,500 booths to around 11,000 polling booths.Currently, in the civic house of 227 seats, the Shiv Sena has 97 seats while the Bharatiya Janata Party has 83, Congress 29, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) 8, Samajwadi Party (SP) six seats, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen two seats and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena has one.Meanwhile, earlier the Bombay high court (HC) dismissed a plea filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporators opposing the increase of the number of wards. With nine new wards boundaries of wards will change. BJP had alleged that the move is against the norms as the criteria for increasing the wards is population increase in the constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-finalises-ward-boundaries-for-236-seats-elections-by-march-end-101642699771964.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Two toy trains non-functional in Pune gardens, PMC approves one more for Rs5.47 crore||PUNE Though two toy trains, known as “Phulrani”, are not functional in the city gardens, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given nod to erect a monorail at Tatyasaheb Thorat garden in Kothrud at the cost of Rs5.47 crore.PMC had erected two toy trains, one at Peshwe Garden near Saras Baug and another train at Katraj garden. Both the toy trains are in a shabby state and are non-functional.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol proposed the train in his locality and the standing committee has given a nod for the same.Mohol said, “While executing the project we are ensuring that the contractor will take the responsibility of operation and maintenance. As the project in my ward, I will ensure that it would remain operational.”Mayor said that we would also take a review of previous toy projects.Katraj toy train which was inaugurated with a huge fanfare is currently in a poor state. Also, due to lockdown these trains and gardens are closed for kids for the last almost one and half years.Mayor said, “PMC had given a contract to Kolkata-based company for erecting this monorail and they would take care of operations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-toy-trains-non-functional-in-pune-gardens-pmc-approves-one-more-for-rs5-47-crore-101642699652020.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Pune city police intensify manhunt for four-year-old’s kidnapper||PUNE The Pune city police and Pimpri-Chinchwad police have formed around 35 teams to track down the kidnapper of the four-year-old child from Baner who returned home on Wednesday after around eight days in confinement.Svarnav Chavan, son of a doctor couple, Satish and Prachi Chavan, was with his 12-year-old close relative, around 9:45 am on January 11 when he was believed to have been kidnapped.“Police station and crime branch together have formed 30-32 teams. Additionally, the Pimpri-Chinchwad police and crime branch have also formed seven-eight teams. We are looking at all possible leads and we are checking all possible locations,” said Rohidas Pawar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 4 of Pune city police.The child met with a sketch artist when senior police officers visited the child on Wednesday evening, hours after he was brought home from Punavale where he was found.On January 11, around 9:45 am, he was kidnapped by a two-wheeler rider who distracted the 12-year-old relative of the child who was with him and grabbed him near a municipal garden in Ram Indu Park area of Baner.A team of police were tracking the kidnapper which is believed to have scared the kidnapper into bringing the child to a labourer in Punavale on Wednesday afternoon.He asked the labourer to look after the child for ten minutes and disappeared from there. When the child started crying, a man checked his bag and found his father’s number in it. The father of the child, Satish Chavan, rushed to the spot and found his son.The police have recovered the CCTV from a society that captured the place and time of when the kidnapper dropped Svarnav. The manhunt has panned out to various parts of the district, according to the police.The parents of the child have spread initial CCTV grabs of the kidnapper’s vehicle, a moped, on which he is seen wearing a backpack and helmet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-police-intensify-manhunt-for-four-year-old-s-kidnapper-101642699412064.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Two held in Pune for forging Aadhaar cards||PUNE Two people were arrested by the special cell of Pune police for running an operation of forging Aadhaar cards in the city on Wednesday.The two have been identified as Aziz Yusuf Shaikh, a resident of Ghorpadi gaon and Jorna Haseem Shaikh, 34, a resident of Guruwar peth, according to a statement issued by the special branch of Pune city police.The two were found in a shop located along BT Kawade road.“Upon inspecting the shop, the police found 10 government forms, used for issuance of new Aadhaar card and updating the information on Aadhaar cards, in the drawer located under the drawer. The forms had information about people including their names, photo, and other details. This was found along with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) corporators’ name-bearing stamps, and a corporator’s round stamp. There were two filled forms using the stamps and a few partially filled forms,” said the statement from the special branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-held-in-pune-for-forging-aadhaar-cards-101642699231722.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||At 46,197, Maharashtra reports slightly higher cases||Mumbai Maharashtra registered 46,197 cases, a marginal rise from 43,697 on Wednesday. However, the number of deaths fell from 49 to 37. Meanwhile, calling on people to overcome vaccine hesitancy and get themselves inoculated against Covid, public health minister Rajesh Tope denied that the number of tests had declined reflecting a fall in positivity numbers.“We have not reduced testing, nor do we have any plans to do so,” said Tope. Maharashtra’s capacity to conduct RT-PCR tests was around 2,00,000 daily, and this was being utilised. Instructions had also been given to increase the number of Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT). People who showed symptoms of Covid purchased RAT self-test kits from chemists and reported themselves to the local authorities in case they tested positive.The positivity in Maharashtra was around 23 per cent, with districts like Nashik, Raigad, Pune and Nanded having a higher rate of positivity. “The numbers have not declined drastically,” he noted, adding that however, despite the higher positivity in some areas, just around four to five per cent of ICU, ventilator, oxygen and isolation beds had been occupied. Around 87 per cent of patients had home quarantined themselves and were being given symptomatic treatment.The health minister said that while the first dose coverage was around 90 per cent, around 70 to 80 lakh people were yet to take this first dose. The second dose coverage was 60 per cent, and these numbers of people who had been vaccinated fully needed to be boosted. Tope noted that some people who were due for their second dose of the vaccine had not come forth to get it. Almost 50 per cent of the over 60 lakh beneficiaries in the 15 to 18 years age group have been vaccinated for Covid.Tope said that the kin of around 1 lakh patients who had lost their lives to Covid had been given an ex-gratia of ₹50,000. The state has seen over 1.41 lakh deaths due to the virus.On Thursday, Pune city topped the Covid caseload with 7,252 cases, followed by Mumbai with 5,708 cases, Pimpri Chinchwad at 3,889 and Nagpur city at 3,203. Pune district (2,972) and cities like Nashik (1,799), Navi Mumbai (1,300) also have a heavy daily caseload.On Thursday, 125 patients with the Omicron variant were reported in Maharashtra, and all of them were from Pune. So far, a total of 2,199 patients infected with Omicron have been reported, and out of these, 1,144 cases have been discharged following a negative RTPCR test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-46-197-maharashtra-reports-slightly-higher-cases-101642699116586.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Mexican beetles, an effective way to control carrot grass, says BHU prof||Mexican beetles may effectively control carrot grass, the weed which causes allergy, eczema, redness of skin and asthma in humans as they eat this grass very fast, says Prof Bhupendra Kumar, Department of Zoology, BHU.Led by Prof Kumar, a team of scientists, including research scholar Priya Patel, Arvind Kumar, and Priyanka Yadav, is working on how to control the natural growth of this grass by its natural enemy ‘Mexican beetles’, which work like biocontrol agent in this case.Kumar says Mexican beetles were imported from Mexico in 1984 to control this grass as the weed which travelled from Mexico to India via the USA in the fifties. At present, this grass is found in abundance across India. It grows along the roads as well as on farms. As soon as anyone touches any part of the plant, the toxin Sesquiterpene lactones found in the entire plant causes allergy, asthma, redness of skin in humans. Also, it is not good for livestock and soil. It makes soil barren or infertile.Prof Kumar says this beetle has a long diapause period of about six months, while the grass keeps growing throughout the year.“We are working to reduce the diapause period of these Mexican beetles so that they can remain active throughout the year and keep consuming the grass,” says Prof Kumar.“We are trying to find the molecular pathways, which is responsible for a longer period of diapause in the beetle. Our research is going in the right direction, and we are quite hopeful that we will be able to decrease the diapause period by targeting the physiological pathways in these beetles in near future,” says Prof Kumar. He adds that controlling this weed is the need of the hour as it is growing fast with global warming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mexican-beetles-an-effective-way-to-control-carrot-grass-says-bhu-prof-101642698211886.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Two Ayodhya youths arrested in Lucknow for duping online sellers||Two youths from Ayodhya district were arrested in Gomti Nagar extension on Thursday for duping several people who put up their articles for sale on an online app providing the facility of selling second-hand products, senior police officials said. As per Lucknow police press note, the two accused arrested were identified as Divyanshu Patel alias Shubham, 22, and Anand Yadav, 24. The police said the duo had cheated one Sunny Khan by calling him near CMS, Gomti Nagar extension, with assurance to purchase his high-end mobile phone worth ₹1.60 lakh two days ago. Sunny had put his mobile phone for sale on an online app, and the duo contacted him through its chatting facility and then called to purchase the phone. The police said the duo fled with the mobile phone when Sunny went to show them the mobile phone. An FIR was lodged against them under Indian Penal Code sections 406 for criminal breach of trust and 420 for fraud with Gomti Nagar police in this matter. The duo was arrested, by tracking their location, when they came to meet one of their accomplices near Khargapur railway crossing in Gomti Nagar extension on Thursday morning. The police said the two accused had done similar crimes with some more people in Lucknow and Sultanpur and used to disappear after changing their mobile phones. They said as many as four criminal cases are lodged against Shubham. The police, however, is further trying to ascertain their involvement in other crimes in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-ayodhya-youths-arrested-in-lucknow-for-duping-online-sellers-101642697791562.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Ahead of UP assembly polls, red cards to be issued to possible troublemakers||The Prayagraj police are not leaving any stone unturned to ensure fair and peaceful elections in the district. Ahead of the state assembly polls, police have identified 26,000 troublemakers in the district who can pose a threat to peace during the polling process. Among those identified as troublemakers, 10,000 have been made to submit bonds that they would not cause trouble during polls or else would face strict action.Police officials said that notices are being served to the rest, and precautionary measures will be taken against them under section 107/16 and Gunda Act.During the 2017 state assembly elections action was taken against 21,000 trouble makers, while during the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, police took action against over 23,000 elements. However, the number has swelled to 26,000 for the upcoming state assembly elections. Police suspect that these elements will not only try and cause disturbance during the polls but also try to influence the voters.To ensure that they remain neutral, the police have started taking action against them. After submission of guarantees by many of them, police are identifying troublemakers who have a history of causing a disturbance during polls. Police will soon issue red cards to such elements, and a strict eye will be kept on them. Such persons will only be allowed to leave their homes for casting their votes. They will not be allowed to meet anyone during polls, and if found involved in any illegal activities, strict action will be ensured against them.Officials said that police are also keeping a watch in different localities and villages in the district. Police and local intelligence officials are especially active in densely populated localities where they suspect voters could be influenced or threatened to disturb polls.SSP Ajay Kumar said precautionary action is being ensured against possible troublemakers.As many as 10,000 have been made to submit a bond, and soon red cards will also be issued to them and many others who can pose a threat to peace during polls, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-up-assembly-polls-red-cards-to-be-issued-to-possible-troublemakers-101642697192017.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||HC lawyer accuses SP of code violation, lodges plaint with ECI||LUCKNOW A high court lawyer on Thursday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India (ECI) accusing the Samajwadi Party of violating the model code of conduct ahead of the UP Assembly polls by inviting voters to fill up forms to avail 300 units free electricity. In his complaint, high court lawyer Yogesh Somvanshi stated that SP chief Akhilesh Yadav not only made a verbal declaration of providing 300 units free electricity, if voted to power, but also directed his party workers to approach voters (door to door) and get the ‘Samajwadi form’ filled up for availing the sop. Somvanshi stated that no political party should be allowed to illegally influence voters to support a political party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-lawyer-accuses-sp-of-code-violation-lodges-plaint-with-eci-101642696051656.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi caps RT-PCR test at private labs, for home collection: Know the new rates||The Delhi government on Thursday capped the cost of RT-PCR tests for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) both at private laboratories and hospitals as well as for samples collected from home. The Union territory government also slashed prices of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), according to an official notification.The RT-PCR test at labs and hospitals has been capped at ₹300 from the earlier ₹500, while the RAT has been reduced to ₹100 as opposed to ₹300 earlier. For home collection, the cost of RT-PCR test has been slashed to ₹500 from the earlier ₹700.According to the official notification, conventional RT-PCR test in which sample of an individual is collected by government teams and then by private sector laboratories as requisitioned by districts or hospitals will now cost ₹200.On the other hand, samples for RT-PCT test that are collected by private laboratories for the government and processed further in the latter's lab will now cost ₹300.The official notification further stated that samples given to laboratories or private hospitals of collection facilities for RT-PCR test by individuals at their own expense will also cost ₹300.
20-01-2022||Other||Channi’s kin minted crores through illegal sand mining, alleges Harsimrat||Bathinda Lok Sabha member from Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Thursday alleged that Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s family members had minted crores of rupees through illegal sand mining during his 111-day stint at the helm of state government.Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the election office of SAD-BSP candidate Darshan Singh Kotfatta at Bhucho Mandi in Bathinda, Harsimrat said, “Now, after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids at the residence of the CM’s nephew and recovery of money and goods worth ₹11 crore, it is clear that Channi is running the sand mafia in the state.” She said Channi should explain to Punjabis how his close relative was found to be in possession of such huge cash and assets.The former Union minister claimed during the last five years the Congress government had ruined Punjab. “All development work started by the erstwhile government led by Parkash Singh Badal were stalled. The government reneged on all promises made to each and every section of society. The poor and members of the scheduled castes were deprived of the social welfare schemes being pruned and even closed altogether,” she claimed. Lashing out at Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, she claimed that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener was trying to befool Punjabis with political gimmickry. “It seems that after selling tickets for all constituencies in the state, he has also sold the post of the party’s CM face by indulging in a sham phony survey,” said the leader.She also asked AAP’s chief ministerial nominee Bhagwant Mann to clarify his stand on the river water sharing issue of Punjab with Haryana and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channis-kin-minted-crores-through-illegal-sand-mining-alleges-harsimrat-101642693891350.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||SP may field Brahmin candidate against Yogi||LUCKNOW The Samajwadi Party (SP) may field a Brahmin candidate against chief minister Yogi Adityanath on his home turf – Gorakhpur Sadar seat. It could be Subhavati Shukla, wife of late Upendra Dutt Shukla, who was BJP’s state vice-president. If her candidature goes through, it could corner Yogi Adityanath on his home turf when Bhim Army chief Chandrashekar Azad has announced to contest against him from this seat.Yogi Adityanath is a Thakur (a Hindu upper caste) and Chandrashekhar Azad a Dalit. By fielding a Brahmin, the SP would look to garner Brahmin, Yadav, Muslim votes to itself, said sources.Subhavati, along with her two sons, joined the Samajwadi Party on Thursday evening. Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, at his press conference on Thursday, hinted about her candidature when asked about whom the SP intends to field against Yogi Adityanath. “A lot of aspirants have applied for contesting the seat. And a Brahmin family too has come today to meet me,” said Akhilesh The party had not said anything officially about the Gorakhpur Sadar seat or about Subhavati’s candidature, but on its twitter handle posted a picture of Subhavati along with several persons, stating: “Impressed with SP’s policies the family of late Upendra Nath Shukla, former BJP vice-president and former Gorakhpur Lok Sabha bypoll candidate’s family joined the SP.” Upendra Nath Shukla was a prominent local Brahmin leader from the BJP, who had been at loggerheads with Adityanath. He had contested the Lok Sabha bypoll from Gorakhpur seat in 2018 (after Adityanath vacated it on becoming CM) and lost the bypolls to Praveen Nishad. In 2020, Upendra Dutt Shukla died of cardiac arrest at the age of 60.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-may-field-brahmin-candidate-against-yogi-101642693711468.html
20-01-2022||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt to provide Tabs to 21000 school students||In a bid to bridge the digital divide, the Jharkhand government has decided to provide tabs to around 21,000 students enrolled with the 136 residential schools run by the state’s SC/ST/OBC welfare department, social welfare minister Champi Soren said. The proposal, which would cost around ₹26 crore, was cleared by the cabinet on Wednesday. Soren said the move will help the students in continuing their online education from home. “The department would also provide SIM cards and recharge facility to the students so that there is no technical glitch. Additionally, all relevant quality study material will be pre-loaded in the device,” said the minister. As per the proposal, sources said, the department would provide SIM cards with internet and 2GB data download facility everyday. Beneficiaries include students enrolled from class 1-12. Currently, the welfare department runs 143 residential schools, including seven Eklavya schools meant exclusively for scheduled tribe category students. Officials said the department would soon be issuing tender for procurement of the devices so that it could be distributed within this academic session. “Even if only two months are left in this academic session, these gadgets would be used in higher classes as well. It would also have other utilities in future as in the next phase we intend to convert them into e-libraries,” said a senior official. Internet connectivity in several rural pockets of the state is still poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-govt-to-provide-tabs-to-21000-school-students-101642693533558.html
20-01-2022||Patna||Hospitals asked not to test Covid asymptomatic patients||PATNA In line with the Centre’s guidelines on Covid testing, the Bihar health department has advised medical college hospitals not to test asymptomatic patients before their admission, especially in emergency.The advisory follows a complaint on Tuesday to additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit that some hospitals were not initiating treatment of patients till they got a Covid-19 test done.The complainant claimed that doctors at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology (IGIC), a government super specialty centre, did not attend to a patient who had suffered a heart attack till his Covid test was done.“We are testing patients for Covid-19 on the rapid antigen detection (RAD) kit before admission. This hardly takes five minutes and the result is available by the time an attendant completes the registration procedure for admission,” said a senior doctor of the IGIC, requesting anonymity.“The idea behind testing patients before their admission is to segregate them in Covid and non-Covid wards. We have a separate 10-bed Covid ward where we admit acute cases of heart attack, heart failure, heart block or arrhythmia,” said the doctor quoted above.“In case of Covid-19 patients, who are stable from their cardiac function point of view and can be managed at home, we send them back [for home isolation] or advise their attendants to admit such patients either to the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) or the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna if other complications related to Covid-19 arise,” he said.Given the high number of asymptomatic cases, doctors at almost all health facilities continue to test patients for Covid-19 on real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a confirmatory test for Covid-19 that takes a minimum of 6-8 hours for the result, before any invasive or surgical procedure.“We test all patients on RT-PCR before surgery and still get at least a couple of Covid-positive cases every day among those who are asymptomatic. We have cases of patients, who tested negative earlier, to have turned positive before their surgery. In such cases, we either defer the surgery if it is an elective one or in case of emergency, do it in a separate operation theatre for Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani, professor of anesthesiology department and dean (academics) at AIIMS, Patna.“We have even come across cases where patients have tested Covid-positive even after their surgery,” he added.“Everyone has the right to protect oneself,” said Dr Bhadani in response to a query if doctors were insisting on Covid-19 test, even in case of asymptomatic patients, for their personal safety.“We cannot allow Covid-19 asymptomatic patients to become super spreaders,” he said.NMCH medical superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said patients at the hospital were being tested for Covid-19 not at the time of their admission, but before conducting any invasive or surgical procedure.The state reported 3,475 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, down from 5,410 on Sunday, taking the total count of active cases to 26,673. Patna, which had seen a spike in cases, reported 745 new cases down from 999 infections on Wednesday.The state’s test positivity rate also declined from 3.67% on January 14 to 2.30% on Wednesday.
20-01-2022||Other||BSF using illumination bombs to tackle smuggling via drones||Amritsar With drones being used for smuggling arms, ammunition and drugs from across the border into Punjab, the Border Security Force (BSF) has started using illuminating bombs that help it patrol the skies along the international border with Pakistan. The border outposts, tagged as sensitive, have been entrusted with the task of using illuminating as soon as a drone hovers nearby. “We have been trying technologies on the border to tackle the threat of Pakistani drones. These illuminating bombs, in use for some time, are helping our personnel detect dropping of drugs and arms using drones,” said a senior BSF official, who didn’t wish to be named.He added, “We have provided these light-emitting shells to our jawans at sensitive points and these act as a preventive measure against any unauthorised entry into our territory. These bombs illuminate an area between 200 metre and 300 metre, making it difficult for anti-national smugglers to operate from across the border.”“Our jawans often fire these lightening bombs immediately after hearing the buzzing sounds of flying objects. Until a better technology solution is devised, these illuminating bombs are being used as deterrents, especially in foggy nights,” he added. During the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, illuminating bombs were used by the BSF personnel near Muhawa border outpost after hearing a drone. “The troops heard the humming sound of a flying object coming from Pakistan. They, as per drill, engaged the object and also illuminated the area by firing illuminating bombs. All sister agencies were informed. The troops also heard the sound of a dropping from the flying object. The area was cordoned and in the morning, a search of the area was carried out,” said a BSF spokesperson on Thursday, adding that during the search, packets of heroin weighing 7.25 kg were seized. On January 18, Amritsar sector BSF personnel had recovered a drone about 200metre from the international border. Sources said the drone had fallen in the fields along the barbed wire fence into the Indian side, after it ran out of the power. On January 14, a special task force (STF) of Punjab Police had seized an improvised explosive devise (IED) weighing 5kg and ₹1 lakh on the outskirts of Dhanoa village in Ajnala sub-division, again near the border. Police had said the IED was to be used during assembly polls. Since the election code of conduct has been enforced in the state, the Punjab Police and the BSF have strengthened their security along the border. Punjab Police officials have been carrying out special search operations in border villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsf-using-illumination-bombs-to-tackle-smuggling-via-drones-101642693412874.html
20-01-2022||Patna||Bihar extends Covid curbs till Feb 6||The Bihar government on Thursday extended the night curfew in the state till February 6 in view of the rising coronavirus cases, officials said.The decision was taken after chief minister Nitish Kumar held a review meeting with senior officials, including chief secretary Amir Subhani, on the prevailing Covid-19 situation. According to a statement issued by the state government, all establishments, except hospitals and essential services, will remain shut during the night curfew, from 10 pm to 5 am. Malls, shopping complexes, parks, picnic spots, movie halls, exhibitions and fairs, among others, will be shut during night curfew till February 6. Religious congregations will also not be allowed.“I request you all to stay extra vigilant and follow guidelines issued by the government,” Kumar said on Twitter. Following a a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Bihar government had, on January 4, announced a night curfew would be imposed from January 6 and would be in place till January 21. “Pre-school and classes 1-8 will remain shut, while online lectures will continue. In educational institutions, classes 9-12 will function at a maximum student strength of 50 %,” the statement said. 
20-01-2022||Patna||Six dead, 3 fall sick after consuming ‘hooch’ in Saran||In yet another suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar, at least six people have died while three taken seriously ill after consuming spurious liquor in Saran district in the past 48 hours, kin of the victims said.The incident comes days after 13 people lost their lives in Nalanda after consuming suspected spurious liquor.According to police, those who died on Wednesday have been identified as Krishna Mahto (45), Ramnath Rai (55), and Anil Mistry (40), while those who died on the wee hours of Thursday have been identified as Bharat Rai (40), Brij Bihari Rai (70) and Mohammad Isha (45).Police said autopsy reports of Ramnath Rai and Mohammad Isha had ruled out presence of toxic methanol in their blood but reports of their viscera are still awaited.Of the three who have fallen ill, Paltan Mahto (45) and Sanjay Baitha (22) are said to have lost their vision allegedly after consuming spurious liquor and are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Muzaffarpur, while Suraj Baitha (26) has been referred to Patna in a critical condition, police said.According to police, the incident occurred at two separate places falling under Amnaur and Maker police station area. Officials said that during the investigation, Ramnath’s wife Lalti Devi admitted that her husband was an alcoholic. “My husband returned home around 9.30 pm (Tuesday) and fell ill around 11.55 pm, complaining of nausea, headache, vomiting, and uneasiness and died on the bed,” officials quoted Devi as saying.Mohammad Isha’s son told HT that his father died due to liquor consumption. “There is no other reason as he was not ill,” Mohammad Azad Hussain said.Saran superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar said he would be able to say anything only after getting the autopsy reports of the deceased.“Preliminary report suggests that Ramnath died due to cardiac arrest. However, only the forensic report can confirm whether they have consumed hooch or not. An investigation team has been constituted under the supervision of the excise superintendent and a detailed report has been sought from them,” the SP said.“The Chhapra Sadar hospital has conducted an autopsy of Ramnath and Md Isha and has preserved their viscera, which has been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Patna to ascertain the reason behind their death,” said district magistrate Rajesh Meena.
20-01-2022||Patna||6th year into prohibition, Bihar begins a social audit of liquor ban impact||Nearly six years since total prohibition was imposed in Bihar, the state’s excise and prohibition department has initiated an exercise to conduct a social audit of the impact of liquor ban on the lives of women and people in general and has assigned the job to Chanakya Law University (CLU) in Patna, officials familiar with the matter said.The panchayati raj chair at the CLU, which has been given the responsibility, has prepared a questionnaire of around 75 points to get feedback from the people, which includes behaviour of men towards their wives after the liquor ban, incidents of domestic violence, safety of women outdoors and if women are now more interested in making their presence felt in panchayats. The questionnaire also seeks to know if manufacturers and suppliers of liquor have found alternatives or shifted to another vocation or are still unemployed.The university will soon be sending altogether 32 researchers to the districts to collect primary information from the target social groups. “The university has also planned two-day training of the researchers before they are sent to the districts. It will be held in the state capital on January 27 and on 28,” said SP Singh, in charge of the panchayati raj chair at the university and coordinator of the research project. “Almost six years have elapsed since the ban. It’s time now to find out what kind of impact it had over the lives here. The department of excise and prohibition has taken initiative and the panchayati raj chair at Chanakya Law University has been asked to conduct a social survey,” he said. The university has also engaged AN Sinha Research Institute for the project and signed an MoU, Singh said. “Work on the social audit will begin once the training of the researchers is over. They will select one or two panchayats in the district and will be visiting door to door to collect information,” he said.Singh said focus will be on the districts which share borders with Jharkhand, Nepal and West Bengal, from where most of the liquor is smuggled into the state. Districts like East Champaran, Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar, Buxar, Nawada, Jamui and Patna are considered sensitive zones from this point of view, he said.“The report of this survey will be submitted to the excise and prohibition department after two months,” he said.Apart from conducting social survey, the university’s panchayati raj chair has also been asked to make recommendations on how to improve the implementation strategies of liquor ban. Probing prohibitionThe surveyThe survey will be undertaken by the panchayati raj chair at Chanakya Law University, which has also engaged AN Sinha Research Institute for the project. In all, 32 researchers will go to districts to collect primary information from target social groups.Report in 2 monthsAfter a two-day training in the state capital, researchers will select one or two panchayats in each district and will be visiting door to door to collect information. The report of the survey will be submitted to the excise and prohibition department after two months.Key questionsThe questionnaire has 75 points, which includes behaviour of men towards their wives after the liquor ban, incidents of domestic violence, safety of women outdoors and if women are now more interested in making their presence felt in panchayats.Areas in focusDistricts which share borders with Jharkhand, Nepal and West Bengal, from where most of the liquor is smuggled into the state — like East Champaran, Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar, Buxar, Nawada, Jamui. State capital Patna too figures among sensitive zones.
20-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Lawyer in Nirbhaya and Hathras cases joins BSP||Ahead of the UP polls, Seema Kushwaha, a senior Supreme Court lawyer who fought for justice for the victims in the 2012 Nirbhaya and the 2020 Hathras gang-rape and murder cases, joined the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in Lucknow on Thursday.BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra was present on the occasion. Later, Seema Kushwaha met BSP chief Mayawati at her residence in the state capital. Senior Supreme Court lawyer Seema Kushwaha said she is joining the BSP as she is inspired by the ideals and policies of great Dalit personalities as well as Mayawati.She said she will continue to fight for the justice for the weaker sections of the society. “The BSP chief has been fighting for the rights of the Dalits, the deprived and the backward classes. During her four terms as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, she had worked for the development of the state and the welfare of the weaker sections,” Seema Kushwaha said. “When Mayawati was in power, law and order in Uttar Pradesh was good. The life and property of the common people was protected in the state. During her tenure, the state witnessed reduction in crime. We will work to make Mayawati the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh for the fifth term to ensure that rule of law is restored in UP and girls and women feel safe,” Kushwaha said. Kushwaha is also the founder of the Nirbhaya Jyoti Trust and has launched a campaign to ensure justice for the victims of rape.The Nirbhaya rape case had shaken the country in 2012 when a 23-year-old paramedic student, referred to as Nirbhaya, was brutally gang-raped and assaulted by six men on a moving bus in Delhi in December 2012 and was thrown out on the road. She succumbed to her injuries at a Singapore hospital on December 29, 2012. It took over seven years to deliver justice to the victim. The four convicts in the Nirbhaya case were hanged to death in Delhi’s Tihar jail on March 20, 2020, after a three-judge Supreme Court bench rejected the final plea by the convicts’ lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppolls-lawyer-in-nirbhaya-and-hathras-cases-joins-bsp-101642692451376.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||#CovidTales: This grandma’s pickles aid Covid relief efforts||New DelhiLast year when the second Covid wave flooded Delhiites with grief, many lost their dear ones to the virus. Among the ones left grieving was Usha Gupta, who recalls: “My husband and I were tested Covid positive in April 2021, and were put on oxygen support in the hospital. I saw a lot of young people collapse in front of me, and kept reassuring my husband that I’ll be by his side. But three weeks after hospitalisation, I lost him. He was 93. And after having spent six long decades with a partner, I was suddenly left alone, not knowing how to live life without him.” But the 88-year-old grandma promised herself: “Main himmat nahi harungi”. And her indomitable spirit supported her keen desire to help other Covid positive people through an initiative that’s now called, Pickled With Love. “When I told my three daughters that I want to contribute to Covid relief, and asked them to take a lakh or two from my savings and donate it to someone whose family members are fighting Covid, they refused to take any money from me! Instead, they encouraged me to make pickles, and even ordered for bottles in which I could pack them, and created a logo for the brand,” says this resident of Sarita Vihar, adding, “The profits from selling the pickles go to an NGO that works for infants.” It wasn’t easy to take up this arduous task as age-related issues such as back pain posed quite a challenge for Gupta. Yet she ordered kilos and kilos of raw mangoes, to be salted, oiled and pickled, following the traditional recipes she had learned in her maiden life when she lived in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, in pre independence India. “When I pickled the first few batches of mangoes, in the first month itself we sold about 200 bottles. Since then we have been flooded with orders, including some from abroad. The proceeds from these have helped in procuring meals for about 65,000 homeless people,” she says, adding, “When I hear how many people we have been able to help, I get a satisfaction that I wouldn’t have had, if I had simply given away some cash for charity. These pickles are my way of paying tribute to my husband, who was an engineer and worked with honesty all his life.” Gupta’s granddaughter, Dr Radhika Batra who is a pediatrician in neonatalogy, shares, “When nani figured that nanaji’s case is too far gone, she surrendered the ICU bed for someone younger who had a fighting chance. The bed finally went to a 26-year-old naval officer. I think he made it... There was one girl who lost her mother and sister around the same time. Her father wasn’t eating anything. But when he was offered nani’s home-made mango chutney, he ate roti saying its taste reminded him of what his wife used to make... There are many such tales. People call up from all across the country lauding my nani’s spirit. She certainly has nerves of steel and I’m proud of her. I’m sure nanaji would be too!” As the city fights the third Covid wave, this endearing grandma continues to prepare pickles everyday, and has even taken to devoting her mornings to writing cookbooks. Her latest being a manual on preventing and managing obesity. But ask her about the biggest life lesson she has learnt, and pat comes the reply: “Himmat na haarein, zindagi koi na koi raasta zaroor dikhayegi.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covidtales-this-grandma-s-pickles-aid-covid-relief-efforts-101642691611036.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||At 38:1, Thane education department dealing with excess Pupil Teacher Ratio||The Thane education department is dealing with an excess Pupil Teacher Ratio (PTR) at 38:1 whereas as per the Right to Education norms, the pupil teacher ratio in Maharashtra is at 27:1.Thane city, overall, has 10,074 teachers for 3.7 lakh students. Some classrooms have a strength of more than 65 and are managed by a single teacher. According to teachers, this adverse PTR has also had an impact in managing online sessions during the pandemic.“In urban pockets of the State, often such a skewed ratio exists. With a huge chunk of the population residing in a cramped space, the number of schools will not be enough. This often leads to more students for every teacher depending on the type of residential neighbourhood. Civic schools in areas that are densely populated and have slums will have more students while private schools in high rises will have lower,” said Alankar Warghade, teacher and educationalist, Thane.As per Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) in civic schools within Maharashtra, the PTR is at 22:1 and for aided or private schools, it stands at 27:1 in the primary section and 21:1 in the secondary section. As per Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) data, civic schools in the city have 32:1 PTR and private aided and unaided schools have more 69:1 PTR.“In civic schools, we have only a few schools where the number of students exceeds but overall, we have the necessary number of teachers based on the number of students in the classroom. Moreover, the principal also takes classes in civic schools with a high student population,” said Rajesh Kankal, Education officer, TMC. Meanwhile, principals in private schools complain that it often becomes difficult to appoint teachers. “Nowadays, there are very few who have proper training and want to pursue teaching. With so many career options available, we find it difficult to appoint experienced teachers in schools,” said a teacher on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-38-1-thane-education-department-dealing-with-excess-pupil-teacher-ratio-101642690951294.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||IIT Delhi campus: Covid positive students feel at home||The rapid spread of Covid-19 in the city has made its way to the hostels of Indian Institute of Technology Delhi as well. Though quite a few students have gone back to their homes, but there are still some who continue to stay in the hostels. And these students say that the campus is like a home away from home for them because the institute is leaving no stone unturned in taking care of those who are turning Covid positive. Quarantine centre and testing facilitiesStudents who experience symptoms of Covid-19 don’t have to step out of the premises, even to get themselves tested. The institute has created a testing centre as well as an isolation ward for the students on campus. “A friend of mine attended a house party recently and then started experiencing Covid symptoms from the very next day,” says Rohan Sharma, a final year student of textile technology, adding, “My friend was immediately tested at the RT PCR centre in our campus and then an ambulance took her to the isolation ward, which is actually the Gulmohar guest house. If the capacity exceeds there, then the ambulance drops off the patients at another quarantine facility outside the campus. My friend stayed at Gulmohar for seven days and is back now after recovering. It was really nice to see how well she was taken care of.”In room service during quarantineBefore a student is taken to the isolation centre, they are asked to quarantine in their rooms. “During this time, the institute has been providing room service of food and other necessities,” says Abhinav Gupta, a fourth year student of textile and fibre engineering. He adds: “All Covid precautions are being followed. If there is someone who is quarantined in his room, food is delivered right till the doorstep by the college authorities. They pack whatever is cooked in plastic containers, so that those can be discarded later. Also, proper cleanliness is being maintained.” Individual rooms to not mess slotsPrevention is better than cure and the students of IIT Delhi say that their college management is making sure to keep it safe for all of them during this time. “We have all been allotted individual rooms and are not required to share the room with anyone. This helps as it reduces the chance of transmission of the virus. Also, we are supposed to wear a mask at all times, even while using the common washroom. Although I just hope there was someone to make sure that quarantine is not broken, maybe someone could patrol,” adds Gupta.And Saurabh, a final year student of production and industrial engineering, says, “Our mess committee has divided the dining hours into four slots, and assigned two wings per slot. Normally we can go and eat between 8am to 10am, Noon to 2pm, and 7pm to 9pm. But now, to fight the rise in Covid cases, they’ve bifurcated the available eating slots in segments. This works for us all.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iit-delhi-campus-covid-positive-students-feel-at-home-101642690655527.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||With 5,708 new cases, Mumbai's daily Covid-19 tally drops further; 96% recovery rate||Mumbai on Thursday reported 5,708 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, a further 5.37 per cent drop from yesterday's daily case tally. Although Maharashtra recorded a state-wide spike of 4,000 cases yesterday, its capital Mumbai has been clocking a diminishing number of new cases each day, with the health bulletin showing 6,032 daily cases on Wednesday, and 6,149 on Tuesday, the day prior.Mumbai also recorded 12 coronavirus deaths today, while the total number of patients who recovered and were discharged from their respective hospitals in the past 24 hours rose to 15,440.Only 550 patients were hospitalised for coronavirus infection during the same time, and the Covid-19 daily update issued today by the municipal corporation of Greater Mumbai showed that only 12.7 per cent of the total available beds in the city's hospitals are currently occupied.As many as 53,203 Covid-19 tests were also done in Mumbai in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin showed.Also Read | Is third Covid-19 wave ebbing in Mumbai? Here’s what experts sayNotably, the diminishing number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and the 96 per cent recovery rate have instilled hope that the Maharashtrian capital might finally be marking the flattening of the third wave of the pandemic, that began on December 21. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has, however, said that it is too early to declare that Mumbai is now in the safe zone, with authorities terming the forthcoming week as a ‘wait and watch’ period.Suresh Kakani, the additional municipal commissioner in charge of the BMC’s public health department, told Hindustan Times, “The figures are declining by the day, and this is a very good sign for Mumbai.”“However, this is not the time to let our guards down,” he added. “Citizens must continue to maintain Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, and mask up in public. We will monitor the situation closely for one more week.”At the peak of the third wave, Mumbai had a positivity rate of around 28 per cent. On January 7, when Mumbai reported its highest-ever single-day spike of 20,971 cases, it had a positivity rate of 28.9 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-with-5-708-new-cases-daily-covid-19-tally-drops-further-96-recovery-rate-101642688902687.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid tally dips to 12,306, logs highest deaths since June; Satyendar Jain says easing of curbs unlikely||Delhi's single-day cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a dip on Thursday after as many as 12,306 people tested positive, according to the health bulletin data. On Wednesday, a total of 13,785 Covid-19 cases were logged in the national capital. Following the latest figures, the cumulative caseload of Delhi has reached 17,60,272, the health bulletin data showed.Besides daily tally, the case positivity rate of the national capital reduced to 21.48% from 23.86% on the preceding day.Delhi has been reporting considerably fewer Covid-19 cases in 24 hours since Monday (January 17) before seeing a marginal jump on Wednesday (January 19). Thursday's numbers, which are 1,479 fewer than the day before, shows that the national capital is back on the declining trend when it comes to single-day caseload.Also Read | Fever with or without rigors among 5 symptoms of 3rd wave in Delhi: CentreFurthermore, fresh recoveries complement the drop in daily cases with 18,815 patients recuperating from Covid-19 on Thursday, up from 16,580 on Wednesday, according to the health bulletin data. The total number of recovered patients in Delhi has now shot up to 16,66,039.What remains the worrying sign in all of these is the daily fatalities due to Covid-19. On Thursday, as many as 43 people succumbed to the disease, eight more than the day before. This is the highest single-day death toll due to Covid-19 since June 10 last year when the deadly second wave of the pandemic was active across the country. Following Thursday's figures, the national capital's death toll has touched 25,503.Despite Delhi's single-day cases plunging below 15,000, health minister Satyendar Jain earlier in the day said that easing restrictions will require authorities to monitor the “situation first,” according to news agency PTI.Covid wave peak in Delhi may be gone, but still can't say we are out of danger zone, need to watch trend: Health Minister Satyendar JainNotably, he said on January 16 that the Delhi government will consider easing Covid-related curbs in the city if cases dip below 15,000.“Covid wave peak in Delhi may be gone, but still can't say we are out of danger zone, need to watch trend,” he was quoted as saying.Also Read | Delhi's Covid cases ‘not low enough' to relax curbs: Health ministerMeanwhile, at a weekly press briefing earlier in the day, the Centre said Delhi is among five states and Union territories (UTs) of “concern” and that central health teams have been sent to these regions, which are continuously reviewing the situation. The Union government also said that Delhi is among the states and UTs that are contributing the maximum daily Covid-19 cases to India's tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-tally-dips-to-12-306-case-positivity-rate-at-2148-101642684623778.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation served legal notice for water crisis of Ghodbunder Road residents||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has been served a legal notice by two of the residents of Ghodbunder Road in view of the existing water woes in this area. The residents claimed that the corporation has failed to keep its promises to the Bombay High Court.The notice claimed that the civic body had assured the HC in 2017 that it would form a committee to look into the water issues of Ghodbunder residents, following which the court had permitted new constructions on this road that were stopped for over a year due to water woes.The notice issued by Madhu Narayananunni, resident of Kavesar, and Dattatray Ghadage, resident of Manorama Nagar, claims that neither any such committee was formed till date nor was a single meeting held to resolve the water issue. They have asked the TMC to form a committee in the next seven days and conduct a meeting or else they would approach the High Court pointing out this as a contempt of court.A PIL was filed in the High Court three years ago to stop new construction activity on Ghodbunder Road unless the corporation provided them water connections. TMC has assured the court that the city has enough water for these complexes.The notice states, “The court, while disposing of the petition, had asked the civic body to form a committee with concerned officials to discuss the water woes and create public awareness of such a committee. The TMC has formed no such committee and it has also failed to supply adequate water to this suburb. Issuing Commencement Certificate to new constructions will affect the right of the existing tax paying citizen to adequate water.”Despite paying taxes to the corporation, most societies along the tail end of Ghodbunder Road end up paying lakhs of rupees for water tankers.An officer from the water department claimed, “We have not yet received the letter. However, we provide 100MLD of water to the Ghodbunder area, which is sufficient to meet the water requirement of this area.Following the acute water crisis faced by the city in the summer of 2016, Thane resident Mangesh Shellar had filed a PIL in the High Court blaming the water cuts on poor planning by the TMC and the haphazard way in which the civic body granted permission for new constructions along the Ghodbunder Road. Following this PIL, the court had stalled permissions for any new constructions along Ghodbunder Road in 2016. The court has also asked the corporation to file an affidavit stating the water connections and Occupation Certificates given in the last five years. In the affidavit, the corporation stated that the TMC has done water management to meet the population requirement till 2025. The court disposed of the petition in 2017, resuming construction work in the area. However, the disposal was based on certain condition for the civic body to follow.
20-01-2022||Other||{Campaigning in south Malwa} First-timers pitch family legacy, sympathy as major poll planks||Bathinda As electioneering gains momentum, several first-time contestants are banking on family legacy or public sympathy to woo voters in the south Malwa belt. A surprise candidate from Mansa district’s Budladha Congress’ Ranveer Kaur Mian, 30, makes it a point to refer to her husband’s grandfather Bathinda MP late Hakam Singh Mian at every election meeting. Issues of public interest, at this stage, figure only as an aside in her public utterances.“Our dada ji (grandfather) was killed by terrorists. He suffered several bullet shots in the head and the painful incident is still etched in the memory of Congress supporters of the region. He did a lot for people. I hope that you (voters) will cast vote in support, as I am trying to pursue dada ji’s legacy,” the political greenhorn says at an election meeting. Assisted by her husband, Mian village sarpanch Sarabjeet Singh, Ranveer, a PhD in English and a management graduate, bats for opening up of new avenues for higher education in Budladha, one of the most educationally-backward segments.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate from the high-stakes Bathinda Urban seat, Jagroop Singh Gill pushes his party’s political stance to target the incumbent Congress MLA Manpreet Badal on issues of alleged corruption and mis-governance. His team of volunteers mention that Gill, a Bathinda councillor for the record sixth time, was back-stabbed by Manpreet in mayoral polls. .Congress contestant from Lambi, a keenly-watched segment, Jagpal Singh Abul Khurana is also seeking sympathy for his late father Gurnam Singh Abul Khurana’s legacy. “My father, a former irrigation minister, worked to consolidate people against the Akali patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on his home-turf. During the separatist movement in Punjab, my father stood by the victim of police atrocities. After his demise in March 2021, his supporters have encouraged me take the legacy forward,” he added.Punjabi singer and Congress candidate from Mansa Sidhu Moosewala is campaigning for party candidates in Mansa and Bathinda district. He takes pride in crediting his mother Charan Kaur, sarpanch of his native Musa village, for encouraging him to take the electoral plunge. “Constructive voting is needed to redress the grievances of the underdeveloped region of the state. The party has fielded several young and academically sound faces to give a new life to the next government,” said the singer.From Abohar, the traditional stronghold of the Jakhar family, Congress nominee Sandeep Jakhar highlights development works undertaken over the past two years. After ex-state Congress president Sunil Jakhar lost to BJP’s greenhorn in 2017, the Jakhar family pulled up its socks to reclaim electoral dominance in Abohar. With the support of newly elected members of the Abohar MC, the Jakhar scion mentions roads, underground drinking water pipeline, sewage system and stadiums as key public works started under his command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/campaigning-in-south-malwa-first-timers-pitch-family-legacy-sympathy-as-major-poll-planks-101642689211082.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Akhilesh to make debut in UP polls from Karhal seat||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav will contest his first UP Assembly polls from Karhal seat in SP stronghold – Mainpuri. The development comes days after the BJP fielded Yogi Adityanath on the Gorakhpur Sadar seat.“Party president Akhilesh Yadav will contest from Karhal seat,” said Ashutosh Verma, SP national spokesperson. “It’s final, but we have not made a formal announcement yet,” said Rajendra Chaudhary, national secretary and spokesperson, Samajwadi Party.The SP could also make Tej Pratap Yadav, former SP MP from Mainpuri, Akhilesh’s election in-charge, party sources said. Pratap is the grand nephew of SP chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav and he was Mainpuri MP from 2014 to 2019. In 2019, Mulayam became MP from Mainpuri. Ever since speculations on chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s candidature for assembly polls surfaced, there were talks about Akhilesh too contesting the 2022 polls. Yogi Adityanath and Akhilesh Yadav had been MPs in the past, but they had never contested assembly elections. Both took the Vidhan Parishad route to become members of the UP legislature when they became chief ministers. Akhilesh is currently Azamgarh MP. Before this, there had been speculations that he might contest from the Gopalpur Assembly seat in Azamgarh. Earlier, on January 3, he said if he would contest the UP elections himself, then there are many options for him. “If the party decides so then I will. We have many seats to choose from as Netaji (SP founder and Akhilesh’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav) had contested many assembly elections -- in Sambhal, Firozabad, Etah, Mainpuri, Shahjahanpur and Azamgarh. I can contest from any of these assembly seats.”Also at his press conferences on Wednesday and Thursday, Akhilesh said: “We are definitely ahead of the BJP. And if I contest polls, it will also be ahead of them (he meant election date ahead of the polling date in Gorakhpur).” Karhal is scheduled to go to polls on February 20 in the third phase of UP elections, while Gorakhpur Sadar will vote on March 3 in the sixth phase.Karhal is a stronghold of the Samajwadi Party since 1993, with only one exception. In the 2002 election, the seat went to the BJP. The sitting MLA of Karhal is Sobaran Singh Yadav, who was with the BJP when he won the seat in 2002. Since 2007, he has been contesting from the seat on the SP ticket. Before Sobaran Singh Yadav, Karhal was represented by Babu Ram Yadav from 1985. He later joined the Samajwadi Party. The constituency comes under Mainpuri Lok Sabha, which is Mulayam Singh Yadav’s turf. As Akhilesh is likely to make his debut in the state election from this seat, Karhal appears to be a safe bet.
20-01-2022||Gurugram||Glory of Delhi-NCR’s kitchen gardens: Green thumb at work||When there’s a nip in the air, the sight of fresh produce in the kitchen garden lends warmth to the soul. And Delhiites growing their own produce are loving the look and taste of fresh herbs and veggies as they stay indoors to keep themselves safe. For Delhiite Ritesh Gandotra, it’s work from home that has given him a chance to spend more time in his kitchen garden. “We’re growing onions, coriander, mint and many seasonal flowering plants. I hope to be able to do organic farming one day. Until then, I’m living my dream like this,” says this MNC employee.Sonia Puri Dhillon, a businesswoman from Phase-1 Gurugram, grows herbs such as rosemary, thyme and basil as well as veggies including tomato, broccoli, cauliflower and bok choy, among others. “I work on my soil mix which is totally organic. I dig up a vegetable bed about two feet deep, fill it up with kitchen and garden waste. The top cover is of dry leaves that acts as mulch, and lastly, a mud cover is given. As and when the veggies grow, the soil level keeps going down. The waste keeps composting and hence, slow fertilisation takes place. The dry leaves mulch helps in composting and keeping the soil hydrated,” she says. Karan Tripathi, a community manager from Vasant Kunj, Delhi, managed to take his love for gardening a few notches higher thanks to WFH. “It became my escape amid all the chaos. Thanks to winter and the bounty of greens that it heralds, I have Romaine lettuce, chillies, spinach, mint, capsicum, ajwain (carom), garlic and mustard greens adorning my terrace garden. Methi, my favourite winter green, is what I harvest often, owing to its quick growth. Simple methi subzis and paranthas are a common sight. Spinach shows up in a lot of stir fries, lettuce gets tossed in dressing to make a quick salad and chillis get transformed into mirchi ke pakore,” he shares. Nancy Singh, who runs a home decor venture in Noida’s Sector 4, says initially, it was plants and flowers that drew her to gardening. “Gradually, I got inclined towards growing my own food. In winter, I grow spinach, lettuce, chillies and lemons, using which I make pickle. The taste of pesticide-free home-grown veggies is 10 times better than what you get in markets. The trick is to understand the need of every vegetable one grows, and the sowing season,” says Singh.Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Customs seize Heroin worth ₹2.7 crore, arrest Nigerian national and auto driver||MUMBAI: The Mumbai customs has seized 450 gramme of heroin worth ₹2.7 crore which was concealed in a courier parcel that came from Tanzania in the name of a Navi Mumbai resident. Upon verification, customs officials found that documents of the Navi Mumbai resident were used by an accused involved in the drug cartel.The officials then kept surveillance for five days and managed to arrest an auto driver, 32, from Navi Mumbai when he came to collect the parcel on Wednesday. During interrogation, he revealed that he worked for a Nigerian national. He was then made to call the Nigerian national and as soon as the foreigner came, he too was arrested, said a customs official. Both accused were produced before a court of Wednesday and remanded to judicial custody.“We got specific information about the consignment coming in a parcel. So once the parcel arrived at the international courier terminal at the airport where customs officials are assigned to check and verify, we identified it,” the officer said.He said that the auto driver had taken personal documents including the Aadhar card of one of his friends and given the same to the Nigerian national who used them to bring the consignment into India. During interrogation, the auto driver revealed that the Nigerian national had promised to pay him ₹10,000 for collecting the parcel and handing it over to him and that he had previously collected three to four parcels for the same drug syndicate, the officer added.The Nigerian national came to India one-and-a-half-years ago and is currently staying in Navi Mumbai, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/customs-seize-heroin-worth-2-7-crore-arrest-nigerian-national-and-auto-driver-101642688610915.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Wankhede moves contempt petition against Nawab Malik||Mumbai Dnyandev Wankhede, the father of former NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, has moved a contempt petition in the Bombay high court (HC) against NCP leader Nawab Malik, claiming that despite giving assurance to the court on December 10, 2021, of not making any objectionable statement against Wankhede or his family members, Malik had made adverse statements about them on December 28, January 2 and 3, thus violating the undertaking to the court.The petition is expected to come up for hearing in due course.On December 10, Malik had tendered an unconditional apology in the HC for “wilfully breaching” his undertaking given to the court that he would not make any comments or pass any defamatory statements against Dnyandev Wankhede and his family.However, he said that his undertaking would not restrain him from commenting on the misuse of central agencies and the conduct of the officers while doing their duty. Malik had stated that the statements made by him were not in his personal capacity but as a spokesperson of the NCP.Citing certain remarks made by Malik on December 28 and January 2 and 3 in his contempt petition Wankhede has stated that Malik breached the December 10 undertaking. The contempt petition states that making public statements against the petitioner and/or his family members, in particular, the actions/omissions of his son targets the personal integrity of Sameer by alluding to his caste/religion and thus Malik should be held liable for action under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.Wankhede’s contempt petition and interim application in the ₹1.25 crore defamation suit filed by him will come up for hearing in the HC in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wankhede-moves-contempt-petition-against-nawab-malik-101642688490994.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Sr IPS officer Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay is the new DG of Maharashtra home guard||Mumbai: Maharashtra government has appointed a new commandant general, home guards after senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh was suspended from his services.Additional director general of police, state traffic, Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay has now been promoted to DG rank and appointed as commandant general, home guards.Additional DG Kulwant Kumar Sarangal, who was awaiting a new posting, has been entrusted with the responsibility of state traffic police. An order to this effect, signed by Venkatesh Bhat, joint secretary, was issued on Thursday. 1989-batch IPS officer Upadhyay has served as Nagpur city police commissioner. Param Bir Singh was appointed as commandant general of home guards on March 18, after his unceremonious removal from the post of Mumbai Police chief on March 17, after controversial police officer Sachin Vaze was arrested by the NIA for placing an explosives-laden SUV near Antilia, the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, and subsequent murder of the SUV owner, Thane trader Mansukh Hiran.The Maharashtra government on December 2, 2021, suspended Param Bir Singh from service for alleged dereliction of duty and initiated disciplinary proceedings against the officer facing charges of extortion and corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sr-ips-officer-bhushan-kumar-upadhyay-is-the-new-dg-of-maharashtra-home-guard-101642688251102.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Centre asks state wetland authority to act on herbicide use in Powai Lake||Mumbai The union environment ministry has instructed the state government, via its State Wetland Authority, to act on complaints against the use of glyphosate-containing herbicides in Powai Lake, which were first raised last year by city-based NGO Vanashakti. The NGO was informed about the same on January 12 by a senior scientist with the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC), after it highlighted a November 2021 permission letter by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), allowing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to proceed with spraying glyphosate in a “judicious” manner to control the growth of invasive weeds.In a letter to the assistant municipal commissioner of S Ward, on November 2 last year, MPCB wrote, “Considering the submission made by the MCGM...water and sediment analysis reports, literature review and similar type of study, your request is considered and you are allowed to use glyphosate for the destruction of water hyacinth in Powai Lake.” This permission was subject to certain conditions, namely that BMC will stop the ingress of raw sewage into the lake, carry out regular bioaccumulation studies along with water and sediment analysis reports, and submit reports of the same to MPCB.The BMC had, in August last year, floated a tender for removal of water hyacinths at Ganesh Ghat, Pawarwadi and other areas of Powai Lake to make space for immersion activities during Ganesh Chaturthi. The following month, BMC launched a pilot project as part of which drones were used to spray glyphosate on two per cent of the lake’s water between September 3 and 5. Based on the success of the program, larger quantities of glyphosate are set to be used to eradicate water hyacinths from the lake area, along the lines of a similar project in Aurangabad’ Salim Ali Lake, executed by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation.Stalin D, director of Vanashakti, which first raised the issue, said, “The lake is a crocodile habitat. You need to seek necessary clearances from the wildlife department, which BMC has clearly not done. Water hyacinths are invasive, but to remove them you need to first stop the entry of raw sewage into the lake, which has also not been achieved by BMC.” He added, “Bioaccumulation studies may tell you when the level of glyphosate in the water crosses detectable levels, but the more effective way to tackle the issue is through arresting the pollution source, not introducing known contaminants into a natural environment.”An MPCB official familiar with the matter, seeking anonymity, said, “We have considered the merits of the case and given BMC permission based on certain strict conditions. If those conditions are complied with, we do not see any harm being done to the ecology. On the contrary, as demonstrated by the cleanup of Salim Ali Lake in 2019, the water hyacinth can be brought under control and the fish population in the lake will increase after such a cleanup.”Narendra Toke, director of the environment and climate change department and member of the State Wetland Authority, did not respond to calls seeking comment on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-asks-state-wetland-authority-to-act-on-herbicide-use-in-powai-lake-101642688196192.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Illegal constructions in Kalyan Dombivli limits up from 67K to 1.44L in 14 years, as per RTI||The number of illegal structures in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits has gone up from 67,000 to 1.44 lakh in the last 14 years, revealed a Right to Information (RTI) application filed by a city-based activist.The KDMC commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, has initiated a three-month drive against illegal constructions in the city with the aim of razing a majority of the illegal structures in its vicinity.Since December 16, after the drive against illegal construction began in KDMC, the civic body has managed to demolish 45 big buildings, 87 constructions which are over the foundation, 90 chawls and 45 sheds of garages and shops.Activist Kaustubh Gokhale got a reply to his RTI that revealed that the number of illegal structures in KDMC area till 2007 was 67,920 but has increased to 1.44 lakh now.“In 2006, the Bombay High Court had asked the civic body to do a detailed study of 67,920 properties that are illegal and take necessary steps to ensure that there is no such construction happening in its limit. Today, when we look at the figure through an RTI application it has increased to 1.44 lakh. The civic body has failed to take any measures since then till now,” said Gokhale.Meanwhile another social activist and founder of Alert Citizen Forum, Sreeniwas Ghanekar, has also pointed out that the civic body has failed to meet the High Court directions on acting against the ward offices for illegal construction in their wards.“All these illegal constructions happen in the city due to the support from the civic ward officers. Why not take action against them in order to actually curb the increasing number of illegal constructions?” said Ghanekar.In an order passed by the Bombay High Court in August 2006, it was stated that the municipal commissioner is directed to issue necessary directives to all the ward officers to whom the power has been delegated to ensure that no unauthorised construction comes up henceforth in their respective wards and that they shall be personally held liable and responsible for such construction in their wards.“Now, since we can see that the number of illegal structures has increased, it means that there is a need to act upon the ward officers who have allowed the same. The civic commissioner should look into this with more severity instead of just demolishing the structures as the numbers keep increasing even after the demolition,” added Ghanekar.As per the RTI, out of all the ten wards in KDMC, ward ‘A’, which covers areas like Balyani, Titwala and Mohane, has the highest number of illegal structures at 36,622.“Regarding the constructions that have already happened, our ward officers are taking strict action and demolishing most of the structures with the help of the police. Meanwhile, based on the High Court order, I have strictly warned the ward officers of no new construction be allowed in their respective wards. Those ward officers failing to follow this and allowing illegal constructions will face strict action,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner. 
20-01-2022||Mumbai||MSRDC’s 6km road between Juinagar and Kharghar kept on hold||The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation’s (MSRDC) plans of developing a 6km road between Juinagar and Kharghar below the Kharghar Hills to reduce the travel time between these two places have been put on hold due to lack of funds.According to the MSRDC’s plan, a 1.8km-long tunnel would be developed under the Kharghar Hills. Then, a 2.5km-long elevated road would connect the Western end of the tunnel with the Sion-Panvel Highway outside Juinagar railway station.Likewise, another 1.7km-long elevated road would connect the Eastern end of the tunnel with the road outside Central Park in Kharghar. The estimated budget for the project is ₹1,300Cr.Presently, it takes almost 40 minutes to reach Juinagar from Kharghar and its adjacent Taloja. If this plan is executed, a motorist would be able to reach Juinagar from the other side in less than 10 minutes. This will also reduce the traffic congestions on the Sion-Panvel highway to a great extent.A senior MSRDC officer said, “After conducting multiple surveys on either side of the hills, we prepared a detailed project report of the proposed road last year. However, we got stuck when it came to execution.“CIDCO has developed the entire area of Kharghar and its peripheries. Similarly, a major part of the proposed road (on the Western side) will run through an area that falls in the jurisdiction of MIDC. Therefore, we requested CIDCO and MIDC to contribute ₹300Cr and ₹150Cr, respectively, for the project. We were ready to contribute ₹150Cr from our side. We planned to loan the remaining ₹700Cr and to recover that amount from the motorists later by collecting tolls. However, both CIDCO and MIDC informed us that they were unable to pay the said amounts at the moment. As we cannot execute this ambitious project on our own, we have kept it on hold for now. If we receive positive responses from the other two agencies in the near future, we will rework on it.”While CIDCO officials were unavailable for comments, an MIDC officer from Navi Mumbai confirmed the developments. However, he refused to explain the reasons behind their inability to pay the amount.The local residents say that if executed, the proposed road would leave a direct impact on the business and economy of Kharghar as well as Taloja. It would also boost the real estate market of those places, they said.Kaveri Sharma, a 41-year-old resident of Kharghar, said, “Presently, we have to tackle severe traffic jams on Sion-Panvel Highway while traveling to Juinagar and Vashi. It takes almost one hour to reach Juinagar if we travel during the peak hours. That problem will not be there if the authorities develop this road.”
20-01-2022||Pune||Pregnant woman forest guard thrashed in Satara dist, two held||PUNE A woman forest guard, who is three months pregnant, along with her husband was allegedly thrashed by a former sarpanch and his wife at a village in Satara district of Maharashtra.Following the incident, the couple was arrested, police said on Thursday.As the video of the duo beating woman forest guard went viral, Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted informing about the arrest.The incident took place in Palsawade village of the western Maharashtra district on Wednesday, officials said.According to police, the accused man, who is a member of the local forest management committee, was angry with the forest guard for taking the contractual forest labourers along with her “without his permission”.A video of the assault incident has gone viral on social media.Sharing the video on his Twitter handle on Thursday, Thackeray said, “The accused has been arrested this morning and will face the law at its strictest. Such acts will not be tolerated.”Satara superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Bansal said the accused man is a former sarpanch of Palsawade village and a member of the local forest management committee.“He and his wife allegedly beat up the woman forest guard, who is three months pregnant, along with her husband as the accused was angry over the guard taking the contractual forest labourers along with her without his permission,” he said.“Since the forest guard is pregnant, a medical examination of her foetus will be carried out. If the foetus is found harmed, relevant sections will be slapped against the accused duo,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pregnant-woman-forest-guard-thrashed-in-satara-dist-two-held-101642687050893.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Two-year-old dies after sweeper administers wrong injection||Mumbai A two-year-old boy died at an unregistered hospital in Govandi in eastern Mumbai on Wednesday, after a sweeper allegedly administered him an injection meant for another patient. The Shivajinagar police are trying to trace the 17-year-old sweeper, who allegedly sometimes helps the nurses out. Police sources said the sweeper was a class eighth dropout. Police have also booked Dr Altaf Khan (29), a BUMS, and the owner of the nursing home Nasimuddin Sayyed (63), on the charge of death by negligence.Police inspector Iqbal Shigalgaar said that the incident occurred at Noor Hospital on Wednesday evening.Shigalgaar said that they received information that the relatives of a patient were creating chaos, so, they reached the spot to find that two-year-old Taha Azeem Khan had died. Azeem, Taha’s father informed the police that three days ago, Taha had loose motions so he had been admitted to the hospital. On Wednesday, his consulting doctor Pravin Gangane was about to discharge him when the sweeper and another nurse were arguing about an injection.The sweeper then picked up a jab and administered it to Taha. The injection was, however, meant for the patient next to him. “Without the knowledge of the doctor or me, Taha was given the injection which proved to be fatal,” said Azeem.Within minutes Taha became critical and succumbed. “There was no mention of the injection in Taha’s medical report,” said Shigalgaar. After the police were informed, Taha was rushed to another hospital but was declared brought dead.“We have registered a case against the nurse, the doctor and the owner of the nursing home and are awaiting the postmortem report of the child to find out the exact cause of his death. We are making efforts to track the accused and arrest them,” said Arjun Rajane, senior police inspector of Shivajinagar police station.Dr Harishchand Navneet, health officer of the M (east) ward said that there were 24 unregistered and 41 registered nursing homes in Shivajinagar area. He said that since 2009, there were no new registrations in the area, as the nursing homes do not meet the criteria laid down by BMC.According to the police, recently another nurse was arrested from AK Khan’s National clinic for administering a wrong injection to 26-year-old Shabana Sayyed. The injection created an infection after which she had to be operated on and eventually passed away in October 2020.The police arrested the nurse and are on a lookout for doctors Reham Khan and AK Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/twoyearold-dies-after-sweeper-administers-wrong-injection-101642686270862.html
20-01-2022||Pune||19-year-old killed in head-on collision with tempo in Vadgaonsheri||PUNE A 19-year-old man died in a collision with a tempo near the Vadgaonsheri post office on Sunday night.The deceased has been identified as Kishan Vijay Paswan, a resident of Vadgaonsheri.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 17-year-old pillion rider who was injured in the accident.“They both are from Bihar and work as carpenters and live together. They had gone to buy vegetables when they slipped and rammed into an oncoming tempo. The injured person is undergoing treatment,” said police sub-inspector Vivek Sisal of Chandan nagar police station.A case under Sections 279, 304(a), and 338 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 184 and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Chandan nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/19yearold-killed-in-head-on-collision-with-tempo-in-vadgaonsheri-101642686210783.html
20-01-2022||Pune||118 watches stolen from shop in Dhanori||PUNE At least 118 watches of various brands were stolen from a watch and optician shop in Dhanori, according to police.The theft happened between 10:30 pm on Sunday and 10:30 am on Monday when the owner opened the shop, Rajeshree Watch and Opticians for business.“So far, as per the recorded first information report (FIR), the total cost of the watches is ₹2,76,000. We do not have suspects but the investigation is underway and we will catch the culprits soon,” said assistant police inspector Sachin Nikam of Vishrantwadi police station.The man broke open the grill on the internal room of the shop and entered from there. Before fleeing, the accused also damaged the CCTV inside the shop and stole the Digital Video Recorder (DVR) as well.A case under Sections 457, 380, and 427 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/118-watches-stolen-from-shop-in-dhanori-101642686030835.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Forest dept begins fencing quarry on Vetal tekdi in Pune||PUNE The forest department has begun erecting a fence around the quarry on Vetal tekdi. The action has come after a 24-year-old man who was trying to save a cat fell into a 70-80 feet deep gorge at the tekdi on January 13.Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Maharashtra, said, “We are building a link chain fence around the quarry which is in the forest land. We are doing this to help preserve the biodiversity within the periphery of the quarry and this will help keep accidents at bay.”The environment lovers, walkers and activists, meanwhile, do not want artificial structures on the tekdi.“By building a fence, it will also block the access of small forest fauna to the only water body on the hill. We are fine with access being denied to the quarry to people, but we strongly object to the chain link fencing. It will cut off access to the only source of water for the small forest fauna remaining on the tekdi - there are plenty of hares here and sightings of small jungle cats have also been reported,” said Sushma Date, a member of Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti.“Instead of using artificial material, if the department can use natural green fencing like growing sagargota, nirgudi and other cactus plants, with small gaps for animals to pass through? The ecologists from Pune Ecological Society can also help in this matter,” Date added.Fencing the natural area around the quarry is not good for the tekdi’s flora and fauna. “Any artificial construction on the tekdi changes the ecosystem, restricts the movement and water intake of small animals across the land, and usage of cement will also eventually start changing the natural water table located on the tekdi, which is a rich catchment area directly in central Pune,” said Asira Lele, member of Save Vetal Tekdi group.“Fencing cannot be a solution because people will always find a way to go up to areas marked as dangerous and take selfies there. As a solution, the forest department can post a guard atop the tekdi instead to warn such people, and not increase the nefarious construction activities there,” said Lele.Deputy conservator of forests, Maharashtra, said, “There is nothing wrong in having a fence erected to save the quarry and the tekdi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-dept-begins-fencing-quarry-on-vetal-tekdi-in-pune-101642685850871.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Activists in Navi Mumbai demand special fast track courts for environmental cases||With mounting complaints of mangrove and wetland destruction, greens in Navi Mumbai have demanded a proposal to have special fast track courts for environmental cases and green police to handle such crimes.This, they claim, would ease the burden of the existing judiciary and police force, and also ensure environmental complaints get resolved quickly.“CM Uddhav Thackeray’s office has asked the Forest Secretary B Venugopal Reddy to take this suggestion forward. We have requested the CM to involve the Environment department, too, in the process,” NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar, said.The Mangrove Cell proposed to have a CCTV camera network for surveillance on the sea forests. “This network should be further strengthened with a centralised Mangrove Control Room and a Rapid Action Force to quickly check destruction. The culprits are now going without trace in the absence of any surveillance,” he said.Nandkumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, pointed out that first of all the existing machinery takes time in registering cases and then the investigation is another long-term exercise.“In all fairness, we do not blame the police force or the judiciary since they are overloaded. Environment has been the biggest victim of the so-called project and infrastructure development in MMR in particular and the special courts will go a long way in ensuring justice,” Pawar said.Section 19 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010, gives the Tribunal power to regulate its own procedure. Additionally, the Tribunal is not bound by procedure under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, or the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, and is guided by principles of natural justice. However, the Tribunal is vested with the powers of a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure for discharging its functions, Kumar pointed out to the government and stressed the need for a fast-track court system.The Forest Guards, at best, file FIRs with the police. “A full-fledged Green Police force under the Revenue and Forest Department should be empowered to conduct investigation and launch prosecutions and ensure punishment to the guilty,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/activists-in-navi-mumbai-demand-special-fast-track-courts-for-environmental-cases-101642685192435.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Congress releases second list of 41 candidates, 16 of them are women||LUCKNOW The Congress on Thursday released its second list of candidates on 41 assembly seats for the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh. Of these, 16 were given to women candidates, which was 40% of the total seats in the second list.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had announced 40% reservation to women in 2022 UP Assembly elections. These 16 women candidates included Poonam Pandit, a former national/international shooter, who was an active participant of farmers’ agitation and Sangeeta Tyagi, wife of late Rajiv Tyagi, former Congress spokesperson. Poonam Pandit, 25, was given a Congress ticket from Syana Assembly seat of Bulandshahr in western UP and Sangeeta Tyagi, 43, was fielded from the the Sahibabad Assembly constituency of Ghaziabad.Known for her oratory skills in Hindi and Haryanvi, Poonam Pandit had joined the Congress at a special programme at UP Congress Committee headquarters here recently. Sangeeta Tyagi is wife of All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesman late Rajiv Tyagi, who died of heart attack soon after taking part in a debate on a news channel. Another woman candidate, Usha Gangwar, 57, was fielded from the Nawabganj seat of Bareilly. A former district panchayat president, she is a known ‘Kurmi’ leader who joined the Congress from the BSP following Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s ‘Ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon’’ (I am a girl, I can fight) campaign. On the other hand, Sikandar Valmiki, 34, a former government employee, was fielded from Agra Cantt (SC) Assembly seat. He resigned from his job to dedicate himself to the cause of the Valmiki community. He took up the cause of Arun Valmiki, 31, who allegedly died in police custody in Agra. With the second list, the Congress had so far declared 166 candidates out of 403 assembly seats going to polls in seven phases. As many as 94 seats will vote in the first phase of elections on February 10. “We have declared candidates for all the seats going for polls in the first phase,” said a party functionary. The last date for filing of nomination papers is January 21, 2022 and political parties are giving final touches or amending names on the seats left out, if any or already declared. A considerable number of defectors, including two sitting MLAs – Naresh Saini and Masood Akhtar from Saharanpur district of western UP – have left the Congress. So have senior leaders Imran Masood and Pankaj Malik. The Congress has been facing the challenge of finding suitable candidates for many such seats in western UP. 
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Mangroves clean-up group’s drive in Navi Mumbai enters 75th week||What started as a small initiative by a 35-year-old Nerul resident during the lockdown with the help of four friends has gradually gained momentum with almost 1,500 people across Navi Mumbai joining as volunteers in various mangrove clean-up drives.The group, Environment Life, started by Dharmesh Barai, is having its 75th Week of Mangroves Clean-up Drive on Saturday at Sarovar Vihar, Sector 11, CBD Belapur. Till date, the team has removed more than 70 tons of trash from the mangroves in the previous 74 weeks.Barai had shifted from Kamothe to Nerul in 2020 and in July, he happened to visit Shiv Temple at Karave jetty. “It was painful to see the sight of the mangroves around the temple littered with waste. That was when I decided that I, as a citizen, should do something to clear this. On August 15, 2020, along with Rohan Bhosale (22), Shriram Shankar (27), Aman Gupta (25) and Rahul Rahkar (25), I had the first mangrove clean-up drive,” Barai said.Right from local citizen groups to NGOs to corporates, all have taken part in various drives in Navi Mumbai. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and Mangrove Foundation took note of the initiatives and soon ward officers of the areas wherein the drives happened started joining them.Deputy municipal commissioner, Babasaheb Rajale, too, joined the drives and also made sure that the corporation backed the initiative in all possible ways.“The waste that are washed into Navi Mumbai by water most of the time come from other parts of MMR. None but humans are responsible for this, which is affecting biodiversity. People need to be more responsible in disposing of the waste. The initiative taken up by the soldiers of mangroves is helping the city a lot and people should enthusiastically come forward and do their bit. The corporation has been, and will, continue to give its whole support to the initiative,” Rajale said.Barai added, “NMMC provided us with sacks to collect the waste and also picked them up from the place where we gather them, and then recycled them 100%. NMMC also provides us with gloves and the sanitary officer and ward officer of those areas would join us with other equipment required to segregate the waste.”The biggest challenge in these drives faced by the volunteers is the risk of getting bitten by a snake and getting injuries from open syringes and broken bulbs. “We have spotted snakes many times but luckily none of us was ever bitten. Open syringes have injured many and NMMC provides us with TT shots,” Barai added.From Nerul to Belapur, around 25 spots are regularly cleaned by the team. While some of the spots are littered by the public, places attached to the ocean get littered during each high tide and hence repeated cleaning is required there.“The micro plastic waste like ketchup and shampoo packets are found immense in the drive. We have also found discarded sofa and bed. Medical waste including used syringes, medicine bottles, masks are the most that we find,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mangroves-clean-up-group-s-drive-in-navi-mumbai-enters-75th-week-101642683990642.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Thankful to BJP for ending parivarvaad in SP: Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav took a dig at the BJP for inducting two Yadav family members within 24 hours and said he was thankful to the saffron party for “ending parivarvaad (dynastic politics) in the SP.”Akhilesh also meant that the BJP took inconsequential leaders from the SP compared to the big leaders that came to the SP from the BJP.When asked about the induction of Mulayam Singh Yadav’s brother-in-law Pramod Gupta into the BJP within 24 hours of his daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav joining the BJP camp, Akhilesh said at a press conference: “This is nice...I am thankful to the BJP for ending the parivarvaad in the SP.”Aparna had joined the BJP in Delhi on Wednesday while the SP’s former Bidhuna MLA Pramod Gupta joined the saffron party in Lucknow on Thursday.An SP leader said both Gupta and Aparna were non-entities in the SP since Akhilesh took the party’s reigns into his hands. “These exits suit us,” said the leader.Akhilesh also said: “In the battle of perception, the BJP is already defeated... we inducted leaders like Swami Prasad Maurya and Dara Singh Chauhan who have extensive mass support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/thankful-to-bjp-for-ending-parivarvaad-in-sp-akhilesh-101642683270727.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai nurse gives 2-year-old injection meant for another patient. He dies: Cops||MUMBAI: A two-year-old boy admitted to a nursing home in eastern Mumbai’s Govandi area by his parents on Wednesday evening died after the nurse allegedly administered him a wrong injection, police said, citing a complaint filed by the child’s family.The nurse, Nargis Shaikh, an 18-year-old class eight dropout, is missing, said inspector Iqbal Shigalgaar of the Shivajinagar police station. Dr Altaf Khan, who has a bachelor’s degree in Unani medicine and surgery (BUMS), and owner of the Noor nursing home, Nasimuddin Sayyed, have also been named in the FIR.Shigalgaar said they went to the nursing home after receiving information that some relatives of a patient were creating a ruckus on Wednesday. The child’s father Azeem told the police that the baby, who was suffering from diarrhoea, was admitted to the nursing home three days back.On Wednesday, his consulting doctor Pravin Gangane was about to discharge the child when two nurses identified as Nargis Shaikh and Nisha Khan (21) began arguing about giving Taha an injection. Nargis Shaikh picked up an injection meant for another patient and administered the shot to Taha.Azeem said the injection proved fatal.Within minutes, Taha’s condition suddenly deteriorated and he died. “There was no mention of the injection in Taha’s medical report,” said Shigalgaar. After the police were informed, Taha was rushed to another hospital but was declared brought dead.“We have registered a case against the nurse, the doctor and owner of the nursing home and are awaiting the post mortem report of the child to find out the exact cause of his death. We are making efforts to track the accused and arrest them,” said Arjun Rajane, senior police inspector of Shivajinagar police station.This is the second alleged case of a nurse administering a wrong injection leading to the death of a patient in Mumbai.Another nurse working at AK Khan’s national clinic was arrested recently after Shabana Sayyed, 26, who complained of body pain, died after she was allegedly administered the wrong injection.When contacted, Dr Harishchand Navneet, health officer of the M (east) ward said that there were 24 unregistered and 41 registered nursing homes in the Shivajinagar area. He said that since 2009, no new registrations have been issued in the area since the nursing homes do not meet the criteria laid down by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for opening a nursing home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-nurse-gives-2-year-old-injection-meant-for-another-patient-he-dies-cops-101642683150514.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||High court rejects PIL seeking postponement of UP assembly polls||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Thursday refused to entertain a PIL (public interest litigation) seeking postponement of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Rejecting the PIL, a division bench of Justice AR Masoodi and Justice Narendra Kumar Johari observed that the reasons for the rejection would be recorded later. The petitioner Atul Kumar and another person, both of whom had planned to contest the assembly polls, filed the PIL. Advocate Ashok Pandey represented them before the high court. The petitioners argued that the general election (Lok Sabha) and the assembly polls must be held after the dissolution of these legislative bodies or when their term is about to expire. Further, the petitioners argued that the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls must be held only after completion of the tenure of the existing assembly. They contended that since the present tenure of the state assembly would expire on May 14, 2022, conducting the polls two months prior to this period was unreasonable. Covid-19 could spread further if the elections were held amid the pandemic like it did during the Uttar Pradesh panchayat and West Bengal assembly polls last year, they argued. Opposing the petition, the Election Commission of India (ECI) pointed out that the notification for the assembly polls was within its powers under Section 15 of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951. The commission also pointed out before the high court that as per law, the election dates were notified within six months of the expiry of the present assembly. After hearing the arguments of both the petitioner and the ECI, the court refused to entertain the PIL.The EC had announced the schedule for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls on January 8.The seven-phase polls will be held between February 10 and March 7. Polling will take place on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and 7. The counting of votes will be taken up on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/high-court-rejects-pil-seeking-postponement-of-up-assembly-polls-101642682850465.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Keshav Prasad Maurya’s graph rises as OBC leaders exit BJP in Uttar Pradesh||There is an unmistakable spurt in deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s graph within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the UP polls and the development has overlapped the recent high-profile exit of OBC leaders from the party. Since all the recent exits from BJP to the Samajwadi Party (SP) were accompanied with a parting note of alleged “OBC-dalit neglect” by the ruling party’s government in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP-RSS top leadership quickly ensured greater visibility for Maurya in an obvious bid to rework perceptions in the state ahead of the UP polls.Since June 10, when OBC leaders started exiting, Keshav Prasad Maurya emerged as the party’s chief firefighter, appealing to the rebels to reconsider their decision while stepping up the campaign to induct prominent opposition names into the party. Keshav Prasad Maurya has featured in virtually all the sound bites that have been issued by the BJP against the Samajwadi Party. Along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he is set to take part in most virtual connect campaigns in the state. To be sure, his graph had started looking up since June, when the RSS brokered a truce between him and Yogi Adityanath as part of which the chief minister drove for a luncheon meeting to Maurya’s residence. There, in the presence of top Sangh leaders, a “united family” picture was projected. However, the manner in which OBC leaders exited from the party, days ahead of the elections, led to a flutter as the rebels claimed that Keshav Prasad Maurya, being an OBC, too, was neglected in the party. In the 2017 UP assembly elections, Keshav Prasad Maurya was the party’s state chief and had held more than 200 rallies, perhaps the most by any state leader. By the time the elections entered the last lap, the BJP, propelled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, an OBC himself, was confident of backward consolidation. OBCs make up for more than 45 per cent of the state’s electorate with Yadavs, considered loyal to the main opposition Samajwadi Party, being the most dominant. In the 2017 UP polls, the BJP succeeded in attracting a majority of non-Yadav OBCs, who along with non-Jatav Dalits, were the mainstays of the party’s 312 seat win in the 403-member UP assembly. Ahead of the 2017 UP polls, the BJP had imported Swami Prasad Maurya, the OBC face of the Bahujan Samaj Party and a grassroots leader, to better the party’s OBC connect. But his sudden exit just before the 2022 assembly polls that triggered a spate of resignations has, party leaders concede, only increased the reliance on the “original Maurya”.When asked about Keshav Prasad’s appeal to them to reconsider, Swami Prasad described the deputy chief minister as the “RSS’s parrot.”“Keshavji is a good leader. We respect him and he should join us as he, too, was betrayed as he wasn’t made the chief minister,” said Swami Prasad Maurya.The BJP list of candidates is dominated by OBCs. Party leaders admit that Maurya, whose candidature was announced by the BJP along with that of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, was greatly consulted. “He is soft spoken, rarely loses his cool and is extremely popular among party lawmakers and functionaries and has a great public connect,” said Dharmraj Maurya, the party’s Kaushambi unit functionary. “To send out a powerful message about the need to follow Covid-19 protocol, he had ensured that just 21 people attended his son’s marriage in May,” Dharmaraj said.Many were surprised when the BJP’s Sirathu MLA Sheetla Prasad Patel was seen celebrating after being dropped by the party. “I celebrated because I was replaced by my mentor Keshavji. It was he who had introduced me to Sirathu and now if he is coming back, how can I not be happy,” Patel said. Keshav Maurya is said to enjoy good relations with the party’s OBC allies Apna Dal and Nishad Party too. The BJP has firmed up a pre-poll alliance with them and the Apna Dal is expected to get around 15 seats while the Nishad party is to get around 10 as part of the seat-sharing agreement, party leaders said. The BJP’s 2017 OBC ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) that has now parted ways with the party and joined hands with the Samajwadi Party, too, has not been critical of Keshav Prasad Maurya.“The exits won’t have any impact. We are winning over 300 seats,” Maurya said.Political experts said Keshav Prasad Maurya’s appeal and utility for the BJP is that he brings several pluses to the table.“I think before joining the BJP, he was with Vishwa Hindu Parishad and close to the late Ashok Singhal. That obviously means like chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the deputy CM has also been part of the temple movement. He is an OBC and as the state’s PWD minister, he is also someone tasked with bettering road network. So, this blend of Hindutva, OBC and development means his utility quotient appears to be high for his party,” said prof Manuka Khanna of Lucknow University’s political science department.In the run-up to the 2022 UP polls, Keshav Prasad Maurya had ignited polarisation politics by flagging the Mathura temple issue and followed it up with “jaalidar topiwaley gundey (those who wear skull caps)”. The remarks, political experts maintain, were made as part of a party plan to ensure “Hindus vote as one.” At the foundation stone laying event of the Jewar airport, many noticed how Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reached out to Keshav Prasad Maurya and raised his hand along with that of chief minister Yogi Adityanath to symbolically indicate that the party was united ahead of the pollsMeanwhile, on Thursday, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav refused to take a query on Keshav Prasad Maurya, stating that he won’t discuss someone who remained “apmanit (humiliated)” in the party for five years — a line that has been taken by all opposition OBC leaders as the supposed proof of alleged neglect of backward caste leaders in BJP. “Jo apni party mein apmanit raha ho, uspe kya baat karein (what to talk of someone who remained humiliated in his party),” Akhilesh Yadav said.
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Akhilesh: SP will restore old pension scheme for state staff, if voted to power||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday announced that if his party returns to power in the state, it would restore the old monthly pension scheme benefitting state employees, who had been agitating for it for long. He said Yash Bharati Awards and the new ‘Nagar Bharati Awards would be also be introduced.“On coming to power, we will reintroduce the Yash Bharati Awards, which were first introduced by Netaji’s government (Mulayam Singh Yadav) and carried forward in the previous SP government. Our governments used to honour eminent personalities in various fields such as art, culture, music, literature, sports etc for their contribution to respective fields,” Akhilesh said at a press conference at the party’s state headquarters, On the pattern of the state award, Yash Bharati, the government will also bring in Nagar Bharati Awards at the district level, said the SP chief. The former chief minister announced that the monthly pension scheme for the state employees, which existed in the previous SP government, will be reintroduced. It was discontinued by the BJP govt.“These promises will be incorporated in the SP’s manifesto, which we will release after the BJP releases its manifesto,” said Akhilesh.On the feasibility of the promises that he had been announcing one after the other, Akhilesh said: “We will form a corpus for the pension scheme so that there is no problem in paying the pension. All the promises – be it the 300 units of free power to domestic consumers or monthly pension to state employees are being made after consultations with financial experts regarding feasibility for implementation. The SP is known for fulfilling promises it makes.”ON KESHAV PRASAD MAURYAOn BJP backward leader and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Akhilesh said: “For 4.5 years, he faced insult and disrespect in the BJP government. He (Keshav Maurya) could not do anything for his ‘samaj’ (backwards community).”ON BHIM ARMY CHIEF’S CANDIDATUREWhen asked to comment on Chandrashekar Azad’s candidature on the Gorakhpur Sadar seat, from where UP CM Yogi Adityanath is contesting polls, Akhilesh said: “The SP will decide about the seat. Several people in the party have applied for the party ticket from the seat. Today itself, one family (a political family) came and met me about the seat. We will decide. The SP is likely to field a Brahmin candidate on the Gorakhpur Sadar seat.”ON ALLEGATION OF CRIMINAL CASES ON SP CANDIDATES“The IPC doesn’t have as many sections as the chief minister and deputy chief ministers have the number of cases against them,” said Akhilesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-sp-will-restore-old-pension-scheme-for-state-staff-if-voted-to-power-101642682550611.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane police take custody of Godman Sarag for derogatory remarks against Gandhi||Thane police have taken custody of Abhijit Sarag, alias Kalicharan Baba, from Raipur after Minister Jitendra Awhad had registered a case against him on December 29 for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi. He will soon be produced in Thane sessions court for further police custody.A video of the self-proclaimed Godman, which was shot on December 26 during one of his sermons, went viral in which he was allegedly seen criticising and using derogatory remarks about Mahatma Gandhi and his political moves. He blamed Gandhi for partition of India and supported Gandhi’s assassin, Nathuram Godse. He went further to thank Godse for the assassination. Since he made those remarks, multiple complaints were filed against him that led to his arrest on December 30.On the same ground, Awhad had registered a case against him at Naupada police station in Thane. The police had booked him under Sections 295 (A), 298, 505 (2), 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.The Naupada police during investigation found Kalicharan was arrested by Wardha police in a case registered by them. “Our team has taken his custody from Wardha. He was in judicial custody and was in jail in Raipur, Chhattisgarh. A team of nine police officers took a transfer warrant from the court to take Kalicharan’s custody from Raipur jail on January 19. He will be produced in Thane court soon after he is brought to the city,” said a senior police officer from Naupada.The Naupada police has already deployed bandobast outside the police station, where SRPF, RCP and local police stations are stationed for security reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-police-take-custody-of-godman-sarag-for-derogatory-remarks-against-gandhi-101642681770463.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Food Samaritans step up to make meals for Covid patients||Several states across India are presently witnessing a steep surge in Covid-19 cases. Doing their bit to lend a helping hand are a host of good Samaritans who’ve taken the onus of ensuring that those in isolation have access to fresh food. A number of Delhi-NCR residents are preparing and delivering nutritious and hygienic home-cooked meals to those recuperating from the virus.Mother-daughter duo Aatika and Neelam Kapoor from Naraina Vihar have halted the operation of their catering business as they are inundated with orders for Covid-19 patients. “From December 16, we started getting orders again for tiffins and thalis. And by January first week, we were flooded with calls,” says Aatika. The Kapoors, who have recovered from the virus themselves, consult a doctor to prepare healthy meals at nominal prices. “My family had tested positive, so we had consulted a doctor for the diet. We have been preparing food accordingly, to provide a tasty, wholesome meal at ₹90,” adds Aatika. Some are even going the extra mile to personally deliver food at patients’ doorstep. Seema Verma, an entrepreneur from DLF Phase 1 Gurugram, says: “I also got Covid-19 and realised how difficult it is. While taking an order, I ask people about their taste preferences and if they’re allergic to anything. And if it’s nearby, I personally deliver the order, because sometimes, delivery apps take time.”And for some, it’s the act of kindness that is above all. Noida-based Madhu Arora, who’s supplying meals across Delhi-NCR, says: “Even now, those affected keep asking how will they pay me, but I tell them to eat food first, because the first thing that comes to mind when a whole house is affected is khana kahan se khaayenge? As a human, itna toh we can do for someone.” Echoing similar sentiments is Sarita Vihar-based Radhika Batra, who runs an NGO. “In this humanitarian crisis, we need to come together. When we got Covid-19, some people sent us (food). Now, we are doing it for others. It works both ways,” says Batra, who is offering meals free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/food-samaritans-step-up-to-make-meals-for-covid-patients-101642680750563.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Those who layer up in dreary January and those who don’t||The opening scene of the movie shows a man’s hand gliding over the wheat crop in a field ready for harvest. We see the face of the protagonist, a warrior in contemplation, adorned in a splendid combatant’s armour, made of metal plates and trimmed with fur. The camera tracks him walking to his troops and later fighting bloody battles as the story of Gladiator unfolds. This is unarguably one of the most iconic scenes of a battle movie ever shot, yet I find myself distracted from the brilliant scenes, designed to engross the viewer with the thrill of horseback charges and sword fights, and stuck on armours the fighters are shown wearing. This preoccupation can be attributed to a combination of cold weather, no sun and less activity, for it is dreary January. The mercury is plummeting and anything that remotely resembles a form of impenetrable clothing to protect the wearer captures my attention. Medieval Romans may have had the most powerful armours but the ones who are truly protected are those who are able to weather the cold, the quintessential ‘winter people’, better insulated than lesser mortals like me. Pretty much like Karna from the Mahabharat, who was born with a celestial armour, affixed to him, the winter people too are invincible. Every time I leave the warmth of my house, it needs immaculate planning to dress up. Jacket? Check. Gloves? Check. Cap? Check. Fleece lined boots? Check. And then once outside, all blue-nosed, one spots these stubborn souls walking around nonchalantly in meagre clothing. They have somehow tricked their nerves into not picking up the fall in temperature and passing this information to the brain. Or maybe they were born with a natural Yakut gene. It is believed that what you notice first about a person reveals a lot about your personality. There are people who believe that you can always tell a gentleman by the shoes he wears. In my case, it has always been how warm-clad the person is. The ones who have mastered the art of layering up without compromising on style leave the most favourable impression on me. Yes, there are winter-coping strategies but I no longer wish to cope up. I wish to do away. I fantasise about a winter home, somewhere along the coastline. I might even sell my soul to the devil to avoid another harsh season. The winter people in my life try to convince me that it is all in the mind, and that I have simply hardwired my brain into feeling the cold more intensely than others. I am at a loss on how to rewire it, with Jack Frost nipping on my nose and toes. According to a study, men can be comfortable at temperatures as much as 5 degrees lower than women are. Yet, in the cold countries, the office buildings have temperatures set to men’s need, leaving women to be too cold to work. Now this is the thermostat-ceiling I would want to shatter. As of now, I am counting days to February and the end to this season. Till then, I embrace my inner snow queen huddled up to a heater, with Netflix, books and mugs of hot chocolate. rupymand@gmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/those-who-layer-up-in-dreary-january-and-those-who-dont-101642679910383.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||50% response for online classes during pandemic: Thane Municipal Corporation survey||Shreya Yadav, a 12-year-old resident of Lokmanya Savarkar Nagar, was unable to attend online classes initially as her family’s financial condition was not such that she could afford internet connectivity in her phone. Missing out on the explanations given by teachers online, Shreya only managed to take notes regularly.There were many students like Shreya who missed out on school education due to their financial problems. As per a survey done by Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), the response for online education in the city was merely 50% during the pandemic. The TMC report states that the lack of availability of smart phones or regular internet connection led to poor response for online classes. Most schools preferred to provide videos to children so that they could access the classes whenever possible.The TMC pays for the basic internet connection. However, many do not have smartphones.“Many students do not have access to Android smartphones and many have parents who are working outside and hence students are unable to attend online classes through these phones. Many also do not have regular internet connection or are unable to afford internet that can access video calls. Hence, we decided to provide recorded videos as well. These are uploaded on YouTube. Those who have working parents can access these videos after their parents return home,” said Rajesh Kankal, education officer, TMC.There are 777 schools within TMC jurisdiction. These include both Primary and Secondary sections in civic, aided and private schools within Thane city. Every day, students from the civic schools attend four hours of online education. This includes 40 minutes each of one particular subject such that every day four subjects are taught. A similar pattern of online education is followed by most aided or private schools as well.Anubha Sahai, president, Parents Association, said, “The government or even private schools should make arrangements to provide gadgets or internet connection to students who cannot afford them. In the current scenario, this is equivalent to the stationery provided by schools to students at the beginning of the year. It should not be ignored as many students are out of school due to inability to attend online classes.”Sharing her experiences, Shreya said, “Initially, I did attend a few classes. However, I noticed that my family was struggling to make ends meet and did not want to burden them further. My parents are daily wage workers. We do not have any steady income since the lockdown has been implemented. In the first week, after classes began, I had to miss out on lectures one by one as my data pack finished too soon.”After she shared her problems with her teacher, she is now being provided with recorded videos of the online sessions and teachers are available on call to solve any of her doubts.However, not everyone has shown keen interest in continuing studies and has discontinued school education. “This pattern of education is impacting children’s academics. Some low budget schools also find it difficult to continue the online pattern. The exams conducted online are objectives and are not helping students to understand even the basic concepts. All of this will have an impact when schools return to normalcy as students will be restless to sit in the classroom for long hours,” said a teacher from a city school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/50-response-for-online-classes-during-pandemic-thane-municipal-corporation-survey-101642679851993.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane district vaccinates 45.68% of children in 15-18 yrs age group in 15 days||Thane district has vaccinated 45.68% of its population in the age group of 15-18 years within a fortnight of immunisation.The response for vaccination among the adults, though, is less in rural areas, over 70% of the target population in rural areas in the 15-18 years age group are vaccinated.In order to ensure that teenagers are vaccinated, Thane district organised vaccination centres in educational institutions across the district.Around 2.27 lakh in the age group of 15-18 years have been vaccinated from among the target population of 4.96 lakh. In rural areas of the district, the response among adults to get immunised has been low and the Zilla Parishad made various efforts to reach out to the remote areas as well and conduct vaccination.However, among teenagers, it was easier and within a fortnight, around 53,110 have already been vaccinated from among the target population of 75,000.Anjali Chaudhari, immunisation officer, Thane district, said, “Initially, we set up vaccination centres in colleges within the rural areas. After a few students in ashram schools tested positive in Bhiwandi, we set up vaccination drives in ashram schools as well. This helped to identify all students in the eligible age group and made it easier to administer the vaccine. Within the rural areas, convincing the adult population to get vaccinated was a task, especially among the tribals. But, when the educational institutions ask them to vaccinate their children, they take it seriously. This has made it easier to reach out to the teenage population.”Meanwhile, in the urban areas of the district, most prominent colleges had vaccination centres for students above 18 years. These centres also started providing vaccines to the 15 to 18 years of age population, making it easier to reach out to the target population.Within rural areas, there are 33 vaccination centres. Ambernath taluka has vaccinated 18,825 students while Murbad has vaccinated 6,206 students. Meanwhile, Kalyan, Bhiwandi and Shahapur taluka have vaccinated 8,012, 9,173 and 10,894 students, respectively.“Unlike the vaccination drive for adults, there was hardly any convincing required in rural areas, we did organise awareness programmes about teenage vaccination. Both in urban and rural areas, the vaccination drive was diligently organised in each ward and taluka that helped provide easy access to vaccination centres. As the response for adult vaccination was saturated, we made use of the manpower for teenage vaccination,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Collector, Thane district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-vaccinates-45-68-of-children-in-15-18-yrs-age-group-in-15-days-101642677871684.html
20-01-2022||Pune||Taste of Life: When an age of temperance held Pune in a relative state of sobriety||In 1773, Dhondo Balaji, a police officer, reported to the authorities about a contraband ale-house in Narayan Peth in Pune. He had received an anonymous tip and when he visited the house, he found that liquor was being sold there. His report could be found in the “Peshave Daftar” - “In Narayan Peth, an old Brahmin Dravidian widow is found possessing twenty-five cans of liquor. The cans have been confiscated and brought to the chowki. Upon inquiry, it was revealed that the woman was selling liquor in her shop. She refuses to reveal her name. She says she is poor and has no other means of supporting herself”. The Maratha Empire, under the rule of Peshwas, absolutely discouraged the drinking of liquor. Excise duties coming from liquor, as a source of income, were ignored altogether. For, in controlling the manufacture and sale of liquor, the Peshwa acted not only as the secular head but also as the ecclesiastical head of the state. His revenue policies, to some extent, were governed by religious ideas. Drinking was forbidden by the “Shastras” and the Peshwa, as the head of a Hindu empire, tried to enforce this injunction. GS Sardesai and DB Parasnis, noted historians, have recounted several instances of the temperance practiced in the Maratha Kingdom. In 1775-76, during the administration of Shrimant Madhavrao, the second, Balaji Ganesh, the officer incharge of Taluka Devgad, was ordered to stop the manufacture of liquor from coconut trees from the beginning of the next year. A similar order was sent to the officer at Vijaydurg on the same date. In 1783, Ramchandra Balwant, the clerk of Sardar Potnis, was fined ₹1,700 for bringing illicit liquor from Mahad to Poona. The Prohibition Law became quite rigid in the Maratha state in the last three decades of the eighteenth century. At Pargaon, near Junnar, Balaji Dhondo Kulkarni, a Brahmin, took to eating meat and drinking liquor. It soon became a concern for the Brahmins of Poona, and penance was enjoined upon him by a committee of Brahmins. Kulkarni was ordered to visit holy places and pay a fine. But such religious injunctions also caused hardships to the people. Hence, these orders were from time to time modified in order to mitigate such inconvenience. Some people earned their living by the manufacture of liquor mainly for the Portuguese and Christian soldiers in the Peshwa’s employ. Some provisions had to be made for these people. Accordingly, Shrimant Peshwa Balajirao Bhat allowed the “Bhandaris” and “Kolis” of Prant Firgan to manufacture wine in the early 1750s, but they were strictly ordered not to sell or to give wine to Brahmins, Prabhus, and government employees. Some Portuguese and other Europeans were employed under Sayyad Ahmed Khan Gardi who was serving under Ragho Vishwanath. They always required liquor for consumption. Permission was therefore given to allow them to distil liquor for their personal use. The duty on the manufacture was to be levied by Ragho Vishwanath for the government and he was to be held responsible for the liquor so prepared, passing into the hands of persons other than the Portuguese. This was order was issued to Ghashiram Kotwal. Pune’s temperance went undisturbed for a long time after the Peshwa was banished from his kingdom. Seetaram Ramchandra Gaikwad, the chronicler of Pune, wrote in 1884, that there were hardly any shops that sold liquor during the reign of the Peshwa. After the British came, there was a shop that sold locally distilled liquor at the confluence of the rivers Mula and Mutha. Even though the native soldiers were not allowed to drink, they would visit the shop stealthily. Others would crowd there and drink as much as they wanted. But they were not allowed to bring liquor in the city. Gaikwad notes that in the first decade of the nineteenth century, the shop earned ₹20 per month, while the turnover from the liquor business in Poona in 1884 was ₹two hundred thousand. In “A Report Exhibiting a view of Fiscal and Judicial system of Administration”, Captain Grant, in 1824, is said to have written that “drunkenness was by no means a prevalent vice in Poona where only one distillery exists, and the Collector is of opinion that not half a dozen quarrels in the course of the year originate in intoxication”. Captain Briggs had also made the same observation. Even though Pune did not welcome liquor for a long time after the British took over, according to NV Joshi, who wrote “Pune shaharache varnan” in 1869, it became much easier for people to procure liquor in the early 1860s because several shops mushroomed across the city; there were sixty liquor shops in Poona cantonment and the government earned ₹12,000 per month through them. Joshi rued that due to the new liquor shops opening in the city, Brahmin men had taken to the vice. “They feel good while drinking, but one has to face the ill-effects of liquor later. If this continues, Poona will soon need a Temperance society”, he wrote. According to the Bombay Gazetteer, in 1884, there were seventeen liquor shops in the city, ten country liquor shops, and seven European liquor shops. Country liquor was sold by “Maratha servants of the liquor contractor”, and European liquor shops were kept mostly by Goanese Native Christians. Kirkee Cantonment had one palm liquor, one country spirit, one opium, and two European liquor shops. The Poona cantonment had one palm liquor, one country spirit, one opium, and two European liquor shops. The sudden rise of shops selling liquor could be attributed to the revenue earned from the sale of liquor. The British liquor policy was guided by the twin objects of generating revenue and checking intemperance among people towards safeguarding their morality. Two important legislations, The Bombay Abkari Act of 1878 and the Mhowra Act of 1892 had a great effect on the customary drinking of the natives, especially tribals, which we would see in the subsequent articles. The two legislations however had the summary effect of blocking the major sources of liquor – toddy, the fermented juice of palm tree, and mahua drink made from the flowers of ‘Bassia latifolia’ – by taxing the former beyond the means of the poor and banning the latter. The new system opened up an important source of revenue for the government. Towards the end of the nineteenth century, revenue from excise, most of which came from country liquor, was second in importance only to land revenue. It also gave rise to a class of European capitalists for whom the manufacture of liquor, especially beer and rum, became an extremely lucrative business. The history of the manufacture of malt liquors in India, is, to some extent, the history of a series of unsuccessful efforts at establishing an exotic industry, in a country then unfavourably placed for its prosperity as a remunerative enterprise. It was in the nineteenth century, as a consequence of the growth of large European communities and the existence of army contracts, given out by the government to European and Indian brewers, which the industry was able to firmly establish in this country. More about this the next week. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-when-an-age-of-temperance-held-pune-in-a-relative-state-of-sobriety-101642676312778.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Father-son duo booked for rash, negligent driving in Mumbra||The Mumbra police, on Wednesday, booked a father-son duo after the son was allegedly found to be riding his father’s scooter along with five of his friends perched atop precariously. The action was taken after the video of the son and his five friends riding on the said scooter went viral.According to the Mumbra police, the accused have been identified as Manojkumar Gupta (40) and his son Pritam (19), both residents of the MR Complex in Mumbra.The police said that on Wednesday morning, they saw the video on a YouTube channel, in which a young man, later identified as Pritam, was riding a Honda Activa scooter on a busy road, while five of his friends were riding behind him, some sitting, some standing and some barely hanging on. The video was shot by a passing motorist and had only partially captured the license plate of the Activa.“We noted down whatever number and alphabets that were visible in the video, and obtained details of all license plates with those details. We then checked the addresses registered against the license plates and found one in Mumbra, registered to Gupta,” Balasaheb Patil, DCP (Traffic), Thane City, said.A joint team from the Thane Traffic Police and the Mumbra police was sent to the Gupta residence, and the police confirmed that the rider seen in the video was indeed Pritam. Further inquiries also revealed that Pritam did not have a driving license.Subsequently, the police booked Gupta and Pritam for rash and negligent driving under the Indian Penal Code, along with ten different sections of the Motor Vehicles Act, including sections for rash driving, riding a two-wheeler without a helmet, driving a vehicle without a driving license and letting a non-license holder drive one’s vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fatherson-duo-booked-for-rash-negligent-driving-in-mumbra-101642676250134.html
20-01-2022||Patna||Bihar’s Khagaria secures top spot in NITI Aayog rankings, set to get more funds||PATNA: Bihar’s Khagaria district secured the top rank in terms of overall performance for the month of November last year, according to the NITI Aayog’s rankings for a nationwide aspirational programme for districts.NITI Aayog’s CEO Amitabh Kant conveyed the news to Bihar chief secretary Amit Subhani on Wednesday. The top ranking now makes Khagaria district entitled to receive additional grant of ₹10 crore, the NITI Aayog said in its letter to Subhani.It is a significant development for Khagaria since it is one of the most backward districts of the state, which routinely takes a huge battering from floods every year. Khagaria’s district magistrate Alok Ranjan Ghosh said that its top-rank listing was a reflection of the improvement it has shown on a number of key parameters. “It has got the top rank overall as well as on the health indicators. There are five parameters out of which Khagaria showed maximum improvement from its previous position in two. In the rest three, it ranked third or fourth. There is still a long way to go and we want our team to maintain the same tempo. For serious illnesses, people still go to Bhagalpur, Begusarai or Patna. We hope one day Khagaria will be able to cater to its people’s needs within the district,” the DM said.Ghosh said that the district had been primarily focusing on health and education. “Health is one area where improvement can show in a short span of time, name in institutional delivery, anaemia control programme, immunisation, functioning of primary health centres, Covid-19 care and so on... The district has tried to make small but determined efforts to improve. The district was ranked No.1 twice in the past also and we got a funding of ₹13 crore... Now another ₹10 crore means we can have more schemes,” he said.Launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2018, the Aspirational Districts Programme aims to transform and uplift 112 most underdeveloped districts, including 13 from Bihar, from across the country. 
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Leopard found dead near Sanjay Gandhi National Park||MUMBAI: A three-year-old leopard known as C-40 was found dead on a road near Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) on Tuesday, officials said. The animal’s post-mortem ruled out the possibility of any collision with a vehicle. The autopsy attributed the death to blunt trauma, possibly due to a fall from a height, leading to a rupturing of the animal’s liver. The leopard died of internal haemorrhaging that led to hypovolemic shock, a condition in which severe blood loss makes the heart unable to pump enough blood.“We are carrying out further inquiries into the death of the animal,” said G Mallikarjuna, SNGP field director, in a statement.According to the non-profit group Wildlife Protection Society of India, Maharashtra reported the highest number of leopard deaths in the country in 2021 and accounted for 178 out of 614 such deaths. Poaching accounted for nearly 30% of all deaths. Road accidents were the second leading cause of leopard deaths in the state and the country. At least 93 leopards died in road accidents.In November 2020, a pregnant leopardess died after being hit by an unidentified speeding vehicle on the Ghodbunder Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/leopard-found-dead-near-sanjay-gandhi-national-park-101642673610033.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra to reopen schools for all classes from Monday||Schools in Maharashtra will reopen from Monday (January 24) for all classes from 1 to 12, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced on Thursday. "The chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) has given consent to reopen offline schools for classes 1 to 12," Gaikwad said in a statement."However, Covid appropriate behaviour and SoPs issued by the government must be followed," Gaikwad said. Pre-primary schools can also begin physical classes from the same day, as per the order.Earlier this month, the Maharashtra government announced the closure of schools after Covid-19 cases started spiralling from December. The surge which was mostly led by the highly transmissible Omicron variant led to various other restrictions as well, including night curfew.According to the order, the authority to reopen schools has been given to local authorities such as municipal commissioners, district collectors, chief executive officers, education officers. The relaxation is limited to areas where the number of cases is low based on the local Covid-19 situation.In view of the reopening, the state government on Wednesday stressed the need to inoculate students in the age group of 15 to 18 years. The education minister has also asked teaching and non-teaching staff to get fully vaccinated.On Wednesday, the state recorded 43,697 new coronavirus positive cases, 10 per cent more than the previous day, including 214 Omicron infections. The state also saw 49 related fatalities, according to the daily health bulletin.With this, the state's caseload reached 73,25,825, while the fatality count rose to 1,41,934. The overall Omicron tally has reached 1,860.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-reopen-schools-for-all-classes-from-monday-101642670965987.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||2020 Delhi riots: Man who torched a woman’s house slapped with 5-year jail term||NEW DELHI: In the first ever jail sentence over the deadly riots that rocked northeast Delhi in 2020, a city court on Thursday slapped Dinesh Yadav, 25, with five years of imprisonment for torching a 73-year-old woman’s house in Gokalpuri during the communal violence in February that year.Although it is the second sentencing in the cases surrounding the northeast Delhi riots, Thursday’s ruling marks the first conviction and sentencing after a full-fledged trial. In the first sentencing, there was no trial as the accused had pleaded guilty and was let off for the period already undergone.The deadly rioting had claimed 53 lives and left at least 400 people injured.Additional sessions judge Virendra Bhat sentenced Yadav alias Michael for being part of an unlawful assembly, armed rioting using a deadly weapon, trespassing a house, robbery, and committing mischief using fire or an explosive substance with the intention of destroying a house.A detailed order on the sentence was expected to be uploaded on the district court’s website. On December 6, 2021, the court had convicted Yadav in the case and sentencing was pending since then. Yadav was arrested in June 2020 and the charges in the case were framed on August 1, 2021. A total of 12 prosecution witnesses were examined during the trial.Also Read: Delhi riots: HC tells cops to identify errant officials in national anthem caseAccording to the prosecution, Yadav was an “active member of the riotous mob” and took active participation in vandalising and setting afire the house of a 73-year-old woman named Manori on February 25,2020.The woman, who was the complainant in the case, had alleged that a mob of around 150-200 rioters attacked her house when her family was not present and looted all their belongings, including a buffalo.While convicting the accused, the judge had said that his presence among the mob at the scene, with a wooden pole, indicated that he shared the common objective of unlawful assembly and to target a different community.Meanwhile, in the first sentencing on December 17, 2021, the court had let off a convict, awarding him a period already undergone and imposing a fine of ₹2,000 as he accepted his guilt of harbouring Shahrukh Pathan, who was accused of rioting. Earlier, on December 7 last year, the court had convicted Kaleem Ahmed for giving shelter to Pathan at Shamli after he pleaded guilty to his crime. 
20-01-2022||Other||Aunt of kidnapped boy dies in accident a day after his release||PUNE: A day after the return of a four-year-old Pune boy abducted by an unidentified man, his aunt was killed in an accident near Ahmednagar on Thursday. The aunt, along with her family members, was on her way to Pune from Nanded to meet the boy after his kidnapper released him. The car they were travelling in rammed into railings of the bridge on a river in Ahmednagar district, police said.The 36-year-old sister of the boy’s mother died instantly while her two sons were hospitalised and undergoing treatment, said Manoj Patil, superintendent of police, Ahmednagar.The four-year-old boy was kidnapped from Baner on January 11 by a two-wheeler rider. He was later released in the Pimpri Chinchwad area on Wednesday. The latest CCTV footage gathered by police shows the alleged kidnapper releasing the boy and leaving on a two-wheeler.The son of a doctor couple, the boy was with a 12-year-old relative when he was kidnapped while they were walking to a day-care centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aunt-of-kidnapped-boy-dies-in-accident-a-day-after-his-release-101642670428971.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||First sentencing in Delhi riots, man gets 5 years in jail for putting house ablaze||In what comes as the first sentencing in the ill-famed Delhi riots case, a court in the national capital on Thursday punished one Dinesh Yadav with a term of five years in jail for offences that involved rioting and deliberately setting the residence of a Muslim family on fire.Yadav is the first person convicted in connection with the February 2020 riots; in December last year, additional sessions judge Virender Bhatt had held him accountable for being part of a riotous mob that set the said house ablaze. Yadav's sentencing today, condemning him to five years in prison, was also pronounced by Justice Bhatt.A detailed order on the sentencing is still awaited; however, it was reported that Yadav has also been directed to pay a fine of ₹12,000.The prosecution held that Yadav was an “active member of the riotous mob” and participated in vandalising and putting on fire the house of a 73-year-old woman named Manori on February 25 night.Manori had alleged that a mob of around 150-200 rioters attacked her house when her family was not present and looted all the articles and even the buffalo.According to excerpts published by Bar and Bench, the court noted, “The fact that the accused also belongs to the Hindu community and was present in the mob armed with a wooden rod which mob resorted to violence against the Muslims, indicates that he shared the common object of the unlawful assembly.”Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after the violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.The 25-year-old Dinesh Yadav was arrested in connection with the Delhi riots case on June 8, 2020, but charges were framed against him by the court on August 3, 2021, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. He was convicted on December 6 later that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/first-sentencing-in-delhi-riots-man-gets-5-years-in-jail-for-putting-house-ablaze-101642668330358.html
20-01-2022||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports over 2,600 fresh Covid-19 cases, 12 more deaths||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 4,12,939 as 2,617 more people tested positive for the virus, while 12 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,225, a health bulletin said on Thursday.Ranchi district registered the highest number of new cases at 809, followed by 525 in Jamshedpur, it said.The single-day deaths include five fresh fatalities in Jamshedpur and two in Ranchi.The state now has 27,422 active cases, while 3,80,292 people have recovered from the disease so far, including 3,769 in the last 24 hours.Jharkhand tested over 65,047 samples for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of such clinical examinations to 191,70,930, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-over-2-600-fresh-covid-19-cases-12-more-deaths-101642665917518.html
20-01-2022||Bangalore||Seer held for demanding demolition of mosque in K'taka's Chikkamagaluru||The Srirangapatna Police on Tuesday arrested a seer of Kali Mutt in Chikkamagaluru for allegedly issuing a controversial statement demanding the demolition of a mosque and constructing a Hanuman temple.Rishi Kumar, who headed the Kali Mutt in Chikkamagaluru, was arrested and brought to Srirangapatna, said the police.According to police, standing in front of the mosque, which is maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), he had said that this structure should also be demolished like the Babri mosque of Ayodhya.In a video that went viral on social media, he had claimed that the pillars, walls, and water tank on the premises of the mosque symbolised Hindu architecture, hence the mosque must be demolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/seer-held-for-demanding-demolition-of-mosque-in-k-taka-s-chikkamagaluru-101642665140645.html
20-01-2022||Bangalore||Pink spell cast on Namma Bengaluru in January||BengaluruBengaluru is a Nature lover’s delight during this time of the year, for the winter bloom of Tabebuia Rosea trees tend to paint the city in beautiful shades of pink. And the visuals thus created have made their way from the parks and streets of the city to the social media handles of Bengalureans.“This Pink Tabebuia blooming in the cold winter in Bengaluru is a spectacle, it warms my heart. I stop and admire the beauty of this abundance. We enjoy this today because someone planted a tree long ago. Take a deep breath — you are still in eclectic botanic cosmos,” says author Suresh Jayaram, who has written the book Bangalore’s Lalbagh: A Chronicle of the Garden and the City. Speaking about the Cubbon Park in Bengaluru, where one can find many such flowering trees, Jayaram adds, “This garden and these blossoms in the middle of the city are a paradise; a resort for the community, temple of the mind, spa for the body, and clinic for the soul. It is here that we can safely place our hope when all else is lost.”City-based Loveleen Arun, director of a travel company, who recently tweeted an image of these blossoming beauties, says, “The month of January is such a treat for us Bengalureans! And this year, our love for tabebuia blooms has taken over social media. In fact, the picture I shared is by Vinita Chaitanya, a designer based in Bengaluru, who often goes for morning walks in Cubbon Park and posts a lot of the beautiful blooms on Instagram. I agree with her when she says that we should actually have an official Tabebuia Bloom Season for Bengaluru, along the lines of cherry blossoms in Japan. Such a joy these trees are! We are blessed to live in this city.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/pink-spell-cast-on-namma-bengaluru-in-january-101642665511706.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Covid challans: Excuses aplenty for flouting rules||We might be in the third wave of the pandemic, but the true meaning of Covid appropriate behaviour still seems to be taken up lightly by many. Despite the high number of Covid positive cases in Delhi, and an imposition of weekend curfew, the number of Covid challans has gone up. And special teams of Delhi Police, which were formed for the enforcement of Covid-19 protocols, reportedly collected challans worth ₹1 crore, across 11 districts, on last Saturday alone.Mask na pehnne ke 10 bahane!‘Pani pee rahe the isiliye utara tha mask’, ‘Sans nahi aa rahi thi’ ... these are some of the common excuses that police personnel get to hear with they catch people for violating Covid protocols. Even Delhi Police officials enlist some of the excuses as pretty common, such as the ones for not wearing mask. “Log bolte hain just abhi utara tha mask, and give us reasons like they wanted to drink water or that they couldn’t breathe. Ya bolenge ki kha rahe the ya mask abhi abhi toot ke gir gaya. There are very few people who accept that they have done anything wrong,” says Deepak Yadav, DCP New Delhi. Curfew or just weekending?Yadav adds, “During the weekend curfew, essential services are allowed and we are not stopping anyone who is out for groceries or milk or medicines. But kuch log without any reason nikal rahe hain bahar ghumne. Toh phir hum unke naam pe FIR register karte hai.”“Weekend curfew ke time toh bahut log bahar hote hain,” adds Hemant, a volunteer with the Civil Defence Corps, whose duty is to ensure that people are following Covid protocols in Azadpur. “The minute we catch anyone without a mask, we tell them ya toh Covid ka check up karwao, ya phir challan bharo. We have stopped listening to excuses. A lot of teenage boys are out during the weekend curfew and they will give us reasons like, ‘Mummy ne doodh lene ke liye bheja hai!’ But now we can tell by looking at their face that who is lying and who has a genuine reason to be outside,” he says. In fact when Shubham Singhal, an engineer from Paschim Vihar, had to step out to buy some medicines over the weekend, he says he was shocked to see the crowd outside. “I had to step out during the weekend curfew since we needed some important medicines. I had assumed that there won’t be any rush but that was so not the case. Compared to a weekday, roads were empty, but still there were many people outside and it just didn’t feel people are caring about the curfew that has been imposed for our benefit. I remember during the lockdown, one barely found people out on the roads, par abhi toh sab bahar ghum rahe hain bina kisi dar ke,” says Singhal. Rule is a rule“We had to travel urgently to meet my brother who lives in Delhi. It took us about 40 minutes to reach his place. My husband, my 3-year-old son and I were in the car. When we started, we were wearing masks but when we were about to reach we took them off because after the long drive we all feeling suffocated. Just then we were stopped by a cop. We tried to tell him ki abhi utara hai mask kyunki sir dard ho gaya tha pehne huye itne lambe raste mein. We tried a lot to convince him, and even apologised saying ki abhi pehen lete hain but he didn’t listen and we had to pay the fine,” says a Noida-based homemaker, who wishes to remain anonymous. Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-challans-excuses-aplenty-for-flouting-rules-101642662570605.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Politicians continue seeking tickets for kin||NEW DELHI: .On Tuesday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rita Bahuguna Joshi offered to resign as Member of Parliament if the party agreed to field her son, Mayank, to contest the February-March elections in Uttar Pradesh. “He (Mayank) has been working since 2009 and has applied for a ticket from Lucknow Cantt, rightfully. But if the party has decided to give a ticket to only one person per family, I will resign from my present Lok Sabha seat if Mayank gets a ticket,” news agency ANI quoted Joshi as saying.Joshi’s offer came days after Uttar Pradesh minister Swami Prasad Maurya quit the BJP on January 11 and joined the Samajwadi Party. BJP leaders have claimed Maurya, whose daughter is a Member of Parliament of the party, was angry over the denial of ticket to his son. Maurya has denied the claim.Despite BJP’s one family, one candidate’ policy, several leaders in Goa are believed to have sought tickets for their family members. In Uttarakhand, Harak Singh Rawat said he asked for a ticket for his daughter-in-law before he was expelled from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/politicians-continue-seeking-tickets-for-kin-101642660828058.html
20-01-2022||Other||Rajasthan to introduce bill to allocate funds proportional to SC, ST populations||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government plans to introduce a bill in the Budget Session of the assembly to allocate funds for the welfare of Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) proportional to their populations from the next financial year, officials said.The Rajasthan State Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribes Development Fund (Planning, Allocation, and Utilisation of Financial Resources) Bill has been finalised after chief minister Ashok Gehlot promised such a legislation in his 2021-22 Budget speech. HT has seen a copy of the draft bill, which says the state will allocate developmental funds for these communities and issue separate orders for the allocation on year to year basis as per their share in the population. STs account for 12% and SCs 18% of Rajasthan’s population.The Rajasthan government in the 2021-22 Budget allocated ₹1.32 lakh crores for SC and ST communities compared to ₹1.10 lakh crore in 2020-21.The bill says departments will prepare and send proposals for developmental funds to promote equity and for direct and quantifiable benefits to bridge the gaps in the development indicators of these communities. It adds each department will ensure transparency and accountability at all levels in the implementation.Budget Analysis Rajasthan Centre director Nesar Ahmad said the provision for separate fund allocation proportional to the SC and ST populations is already there. “But it is not in the legal framework. The (erstwhile) Planning Commission introduced it during the fifth and sixth five-year plans. The state governments followed these directives but it is difficult to figure out how much allocation has been made and spent by the departments. This (proposed law) will give a legal framework to this allocation...”He said Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand have such laws. Ahmad said recently Punjab brought a similar provision through an ordinance. He added the passage of the bill in Rajasthan will bring transparency and clarity. “Besides, it will be easy to track the allocations made in the Budget.”Centre for Dalit Rights director Satish Kumar said the quality of life of SC and ST is not good and that the legislation will ensure fund allocation for them as per their population, ensuring the upliftment of these communities. “The (proposed law) will help in attaining sustainable development... and overall empowerment as every department has to make separate schemes...”In the objectives and reasons for the bill, Gehlot wrote it was being introduced to bridge the developmental gap and ensure all-round development of SCs and STs.
20-01-2022||Delhi||Cold day conditions to abate in Delhi from today||NEW DELHI: Cold day conditions are likely to abate in Delhi from Thursday with the city expected to record an increase in the minimum temperature by over two degrees even as the air quality was in the “very poor” category. Delhi recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 363 at 7:30 am on Thursday. The AQI was 322 at 4 pm on Wednesday.Maximum temperatures and wind speed are likely to increase gradually, which will enhance ventilation of pollutants and lead to improvement in air quality. From January 21, the wind speed will pick further.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Delhi has faced cold day conditions for about a week as dense upper-level fog made it difficult for sunlight to penetrate to the surface. Shallow fog persisted in the early hours. It was expected to clear out in the second half of the day.The minimum temperature was likely to be 10 degrees Celsius, about 2-3 notches below normal, while the maximum 18 degrees Celsius. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 7.4 degrees Celsius and the maximum 18.1 degree Celsius, a notch lower than normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cold-day-conditions-to-abate-in-delhi-from-today-101642647747270.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: In the company of loneliness||The evening is feeling like night. It is prematurely dark. The air is icy. The street is empty. Everyone appears to be sheltering at home. Even the community dogs have vanished. But this lean lad at the milk booth is standing alert behind the counter. The kiosk’s closing time is 10pm. He will retire to his bed not before 11pm. The bed in question consists of a single chatai (mat) that will be spread out on the milk booth’s floor, along with a single blanket. On most nights, while waiting for the sleep to take over his senses, he says, he tends to think of his “mummy” in the village, and of his warm, comfortable bed at home, and the very many blankets there.“But I fall asleep soon, even though it is so cold nowadays,” says Ravindra Kumar. In his early 20s, he started as a milk booth attendant in this upscale central Delhi neighbourhood a month ago, after arriving in the city from Alwar, Rajasthan. With a colleague away on holidays, he is managing the establishment alone. “I sometimes make my [night-time] bed down there,” he says, pointing to the cramped space where customers queue up for the token-operated toned doodh.The one convenient aspect about Mr Kumar’s previous job in a delivery company’s warehouse was that it was closer to his village. But then, the company shut that warehouse down and he was out of work. Thanks to some strings pulled by a contact of his brother (who works in an automobile plant in Rajasthan), he got the present assignment. “But my dream job…” - Mr Kumar trails off shyly. With some nudging, he longingly talks of the extremely rare possibility of him getting a job, any job, in a government organisation - any organisation. “Maybe, if I find something in the railways…”Talking of his daily life, the young man says he cooks his own meals. It is too expensive to eat outside, he remarks. “Eating out means spending 200 rupees daily on khana.”Yesterday, he made aloo subzi and roti. Tonight’s menu might stay the same. Checking the day’s entries that he has scrawled on the pages of the milk booth’s account register, he murmurs consolingly that “this extreme cold will last for a few days more, and then things will become better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-the-company-of-loneliness-101642633134154.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Interest subvention plan for e-vehicles||The Delhi government on Wednesday signed an agreement with Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL) for providing 5% interest subvention on loans for the purchase of electric rickshaws, autos, carts and light goods vehicles. It also signed an MoU with the firm for the installation of charging and battery swapping stations at cluster bus depots.The interest subvention will help not just individual buyers but also fleet owners deploying vehicles for e-commerce, grocery or delivery industry, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday.The interest subvention on loans on the purchase of electric vehicles in the particular category will be in addition to the purchase incentive of ₹30,000 and scrapping incentives of up to ₹7,500 provided under the Delhi government’s EV Policy, the transport department said in a statement. Through the scheme, an electric auto and electric light commercial vehicle will be able to avail up to ₹25,000 additional benefit, the statement said.Currently, the rate of interest on EVs varies from 25-30% for some vehicle segments which makes owning an electric vehicle a cost-intensive proposition, it said. “The empanelled financial institutions will provide loans with a minimum 80% loan-to-value at interest rates of a maximum of 20% (including the interest subvention) for a loan tenure which is in the best interest of the buyer,’’ the statement said.Gahlot said CESL has also agreed to procure, install, operate and maintain charging units and related infrastructure at 14 cluster bus depots at its own facility costs and expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/interest-subvention-plan-for-evehicles-101642632921913.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||32 years of mass exodus: Kashmiri Pandit’s wounds remain raw, hearts crave for homeland||Thirty-two years on, the wounds of the exiled Kashmiri Pandit community have not healed. However, they have still not lost hope of returning to their homeland someday. While successive regimes did try to soothe their frayed nerves by doling out sops in the form of jobs and promises of resettlement, January 19, 1990 is marked as a black day – the day the entire Kashmiri Pandit community had to flee the Valley amid calls of “ Cheliv, Galiv ya Raliv (leave,die or support us)” by Islamist radicals. “I was nine years old when my family fled Valley. We had a three-storeyed palatial house on eight canals in Amirakadal. The house was torched in 1992 in the aftermath of Babri mosque demolition. It remains in dilapidated condition now,” recalled 40-year-old Sunit Kachroo. “We lived in inhumane conditions with scores of other Kashmiri Pandits s in tents in Prukhoo till 1992 and then my father purchased a small piece of land and constructed a room,” he added. “While my father breathed his last in 2017 with a wish to return to his roots, my mother still calls our Srinagar house as her real home. My father was caught in a sort of time warp. Though he shouldered all his responsibilities of a father, he couldn’t find happiness in anything after 1990,” said Sunit. Yamini Kaul, who now lives in Delhi, said, “January 19, 1990 remains a painful reminder to all Kashmiri Pandits of an unbearable loss of their homes, livelihoods, cultural moorings, and much more than just a piece of land. Even 32 years later, there is a gaping wound in our lives, which refuses to heal unless the status quo is changed. My son, who is seven years old, would never know Kashmir the way his parents and grandparents knew. Who will be answerable for that sense of disconnect for a whole generation of Kashmiri Pandit kids”. Yamini recalled she was 13 when her family home in Jammu became the base for several Pandit families fleeing from Kashmir in the aftermath of January 19, 1990. “During those months, I was witness to a humongous tragedy unfolding as each family reached Jammu, heartbroken, desperate to return, and clinging on to that tiny sliver of hope, which remains a painful reminder to all Kashmiri Pandits of an unbearable loss of their homes, livelihoods and cultural moorings”, she said. The community observes January 19 every year as a holocaust day. A 75- year old Kashmiri Pandit, who insisted anonymity, recalled how his eldest son was shot dead by the terrorists in Shopian bus stand in 1990. “I still remember the day when my eldest son was shot dead at the bus stand and how I along with my wife and two sons had to flee our home in the dead of night,” he said. “We had a vast orchard, a big house and a thriving business but we had to leave everything behind,” he said. The old man said that the wounds of losing a son and leaving behind home and hearth can never be healed. Meanwhile, to mark the day Panun Kashmir, a frontal organization of the Pandits organised a webinar and took a renewed pledge to rededicate itself to the cause of a separate homeland in Kashmir. Meanwhile, Omar Abdullah, in a tweet, said, “Sadly Kashmiri Pandits are no closer to being able to return to the valley than they have been in the recent past. Along with a clear-cut policy, a greatly improved security environment would be essential precursors to facilitate a return. We hope & pray that day is not far.” 
20-01-2022||Delhi||Focus on destitute as govt widens the vaccine net for kids||Fifteen-year-old Gunjan holds a stack of books in one hand and her year-old brother in the other, waiting for the traffic signal at central Delhi’s Barakhamba Road crossing to turn red so that she can go around the vehicles, making her sale for the day.Within 500 metres of the signal are two vaccination centres open for children her age, but Gunjan says that she cannot afford to lose a day’s earnings to get her Covid-19 vaccination. “Also, I don’t have a mobile phone to register for vaccination. And I don’t have the time to go and get the shot, I have to be here through the day,” she says, when asked about vaccination.With around 50% of eligible teenagers in the 15-18 age group vaccinated in the Capital since inoculations started on January 3 this year, senior officials from the health department said that they will now focus on homeless and out of school children like Gunjan to increase the vaccine coverage, with some help from resident welfare associations (RWA) and market associations.Officials said the government will also increase the number of vaccination centres for teenagers, especially in localities where the number of registrations is higher.Delhi government data shows that of the 1, 001,000 children in the 15-18 years age category in the Capital, first doses have been administered to 613,865.Officials said that they are planning to conduct awareness drives with RWAs, market associations and citizen’s groups to bring underprivileged and street children around them to the nearest vaccination centres.“...every day we are managing to immunise nearly 40,000 to 50,000 children. But now our focus is to get the underprivileged children because we know that children from upper and middle-class families will get access to the vaccine. These unaccounted children are also our responsibility,” said a senior health official.Officials said that once the children are brought to the vaccination centres, government teams will help them get registered on the Co-WIN portal, administer their doses and follow up with them on their health post the shot.Delhi government officials also said that they will now progressively increase the number of vaccination centres for teens. There are 220 vaccination centres for children in the Capital now, up from 159 when the vaccination started for children on January 3.“There are some centres where we are getting 200-300 children every day, but there are also centres where, in an entire day, only five-six children turn up. While our strategy is to increase the centres, it will be need-based,” a senior government official said.Experts said that involving the general public to get more children in the eligible age category to vaccination centres will be helpful.“It is a good message that the government is sending. If a child under 18 in the neighbourhood has not received the jab yet, RWA representatives can get in touch with their parents and make arrangements to take them to the centres. This way we are also making our neighbourhoods safer because the more people around us get vaccinated, the less chance there is of a severe infection. The aim should be to push this as much as possible through awareness drives and social media campaigns,” said Anubhav Bhatt, co-founder of ‘Sarthi’, an NGO that works with street children in Delhi-NCR.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Aerial ropeway connects Dharamshala to McLeodganj||The Dharamshala Skyway, an aerial ropeway connecting the tourist destinations of Dharamshala and Mcleodganj, was inaugurated on Wednesday. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the ₹207 crore skyway, which is likely to reduce traffic congestion and boost tourism at the tourist destination. “The project was developed as a public-private-partnership project by Dharamshala Ropeway Limited and Himachal Pradesh’s tourism and civil aviation department,” the CM said.In peak tourist season it may take several hours to travel from Dharmashala to McLeodganj, however the skyway has cut travel time to just nine minutes. The skyway, which has a mono-cable detachable gondola (cabin) system, with 18 gondolas and a capacity of ferrying 1,000 persons per hour.Covid norms tossed to the wind While the common man is being penalised for not following coronavirus guidelines, the politicians were seen flouting rules with abandon. Even the CM, who just a day ago had hinted at imposing strict curbs, was seen without mask while posing for a selfie during the inaugural ride. Social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary, industry minister Bikram Thakur, Rajya Sabha Member Indu Goswami, Dharamshala MLA Vishal Nehria and a Ropeway Company official were in the same gondola, all of them smiling sans masks for the camera.Chaos prevailed at the terminal as people violated the social distancing norms and jostled against each other to avail a free ride. Amid all this, cops and administrative officers were mute spectators. Fare too high: ResidentsResidents were sceptical about whether the skyway will be able to meet its primary objective of reducing congestion as the ride does not come cheap. A one-way ticket will cost ₹300, while a two-way ride will cost ₹500. Former minister Sudhir Sharma, who had conceived the idea, also joined issue saying, “Why would people shell so much money on a skyway ride, when five people can go to and fro in a cab for just ₹200? Locals will also prefer private vehicles over the aerial ropeway.” Salient features Type: Mono-cable detachable gondola system Cost: ₹144 crore Length: 1.75km Number of cabins: 18 Cabin capacity: 8 Capacity: 1,000 person/ hour (one side) Travel time: 9 minutes One-way ticket: ₹300 Two-way ticket: ₹500 TimelineFeb 13, 2015: Government approves the project June 8, 2015: Letter of award issued January 16, 2016: Foundation stone laid June 1, 2017: Forest clearance granted January 19, 2022: Ropeway inaugurated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aerial-ropeway-connects-dharamshala-to-mcleodganj-101642631905004.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Seven more succumb to Covid in HP, 2,682 more test +ve||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid tally crossed the 2.5-lakh mark on Wednesday after 2,682 people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. The case count has reached 2,52,042, while the death toll has mounted to 3,892. At 650, the highest cases were reported from Solan, 497 from Kangra, 421 from Shimla, 361 from Mandi, 258 from Una, 240 from Sirmaur, 226 from Hamirpur, 183 from Bilaspur, 122 from Kinnaur, 118 from Kullu, 70 from Chamba and two from Lahaul-Spiti.Two fatalities were reported from Chamba and one each from Hamirpur, Kangra, Shimla, Solan and Una. The active cases have climbed to 14,918 while the recoveries reached 2,33,188 after 1,861 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-more-succumb-to-covid-in-hp-2-682-more-test-ve-101642631724521.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Multiple avalanches hit Lahaul-Spiti, 60 rescued||Shimla/ Around 60 stranded people were rescued after multiple avalanches struck at Ropsang Nullah and Mooling in Lahaul and Spiti on Tuesday evening. A joint team of emergency workers comprising the Lahaul-Spiti Police and Border Roads Organisation (BRO) personnel carried out the rescue operation. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said information was received at around 4pm on Tuesday that two avalanches had struck at Ropsang Nullah, about 27 kilometers from district headquarters Keylong, and Mooling, which is 12 kilometres away). “Later, at 5pm two more avalanches hit Mooling and it was learnt that five vehicles carrying 60 people were stranded due to blockades on either sides, said Kumar. Among those stranded were 35 men, 19 women and six children, most of them belonging from Pangi of Chamba district,” the DC said. Despite hostile conditions, including -15 °C temperature, strong cold winds and an altitude of 10,000, the rescue workers safely evacuated the stranded passengers who were taken to Kelyong for overnight stay at Circuit house. Snow, rain forecast The meteorology department has forecast rain and snow in the state for next five days. Shimla meteorological centre director Surender Paul said a yellow weather alert had been sounded for rainfall in the plains and heavy snow in middle and high hills on January 22 and 23. Meanwhile, there was no respite from the biting cold in the state as the sky was mostly overcast across the state. Keylong was the coldest with a minimum temperature of -8.6°C, while Kalpa shivered at - 1.6°C. The capital city, Shimla, recorded a low of 5.1°C and the famous tourist resort in Manali recorded a temperature of 1.5°C. Kufri and Dalhousie saw a low of 4°C each, while Dharamshala recorded minimum temperature of 5.6 °C and Palampur 5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/multiple-avalanches-hit-lahaul-spiti-60-rescued-101642631484648.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Restrictions on unscheduled flights at IGI||Flight operations will be impacted at the Delhi airport for around three hours everyday for seven days between January 19 and January 26 for Republic Day flypast preparations as no unscheduled flights will be allowed to land at the airport, a notice to the airmen (NOTAM) said.While scheduled flights for all airlines will still be able to land, the NOTAM said no unscheduled flight will be allowed to land between 10.15am and 1.15pm from January 19 until January 24. On Republic Day, no unscheduled flight will be allowed to land from 7am to 1pm, and from 2pm to 6.30pm.A similar set of restrictions will also apply to unscheduled flights from 2pm to 7pm on January 29, the day of Beating Retreat. The restrictions do not apply to IAF, BSF, army aviation helicopters, or state-owned aircraft and helicopters ferrying the governor and chief ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restrictions-on-unscheduled-flights-at-igi-101642631014794.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Five people die after consuming spurious liquor in Mandi||Five people were killed after they consumed spurious liquor in Sundernagar of Mandi district on Wednesday.The victims had allegedly consumed the “Santra” brand of countrymade liquor, which is manufactured by VRV Foods Limited Sansarpur Terrace, Kangra, and 999 Power Star Fine Whiskey manufactured by a Chandigarh-based company in Salapar area of Sundernagar. After their health deteriorated on January 18, their family members rushed them to the civil hospital in Sundernagar, from where they were rushed to Government Medical College, Nerchowk. The first causality took place early on Wednesday and five people have succumbed since.The victims’ kin have blamed the liquor mafia, who allegedly smuggles in spurious liquor for the tragedy. They have also alleged that no action had been taken against the mafia despite making several complaints to the police and local administration. The aggrieved families also alleged that the liquor mafia had dumped cases of the liquor at a secluded place after the tragedy unfolded.Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said the liquor vend from where the hooch had been purchased had been sealed, and two people had been taken into custody. A case has been registered under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (culpable homicide) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal code at the Sundernagar police station.SIT to probe case The Himachal Pradesh government has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case. The SIT will be headed by deputy inspector general (DIG, central range) Madhududan with SP Kangra Khushal Chand Sharma, SP Mandi Shalini Agnihotri and SP (Crime) CID Shimla Virendra Kalia as its members.Sundernagar MLA Rakesh Jamwal said the kin of the deceased will be given ₹8 lakh compensation of which ₹4 lakh will be given from the CM Relief Fund, and the district administration will chip in an equal sum.“An immediate assistance of ₹50,000 has been provided to the next of kin of the victims. The government will bear the bills of the people still under treatment,” the MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-people-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-mandi-101642631124499.html
20-01-2022||Other||Rain, snow lash parts of Jammu and Kashmir||With the cold wave intensifying, parts of Jammu and Kashmir received fresh snowfall on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast cloudy weather in the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh with the possibility of light rainfall and snow at scattered places over the next two days. Predicting light spells of light rainfall and snow over the next 10 days, the IMD said, “The weather will remain cloudy in both regions with possibility of light rain and snow at scattered places. Mainly, dry weather is expected from January 24 onwards.”The meteorological department said there was no prediction of major snowfall till the end of this month. The fresh rain and snow led to drop in the day temperature and improvement in night temperature, which was sub-zero at many places.Drass shivers at -19.2°C, Gulmarg at -6°CThe minimum temperature in Srinagar is 2.7 °C, Pahalgam is shivering at -1.9 °C and Gulmarg at -6°C. In Ladakh, Drass was shivering at -19.2°C, Leh at -11.4 °C and Kargil at -11. °C. Jammu city recorded a minimum temperature of 9.1 °C, Katra 6.2 °C, Batote 3.6 °C, Banihal 1.4 °C and Bhaderwah 1.1 °C. The mercury settled at -1.3°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu.J&K had witnessed widespread rain and snowfall between January 4 and 8 leading to the closure of the Srinagar-Jammu highway and the cancellation of hundreds of flights at the Srinagar International Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-snow-lash-parts-of-jammu-and-kashmir-101642630644523.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Old drinking age despite new excise policy in place||Delhi may have a new liquor policy, but two of the key promises made previously -- the lowering of the legal drinking age to 21, and a reduction in the number of dry days to 3 -- appear to have remained just that for now, promises.Neither is mentioned in the final policy that was notified by the government.In a press conference on March 22 last year, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also the city’s excise minister, announced that the union territory’s government would embark on a new excise regime by slashing the legal age of drinking to 21, exiting the retail alcohol business, overhauling a labyrinthine tax system, and reducing the number of dry days to 3.All these were to be included in a sweeping new policy meant to boost the city’s revenue, crack down on the liquor mafia, and improve user experience.While the parts about the government quitting the retail business of liquor and restructuring taxes by charging it all upfront are explained in detail in the new policy, the document is silent when it comes to the other two aspects.But since the two other decisions were announced by the government, it has led to confusion among customers. On November 23, HT reported how some liquor store owners were displaying posters at their stores saying “liquor sales not allowed to those below 21 years of age”.The excise department later issued a clarification referencing the HT report : “It is clarified that as per the excise policy 2021-22, presently, legal age of drinking in NCT of Delhi remains as 25 years. In case of any changes in respect of legal age of drinking in NCT of Delhi, the same shall be communicated separately to all concerned.”A senior government official said on condition of anonymity that both decisions -- on the legal drinking age and the number of dry days -- had the necessary approvals from all concerned authorities.“But gauging the situation, the political executive was of the opinion that the two should be put on hold for some time. It is not that the government is not willing to do it, but the reason could be political in nature.”To implement both decisions, the excise department has to issue separate notifications.Though the Delhi government did not comment on the matter, in an interview to HT last month, Sisodia said that the government has approved the plan to reduce the legal drinking age, but he did not clarify when it will be implemented. “The notification will be issued in due course of time. There’s no problem there,” Sisodia told HT on December 8.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress have opposed the new excise regime. The BJP-led MCDs have even sealed at least 30 new liquor stores since November last year, while court cases are going on against several other outlets.“Municipal elections are scheduled in about two months. So, it is very unlikely that such decision (on the legal age or number of dry days) will be taken anytime soon,” a senior excise official said on condition of anonymity.In September 2015, the then seven-month-old Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government first floated the idea of reducing the legal drinking age in the Capital. Delhi is one of only six states or Union territories that pegs the benchmark at 25, encouraging people to misrepresent their age, force restaurants to be lax in monitoring or lose out on revenue, and present young people with the option of travelling to watering holes in the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh, which allows drinking at 21.Delhi is now the only metropolitan city with the high drinking age – even in Mumbai, only hard liquor is barred for those under 25, while wine and beer is allowed at 21. In major global cities such as New York and London, the drinking age is 21 and 18 respectively.As per the draft proposal, the only three dry days in Delhi were supposed to be on Republic Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti. At present, Delhi has 21 dry days, one of the highest compared to most states and UTs in India.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Feathered guests alight, rare species also make a pit stop in Kashmir||The snow-covered scenic wetlands and lakes of Kashmir are hosting winged guests from across Europe, Japan, China and Central Asia, including some rare species. Wildlife experts and bird watchers say this year around 10 to 12 rare species are visiting the Himalayan region.Wildlife warden, wetlands, Ifshan Dewan said around 3.5 lakh birds have arrived at Srinagar’s biggest wetland, Hokersar, while around 2.5 lakh birds have graced Hygam wetland in north Kashmir’s Baramulla.This is huge improvement from last year when few birds had stopped at Hokersar due to low water-levels. “Last year, the arrival of birds was affected owing to low water level at Hokersar, but this year we have made timely interventions by working on bunding and breaches, which had helped water retention,” Dewan said.Kashmir has around 400 waterbodies, of which 25 are the winter haunt of migratory birds. At present, the Valley has nine wetlands, of the 13 in Jammu and Kashmir.Shalbough, in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district, is the biggest wetland spread over 16 square kilometres, Hokersar on the city’s outskirts covers around 13.5 square kilometres, while Hygam in north Kashmir is spread across nine square kilometres. Chatlam wetland in south Kashmir’s Pampore also attracts several migratory species.Despite a good water-level few birds have arrived at Shalboug so far. Dewan says, “The water level at Shalboug is good, but few birds have arrived so far. Usually, the birds start arriving in January-end and February, so there is still time. Pampore also hosts a good number of bird species.” The birds travel from the colder areas of the world flying over continents in flocks. The birds that arrive here every year are mallards, greylag geese, pochards, common tails, shovelers, pintails and gharwals, which visit the region between October and April.“This year birders have sighted around 10-20 new species, including the whooper swan and waders. Some new species were spotted last year as well. These exotic species are rarely sighted in the region,” Dewan said, adding that the department will be carrying out a census by February-end. For the last two years, the department’s census reports are pegging the number of birds whoarrive here annually at 8-10 lakh.The wetlands had seen large-scale poaching of migratory birds during the early years of militancy. However, now vigilance has been stepped up and encroachments on wetlands have also come down to a large extent. Dewan said they have established control rooms to stop poaching of birds.“Poaching does happen but we have established control rooms at Hokersar, Wular, Dal and Shalbough which work 24X7. There is constant patrolling. and whenever we get information of any poaching incident, our teams reach the spot,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/feathered-guests-alight-rare-species-also-make-a-pit-stop-in-kashmir-101642630404455.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Forged promotion orders: Mohali cyber cell inspector, dismissed sub-inspector arrested||Probing further into the forgery of orders to promote 11 Punjab Police personnel under the name of a former Punjab DGP, the Chandigarh Police have arrested a Mohali police inspector and a dismissed sub-inspector (SI).The latest arrests include inspector Satwant Singh Sidhu, 48, currently posted with the Mohali police cyber cell, and dismissed sub-inspector Sarabjit Singh, 47.With this, the total number of arrests has reached five, including Sandeep Kumar, 55, and Bahadur Singh, 52, both working as superintendents in the Punjab DGP’s office, and head constable Mani Katoch, 33, whose name figured in the fake promotion list.Apart from the forged orders, a dispatch register, Sandeep’s laptop, a computer CPU, mobile phone and a car have been seized in the case.The matter came to fore in the second week of January after an officer with the Punjab DGP office, Sector 9, Chandigarh, approached the Chandigarh Police that he had received four fake promotion orders under the forged signature of former Punjab DGP, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya.A special investigation team was formed and all beneficiaries were interrogated. “The five accused arrested played active and vital roles in preparing the forged orders in connivance with each other,” said police.“All accused have been sent to four-day police remand,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh. They are facing a case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 464 (false document in the name of a fictitious person), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, or to receive any money, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, registered at the Sector 3 police station.Meanwhile, inspector Satwant, who has been accused of helping the accused prepare forged orders, claimed that he was being falsely implicated in the case owing to professional rivalry. Main accused at large Police sources, privy to the case, said the main accused, Harwinder Singh, who is also among the beneficiaries of the forged orders, was at large.Presently posted at the Sohana police station, he has not been reporting for duty. The forged order featured a special mention that Harwinder, a local-rank sub-inspector (SI), will be immediately promoted as officiating SI for good work in a blind murder case and an NDPS case registered at the Sohana station. Collected up to ₹10 lakh from each beneficiarySources said dismissed SI Sarabjit approached the beneficiaries with promotion offers, claiming good relations with the DGP and also conducted a meeting at his residence to execute the forgery.After being introduced by Sarabjit, Harwinder collected ₹5 to 10 lakh from each beneficiary, and paid ₹50,000 to Sandeep for preparing the forged promotion order and ₹20,000 to Bahadur, who visited the DGP office in the night to release it after marking it with a diary number. Mani typed the forged orders in the laptop of Sandeep on his instructions, following which the latter and Bahadur handed over the promotion order to Harwinder, who further gave it to Satwant. Accused surrounded by controversiesInspector Satwant has been embroiled in controversies earlier as well. In September 2019, Satwant, who was then posted as Mohali CIA in-charge, was booked by the special task force (STF) after his name cropped up in a case regarding the illegal release of a drug supplier.The case was lodged against SI Sukhmander Singh, then posted at Saneta police post, for letting off a drug supplier in lieu of ₹7.3 lakh.Earlier in July 2019, Satwant, was placed under suspension after an accused in a robbery case approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, accusing him of extortion and illegal custody.Sarabjit was dismissed from service after heroin was recovered from his house in Nayagaon by a police team from Fatehgarh Sahib. His name had also figured in the infamous Jagdish Bhola drug case. 
20-01-2022||Kolkata||Kolkata businessman held by NIA in Jharkhand case for financing Maoists||KOLKATA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested Mahesh Agarwal, a Bengal-based businessman, from the eastern outskirts of Kolkata on charges of funding Maoists in Jharkhand, said local police officers aware of the development.Agarwal was arrested from Salt Lake in the morning. NIA team was also looking for two business partners of Agarwal but they could not be traced. The NIA team came from Ranchi and conducted the raid after meeting their counterparts based in Kolkata, city police officers said. NIA did not make any statement till late evening. Leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, alleged that Agarwal was close to a legislator of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Adhikari, however, did not name anyone. “Agarwal should be charged under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for helping anti-national forces,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-businessman-held-by-nia-in-jharkhand-case-for-financing-maoists-101642628604238.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Harjeet Singh joins as new Mohali SSP||Harjeet Singh, the new senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali, took charge on Wednesday.A 2010-batch Indian Police Service officer, he has replaced Navjot Singh Mahal, a Punjab Police Service officer, who had joined as the Mohali SSP in October 2021. The latter hasn’t received his next appointment yet. On Tuesday, the Election Commission had ordered the transfer of eight SSPs in Punjab, ahead of the February 20 Assembly elections.Prior to his posting in Mohali, Harjeet also served as AIG (Intelligence), and SSP of Taran Taran, Barnala and Fazilka. After joining office on Wednesday, he said, “Prevention of crime, and proper law and order maintenance will be my priority. I will adopt zero tolerance towards corruption and police officials will have to discharge their duties honestly. Ensuring justice for victims will also be among my foremost tasks.”He added that in view of Republic Day and assembly elections in February, police presence will be increased at all major points in the district to check illegal activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harjeet-singh-joins-as-new-mohali-ssp-101642628198205.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala: 42 staffers test positive at MC office, public dealing shut for two days||Public dealing at the Ambala municipal corporation was suspended for two days on Wednesday after 42 staffers were found positive for Covid-19. “Samples were collected from 90 employees and 42 were found infected. Therefore, public dealing has been shut down till Friday as a preventive measure,” said deputy municipal commissioner Aman Dhandha. As per an MC order, employees need to work from home on January 20 and 21, and also remain available to attend office for urgent works. Meanwhile, the district reported 593 new infections on Wednesday, pushing the active cases to 4,062. A 41-year-old woman from Shahzadpur, who was suffering from heart disease, also succumbed to the virus. As many as 521 people have succumbed to Covid in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-42-staffers-test-positive-at-mc-office-public-dealing-shut-for-two-days-101642628196774.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Indian Oil, Chandigarh petrol pump to pay ₹5,000 for overcharging||Charging a customer for 51.47 litres of diesel for a car with only 48-litre fuel capacity has cost the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and its petrol pump in Sector 33-B dear.Terming them guilty of unfair trade practice, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed them to pay ₹5,000 as compensation to the complainant, Aryan Jajma, of Preet Nagar, Zirakpur.In his complaint, Jajma had alleged that in January 2020, he had visited the Sector-33 petrol pump to get his Maruti Vitara Brezza refuelled.Much to his astonishment, the fuel machine showed 51.47 litres of diesel had been filled, while his car’s fuel capacity was only 48 litres and it already had around 10 litres of diesel in it.When Jajma sought to see the automation record, he was turned down, following which he filed a complaint with the petrol pump. But it was also not addressed, prompting him to move court.In their response, the petrol pump officials said the fuel capacity mentioned by the car manufacturer was just the safe filing limit and not the actual capacity, which was usually at least 15-20% higher, allowing the tank to hold a few extra litres.The commission observed that as per the car manual, the fuel tank had extra space for fuel expansion in hot weather. Besides, the car already had some fuel in it to reach the filling station and yet the petrol pump filled 51.47 litres of diesel. “It clearly establishes that either the petrol pump’s fuel filling system or the machine malfunctioned and the complainant was wrongly made to pay in excess,” it said.“The opposition parties failed to render proper services to the complainant. Therefore, deficiency in service as well as unfair trade practice are proved, which certainly caused financial loss and harassment to the complainant,” the commission said in its order and directed them to pay ₹5,000 as compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indian-oil-chandigarh-petrol-pump-to-pay-5-000-for-overcharging-101642628195501.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||After short downturn, Chandigarh tricity’s Covid cases cross 3,000 mark again||After receding for two days, tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases once again breached the 3,000 mark on Wednesday, as 3,185 people tested positive.After hitting the all-time high of 3,907 cases on January 16, the tricity had seen the figure remain below 3,000 over the next two days, with 2,215 and 2,966 cases, respectively.Chandigarh was the biggest contributor to the spike on Wednesday with 1,502 cases, against 1,275 the day before. Panchkula also saw its daily tally rising from 416 to 452 in the past 24 hours, while Mohali’s infections dipped from 1,275 to 1,231.The jump in daily cases pushed tricity’s active cases to 20,680, up from 20,535 on Tuesday. At 9,966, Chandigarh has the highest number of infected patients, followed by Mohali with 8,574 and Panchkula with 2,140.Positivity rate also shoots up againMore number of cases also translated into higher positivity rate across the tricity.Mohali logged a positivity rate of 27%, higher than 22% a day ago. In Chandigarh, 25.9% samples tested positive, compared to 21.9% on Tuesday, and Panchkula logged an increase from 15% to 19%.Four more dead in tricityAfter a total of seven deaths on Tuesday, Mohali and Chandigarh recorded four more deaths on Wednesday.The two patients, who died in Chandigarh, were a 78-year-old woman from Sector 23 and a 73-year-old man from Sector 47. They both succumbed at private hospitals. While the male deceased, who was also a patient of coronary artery disease, hypertension and diabetes, was fully vaccinated, the woman was not. She was also suffering from multiple organ dysfunction syndrome.Mohali’s latest fatalities were a 40-year-old female, who lived in Dera Bassi, and a 72-year-old from Mohali city. They died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and PGIMER, Chandigarh, respectively. “Both patients were fully vaccinated, but had comorbidities,” said Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali.As many as 37 people have succumbed to the virus in the tricity this month following the surge in infections – 20 in Mohali, 14 in Chandigarh and three in Panchkula. In comparison, seven people died in December, including three in Chandigarh, and two each in Panchkula and Mohali.With this, the death toll in Chandigarh and Mohali has reached 1,094 and 1,093, respectively, far ahead of 384 deaths in Panchkula.Mohali has recorded 82,652 Covid infections till date, but 72,984 patients in the city have recovered. Chandigarh’s caseload of 81,269 includes 70,210 recoveries.In Panchkula, 35,548 out of total 38,072 patients have been cured.44 people on ventilator support in Chandigarh hospitalsMore beds are being occupied by Covid-19 patients in government and private hospitals of Chandigarh with the rise in fresh infections. On Wednesday, as many as 44 patients were on ventilator support. A total 219 ventilator and ICU beds are available in city hospitals, which are seeing admissions of residents of Chandigarh as well as other states. A total of 394 out of the 1,247 oxygenated beds are also occupied.UT adviser tests positiveUT adviser Dharam Pal tested positive for Coivd-19 on Tuesday, the UT health department confirmed on Wednesday. “The adviser has isolated himself at his residence and his medical condition is stable. He is working and reviewing all Covid-management plans from home,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-short-downturn-chandigarh-tricity-s-covid-cases-cross-3-000-mark-again-101642628193624.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||2.2 lakh people skipped Covid vaccine’s second dose in Mohali||Even as Panchkula has achieved 100% double-dose vaccination coverage, over 2.2 lakh people in Mohali have skipped Covid vaccine’s second dose after the due date. According to Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur a total of 10,01,792 people had been vaccinated in the district till date and among them, 6,05,326 had received both doses. But 2,20,964 people had not turned up for the second dose even after the due date, rendering the first dose ineffective, as both doses were required for better immunity against the virus. The number of eligible adult beneficiaries in the district is 7,43,811, but several people from other districts and states have also been immunised in Mohali.97,967 adults in Chandigarh have also delayed second shotIn Chandigarh as well, 97,967 adults have not turned up for the second jab. This includes residents of Chandigarh and other states who got the first shot in the city’s vaccination centres.Chandigarh’s target is to immunise around 8.4 lakh eligible people. The city’s first-dose coverage stands at 126% with 10,65,940 people, including people from other states, having been vaccinated, and 8,35,524 (99.11%) are fully vaccinated.Due to people missing the second dose, UT has already missed its target of fully vaccinating its entire eligible population by December 31, 2021. To achieve the goal, the UT health department has been contacting the eligible people from a special call centre set up at the Chandigarh Housing Board office in Sector 9.“In the past two days, the teams have made telephone calls to over 20,000 people with overdue vaccination. The common answers given by people are that they were busy, had forgotten or that they do not remember the date of first dose. But these are all excuses, despite health department’s best efforts to vaccinate the entire eligible population. Health teams are even visiting their addresses to vaccinate them,” said UT health secretary, Yashpal Garg. He appealed to all eligible people to end the vaccination hesitancy and come forward to get jabbed at the earliest for better protection against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/22-lakh-people-skipped-covid-vaccine-s-second-dose-in-mohali-101642628192185.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Saajz receives death threat, FIR lodged in Mohali||Punjabi singer Sajan Sharma, aka Saajz, on Wednesday received a death threat over a phone call, Zirakpur police said.Fiancé of Punjabi singer and former Bigg Boss 15 contestant Afsana Khan, Sharma told the police that the caller claimed to be gangster Sukhpreet Singh and threatened to kill him in no time if he laid eyes on his (Sharma’s) estranged wife Anugrah.On his complaint, police have registered a case under Sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified caller based on his mobile phone number.It may be mentioned that Anugrah had filed a petition in court, accusing Sharma of cheating her and getting married again without divorcing her. In her plea, she claimed that she married Sharma on September 6, 2014, with the consent of her parents, and they also had a daughter in February 2016. After marriage, they had been living in Zirakpur, but she returned to her parents’ house in Raipur, Chattisgarh, after Sharma tortured her for dowry, she has alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-singer-saajz-receives-death-threat-fir-lodged-in-mohali-101642628190546.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Heavy rain predicted in Chandigarh on Saturday||After a streak of foggy days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted chances of heavy rain in the city on Saturday.“A fresh western disturbance will affect the region from Friday onwards. The system will be stronger around Saturday, when isolated spells of heavy rain are expected. Rain is also likely to continue on Sunday, which will be followed by more fog in the coming week,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature went up from 11°C to 14.6°C in the past 24 hours, but was still seven degrees below normal, making Wednesday another “severe cold day”. But after three days, the city was once again warmer than Shimla, where the maximum temperature was 12.5°C.Visibility also stayed between 500 and 1,000 metres (moderate) during the whole day at the Sector 39 IMD observatory.There was a slight drop in the minimum temperature – from 9.1°C to 9°C, but it was three notches above normal. It will remain in the same range over the next three days, while the day temperature may decrease to 11°C again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-predicted-in-chandigarh-on-saturday-101642628189014.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||In battle against pandemic, female health staff also fighting harassment, stalking||Fighting bravely against the Covid-19 pandemic, which is once again raging across Panchkula district, female healthcare workers here are dealing with another battle – harassment, stalking and unruly behaviour. While Panchkula today is among only three districts in Haryana to have achieved 100% double-dose vaccination coverage, besides Ambala and Gurugram, female healthcare workers say the road to achieving the target was riddled with several distressing experiences.From dealing with abuses, derogatory words and harassing phone calls late at night, disturbing their sleep and peace of mind, the workers have had to face a lot of humiliation and still continue to.“To convince citizens to get vaccinated, health teams, including women, were given phone numbers, which they would call from their personal mobile phones. While during the day, men would use foul and intimidating language, at night they would make inappropriate calls to the female staff,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer, Panchkula.“This left the staff emotionally and mentally drained. Still pursuing wide vaccination coverage, they relentlessly contacted people from other phone numbers. They were guided not to lose their cool and politely disconnect the call, without losing focus on the bigger picture,” Dr Sasan said, adding that despite dealing with these unexpected struggles, the healthcare staff valiantly helped Panchkula fully vaccinate 100% of its eligible population.Still their days at work continue to be filled with unpleasant episodes. A woman doctor posted at the Sector-21 government dispensary, requesting not to be named, said, “While I was on a phone call regarding delivering home kits to patients in isolation, a patient’s mother, who was not wearing a mask, started yelling at me. On my request to wear a mask, she started questioning my credibility and threatened to complain against me.”Dr Mankirat Kaur, spokesperson from the chief medical officer’s office, shared complaints from female healthcare staff regarding threatening behaviour were common and she herself had been victim to it.“After I tried to pacify and guide a male caller, who had not received his RT-PCR test result, he rudely interjected me with ‘main dikhata hun nazaare aapko (Wait for the consequences),” she said.She further shared that people also get unruly when asked to get tested for Covid before being attended to by a dentist at the government facilities.“Often patients start shouting at the staff, leaving them threatened at work. Why should health staff have to face this behaviour when they are working overtime and without leave amid the pandemic?” she questioned.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Three Mohali leaders return to Congress fold after a year||Giving a fillip to the Congress campaign in Mohali, three former Congressmen, Inderjeet Singh Khokhar, Parminder Singh Rehal, and Khushwant Singh Ruby, on Wednesday returned to the party fold in the presence of Mohali MLA and Congress candidate Balbir Singh Sidhu.All three leaders had switched their loyalties to the AAP-Azad alliance during the 2021 Mohali MC elections. “We have returned after getting disillusioned with the working and policies of Kulwant Singh. We have full faith in Balbir Sidhu’s leadership and have realised that only the Congress has the vision to help Mohali growth further,” they said.Later in the day, Sidhu held a series of nukad meetings in Hussainpur, Thaska, Manana, Taroli, Jhampur, Bahlolpur, Jujhar Nagar, Barmajra, Raipur and Daon villages, and appealed to the villagers to vote for the Congress.He said the effect of pro-people decisions taken by the Congress government in Punjab was being felt all over the state due to which more and more people were joining and supporting the party.Congress sarpanch joins AAP with supportersMohali Congress sarpanch of Kurri village, Chhajja Singh, along with several supporters, Wednesday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of former mayor and party’s Mohali candidate Kulwant Singh.Chhajja said the Congress MLA did nothing to uplift villages despite being part of the cabinet previously. “In many villages, people are practically living in hell. An MLA who has been ignoring villages despite having his own government cannot be expected to do any development work in future,” he added.“On the other hand, Kulwant, as the Mohali mayor, had carried out several development works with utmost honesty and dedication, and therefore, we want the AAP candidate to take over the responsibility of Mohali this time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-three-mohali-leaders-return-to-congress-fold-after-a-year-101642628186501.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Startup firm wins Chandigarh MC contest inviting innovative cleanliness ideas||The municipal corporation has announced the winners of the Swachh Innovative Technology Challenge, wherein innovative ideas for waste management and monitoring were invited from individuals, NGOs and companies.Dross Management System and Energy Solutions Pvt Ltd, a startup, has bagged the first position. NGO Indian Pollution Control Association won the second position, while the third spot went to an individual, Abhishek Sharma.The winners will receive cash prizes of ₹35,000, ₹25,000 and ₹15,000, respectively. As many as 64 entries were received for the contest, which concluded on January 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/startup-firm-wins-chandigarh-mc-contest-inviting-innovative-cleanliness-ideas-101642628184394.html
20-01-2022||Bhopal||MP investors’ summit in Indore cancelled due to rising Covid-19 cases, says govt||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday cancelled the Global Investors’ Summit scheduled to be held in Indore in February due to a rise in cases of Covid 19, an official announcement by the state government said. “The summit has been cancelled due to the third wave of Covid 19. Now it will be held later this year. The new dates will be decided after the evaluation of the condition of Covid 19. All the investors are being informed about it,” Industrial Development Corporation Limited (IDCL) managing director Rohan Saxena said. The summit was last held in 2019 by the then Congress-led state government. In MP, the positivity rate has been increased to 9.81%.In the past 24 hours, five deaths have been reported in MP. As many as 7,597 new cases were reported and the number of active cases has risen to 43,973, according to a bulletin released by MP health department. Indore remains a hotspot with high number of positive cases. In Indore, 2,047 new cases were reported followed by 1,341 cases in Bhopal and 725 cases in Gwalior. Meanwhile, Panchayat and rural development minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia has been tested positive again in 12 days. He was first tested positive on January 8. He recovered and attended public programmes on January 15. On Wednesday, he again tested positive after having a fever. His wife was also tested positive. Sisodia informed about his infection through a tweet.AIIMS Bhopal, former director Sarman Singh said, “The minister might have been re-infected with some other strain as many strains are active this time. People should pay extra caution to save themselves from different strains of Covid 19.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-investors-summit-in-indore-cancelled-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases-says-govt-101642627224113.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Supreme Court allows DND Flyway operator to put hoardings in Noida||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed the operator of the DND Flyway to put up advertisements on the Noida side of the expressway connecting Delhi and Noida after the hoardings erected by the company were removed by the Noida authority over alleged non-payment of licence fees.The company in question – Noida Toll Bridge Company Limited--relied on revenue from advertisements to maintain the 9km-long road, of which only 2.2km stretch falls under the jurisdiction of the Noida authority. After the hoardings were pulled down, the company approached the Supreme Court claiming it had no revenue to maintain roads and should be allowed to erect hoardings. It also sought an order to stay any coercive action by the Noida authority.No toll is charged on this stretch after the Allahabad high court on October 26, 2016, restrained the company from collecting toll on a petition filed by Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association. The company had filed an appeal against this order, which is still pending consideration before the top court. The present application was moved in that petition.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai agreed to allow the request of the company as an interim measure till it takes up the main appeal in March. The court permitted hoardings to be erected by the company on the Noida side of DND Flyway on payment of licence fee to the Noida authority at the rate of ₹125/ square feet per month to be deposited in advance. The Court clarified that it was an interim arrangement being made in the interest of maintaining the road.Representing the company, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi argued that the sole aim behind the action of the Noida authority was to irreparably harm the financial assets of his client and to negate its continued viability as a going concern. “It is a completely egregious act. This should not be done by a public authority. In 2010, the fee applicable to us under the advertisement policies of Noida was ₹50/sq ft that was increased to ₹125/sq ft in 2013, which we paid under protest. Now by a letter of December 31, 2018, the license fee to display advertisement along DND Flyway has been retrospectively increased to ₹300/sq ft. This issue is pending in arbitration which is also stayed.”Senior advocate Ravindra Kumar, who represented the Noida authority, opposed the application by claiming that the company defaulted payment of licence fee since 2010 and has been handsomely earning revenue on the Delhi side of DND Flyway, which was sufficient to maintain the roads. “The right to put up hoarding was not part of the Concession agreement. From April 1, 2019, they have no permission. The arbitral tribunal is not concerned with this issue,” said Kumar. However, being an interim arrangement, the court clarified that its order will not create any equity for any side.The company, represented by the law firm Karanjawala & Co, told the court the obligations cast on it regarding the operations and maintenance of the bridge under the Concession Agreement required constant maintenance of the road, besides making necessary arrangements for traffic and security arrangements that required day-to-day expenses. The company produced audited balance sheets to show the financial stress on the company due to the general economic slowdown brought by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-allows-dnd-flyway-operator-to-put-hoardings-in-noida-101642626744066.html
20-01-2022||Noida||In Greater Noida, CM Yogi Adityanath takes a dig at opposition over ‘Noida jinx’||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday reviewed the Covid-19 situation at Gautam Budh Nagar’s Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida and lauded the efforts of the state and central government to ensure better Covid management during the first and second wave of the pandemic. He also took at a jibe at the opposition and said he was happy to have visited the district several times during his tenure, unlike his predecessors who avoided the district as “they valued their life and position” more than the people here, he said.“After taking control of the Covid-19 situation during the first wave, we witnessed an oxygen crisis across the country during the second wave and seeing the situation, the Centre made all possible efforts to supply oxygen to all parts of the country, via the railways as well as airways. In Uttar Pradesh, 550 new oxygen plants have been added, of which 11 are in Gautam Budh Nagar,” he said. Wednesday’s was Adityanath’s first visit to the 500-bed hospital in Kasna region of Greater Noida. Talking about the Covid vaccination programme, Adityanath said Uttar Pradesh has achieved over 95% coverage of the first dose vaccine and 62% coverage of the second dose. “Uttar Pradesh has a target of vaccinating 1,400,000 children between the age of 15 and 18 years of whom we have already given the first dose to 6,28,300 children. On the other hand, 52,900 beneficiaries have been given the precautionary dose in Uttar Pradesh so far,” he said. “Gautam Budh Nagar district has carried out the vaccination drive very efficiently, as it has already completed 100% coverage of the first dose vaccine and 92% coverage of the second dose. In the 15-18 age group, 11,600 doses have been administered while the precautionary dose coverage is about 46%,” he said.The CM further appreciated the efforts of frontline and health-care workers, administration, health department and local surveillance teams comprising ASHA and Aanganwadi workers in controlling the spread of Covid-19 infection in the district.“Last year, we were anticipating that the third wave of Covid-19 would hit us in August or September 2021. However, we were able to control that. Now, the Omicron variant of Covid-19 has spread rapidly across the country but if we look at hospitalisation figures, less than 1% of the infected cases require hospitalisation. In Uttar Pradesh, only 0.5% of the total active cases are hospitalised. Similarly in Gautam Budh Nagar, of the 9,500 active cases, only 200 are in hospital. In fact, even those cases are of patients who are suffering from other comorbidities,” the chief minister said while addressing the media.He further said, “The third wave is less harmful as compared to the second wave. But it is a disease and we have to save children, women and senior citizens. For that, we have also installed 5,500 public address systems to give out public awareness messages. People should avoid crowded places. We are hopeful that we will be successful in controlling and saving lives and livelihoods during this third wave too”. The CM’s visit comes close to the heels of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections slated to begin from February 10. Taking a jibe at the opposition, Adityanath said he has been fortunate to have visited the district a number of times in the past few years. “The district is of prime importance as it is close to the national capital and there is a frequent movement of people across the state borders. My predecessors used to shy away from visiting this district as their own life and position were more important to them than the people of this area. However, I am thankful that I got the opportunity to visit this district several times,” said Adityanath.The chief minister was referring to a well-known superstition among previous government heads that if a chief minister visited Gautam Budh Nagar district, their government would collapse or they would not be re-elected. At GIMS, Adityanath inspected the flu out-patient department (OPD) , control room and vaccination area. “He also interacted with patients admitted in isolation ward and inquired about the state of heath facilities available at the hospital. GIMS is a L-2 category hospital that has a total of 500 beds. Of these, 450 are Covid beds and currently 54 beds are occupied by Covid patients,” said Dr (Brig) RK Gupta, director, GIMS.After a review of Covid situation at GIMS, the chief minister later visited Kayampur village, five kilometres away. There, he interacted with the local surveillance team (or nigrani samiti) at a government school in the village. “The local health teams have done exceptional work in the past two years of the pandemic and I thank them for their service. The focus of health teams should now be to ensure full coverage of the precautionary dose and the vaccination of children aged 15 to 18 years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-greater-noida-cm-yogi-adityanath-takes-a-dig-at-opposition-over-noida-jinx-101642626384088.html
20-01-2022||Noida||₹4 lakh seized from SUV in Greater Noida, driver detained||Police on Wednesday seized ₹4 lakh cash from an SUV after its driver failed to produce documents pertaining to the cash in Knowledge Part area in Greater Noida. Police officials said a team of Knowledge Park police and Static Surveillance Team (SST) were conducting a checking in Sector 151. “The police stopped a Toyota Innova for checking. The police found ₹4 lakh cash in the vehicle,” said Sanjay Kumar, station house officer of Knowledge Park police station. The Innova driver was identified as Vinit Kumar Madan (35), a resident of Greater Noida. Police said Madan failed to produce papers pertaining to the money and was detained. “We have seized the SUV and cash and launched an investigation,” said Kumar. On Tuesday, Noida police recovered over ₹99 lakh in cash from an SUV during a checking drive near Noida Stadium Crossing in Sector 24. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida, said police teams have intensified checking in the district ahead of the assembly elections. The security checking in the city and also at the neighbouring borders has been ramped up. “We are checking every vehicle entering the city,” he said.“Apart from borders, our teams are continuously visiting guest houses, hotels, markets, etc. The districts police teams are also carrying out patrolling with armed personnel at different locations. The SHOs have been directed to keep a watch in the areas falling under their jurisdiction and take swift action against suspicious people,” he said.The officer added total 9,000 personnel of the Uttar Pradesh police and home guards, along with some paramilitary troops, are presently deployed in Gautam Budh Nagar for the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/4-lakh-seized-from-suv-in-greater-noida-driver-detained-101642626084061.html
20-01-2022||Noida||Three barge into flat into Noida flat, flee with jewellery worth ₹8 lakh||Three people in masks allegedly barged into a flat in Noida’s Sector 70 and robbed gold jewellery worth ₹8 lakh from a woman and her daughter on Wednesday afternoon. The suspects have been captured in CCTV cameras and search is on, said police. Abhay Bhadauria (36), a resident of Noida Sector 71, said his family owns a four-storey building in Noida’s Sector 70. “The flats of the building have been rented out to tenants. The incident took place on the first floor, where a family lives. The husband (52) was out of station while his wife (50) and daughter (25) were in the flat around 3:30pm. Three suspects swiftly entered the building premises and went to the first floor. They knocked the door and the daughter opened the gate. The suspects pushed her aside and held the mother at knife point,” said Bhadauria. He said the three suspects immediately ransacked the flat and fled with gold jewellery worth ₹8 lakh and some cash. The mother-daughter soon informed the neighbours and police. A police team reached the spot but the suspects had escaped by then. Bhadauria said he too reached the spot after getting information. He said the woman sustained injuries for resisting the robbery attempt of the suspects. In the CCTV footage, the first suspect is seen wearing a sweater with a hood and carrying a backpack. The second suspect, wearing a blue sweater with hood, follows him to the building. He was followed by a third suspect wearing a red sweater, said police. Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said primary investigation shows two suspects entered the flat while one was guarding the premises. “A case has been registered against the suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of the IPC at Phase 3 police station. We are scanning CCTV footage to identify and arrest the suspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-barge-into-flat-into-noida-flat-flee-with-jewellery-worth-8-lakh-101642625605540.html
20-01-2022||Kolkata||Mukul Roy didn’t join TMC, his lawyer to Bengal speaker at anti-defection hearing||KOLKATA: Refuting charges of defection brought by the Bharatiya Janata Party, Mukul Roy, who returned to the Trinamool Congress on June 11 last year, told the West Bengal legislative assembly Speaker through his lawyers on Wednesday that he is still in the BJP and never joined the ruling party. Roy, a founder member of the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC, joined the BJP in 2017 following differences with chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and was appointed and was appointed BJP’s national vice-president. His son, Subhranshu, also joined the saffron camp but returned to the TMC with his father in June last year.Roy contested and won the Krishnanagar North assembly seat on a BJP ticket in the March-April polls last year. His son also contested on a BJP ticket but lost.Mukul Roy, who is ailing, has not attended any public meeting in months. Bengal assembly officials aware of Wednesday’s hearing on the disqualification petition filed by the BJP said Roy’s lawyers have argued that he never left the BJP. They argued that Roy’s visit to the TMC headquarters, where he was greeted by Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek on June 11 in the presence of the media, was a mere courtesy call. The lawyers cited the judgments of several courts to back their argument. The Supreme Court on Monday told Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee to decide the disqualification petition filed against Mukul Roy under the anti-defection law within two weeks. Leader of the opposition in the assembly Suvendu Adhikari filed the disqualification petition in June last year.The speaker had filed an appeal before the Supreme Court through senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi challenging a September 28 order of the Calcutta high court asking him to produce the decision taken on the appeal for Roy’s disqualification.The Calcutta high court passed the order in September after hearing a petition filed by BJP legislator Ambika Roy who challenged Roy’s nomination as chairman of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on July 9, two days before he returned to the TMC. Mukul Roy was subsequently declared the PAC chairman by the speaker.“There was a long hearing today. Mukul Roy’s lawyers presented their arguments. Adhikari’s lawyers said they want to raise a legal point at a later date. The hearings are over. I do not want to prolong the process. I will announce my decision as soon as possible as ordered by the Supreme Court,” the speaker told the media after the hearing. Adhikari said he has very little faith in the judgement of the speaker. “We have to place our belief in the Supreme Court. I do not have much faith in the hearing held at the assembly,” said Adhikari.In response, the speaker said the leader of the opposition was frustrated.“Adhikari seems to have no faith in either the judiciary or the assembly. He appears to be frustrated because his role as leader of the opposition is very unimpressive. No BJP legislator has taken part in any assembly event apart from the official proceedings. They are never seen any event held on the assembly campus. This never happened in the past,” said the Speaker.TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “I do not know what Roy’s lawyers said at the hearing. None of us were present there. As far as I can remember he was in the BJP when he filed his nomination for the post of PAC chairman.”Bengal BJP spokesperson Jay Prakash Majumdar took a swipe at the TMC.“In the TMC, there seems to be no limit to lying. The entire world saw on television that Mukul Roy was welcomed back by Mamata and Abhishek Banerjee. Even he called it his homecoming. How can someone lie like this in parliamentary democracy?” said Majumdar.Avoiding a direct reply, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said: “Roy is a BJP legislator for the first three days of the week. He is not with any party for the next three days. And, on Sunday, he has tea with TMC leaders. Does Adhikari have any objection to that ? Instead of questioning Roy, he should first clarify his father Sisir Adhikari’s political position. His father is a TMC Lok Sabha MP but joined the BJP at a rally of Union home minister Amit Shah.”The TMC moved a petition before Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla last year, demanding Sisir Adhikari’s disqualification. Birla has held two hearings on the petition so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-didn-t-join-tmc-his-lawyer-to-bengal-speaker-at-anti-defection-hearing-101642625484041.html
20-01-2022||Noida||Seven suspects arrested in Noida||Police on Wednesday arrested seven suspects for their alleged involvement in different crimes in Noida. Sector 58 police arrested four suspects, who were allegedly involved in theft and snatching cases in Noida for the last six months, and recovered illegal weapons from their possession during a checking drive on Wednesday. Vinod Kumar, station house officer of Sector 58 police station, said a police team received information about the movement of the suspects near the Sector 62 roundabout. “A team reached the spot and stopped a Hyundai i-10 car, which had no registration number plate, for checking. The police found four countrymade guns, six live cartridges, two screw drivers, and four wire cutters in their possession,” he said. The suspects were identified as Sachin Pal (22) from Ghaziabad, Ashraf Mia (23) from West Bengal, Sachin Jatav (21) from Bulandshahr and Ajay Jaiswal (24) from Bihar. “During interrogation, the suspects revealed they were planning to commit a crime when the police team arrested them,” said the SHO. The four suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. In the second case, Sector 49 police arrested three suspects involved in stealing motorcycles in Noida. The suspects were identified as Mulayam Singh (30), Kunwar Veer (28), and Vishal Kumar (28)--all residents of Aligarh.Anjani Kumar Singh, SHO of Sector 49 police station, said the three men were travelling on a motorcycle near Barolla T-Point on Wednesday. “The police team stopped them for checking but they failed to produce the vehicle’s paper. During interrogation, the revealed that they had stolen the motorcycle six months ago,” said Singh. The police conducted a search at their hideout in Noida and recovered three more motorcycles. The police said the suspects used to conduct a recce before stealing the vehicles. Five cases of vehicle theft were registered against them in Noida. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/seven-suspects-arrested-in-noida-101642624944057.html
20-01-2022||Noida||1,402 fresh Covid cases emerge in Noida, active cases fall below 10k||The active cases tally in Gautam Budh Nagar reduced below the 10,000 mark for the first time in over a week on Wednesday after 2,401 people were declared ‘recovered’ during the day, taking the active cases to 9,499. Meanwhile, the district reported 1,402 fresh infections on Wednesday, taking the number of cases reported in the month of January to over 21,000. According to data available with the district health department, on January 13, active cases in the district had crossed 10,000 and was on the rise since then till January 17, when there was a slight drop. The active cases have been declining in the past few days as more recoveries are being recorded. Additionally, more recoveries were reported on Wednesday than the total number of fresh infections reported in a day. This has also happened for the first time in the district since the current wave started around mid-December. Hospitalisations are also reducing as officials said just about 100 patients are taking treatment for Covid in the hospitals across the district. “We are keeping a close watch on the cases, which have been reducing in the past few days, but it is too soon to say that there is a downward trend. Our focus is to keep hospitalisations low and prevent the spread of infection,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate adding that most of the patients, who are admitted in hospitals, are those whose condition is stable but they do not have adequate space for proper isolation. Health officials say that while there are positive developments in Noida, one still needs to stay cautious. “Cases are reducing here and in neighbouring Delhi as well. However, there are still a high number of cases in Ghaziabad,” said Dr Manoj Kushwaha, district surveillance officer.The vaccination status in Gautam Budh Nagar has crossed 94% with around 1,464,000 people jabbed with the second dose of the Covid vaccine. The estimated population in the district is about 1,556,000. According to district data, over 2,097,000 people have taken the first dose and 15,541 beneficiaries have taken the precautionary dose. Over 15,000 doses are being given daily in the district to complete administering both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to eligible beneficiaries within this month. Officials are also targeting vaccinating all those in the 15-17 age group by the end of the month. This category includes around 115,000 children, of whom 70,000 have taken the shot so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1402-fresh-covid-cases-emerge-in-noida-active-cases-fall-below-10k-101642624584041.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Need based changes: CHB’s non-official members suggest one-time settlement on Delhi pattern||In a meeting of the committee constituted to examine need-based changes in Chandigarh Housing Board allotments, the non-official members of the CHB’s board of directors on Wednesday suggested one-time settlement based on the Delhi pattern.The committee is headed by secretary of CHB, and it received the suggestions from three non-official directors who are also special invitees to the committee- former mayor Poonam Sharma; Hitesh Puri, chairman of Chandigarh Resident Association of Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) and architect Surinder Bahga.The directors also submitted that notices should not be sent to allottees of old constructions and they also sought increase in floor area ratio (FAR) of independent houses.Puri suggested that three categories of changes be made in the original allotments and relief should be given as per these categories. He said that compoundable offence could be regularised after charging a penalty, the second category could be the violation carried out within the boundary wall and the encroachment on the government land could fall in the third category, he said, and added that the authorities should in the initial stage regularise the need-based changes carried out in the first and second categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/need-based-changes-chb-s-non-official-members-suggest-one-time-settlement-on-delhi-pattern-101642624404173.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two arrested for stealing taps from empty house||Police arrested two youths on Tuesday for stealing taps from a house in Sector 49.The accused have been identified as Anil Kumar alias Golu, 19, and Basant alias Golu, 20, both residents of EWS Colony in Sector 49-C. The duo had broken into an empty house in Sector 49-D belonging to Ramesh Kumar. Police said that Kumar lives in another house in Sector 49.While the accused were stealing from the house, the neighbours heard the noise and caught them red handed, following which they were handed over to the police. A case under Sections 380 (theft), 454 (lurking house trespass), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. The accused were presented in court on Wednesday and sent to police remand for one day. Police are checking for their involvement in other theft cases and said that they are both unemployed.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSBlanket donation drive organised by CCPCRThe Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) distributed warm blankets to underprivileged children at the Circus Ground in Sector 34 and grain market in Sector 39 on Wednesday. During the drive, the children were advised to take care of their personal hygiene.Liquor vend owner booked for opening beyond permissible limitThe owner and an employee of a liquor vend in Sector 28-D were booked on Monday night for operating beyond the permissible time limit of 10pm. A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 26 police station against the owner Naresh Rana and cashier Ramesh. Ramesh was arrested and later bailed out||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-arrested-for-stealing-taps-from-empty-house-101642623863880.html
20-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad: Congress yet to declare candidates for Sahibabad and Modinagar seats||All major political parties have declared their candidates for all five assembly seats in Ghaziabad these upcoming elections, except for Congress, which is yet to announce candidates for Sahibabad and Modinagar assembly seats till Wednesday evening. The Congress said the names would be declared by late Wednesday or Thursday. The last date for filing of nominations is January 21 and major political parties such as the Aam Aadmi Party, Bharatiya Janata Party, Samajwadi Party along with its ally the Rashtriya Lok Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party have already declared their candidates and several of those candidates have also filed their nomination papers. The Congress, on the other hand, has given tickets to its district president Bijendra Yadav from Muradnagar, Yameen Malik from Loni and Sushant Goyal from the Ghaziabad seat. “There has been some delay for the two seats of Modinagar and Sahibabad and it is expected that the names will be declared soon. The delay could be due to different considerations but Congress will contest on all five seats in Ghaziabad,” said Dolly Sharma, member of All India Congress Committee and spokesperson of UP Congress Committee. Party sources said one of the two pending tickets may be offered to a woman candidate. The Congress has fared poorly in the past three assembly elections of 2017, 2012 and 2007 when none of its candidates could secure a win in the district. During the 2017 elections, all five assembly seats were won by the BJP while in 2012, four were won by the BSP -- Zakir Ali from Loni, Wahab Chaudhary from Muradnagar, Amarpal Sharma from Sahibabad and Suresh Bansal from Ghaziabad. The Modingar seat was won by Sudesh Sharma of the Rashtriya Lok Dal. During the 2007 elections, there were three seats in Ghaziabad which were won by Sunil Sharma of the BJP (Ghaziabad), Raj Pal Singh from the BSP (Modinagar) and Raj Pal Tyagi, who contested as an independent from the Muradnagar seat. Political experts said the Congress not deciding the two seats shows the lax approach of the party. “If they declare candidates a day or two before the filing of nominations, the candidate will not be able to prepare fully while the other parties have planned their candidates well in advance. Maybe, the delay or not declaring candidates could be a strategy. If they don’t field candidates, the anti-BJP votes will go to the strongest contender, otherwise they may get divided,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) from MM College, Modinagar. Other experts said the delay in declaring candidates will send wrong signals to the party cadre. “The base of the Congress party is still not much in Uttar Pradesh as they have lost the previous elections. However, they should further elevate their leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in the party and this will help the Congress gain larger ground in UP in the next five or 10 years. She has the leadership qualities and can identify issues that concern people,” said Dr Virendra Singh, associate professor (political science) from MMH Degree College, Ghaziabad. “She has the ability to raise issues which other political parties do not or may not,” he added. Led by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress has given 40% party tickets to women candidates and also made some populist announcements for them.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC: Five nominations filed for election to F&CC||The five members who will be elected to the finance and contract committee (F&CC) of the municipal corporation is a foregone conclusion now, with as many candidates filing their nominations here on Wednesday. From Aam Aadmi Party, Taruna Mehta and Jasbir Singh; from BJP, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Saurabh Joshi; and from Congress, Gurbax Rawat filed their nominations. The results will be formally declared on January 24, when election is scheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-five-nominations-filed-election-to-fcc-101642623565011.html
20-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: 2 doctors booked for leaving cotton gauze in abdomen||Two doctors of a private hospital in the city have been booked on a court order for alleged negligence of leaving a cotton gauze inside a woman’s abdomen during caesarean delivery on November 16, 2020, police said on Wednesday.In the FIR lodged at Sector 14 police station on Tuesday night, complainant Diwas Rai, a resident of Sikanderpur Ghosi in DLF Phase 1, alleged that part of his wife’s large intestine was removed on June 3 last year through a surgery by the doctors in the same hospital on the pretext of carrying out an investigation and without consent as the infection had spread. He alleged that his wife continuously suffered from pain and redness in abdomen after delivery and her situation kept deteriorating.As per FIR, the two doctors -- Poonam Yadav and Anurag Yadav -- are the directors of Shiva Hospital in Gurugram’s Sector 12, where Diwas’s wife Swastika Rai was operated on both occasions.The FIR against the duo was registered under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 336 (act negligently as to endanger human life), 337 (causing grievous hurt by act of negligence), 417 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Satender Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 14 police station, said that the FIR against both doctors was registered on direction of a court of judicial magistrate. “In such cases, investigation is carried out on directions of the district’s chief medical officer. Police would seek his help to form a team to investigate the case,” he said. When contacted, hospital manager Pramod Pathak, speaking on behalf of the doctors, said the patient’s attendant was apprised that there was some problem in her intestine which needed medical attention. “Surgery was performed after due consent from the attendant. The first time Swastika was admitted at the hospital was for a delivery. Both mother and girl child were discharged in a healthy condition. Dr Poonam had performed the delivery,” Pathak said.When asked, Pathak said he would have to look into who had performed surgery the second time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-2-doctors-booked-for-leaving-cotton-gauze-in-abdomen-101642623506851.html
20-01-2022||Noida||Dissent in BJP after party tickets go to incumbent MLAs in Ghaziabad||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s decision to field all five incumbent MLAs of Ghaziabad in the upcoming assembly election has not gone down well with the party cadre, especially in the Sahibabad and Ghaziabad assembly segments, said party sources. The party is facing stiff opposition from within its ranks, especially from Purvanchalis (people from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar) who have a large presence in Ghaziabad district. According to rough estimates, the Sahibabad and Ghaziabad assembly segments have about 400,000-500,000 Purvanchalis and they are considered one of the largest voter bases which is eyed by all political parties com elections. A section of Purvanchalis publicly dissented on January 16, a day after the BJP announced that its tickets in Ghaziabad will go to the five sitting MLAs -- Sunil Sharma (Sahibabad), Atul Garg (Ghaziabad), Nand Kishor Gurjar ( Loni), Dr Manju Shivach (Modinagar), and Ajit Pal Tyagi ( Muradnagar). A large group of people staged a protest outside the Indirapuram police station and demanded a ticket for BJP leader Sacchidanand Rai from Sahibabad, which is the largest of the five assembly segments and comprises the more urban localities of Indirapuram, Vasundhara and Vaishali. Rai is a coordinator of the Uttar Pradesh BJP and a former DIG (revenue). The police had to intervene and break up the protest and also register an FIR against the protesters for violating Covid protocols. The dissent was also vociferous on social media, with several netizens claiming that Rai would contest as an independent from Sahibabad. On Wednesday, Sanjay Singh, BJP councillor from ward 100 of Indirapuram, held a press briefing along with a few associations representing Purvanchalis and claimed that those opposing the ticket to MLA Sharma were only doing so to grab a ticket. “We held a press briefing along with several organisations representing Purvanchals who said that they are with our party. Those opposing the issue of ticket are protesting only to get a ticket and they may have some personal grudge as well. They are trying to project the protest as a public outburst against the BJP but that is absolutely not the case,” Sanjay Singh said. When HT reached out to Rai, his PRO Suraj Singh issued a response on the leader’s behalf. “All organisations of Purvanchalis that protested against the ticket were of view that our leader (Rai) should be the candidate.But he is still with the BJP and will not contest as an independent candidate,” he said. The dissent in Sahibabad again came to the fore when BJP leader KK Shukla joined the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and was declared that party’s candidate from Ghaziabad. BSP district president Virendra Jatav said, “He is now our candidate from Ghaziabad in place of former BSP MLA Suresh Bansal, who is still in hospital after testing positive for Covid.” Shukla was the vice-president of the BJP’s youth wing in 1998 and its district president in 2001. He contested the 2007 assembly elections on a BJP ticket from Gonda (eastern UP) and also served as the regional vice-president of the party in western UP. “People in Ghaziabad have been demanding a hospital, degree college, and proper drainage system since long. I assured them these past four years that the BJP MLA would fulfil these demands. But nothing was done. When tickets were issued to the sitting MLAs, I approached the party brass to reconsider the decision but they did not do so. So, I joined the BSP and also got a ticket from Ghaizabad. Now, I will fulfil those pending promises,” said Shukla, who hails from Gonda. He added that his candidature will also earn him support of Purvanchalis, besides others. The Ghaziabad BJP president Sanjeev Sharma said issuing tickets to sitting MLAs was a party decision. “While the other parties are finding it difficult to field candidates, we have about 15 to 20 names for each seat. So, people who did not get tickets may feel offended. The party will not face any issue from the people of Purvanchal as it commands a major position among them. Many from Purvanchal had come to us and were pacified. There is no dissent whatsoever,” he said. “Shukla joining the BSP and getting a ticket will also not affect our Purvanchali voter base. It is a blessing in disguise as former MLA Suresh Bansal would have been a formidable opponent,” Sharma said. The office bearers of the Purabiya Jan Kalyan Parishad, a socio -cultural organisation of Purvanchalis, said their voters are silently gauging the ongoing events. “We have about 10-12 lakh (about 1.2 million) people from Purvanchal living in Ghaziabad (across all five seats). A majority of these voters is in Sahibabad and Ghaziabad constituencies and they have the ability to decide which candidate to vote for. Like the other voters, people from Purvanchal will also vote on local issues and development agenda,” said Rakesh Tiwari, national general secretary of the association.Loni Nagar Palika chief offers to resign from BJP In another development on Wednesday, chairperson of the Loni Nagar Palika has shot a letter to the BJP brass, offering her husband’s and her resignation from the primary membership of the party. Ranjeeta Dhama is the present chairperson of the Loni Nagar Palika said she is upset about party offering the Loni ticket to sitting MLA Nand Kishor Gurjar and also alleged that a conspiracy had put her husband, Manoj Dhama, in jail in a criminal case last year. Dhama in her letter offered to resign from the primary membership of the party, along with her husband, as their voices were not heard. Dhama did not respond to calls to reach her for comment. BJP district president Dinesh Singhal said he is in receipt of the letter. “We have received her letter and we will discuss the issues with her before issuing a statement,” he said.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU issues guidelines for online examinations||Panjab University (PU) on Wednesday announced guidelines for students who are appearing for the semester examinations from January 24 , which are being conducted in online mode.PU controller of examination Jagat Bhushan said that the detailed guidelines and instructions have been posted on the university’s website and students have been advised to contact their department, regional centre or college for their roll numbers.The time-slots are 9.30am to 12.30pm and 1.30pm to 4:30pm. The question papers will be available on online.puexam, 20 minutes before the start of the exam.The students are to download the question papers directly from the download question paper link without logging in. Undergraduate students are to use 20 A4 size sheets and the postgraduate students are to use 24 A4 size sheets. Only one side of the sheet should be used for writing the answers.They will have to submit the answersheet online by mailing it on email id provided by the respective institute and it should be done within 60 minutes of completion. USOL, private, reappear, additional and deficient subjects’ candidates must upload their answersheets only on the university’s examination portal.Students are required to make a single pdf of their answer sheet and email it to their own id also. In case of any discrepancy in online submission, they may be asked to forward the time-stamped email to the nodal centre/college. The candidates are advised to keep the physical copy of the answer sheet in their possession for six months from the date of examination. Students are not to speed post this copy to any section of PU or its affiliated College.A demo video for scanning, creating and uploading a single pdf of the whole of the answer sheet to the portal is available for the students on the portal (online.puexam.in).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-issues-guidelines-for-online-examinations-101642623265320.html
20-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Another contractor duped by BSF officer surfaces||Another contractor has lodged a case against BSF deputy commandant Praveen Yadav for allegedly duping him of ₹1.66 crore on the pretext of allotting tenders for construction work inside the campus of the National Security Guard (NSG) in Manesar.Yadav, who was arrested on January 12 along with his wife Mamta, sister Rituraj and associate Dinesh, allegedly orchestrated ₹150-crore contract fraud while on deputation with the NSG last year.The latest victim, Sant Lal, filed a complaint with Manesar police station on Tuesday, after which an FIR was registered against Yadav, police said, adding that Lal fell victim to the fraud after getting allured for construction of periphery walls by Yadav.Now the count of victim contractors has reached five whom Yadav allegedly defrauded by handing over forged documents with seals of the NSG. Manbir Singh, deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that four persons, including Yadav, have already been arrested in the case. “No further arrest has taken place. Rituraj’s husband, one of the suspects, is yet to be arrested. The total count of FIR against Yadav now climbed to five,” the DCP said.Officials said that three laptops seized by the Gurugram police from Yadav’s residence in Manesar would be sent for forensic analysis soon to retrieve deleted data. Police said that Yadav was in five-day police remand for interrogation while the rest three arrested persons were on four-day remand, and all of them were sent to judicial custody again in last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-another-contractor-duped-by-bsf-officer-surfaces-101642623143756.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 7,000 litres of illicit liquor destroyed in remote island on Sutlej river||In a major crackdown against illicit liquor mafia ahead of assembly elections, Ludhiana police commissionerate and the excise department conducted joint raids in a remote island on Sutlej river and destroyed 7,000 litres of Lahan on Wednesday.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said drones had been deployed in the area for surveillance. During searches at Bholewal Jadid village, Rajapur (Ladhuwal), the teams found 7,000 litres of Lahan and destroyed it. The teams also confiscated equipment used for Lahan storage.Bhullar said more such operations will be carried out in the area in the coming days and strict action will be taken against those indulging in this malpractice.Besides police officials, excise officer Deewan Chand, inspectors Harjinder Singh and Mandip Singh were also part of the said operation in which around six-kilometre area along the river bank was searched thoroughly.The police commissioner reiterated that he is committed to free, fair and transparent elections.“No stone will be left unturned to maintain law and order in the city and three contingents of paramilitary forces have already been deployed here, and other security measures have also been taken,” said Bhullar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-7-000-litres-of-illicit-liquor-destroyed-in-remote-island-on-sutlej-river-101642623023684.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Social media turns battleground for candidates in Mohali||Amid the ban on public rallies ahead of the Punjab assembly elections that are scheduled for February 20, candidates of political parties in Mohali are now leveraging digital media as their primary tool to woo voters.They are regularly coming up with videos and messages to either highlight their own achievements and also to take digs at their rivals. Candidates are routinely share videos and photographs of their visits to different places.The online presence of three-time Congress MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, who in the fray once again, is being handled by his son Kanwarbir Singh Ruby Sidhu and Sanjeev Kumar Garg along with a team of 15 people.Ruby Sidhu said that in the present scenario, social media has proven to be a more effective medium for voter outreach, due to its huge audience and followers. “We are highlighting the achievements of Congress in Mohali through various platforms. A team of seven people is handling social media and an equal number is handling multimedia. We are trying our level best to reach out to people from every walk of life,” he said.In 2017 as well, Congress had reaped the benefits of aggressive campaigning on online channels.On the other hand, a team of five people is handling the social media of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Kulwant Singh at his office in Sector 79.A team member, who wished not to be named, said that as soon as the candidature of Kulwant was announced, they started campaigning aggressively through various platforms. “Through our messages and videos, we are targeting the ruling government and highlighting the achievements of Kulwant Singh as mayor of Mohali. We are focusing on the promises to be fulfilled once voted to power,” he said.Even SAD candidate Parvinder Singh Sohana, whose candidature was declared on Sunday, has constituted a team to look after his social media presence. Ishpreet Singh Vicky, who is handling Sohana’s team, said, “Our focus will be to highlight the achievements of the SAD during its tenure and also take on opponents on various issues. We will be actively starting our campaign from Thursday,” he said.Himanshu Pathak, the head of Get Known, a political advisory consultancy and now handling a war room in Mohali, largely for Congress candidates in Punjab, says, “ Our whole focus is to build perception around the voters and technology backed by data plays an important role. At present, we are trying to have voter to voter connect via digital media. In Punjab, there are around 1.5 crore voters, who are active on digital media,” he said.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP multiplied farmers’ woes, not their income: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “failing the farmers”, stating that the DNA of the Modi government is “anti-farmer and anti-labourer”. Releasing a booklet on the issues and challenges of farming community titled “Aamdani na hui doguni, dard sau guna” (income has not doubled but pain increased a hundred times), Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said that the poor, labour and farming class of the country had voted, relying on Modi Ji’s promises, but he betrayed them. “They (PM and BJP) have attacked the farmers, in whose hands the fortune of nation lies and the country will never forgive them,” he said at a press conference. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was also present. Surjewala said that it has been six years since Modi had promised the farmers of the country at his rally in Bareilly on February 28, 2016, that he would double the farmers’ income by 2022. “Now, it is 2022 and the income has not doubled, the pain has definitely increased several folds,” he said before listing the anti-farmer steps of the NDA government at the Centre. Sidhu, while speaking on his Punjab model on agriculture, said that everybody tries to do politics on farm issues, but no one has given a road map for resurrection. “There are many things that the state government can do, but sadly in the last 25 years no significant policy has been introduced to promote diversification and to increase farmers’ income,” he said, giving the mantra of “grow what you eat”. The PPCC chief said that in this politics of mudslinging and focus on freebies, the real issues are getting forgotten. “We need new “Farm Revolution 2.0” backed by good policies where farmer and small industry will come together,” he said, promising MSP on dal, oilseeds and maize with the government procuring, processing and marketing these through cooperatives and corporations. “Under the Punjab model, the government will pay half the wages of labour working in farms up to 5 acres. Logic is to give subsidy in the hands of farm labour, small farmer families, incentivise crop diversification and labour-intensive cultivation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-multiplied-farmers-woes-not-their-income-congress-101642622844823.html
20-01-2022||Other||Gurugram reports less than 3,000 Covid cases for first time in week||The district on Wednesday reported 2,918 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the active case tally to 24,163, according to the district health bulletin. This is the first time in the past one week that Gurugram has reported less than 3,000 cases in a single day. The district last had less than 3,000 cases on January 12 (2,704 cases). The district recorded a test positivity rate of 26% on Wednesday, a dip from 30% recorded on Tuesday, the data shows. The district also reported two more deaths of Covid-19 patients on Wednesday. So far, deaths of 10 Covid-19 positive patients have been reported from Gurugram this month. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Both the deceased were fully vaccinated and aged above 70 years. One of the patients died due to comorbidities while another patient was reported as a Covid-19 death. They had been undergoing treatment at private hospitals in the city where they had tested positive for the virus.” Of the total active cases, only 165 are hospitalised, the officials said, adding that 2,130 people also recovered in the district. The health department collected 11,144 samples for testing in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, the officials said that the health department will conduct a drive-through vaccination drive for 15-18 age group on Friday at Candor Techspace in Sector 48. At the centre, booster dose will also be administered and only Covishield will be available for the same, they said. On Wednesday, a total of 13,502 doses were administered, including 4,679 first doses, 6,996 second doses and 1,827 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.68 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now. On Wednesday, 1,344 children were vaccinated in the district.One doctor, two touts held for illegal sex determinationMeanwhile, the district health department held one doctor and two touts from Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, who were allegedly involved in illegal sex determination of foetuses for residents of Gurugram. “Our team had got a tip-off that a person used to tie up with residents of Gurugram for an amount ranging between ₹20,000 and ₹25,000 and help them in sex determination of their unborn babies. The person used to take the couples to places in Delhi and UP and get the sex determined with the help of doctors there. On Wednesday, our team visited Bijnor in UP and caught a doctor and the two brokers from a clinic, where a decoy couple was sent,” said the CMO, adding that a case was registered with the UP police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-reports-less-than-3-000-covid-cases-for-first-time-in-week-101642622783820.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||PSPCL junior engineer caught accepting bribe in Ludhiana||A vigilance team caught a junior engineer (JE) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) red-handed while accepting a bribe ₹20,000. The accused has been identified as Malkit Singh. He was deployed at the PSPCL office in Janta Nagar.Jaswinder Singh, DSP, vigilance bureau, Ludhiana range, said the action was taken on the complaint of Gurcharan Singh of Ram Nagar in Dholewal.“The complainant wanted a 5KW connection for his work. The JE told him that he would have to pay ₹33,000 and explained that ₹17,500 will be deposited as fee while remaining will be spent on preparing the file. When the complainant requested him to reduce the amount, the JE reduced ₹1,000 and asked Gurcharan to pay ₹32,000,” said the DSP.He added that the complainant gave ₹12,000 to the JE in advance following which the latter issued a security receipt of ₹4,500 while the remaining ₹7,500 was unaccounted for.On January 17, the JE called up Gurcharan and asked him to pay the remaining amount of ₹20,000. Gurcharan inquired from one of acquaintances and found that the JE was charging him an excess amount for the work. Following this, he approached the vigilance bureau and a trap was laid. The team then caught the accused red-handed and registered a case under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-junior-engineer-caught-accepting-bribe-in-ludhiana-101642622666604.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC: Congress, AAP skip councillors meeting called by mayor||Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors skipped the first meeting called by mayor Sarabjit Kaur at the community centre in Sector 38W on Wednesday.The meeting, termed as a “briefing session”, was called to sensitise the newly elected councillors about various aspects of the MC and its functioning. Senior MC officials were present during the meeting and introduced themselves to the councillors. Both AAP and Congress expressed unhappiness over the way the meeting was called by the mayor. A senior AAP leader said that the mayor has no right to call a meeting, as her election is sub-judice and such a meeting should have been held in MC building itself.The Congress also maintained that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) mayor must first take other parties on board before calling meetings.In the House of 35 councillors, 13 are from BJP, 14 from AAP, seven from Congress and oner from Shiromani Akali Dal. The mayoral election, which was held on January 8, was marred by heavy ruckus in the House after one vote of AAP was declared void resulting in BJP’s victory.Immediately after her election, mayor had stated that she would take everybody along, over and above political affiliations.But on Wednesday, the political gulf among the three parties once again came into open. Congress president Subhash Chawla, said, “She is a minority and not a majority mayor. The BJP should bring minimum common programme of all the parties. We are not here for BJP’s agendas, but for city’s development.”Chandigarh AAP president Prem Garg, said, “It was not an official meeting. An official meeting has to be in the MC building. We do not recognise the mayor as the mayoral election was held fraudulently.”AAP has also challenged Kaur’s election in the Punjab and Haryana high court and the case is scheduled to come up for hearing on Thursday.Mayor Sarabjit Kaur maintained, “Rising above party lines, I tried to get councillors of all the parties on board and called up each of the councillors. It’s always the mayor who has called introductory meetings in the past. The meeting was called in a community centre in view of the surge in Covid cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmc-congress-aap-skip-councillors-meeting-called-by-mayor-101642622665193.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||CHB to auction off eight of its plots in IT Park||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is planning to auction off eight of its plots in IT Park in a month’s time. The plots, with sizes varying from 3.5 to 6 acre, will be available for developers who in turn will be permitted to construct residential multi-storey buildings there.The decision to proceed with the auction of the plots was taken in a recent meeting of the board chaired by UT adviser Dharam Pal.Confirming the development, CHB chief executive officer Yashpal Garg said that these residential plots will be offered on freehold basis. The CHB is working on the terms and conditions and deliberating on fixing the reserve price, he added.The project land is part of 123 acres that CHB got back from Parsvnath Developers after a long-drawn legal battle. It was in October 2006 that CHB had decided to develop residential, commercial and other infrastructure with Parsvnath Developers at IT Park, but project didn’t take off because of multiple reasons.Thereafter, CHB failed to sell 18 residential and commercial sites at an e-auction in 2018. Due to the high reserve prices, not many developers showed interest in the auction. Thereafter, it decided to launch a general housing scheme on its own on two of the plots.CHB now plans to construct 728 flats in three categories in seven-storey towers on IT Park plots 1 and 2, which are spread over 16.6 acres, for the general public. The towers will have two basements with a provision for parking of two cars for each flat, in addition to surface parking for visitors. The scheme will have 28 four-bedroom, 448 three-bedroom and 252 two-bedroom flats.A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly ₹2.75 crore, a three-bedroom flat ₹1.90 crore and a two-bedroom flat ₹1.30 crore. The prices will be finalised after all clearance are in place and before the launch of the project.The CHB is set to launch the project after it gets the requisite environmental clearance, which it has applied for.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Channi’s link with sand mafia in the open, must quit as CM: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over the recovery of ₹10 crore cash, most of it from the house of his (Channi’s) nephew, during the enforcement directorate (ED) raids in connection with an illegal sand mining case. Sukhbir was addressing a gathering in Tarn Taran organised by former MLA Harmeet Singh Sandhu to induct more than a dozen Congress leaders, including former PPCC members Gurminder Singh Rataul, Vijaypal Chaudhari and Tarn Taran Mahila Congress president Anita Verma. “Channi has been gathering money. Today, ₹10 crore has been seized. His nephew has been controlling most of the things in the government, besides running the mining network for the last five years…Channi should resign on moral grounds,” Sukhbir said. Before the Tarn Taran event, Sukhbir visited Amritsar and inducted Punjab Labourfed chairman Jagtar Singh Gosal, three sitting municipal councillors, various Block Samiti members, sarpanches and a host of other Congress office-bearers into the SAD. Speaking to the media at Amritsar and Tarn Taran, Sukhbir said the recovery of cash by the ED from the house of Channi’s nephew has vindicated our accusation that Channi runs the biggest sand mining mafia in the state. He also demanded that his official residence at Chandigarh should also be raided as there were reports of him shifting cash from his Morinda house to the CM residence. Badal said that after forming the SAD-BSP government in the state, this case would be thoroughly probed. “We would recover every penny of the ill-gotten money and prosecute him for running illegal Sand mining mafia in the state,” he said. Sukhbir said that AAP convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal was a “fraud” and naming Mann as the CM candidate was just a gimmick. “Kejriwal is a known Punjab opponent who had demanded the closure of thermal plants in Punjab; had favoured completion of the SYL Canal to take Punjab’s water to Delhi; and also went to the Supreme Court, demanding registration of cases against Punjab farmers for stubble burning,” Sukhbir said. Replying to a media query, the SAD president said that AAP was allotting tickets to people with a criminal background. He categorically mentioned Dera Baba Nanak candidate facing a police case for his involvement in terror activities. “Similarly, some of Ludhiana district candidates were infamous extortionists and Bathinda Rural candidate is known for committing frauds with innocent people of Malwa,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channis-link-with-sand-mafia-in-the-open-must-quit-as-cm-sukhbir-badal-101642622425682.html
20-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: MCG demolishes 13 illegal structures, seals 24||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) demolished 13 illegal structures and sealed 24 buildings in the past two days during its anti-encroachment drives held across different parts of the city.On Tuesday, the civic body sealed 15 buildings and demolished 12 others in Ullawas, Maidawas, Behrampur, and Jharsa. On Wednesday, a total of nine structures were sealed in Badshahpur, sectors 38, 66, 67, Kadarpur road, and an illegal structure of a private colony was demolished in Sector 69, according to a release issued by the civic body on Wednesday.The MCG officials said that all the anti-encroachment drives were conducted under heavy police protection and no untoward incident or resistance was reported in any of the drives.“Before any type of construction in MCG limits, it is mandatory to take building plan approval as per rules. The constructions which are done without prior approval are unauthorised, and the action of sealing and demolishing such constructions is being done by the MCG from time to time,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer, MCG.Rohilla further said that MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has constituted separate enforcement teams to take action against unauthorised constructions, encroachments, and illegal occupations in all four zones of the civic body.The last time that the MCG executed an anti-encroachment drive was on October 4 last year, when seven illegal structures were demolished in Nathupur village. Just a week before this, they had demolished and sealed two structures each in the Palam Vihar area.The officials said that no such drive was conducted in the past three months due to construction and demolition ban imposed in the wake of high air pollution levels.“Since mid-October last year, the Graded Response Action Plan measures were imposed in the city. For most of the last three months, there were bans on construction as well as demolition due to which the drives had been suspended. Now that they are permitted, we have restarted the drives,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The commission for air quality management (CAQM) allowed construction and demolition activities in the national capital region (NCR) to resume on December 20 last year following improvement in air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-mcg-demolishes-13-illegal-structures-seals-24-101642622363852.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Railway employee among 2 held for tap thefts on trains||The railway protection force (RPF) arrested two persons, including a railway employee and a scrap dealer, for allegedly stealing water taps from various trains, last week.The RPF has recovered over 40 stolen taps from their possession. The accused were identified as Suraj, who works as a painter in the senior section engineer (SSE) works’ wing of railways in Rajpura (Ambala Division), and Prakash Chand, a scrap dealer in Ludhiana.Suraj, who is said to have got the job on compassionate grounds, resides in Railway Colony, Rajpura, and hails from Shyam Nagar of Ludhiana. He is also a drug addict, RPF officials said.They added that there were numerous complaints of tap thefts on various trains in Patiala, Phillaur, Ludhiana, Rajpura and Ambala last month.“Passengers used to complain of water leakage in toilets which had become a headache for railway staff. Following this, teams were deputed on trains to nab the culprits,” said an RPF official. On January 13, during checking on Gangasatluj Express train, an RPF team found Suraj leaving the toilet in haste. His clothes were drenched and he was carrying a bag. On suspicion, the team checked the toilet and found a tap missing. Suraj was immediately nabbed. He claimed to be a railway employee who had come to repair the tap, but on checking, officials recovered five taps from his bag and arrested him. During investigation, the accused confessed to his crime and revealed that he had previously carried out thefts on trains, including Mumbai CSMT Amritsar Express, Paschim Express, Dadar, Punjab Mail, etc.“The thefts took place between Phagwara and Ambala, Patiala and Dhuri-Ludhiana sections,” added an officer.Suraj was booked under Sections 3 RP (UP) Act dated at Ludhiana RPF Post on January 13.Suraj further revealed that he sold the taps to a local junk dealer Prakash Chand, who was eventually held on January 16, after numerous raids and traps. “As soon the scrap dealer got to know about Suraj’s arrest, he fled but landed in police net after three days. Around 40 taps were recovered from him, which were stolen by Suraj and sold to him,” said an official.
20-01-2022||Other||Khori: Two held, 200 booked for disrupting demolition drive||The Faridabad police on Wednesday arrested two persons and booked 200 residents from Khori village, illegally settled on Aravalli forest land, for disrupting a demolition drive conducted by the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) at the village. “On Wednesday morning, a team from MCF, along with around 150 police personnel, reached Khori village to remove residents who started living there again illegally after a demolition drive conducted last year. The residents tried to obstruct the process and pelted stones at police in which two female personnel were injured. Two persons have been arrested and 200 residents booked for obstruction and other relevant sections of IPC,” said Sube Singh, spokesperson for the Faridabad police.The MCF had cleared illegal encroachments from the forest land in June-July last year when the Supreme Court fixed a six-week deadline to remove the 6,600 dwelling units in the Khori village. A senior official from MCF, requesting anonymity, said, “A team went to Khori village on Wednesday with around nine JCB machines to raze illegal structures where residents had been illegally staying for the past six months.”Yashpal Yadav, MCF commissioner, did not respond to calls for comment.Residents, meanwhile, alleged that their belongings were set afire by police officials and they were lathicharged. “Around 10.30am, MCF officials, along with police personnel, came to Khori and started demolishing our makeshift houses using JCB machines. When residents resisted, they were lathicharged and even their auto rickshaws were burnt. No notice was given to us. After the demolition drive that was conducted last year, no rehabilitation has been done till now,” said Muskan, a resident of Khori. However, police officials denied the allegations and said that residents had pelted stones at them. Around 1,000 families had been staying in Khori village since the MCF conducted the demolition drive last year, the officials said. The district authorities on Monday released a list of over 1,400 residents who were allotted flats at Dabua colony in Faridabad as part of the rehabilitation process. The residents have been asked to submit their documents and bank account details at a temporary MCF office set up near Khori village on January 25 to proceed with the EWS flat allotment process, the officials said. Meanwhile, activists and scholars working in the area and supporting the residents fight the case in the apex court also said that rehabilitation has been promised but the residents have not been given an alternative place to stay yet. Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar from the University of Melbourne, who has been studying Khori village, said, “The residents have continued to stay in the same location since there is no other option. They have not been given any compensation, and the rehabilitation flats are not ready. So, the question remains -- where will they go? After the forced eviction, the government has further augmented this problem.” Nirmal Gorana, general secretary of Bandhua Mukti Morcha, an organisation that has been working with the residents of Khori village to seek rehabilitation, said, “After demolishing 10,000 houses, giving houses to 1,403 families and rendering the rest homeless is a grave injustice. So many people applied for homes, but they have not been given any alternative accommodation. They are not even being allowed to live amid debris in their original place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khori-two-held-200-booked-for-disrupting-demolition-drive-101642621943699.html
20-01-2022||Other||Two held in Gurugram for robbing commuters by offering lift||Police on Wednesday said that they arrested two men for allegedly assaulting and looting commuters after offering them a lift in their car at different locations in Gurugram.The suspects, Mandeep of Azad Nagar in Hisar and Mukesh Kumar from Bihar’s Siwan, were arrested from near Sukhrali in Sector 17 on Tuesday evening, police said. According to police, on January 15, they first looted a commuter named Ravi Kumar (30) after offering him a lift in their car near Iffco Chowk and afterwards they had snatched another person’s cellphone near Shankar Chowk.As per police, their third associate is yet to be arrested who was accompanying them during both incidents.Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said that the matter came to light when police received information about the loot with Ravi.“He was offered a lift near Iffco Chowk but soon after the suspects started assaulting him inside the car and took him on Jaipur highway. They robbed him of his purse containing money and a debit card, cellphone and other documents,” Sangwan said.He said the trio then allegedly assaulted Ravi further with iron rods in order to force him to give the PIN code of the debit card to take out money from an ATM.“They left Ravi injured and fled from the spot. Later he was spotted by other passersby who took him to a hospital,” the ACP said.Police said Mandeep and Mukesh had till now confessed to committing only two loots. “The car in which crimes were committed was purchased by Mandeep and its full payment was yet to be cleared to its original owner. Further investigation in the case is underway,” another police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-in-gurugram-for-robbing-commuters-by-offering-lift-101642621463696.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Cold wave, Covid curbs dim poll mood in south Malwa||BATHINDA: Coronavirus-induced restrictions and intense cold wave in Punjab have dimmed the regular festive mood during the elections.Unlike the previous state polls or even the municipal elections held during the second Covid wave in February last year, Bathinda and other districts of south Malwa are witnessing low-key electioneering. No political rallies are permitted to check huge gatherings amid a surge in Covid cases. Usual scenes of rickshaw-mounted blaring loudspeakers, poster wars and buntings in markets are absent from urban and rural segments this time. Following directions of the Election Commission, the candidates and the ticket claimants are holding small election meetings. Besides, politicians prefer door-to-door meetings with electors in the comfort of their houses.Political managers are keeping the election meetings a subdued affair. Candidates are avoiding going “live” or posting videos on their Facebook pages to avoid getting caught on the wrong foot by the election authorities. According to the photographs posted by the candidates from Bathinda, Mansa, Faridkot, Muktsar and other districts, on their Facebook pages, considered to be the most popular social media platform in Punjab, Covid-appropriate behaviour is missing.Leaders and people are seen without facemasks and social distancing norm is not followed.In Bathinda Urban, incumbent Congress legislator and finance minister Manpreet Badal is banking upon his close team managed by brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal to maintain a connect with voters. Manpreet’s wife Vinu Badal and party councillors are actively meeting voters.At the high-stake Gidderbaha segment in Muktsar, two-time Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring has been visiting 6-7 villages every day. His wife Amrita Warring is teaming up to better connect with voters.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) nominee and incumbent MLA from Talwandi Sabo Baljinder Kaur is also meeting villagers at their houses and shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-cold-wave-covid-curbs-dim-poll-mood-in-south-malwa-101642621223556.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||HPSC scam: Vigilance bureau’s challan reveals deep-rooted nexus||Whether it is recruitment of dental surgeons, HCS officers, staff nurses or ANMs under the HPSC – the challan presented by Haryana state vigilance bureau points to deep-rooted recruitment scam, wherein jobs were ‘sold’ at the cost of ₹10 to ₹35 lakh per candidate.The matter is still under investigation and high profile officers are allegedly involved. From an HCS officer to the one that prepared results and other agencies are involved in this multi-crore scam.On January 17, the vigilance bureau has presented a challan in the Panchkula court against the three arrested accused, including the then Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) deputy secretary Anil Nagar who are allegedly involved in the HPSC recruitment scam, under Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Sections 420, 466, 468, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 8(3)(4) of the Haryana Public Examination (Prohibition of Unfair Means) Act, 2021.The case dates back to November 17, 2021 when the vigilance bureau got a written complaint from a Hisar resident regarding the scam.The complainant had stated that two friends had been planning to expose corruption in the examination process for the past several years and have now got success.The challan mentioned that the complainant came across Naveen, who charged ₹35 to 40 lakh per candidate to get their dental surgeon exam cleared. All they had to do was answer 35 to 40 questions. The dental surgeon exam was held on September 29, 2021 and they got hold of two candidates, one of which is Dalbir Singh.“The candidate copy was given to Naveen, which had marked 60-62 questions but the final copy had 172 questions answered. Eight days before the result was officially announced, he informed us that our candidate has cleared the exam and asked for ₹35 lakh bribe,” the challan mentioned.The complainant approached the vigilance bureau, which arrested Naveen from the parking of Sector 5, Panchkula with ₹20 lakh – the initial amount of the bribe.His arrest led them to Ashwani Sharma, who prepares results for various posts under the HSSC and the HPSC. “Together, we cleared exams of dental surgeons of eight candidates and charged ₹20 lakh each. It includes candidate Dalbir Singh as well. Bribe from seven candidates has been handed over to Ashwani:” as stated in the challan.Naveen allegedly confessed that apart from this examination, in HCS exam, 2021 they got ₹20 lakh each from two candidates, then exams of 40 staff nurses, four VLDA, and 15-16 ANMs were cleared, and ₹10 lakh per candidate was taken.Based on his confession and other evidence, Ashwani Sharma was arrested and ₹1.07 crore was recovered. Ashwani, who runs a data processing company, said he came in contact with Naveen around one year back.“He gave me roll numbers of five candidates and I got their pre-exam of HCS cleared. The bribe was given to Anil Nagar, HCS, deputy secretary, HPSC. He gave 13 such cases of dental to Nagar. In return, I used to get the work of data processing and ₹2 lakh commission:” the challan stated.He alleged that he has to give pending bribe amount of ₹1.07 crore to Nagar regarding dental surgeon exam. A WhatsApp call was made to Nagar and they spoke in “code language”, following which, Nagar asked him to visit his office. Later, the bribe amount was recovered from Nagar’s office.In the challan, it is mentioned that Anil Nagar, who was given the responsibility by the HPSC to conduct exams of HCS and dental surgeon, accepted that he took bribe of ₹25-30 lakh from candidates for dental surgeons’ exam and took ₹15-20 lakh for clearning pre-exam of HCS candidates.“I had asked Ashwani Sharma to get roll numbers and candidate OMR sheets of a few candidates. I got 15 such candidates. After scanning, we filled the blank answers on the original and carbon copy of the sheets. Of 15, five candidates passed the test and Ashwani Sharma had given me ₹1.30 crore:” stated the challan.It adds: “Then, Ashwani gave me 17 roll numbers of candidates in dental surgeon exam. Of these, 13 cleared the test. I got ₹2.08 crore from Ashwani.”The original OMR sheets and carbon copy of 14 roll numbers of the recruitment test for dental surgeons (Class-II), 20 OMR sheets of HCS (Ex Br) and other allied services preliminary examination was recovered from his office.On November 23, the three were sent to judicial custody and are lodged in Ambala jail.The investigation, in this case, is under progress, while the report of handwriting check, voice sample, etc is yet to arrive from FSL Madhuban. Involvement of more people cannot be ruled out, said officials.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Covid update: 6 deaths, 1,325 new cases||With 1,325 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours, Ludhiana’s cumulative count of infections since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020, crossed the 1-lakh mark on Wednesday. Six persons also succumbed to the disease on the day.It is for the fifth time in the last six days that the daily count has remained above the 1,000-mark. There are currently 8,185 active cases, of which 8,010 are under home isolation and 175 admitted at different hospitals. The latest fatalities include a 64-year-old man from Issa Nagari area (near Kidwai nagar), a 60- year-old man from Sudhar village, a 65-year-old woman from Rajguru Nagar, a 26-year-old woman from SBS Nagar, a 65-year-old woman from Gill Road and a 76-year-old man from Harkrishan Nagar. The cumulative tally of cases is 1,00, 326 of which 2,153 have succumbed. MC chief tests positiveMC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Sabharwal said that he is having mild symptoms and is in home isolation. Sabharwal has been conducting meetings with MC officials at his camp office for the last few days, but no report of any other staff member testing positive has been received yet.46% city residents yet to get 2nd dose of vaccineAround 46% residents in Ludhiana are yet to receive the second dose of the Covid vaccine, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said during a review meeting with NGOs, administrative and health department officials on Wednesday.DC Sharma said 28.03 lakh (106.51%) of the targeted population have received the first dose, while only 15.97 lakh (60.70%) have come forward for their second dose. He urged all such eligible persons to come forward and get vaccinated in the interest of society. Sharma said all healthcare, frontline workers and those above the age of 60 and having other ailments are also eligible for a booster shot, if they have completed nine months from the date of administering the second dose.He urged all government staff on election duty to get vaccinated at the earliest. A special vaccination camp for all election staff including teachers, government staff, bank employees, insurance sector etc will be organised at all training centres on January 23. Both Covishield and Covaxin would be available at these camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-covid-update-6-deaths-1-325-new-cases-101642620984835.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panpiat’s Krishan Kumar among three navy personnel killed on INS Ranvir||Krishan Kumar, 48, master chief petty officer first class (MCPO), a resident of Panipat’s Sutana village, was among the three navy personnel killed in an explosion onboard Indian Naval Ship (INS) Ranvir at the naval dockyard in Mumbai on Tuesday.A pall of gloom descended on his native village in Panipat as the news of his death reached there. The villagers and relatives gathered at his elder brother Subhash’s residence to express their condolences and console the bereaved family.As per the family, Krishan had joined the navy in his early twenties and was posted in Cochin. Krishan’s elder brother Vishnu Chand had also died in the line of duty while serving the Indian Army in 2014.Krishan is survived by his two sons, a daughter and wife. His daughter works in a private company while his sons are studying.Karambir Singh, a resident of the village, said Krishan and his family had shifted to Mumbai long ago and his elder brother Subhash was living in the village.Panipat deputy commissioner Sushil Sarwan said Krishan’s body will reach the village at 1.30pm on Thursday and the last rites will be performed with full state honours.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressed his condolences to the bereaved family. “A tearful tribute to martyrdom of Krishan of Panipat and other sailors in the accident aboard Indian Navy warship INS Ranvir. I pray to God to give place to the departed souls at his feet and speedy recovery of the injured jawans. May the Lord give strength to the bereaved families,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panpiats-krishan-kumar-among-three-navy-personnel-killed-on-ins-ranvir-101642620983539.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Money laundering case: HC reserves order on Khaira’s bail plea||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday reserved its order on the bail plea of Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case on November 11. Khaira had moved the HC seeking bail on December 13. A Mohali court had dismissed his plea on December 7. The order was reserved by high court bench of justice Sureshwar Thakur after completion of arguments from both sides. The central probe agency had raided Khaira’s premises in March 2021. Proceedings have been initiated in connection with a 2015 FIR. A court had convicted four persons and by the same order, Khaira was summoned as “additional accused”. In December 2017, the Supreme Court stayed his summoning. Khaira, who joined the Congress in June 2021, has all along maintained that these proceedings are part of a “political vendetta”. Khaira claimed that the ED’s action was a case of “witch-hunt” as he has been vocal against the three farm laws, later repealed by the Centre. The ED had initiated proceedings under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in January, even as there was a stay from the Supreme Court in the 2015 matter, he had claimed.The ED on the other hand, opposed the bail and claimed that he was an “accomplice” of drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers. The ED has also been claiming that he did not cooperate during the custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-case-hc-reserves-order-on-khaira-s-bail-plea-101642620863539.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chief secretary-headed committee to review ₹100-crore development project||With a view to expediting the execution of ongoing development projects worth over ₹100 crore, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has constituted a review committee under the chairmanship of the chief secretary.An official spokesperson said the three-member committee headed by chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal will review the development projects on a monthly basis. The committee also includes additional chief secretary (revenue) PK Das, additional chief secretary (finance) TVSN Prasad, and principal secretary to chief minister V Umashankar.The CM will also review these projects to ensure inter-departmental coordination. Khattar will preside over one such meeting on January 24. The committee recently conducted eight meetings with different departments under the chairmanship of the chief secretary and issued orders to expedite the works.Currently, 14 departments are working on the projects including 19 of the public works and architecture departments, 18 of the irrigation and water resources department, eight of the power department, and seven each of medical education, and rural and planning departments.While the public health engineering department is executing six projects, three projects each are in progress under the home, health services, and agriculture and farmers’ welfare department. School education, technical education, and food, civil supplies and consumer affairs departments are executing two projects each, while one project each are in progress under the civil aviation and transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chief-secretary-headed-committee-to-review-rs-100-crore-development-project-101642620804329.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 7,849 fresh Covid cases, 27 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Wednesday reported another spike in Covid cases with daily count reaching 7,849, taking the infection count to 6,84,664, according to a medical bulletin. With 27 Covid-related fatalities, the death toll reached 16,846, it said. The positivity rate dropped to 18.94% in the state. Among the fresh cases, Ludhiana topped the list with 1,325 infections, Mohali with 1,231, Jalandhar 888, Hoshiarpur 643, Amritsar 471, Patiala 418 and Bathinda 414, the bulletin said. Active cases in the state shot up to 45,505. Patiala and Ludhiana registered six deaths each followed by five in Jalandhar. With 6,161 persons recovering from the virus, the number of cured persons has reached 6,23,313, the bulletin said. A total of 3,04,301 doses of the vaccine were administered on Wednesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-7-849-fresh-covid-cases-27-deaths-101642620685045.html
20-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: UPPCS (Mains) exam postponed, now to be held from March 23||PRAYAGRAJ: The combined state/upper subordinate services (Mains) examination-2021, commonly known as PCS (Mains)-2021, to be held from January 28 to 31, has been postponed and now it will be conducted from March 23 to 27, according to officials of the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) which conducts the exam. UPPSC secretary Jagdish said, “The exam has been postponed in the interest of the candidates in light of the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the state. The PCS (Mains)-2021 will now be held from March 23 to 27, 2022.” A notification in this regard has been put on the official website of the commission— https://uppsc.up.nic.in/.The UPPSC had declared the results of PCS (Pre)-2021 on December 1, 2021. In PCS (Pre)-2021, a total of 7,688 candidates against the 678 posts on offer were declared successful. A total 6,91,173 candidates had applied online for the examination that was held on October 24. Out of these, 3,21,273 candidates had appeared in the PCS (Pre) for which UPPSC had set up a total of 1,505 examination centers in 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh. Qualifying the CSAT or Civil Services Aptitude Test was a must in the preliminary examination and it was mandatory for all the candidates to score a minimum of 33 per cent in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-uppcs-mains-exam-postponed-now-to-be-held-from-march-23-101642620683580.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||85% of Ludhiana’s Covid deaths since January 1 were of males||Like the first and second waves, the third wave is also proving to be more fatal for men as compared to women. Of the 27 people who succumbed to the infection since January 1, 23 were males and four were females. As many as 12 patients were above the age of 60, while nine were in the 50-60 age category. Six patients were below the age of 50. Also, 24 of the total persons who succumbed to the virus had comorbidities, including cancer, renal failure and heart disease. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said that during the first wave, the ratio between male and female deaths was 70:30, while during the second wave, there was slight rise in the proportion of female fatalities. “During the second wave, males accounted for 60% of the total fatalities while females made up for 40%,” he said.When asked why there are more male deaths, the civil surgeon said, “Due to our social setup, men have to venture out more for work while women are confined to their homes. Secondly, most men who lost their battle to the virus had comorbidities.”Singh said that fortunately hospitalisation is low this time due to which the stress on healthcare system is also less. Health experts predict that though cases may dip in cities, there may be a surge in small towns and rural areas in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/85-of-ludhiana-s-covid-deaths-since-january-1-were-of-males-101642620624719.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fly ash from Panipat thermal plant impacts human health, air quality: NGT report||Fly ash released from the Panipat thermal power plant of the Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited has affected the ambient air, human health, groundwater, air quality and agriculture in the nearby villages, revealed the interim report of a joint committee formed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT).The report submitted with the NGT on January 17 revealed that qualitative damage has been caused to the environment and public health. It has suggested that the detailed investigation to generate extensive data is required for quantification of the affected area and quantitative damage caused to the environment and public health by involving subject experts.Farmers have said that the visible impact of fly ash of the Panipat thermal power plant can be observed in the area especially from March to July, and it becomes difficult to breath during this period. The farmers had alleged most people in the area are suffering from skin, eye and respiratory problems.The impact on the ambient air quality was also revealed in the report as the results of the parameters PM10 and PM2.5 were found to be exceeding the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) at all locations with the PM10 concentration ranging between 330 to 396 against the standard, while the PM2.5 concentration ranging between 109 to 167 against the standard.The fine particulate matter was ranging between 130 to 167 against the standard 60 UG/M3. Nickel concentration in the ambient air was found to be exceeding at three locations ranging between 25 to 43 in 24-hours against the standard annual average of 20. Groundwater sampling was conducted at seven locations from borewells upstream and downstream of the Panipat thermal power plant ash dyke.The microbiological parameters were found to be exceeding in six borewells and this needs further investigation to find out the root cause and remedial action, reveals the report.The soil samples from five locations of the study area were drawn and analysed and it was observed from the analyses of the soil samples that concentration of chromium, chopper nickel and zinc is on a much higher side in comparison of the target values of this heavy metal in soil specified by the World Health Organisation (WHO).Further, the report also revealed the impact of fly ash on the plant and seeds as analysis of the samples of paddy plant and seed grown on the soils indicate “very high” concentration for heavy metals for heavy metals-specific to thermal power plant fly as chromium, copper, nickel and zinc when compared with the target values of these heavy metals for the plant specified by the WHO, it mentioned.Panipat chief medical officer’s office, in its report submitted to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) revealed that 91 cases of respiratory tract infection, 87 of hypertension, 35 of cardiac diseases, 32 of cancer, 44 of skin diseases, and 42 of eye diseases were reported in five villages – Assan Kalan, Khukhrana, Jattal, Untla and Sutana from 2016 to 2021.On the efforts being made to decrease the impact of fly ash, HSPCB member secretary S Naryanan said this report has been submitted by the joint committee to the NGT and will take necessary action as per the legal provisions against the lapses.“We will examine the deficiencies on the board-level and initiate action as deemed fit,” he added.On the other hand, Panipat thermal power plant executive engineer Jit Singh said two units of the power plant were operational and they are following the guidelines issued for management of fly ash. He said more efforts will be made for compliance of the NGT orders.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine hesitancy: 16% Haryana govt school teachers yet to get first jab||Sixteen percent Haryana government school teachers are yet to take first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine while 15.52% teachers have only taken the first dose, it has emerged.This vaccine hesitancy among school staff, according to Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal, is “not an inspiring example set by the teaching fraternity”. It is also contrary to the Haryana government’s claims of inoculating 100% eligible adults with the first dose.Till January 15, 68% (71,180) government school employees had been inoculated with both the doses. Haryana has 14,160 government-run schools in 22 districts of the state and 1,04,162 employees (majority teachers). According to official data, 16,167 teachers have taken only the first dose, and 16,815 teachers have so far not ventured out to take the first dose of the Covid vaccine.The data showed that every district has teachers who have not taken even the first dose. For example, 438 teachers in Panchkula, 467 in Ambala, 947 in Rohtak, 1,309 in Bhiwani, 411 in Karnal, 1,327 in Sonepat and 1,515 in Sirsa are among the 16% teachers avoiding the first shot of the Covid vaccine.“Teachers are role models and inspiration for students who aspire to follow the footsteps of teachers more than their parents. And we cannot force them to vaccinate themselves in view of the recent court orders,” Pal said, pointing out that contrary to teachers, there is enthusiasm among students as till January 18, about 51% students in the 15 to 18 age group have been administered the first dose.Jhajjar district having 526 schools and total 3,857 teachers tops the list with 94% vaccination (single and both doses included) among teachers, followed by Karnal (93%), Rewari and Yamunanagar (92%) and Gurugram (90%).The data showed that Nuh district has the lowest of 60% vaccination among the school staff. The district has 834 schools with 4,675 employees of whom, 1,067 have taken the first dose and 1,734 are fully-vaccinated, while 1,874 are yet to take the first vaccine shot.In Ambala, 89% school staff has been vaccinated, Bhiwani 77%, Charkhi Dadri 84%, Faridabad 89%, Fatehabad 88%, Hisar 78%, Jind 82%, Kaithal 89%, Kurukshetra 83%, Mahendergarh 88%, Palwal 88%, Panchkula 85%, Panipat 86%, Rohtak 76%, Sirsa 75%, and Sonepat 77%.“I hope the 16% teachers, who have so far not taken the first dose of Covid vaccine, will inoculate themselves. Good results of the vaccine and how it has saved lives are before all of us,” Kanwar Pal said, asking the teaching community not to shy away from getting jabbed.13% students vaccinated in MewatWhile 37% school staff in Nuh district have taken both the doses and 23% single dose, just 13% students in the 15-18 age group were vaccinated in district till Wednesday, according to data accessed from the school education department.The Muslim-dominated district has 39,140 students in government schools and 4,924 students are vaccinated with the first dose till January 19.Among other districts with low percentage of vaccination among students till Wednesday are Rohtak 28%, Bhiwani 42%, and Hisar 32%.Ambala has vaccinated 57% government school students, Charkhi Dadri 70%, Faridabad 66%, Fatehabad 46%, Gurugram 79%, Jhajjar 66%, Jind 47%, Kaithal 70%, Karnal 68%, Kurukshetra 68%, Mahendergarh 87%, Palwal 64%, and Panchkula 42%.Of total 6,54,490 students in government schools eligible for vaccination, 3,63,302 have received the first shot of the vaccine till January 19.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Lok Insaaf Party, Congress workers clash in Ludhiana, 3 injured||Three persons, including the brother of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Singh Bains, were injured in a clash between LIP and Congress workers over installing posters near Dharam Kanda on Gill Road on Wednesday afternoon. As per information, supporters of Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal were setting up a poster when LIP supporters reached there and accused them of removing their leader’s poster.A scuffle broke out between both groups, and in the melee, the LIP chief’s brother Paramjit Singh Bains alias suffered injuries on his hand. A supporter of Karwal was also injured. Pamma was taken to the civil hospital, where Simarjit Bains also reached along with his supporters. Addressing mediapersons outside the hospital, Bains accused Karwal’s supporters of carrying firearms, weapons and sharp-edged weapons, and added, “We know how to fight elections. I warn Karwal to refrain from indulging in such political antics; otherwise we also know how to handle such people.”The LIP leader also said he will be lodging a formal complaint with the election commission. On the other hand, Karwal said that while his supporters were installing a poster, Pamma arrived at the spot and started threatening the Congress workers. “He was carrying a pistol and threatened our supporters. My supporters also suffered injuries in the incident. Bains has always indulged in politics of threat and intimidation, but not anymore. We have lodged a formal complaint in this regard and sought police action,” said Karwal.A local court had on Tuesday issued non-bailable warrants against the LIP chief in a case of alleged violation of Covid norms. The next hearing of the case is on January 28, in the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Harsimranjit Singh.Security failure exposedThe incident has yet again exposed the failure of the police in maintaining law-and order in the area which was already been declared sensitive. Police had inputs of a possible clash but cops did little to avert the problem. When the clash took place, hardly any cop was present at the spot.When asked, joint commissioner of police Ravcharan Singh Brar said he was conducting a meeting in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lok-insaaf-party-congress-workers-clash-in-ludhiana-3-injured-101642620206509.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Projects initiated by Capt in Patiala remain in limbo||Patiala : Most of the developmental projects initiated by former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh since 2017 continue to remain in limbo. The projects include setting up of heritage street, multi-crore canal-based water supply project in Patiala district, rejuvenation of seasonal Chhoti Nadi and Badi Nadi, dairy shifting project and renovation of Rajindra Lake.Though the projects progressed well during his tenure, the work on these has come to a standstill since his unceremonious ouster as the Punjab CM on September 18 last year. “In October 2020, the former chief minister announced ₹1,100-crore projects for Patiala, but political differences have slowed their pace,” said a senior Congress leader.In 2018, the state government kicked off the canal-based water supply project, which was later approved by Union ministries of finance and urban development. The project worth ₹503 crore was to be carried out as a joint venture by the state and the central government for which the Asian Development Bank (ADB) is the main financial sponsor. The government had set March 2022 as its deadline, but other than tenders and work orders, nothing has progressed so far, say officials. As far as dairy shifting project is concerned, despite spending ₹15 crore on the development of the site, the project failed to take off due to reluctance shown by dairy owners.In October last year, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi directed the Patiala administration to halt the shifting till all necessary facilities were made available at the new site.Similarly, the work on the rejuvenation of Badi Nadi and Chhoti Nadi, dream projects of the former CM, is moving at a snail’s pace after his ouster. Prior to this, Amarinder and his wife Patiala MP Preneet Kaur use to personally monitor the projects. The heritage street project, which was to be completed by December 2021, has already missed its deadline. Under the project costing around ₹41 crore, heritage street was to be constructed around Patiala’s 256-year-old Qila Mubarak.Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said the projects were closely monitored by senior officials of state government during Amarinder’s tenure. “Now, the government has completely ignored these projects as nothing has been done in the past four months,” he said.Bittu added that he has written to Punjab CM Charanjit Channi and epartments concerned to expedite the work on these projects and take action against executing agency as per contract agreement.
20-01-2022||Other||Uttar Pradesh Assembly Polls: 46 candidates file nomination in Braj region||Agra: Altogether 46 nominations were filed in three districts of Agra, Aligarh and Mathura (Braj region), going to the state assembly polls in the first phase on February 10. In Agra, total 21 candidates, including five from BJP, filed their nominations during the day while 13 candidates, including three from BJP, filed nomination in Aligarh and 12 in Mathura. In Aligarh, BJP candidates Thakur Jaiveer Singh for Baroli assembly seat, Sandeep Kumar Singh for Atrauli assembly seat and Thakur Ravendra Pal Singh for Charra seat filed their nominations. For Baroli assembly seat in Aligarh, Congress candidate Gaurang Dev Chauhan filed nomination. It was smart turn out for Atrauli assembly seat for which SP candidate Veeresh Yadav, Congress candidate Dharmendra Kumar Lodhi and independents Akhilesh Devi and Chandrapal Singh filed their nominations. SP candidate Laxmi Dhangar too filed her nomination for Charra assembly seat. Congress leader Vivek Bansal filed nomination for Kol seat while independent candidate Keshav Dev filed for Aligarh city seat. Veerpal Diwakar from RLD and Sushil Kumar from BSP filed for Iglas assembly seats. In Mathura, heavy weights turned up to file nominations and in all, 12 candidates filed nominations, including ministers in UP cabinet Srikant Sharma (BJP) from Mathura and Vrindavan assembly seats, Chaudhary Laxmi Narain for Chata assembly seat. For Chata seat, there were three nominations, two for Baldev, two for Mant, three for Mathura Vrindavan and two for Goverdhan. In Agra district, 21 candidates filed nomination and prominent amongst them were Shivani Baghel for Etmadpur assembly seat (Congress), Virendra Singh Chauhan for Etmadpur assembly seat (SP), Pakshalika Singh (BJP) for Bah assembly seat, Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha (BJP) for Kheragarh assembly seat, Baby Rani Maurya (BJP) for Agra rural assembly seat, Dr GS Dharmesh (BJP) for Agra Cantt assembly seat, Chotey Lal Verma (BJP) for Fatehabad filed nominations in Agra. BSP candidates Mukesh Rajput for Fatehpur Sikri, Kiran Prabha Kesri for Agra Rural also filed nominations. Brajesh Chahar (RLD) for Fatehpur Sikri, Kunwar Chand Vakil (SP) for Agra Cantt, Anuj Sharma (Congress) for Agra South and Rizwanuddin Prince (SP) for Agra South also filed nominations during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-46-candidates-file-nomination-in-braj-region-101642620023776.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Samajwadi Party aims to upset BJP’s applecart||The trend of a chief minister failing to get a second term and a majority of regimes being voted out in the next election has emboldened the state’s opposition parties, particularly the Samajwadi Party (SP), to believe that the 2022 UP polls could mark the end of the BJP government’s innings in the state. In deed, electoral history shows that no government has won a second successive term in Uttar Pradesh since 1989. Since 1952, the state also has never seen a chief minister (CM) returning to power to complete another term after a full five-year tenure. For over 15 years through the 1990s and the early part of 2000s, UP witnessed a fragmented polity till the situation changed decisively in 2007. Since then, the state has had regimes that won a clear majority. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) was the first in this respect. It won a majority on its own in 2007 for five years. The Samajwadi Party (SP) got a clear mandate in 2012 and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2017. In 2022, the Samajwadi Party led by Akhilesh Yadav with a substantial support base of Yadavs and Muslims has emerged as the main challenger. Currently, the battle for 2022 looks like a BJP vs SP contest though the BSP and the Congress are also fighting for power. “The fight, at this point, is certainly between the BJP and the SP. Other parties are trying, but they may not find favour with voters. The BSP’s base is vastly eroded, and at the same time, the party is suffering desertions. The Congress has no presence at the grassroots level,” said professor SK Dwivedi, political analyst and former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University. The Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party looks better prepared, including technologically, given that most of the campaign is now set to be through the digital mode and door-to-door canvassing because of the election commission’s Covid guidelines. Unlike the 2017 election, which reduced the SP’s tally from 224 seats in 2012 (in 403-member assembly) to just 47, the party has overcome the chaos fuelled by the Yadav family’s political feud. The feud, too, has been put behind with Akhilesh’s uncle and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav joining the SP-led alliance. The fight between the then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal Yadav (the then public works department minister) had resulted in a long-drawn-out power struggle. Mulayam Yadav, the then Samajwadi Party national president, appeared to be a fence-sitter in the intra-family battle. Now, Akhilesh’s leadership is undisputed and his father stands by him. The uncle is now an ally and the party has no factions. To regain power, Akhilesh Yadav had spurred the party into an extensive campaign, leaving no stone unturned in its voter outreach. As a party with a significant presence across the state, its campaign included yatras, cycle rallies, Brahmin conferences, backward caste conferences, minority outreach and Dalit sammelans (conventions). It is bracing up for a virtual campaign with its Samajwadi digital wing. Just before the onset of the second wave of Covid-19, Akhilesh had travelled to 40 districts. Post the wave, and by the time the election schedule was announced, he had covered all regions on his Vijay Rath Yatra in a total of 10 phases. He also appeared to add a dash of soft Hindutva through his temple runs and the installation of a Lord Parshuram idol in Lucknow. The Samajwadi Party, along with consolidating its caste equations, expects the new poll promises by Akhilesh to work heavily in favour of the party, especially the 300 units free power to domestic consumers and free power to farmers. The party has also promised free laptops to students for higher studies; MSP (minimum statutory price) for all crops, interest-free loans, insurance, and pension for farmers. Akhilesh Yadav started inducting outsiders from other parties after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The SP’s alliance with the BSP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls failed to give the desired benefit, but it triggered the movement of BSP leaders to the SP. Many prominent BSP and Congress leaders, a couple of sitting BJP MLAs and regional satraps joined the Samajwadi Party. “People know that the SP is returning to power. More than 100 BJP MLAs are in touch with the SP,” said the party’s state spokesperson and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary. “Isn’t this trend of movement from all parties to the SP enough to show who is coming to power? Feeling the pulse of the voters, most of the disgruntled leaders of the BSP, the Congress, and the BJP are joining our party. There must be a strong wave in favour of the SP, and that is why leaders from other parties are trusting the visionary leadership of Akhilesh Yadav,” said Abdul Hafiz Gandhi, an SP spokesperson. Last week, the SP in a major show of strength vis-a-vis non-Yadav backwards classes vote bank, inducted three ex-ministers of Yogi Adityanath cabinet--Swami Prasad Maurya, Dharm Singh Saini, and Dara Singh Chauhan. A total of seven backward classes BJP MLAs, including two BJP ally MLAs joined the SP; one who joined the SP ally the RLD is now the RLD’s Jewar candidate. Akhilesh Yadav recognises the BJP is the SP’s only rival. It is ignoring all other BJP rivals in the 2022 poll arena. “The BJP is our only rival, no one else. We are not going to waste our energies on the BSP and the Congress. The Congress is a confused party. It doesn’t even know who it is fighting — the BJP or the SP,” said Udaiveer Singh, an SP MLC. While attacking the BJP, the SP often speaks of its allegedly divisive politics, farm laws, backward caste issues, and caste census. It has heavily criticised the state government for its supposed Covid-19 mismanagement, the prevailing law and order in the state and the country at large, the purported rise in crimes against women, and slump in the economy. Just after becoming the SP chief, Akhilesh Yadav struck an alliance with the Congress for the 2017 UP polls. The alliance failed. For the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Akhilesh allied with the BSP. This partnership, too, did not click. Now, Akhilesh is allying with small regional parties. He has allied with the SBSP,Mahan Dal, Janwadi Party (Socialist) for consolidation of backward caste votes. Since 2017, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has been the only constant companion of the SP. Akhilesh is looking for consolidation of votes of farmers, Jats, Muslim and Dalits in western UP. Defeating the BJP in a crowded poll landscape is going to be no easy task. “It will not be as easy as it was in 2012 for the SP to regain power. Then it was a clear bipolar contest against the discredited BSP government. The SP was the sole rival to the BSP, as both the Congress and the BJP were either virtually non-existent or very weak then. But now, the Congress and the BSP are trying hard too. They might not be in a position to win, but they might hurt the SP,” said professor SK Dwivedi. The SP faces an uphill battle to regain power in the state. In 2017, the BJP bagged 312 seats against its 47 seats in 2012. The SP fell to 47 seats from its 2012 tally of 224. The BJP’s vote share jumped to 39.67% (a swing of 24.67%). The SP’s vote share fell to 21.82% (a negative swing of 7.33%). Mayawati bagged 19 seats in 2017, but her party’s vote share was 22.23% — higher than the SP’s. 
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||ED raids: Channi alleges conspiracy to frame him||Chandigarh : A day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on his nephew and others in an illegal sand mining case, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday accused the Centre of attempts to frame him in order to take revenge for the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Ferozepur visit fiasco. Channi said his nephew (Bhupinder Singh Honey) was tortured by the agency and even lured to name him in the case as part of a conspiracy to target the Congress and spoil its election. “I have learnt that those who had come to interrogate talked about the PM’s visit, saying they will not let us file our nomination papers or contest the elections,” the beleaguered chief minister alleged at a press conference at the party headquarters in Chandigarh. Accompanying him were deputy chief minister Sukhinder Singh Randhawa, cabinet ministers Brahm Mahindra and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. The ED had on Tuesday carried out raids at 10 places, including Honey’s house, in Pathankot, Mohali and other areas. It has recovered ₹10 crore so far during the anti-money laundering probe against illegal sand mining operations. Calling the ED raids at his nephew’s premises a “planted exercise”, Channi claimed his nephew was not even named in the 2018 FIR of the Nawanshahr police on which the agency’s action was based. “This is a conspiracy to trap me in this case. They are taking revenge because I stood with Punjab and people of Punjab during the Prime Minister’s visit to Ferozepur,” he said, questioning the timing of the ED raids. Accusing the Centre of “vindictive action”, the chief minister said that if Modi had to return, what was his fault? “Why revenge is being taken on me?” he asked, alleging that his ministers and other party leaders were also under pressure. He also alleged that whenever elections are to take place, the Centre uses the ED, Income Tax and other agencies to arm-twist political opponents. “During the West Bengal elections, Mamata Banerjee’s relatives were raided and cases registered. They did this in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra also. Like West Bengal, they will not be allowed to succeed in Punjab,” he said. Hitting out at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Channi said that when the former’s nephew was arrested in a corruption case related to roads and sewerage works in Delhi, he cried vendetta but is happy when ED has carried out raids in Punjab. He also alleged that SAD leader Bikram Majithia against whom a case had been registered (under the NDPS Act) and former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh are behind the raids. “They are all mixed-up against the Congress…they cannot tolerate how a poor man’s son has become the chief minister,” said Channi. Asked why Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has not spoken a word in his favour, the CM ducked the query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-raids-channi-alleges-conspiracy-to-frame-him-101642619544731.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||Local election results: MVA parties strong together||Mumbai: The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were neck-and-neck in the rural and semi-urban local bodies that went to polls in two phases starting December, results declared on Wednesday revealed. Wednesday’s results, declared on a majority of the nagar panchayat seats that polled in 31 districts, indicated that the BJP has not lost much ground support among its local base but that the MVA partners would have to stick together if they wanted to win. Polls in 1,802 seats in 106 nagar panchayats across 31 districts, and 105 seats in district councils as well as 210 seats in 17 panchayat samitis in two districts, namely Bhandara and Gondia were conducted in two phases. On December 21, only general category seats polled, and on January 18, only Other Backward Class (OBC)-reserved seats that were re-notified as open category seats (412 in all), polled. The results of 1,638 nagar panchayat seats were declared on Wednesday. The results of nine nagar panchayats in Gadchiroli will be declared on Thursday, along with the remaining district councils and panchayat samitis results. The BJP, which is in opposition in the state, won 384 seats in nagar panchayat polls while the NCP, which is part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, won 344 seats. The NCP improved its tally in terms of the number of seats while its coalition allies, Congress (316 and Shiv Sena (284 seats) were reduced to third and fourth position, respectively. The three ruling parties however, bagged more than 57.63% seats collectively by winning 944 of the 1,638 seats in which the results were declared. The BJP, by comparison, won 23.44% seats in the nagar panchayats. The counting of votes in 97 nagar panchayats (civic bodies that govern semi-urban areas) began in 31 districts on Wednesday morning. Though the elections to the post of chairman for these bodies will be held next week, present numbers indicate that NCP could control 25, BJP 24, Congress 22 and the Shiv Sena, 15. In some of the urban local bodies that went to polls, the ruling parties will need to join hands to gain power. At least 10 bodies have local alliances, and in some areas, such as Patan in Satara, Mandanga in Ratnagiri, Vikramgad in Palghar, Shirdi in Ahmednagar, local unregistered parties have won more seats than the big four. Former home minister RR Patil’s son Rohit Patil emerged victorious as the NCP won 10 out of 17 nagar panchayat seats in Kavathe-Mahankal which was fought under his leadership. Congress won all three panchayats in Nanded under the leadership of former chief minister Ashok Chavan, as well as the Tivasa panchayat under the leadership of women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur. The BJP scored in Vidarbha — a Congress stronghold traditionally —winning six panchayats in Chandrapur, Bhandara, Nagpur districts. The party bagged four out of five panchayats in Beed in central Maharashtra, which could be considered as a setback for social justice minister and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde. Most of the seats that the NCP won were from western Maharashtra, as well as Nashik in north Maharashtra and Raigad, Ratnagiri in the Konkan region. “Despite gross misuse of the money and muscle power by the ruling parties in the local body elections, the BJP has emerged as the leader by winning highest number of seats. We will elect our chairmen in at least 30 bodies with the help of our allies. BJP has retained its top position in the state,” said former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. NCP’s state unit chief Jayant Patil said that the party emerged as the leader in the nagar panchayat elections by winning the highest number of seats. “It is the result of our continuous efforts of serving the people and taking up the issues related to them,” he said. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that the party improved its tally compared to the previous elections. “We have fared satisfactorily. We have won 22 panchayats from the existing number of 17. We are leading in Vidarbha and have made inroads in Konkan. The number of seats won by the BJP is lesser than what they won in the same bodies the last time,” he said. OBC ire not on display The results also serve as a breather for the MVA as it indicated that the OBC communities have not yet displayed their displeasure over the loss of political reservation in local bodies. “It is true that the OBC community is upset with state government for the inordinate delay in collating empirical data. It would have gone in the favour of the opposition BJP, but it could not be seen as a perfect picture. The nagar panchayats are local bodies in semi urban areas with limited population. The real picture will come to the fore in the local body polls to be held in next few months,” Chandrakant Bavkar, president OBC Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, said. In March 2021, the SC ordered Maharashtra to conduct a rigorous empirical survey to ascertain the exact nature of the socio-economic backwardness of OBC communities before deciding on the quantum of reservation. It said that the legal provisions in place failed the triple test of reservation —it exceeded the 50% ceiling on reservation when taken together with other constitutionally-mandated reservations to persons from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The SC ruled that the political quota to the OBCs in local bodies cannot be given until the data was produced. As a result, in October 2021, by-polls in 84 seats of district councils and 141 panchayat samitis from six districts were held after the SC scrapped the elections of the candidates elected from the OBC quota in these local bodies. This was the first time polls were held without OBC quota, after the reservation came into force in 1994. In September 2021, the state government promulgated Ordinances to allow up to 27% reservation in urban and rural local bodies. However, in December, the SC which was continuing to hear the reservation petitions struck down these Ordinances as well. Furthermore, it directed the state election commission (SEC) to re-notify OBC-reserved seats as general category seats and proceed with the elections that were set to take place on two days — December 21 and January 18. 
20-01-2022||Other||Farmers’ income has not doubled, their pain increased, says Sachin Pilot in Varanasi||VARANASI Congress leader and former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot, on Wednesday said that the farmers’ income had not doubled in the last six and a half years but their pain had increased a hundred times. Pilot was interacting with media persons in Varanasi in the presence of Congress leaders and workers. “Six years ago, BJP government at the Centre had promised it would double the income of farmers by 2022. Now, the year has begun but the farmers’ income didn’t double. Instead, their pain has increased a hundred times during the rule of present government due to its anti-farmer policies,” alleged pilot.Pilot said, “The tax has been imposed on agriculture equipment and products. The rates of fertilizers have increased indiscriminately and now a fertilizer bag of 45 kg in place of 50kg earlier is being sold on a higher price. Inflation is growing and unemployment is at its peak due to which people are upset, he said.He said that people would give befitting reply to the BJP in the assembly elections and would dethrone it from the government in UP. Asked how many seats Congress would win in Uttar Pradesh, Pilot said that the Congress was contesting the assembly polls in the state with full strength and there would be startling results after the elections.He said that the Congress workers would keep raising the issues of farmers, youths, women, poor and common men. “Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has fought for the rights of farmers, poor, tribals and others in UP,” he added. He further alleged that the SP and the BSP didn’t play the role of strong Opposition in the state. Pilot also held a meeting of Congress workers regarding the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-income-has-not-doubled-their-pain-increased-says-sachin-pilot-in-varanasi-101642619488367.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||SC: Submit OBC data to MSBCC||Mumbai: The Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday refused to offer relief on the plea filed by the Maharashtra government seeking a recall of the top court’s December order stating that seats reserved for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in local bodies should be re-notified as general category seats.However, the apex court allowed the state government to submit existing data on OBC communities to the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission (MSBCC) for assessment, and said that the commission could submit its interim report to the state within 15 days of receiving this data.State officials took this as a positive development and said that this could pave the way for the state to bring back OBC reservation in local bodies.“The data and information may be furnished before the dedicated commission (MSBCC) to enable the latter to examine it and submit interim recommendations, which can be acted upon in terms of the law. This obviously would not obviate the triple test which had to be completed by the state under the 2021 judgment before providing reservation of seats for OBC in local bodies,” a three-judge bench comprising justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, said.The state uses data based on a sample survey conducted by the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics and what is currently available on a government portal to provide reservation to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe (SC, ST) and other communities in local bodies as per the existing formula laid down by law.State food and civil supplies minister and prominent OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal said today’s development was positive. “Until today, there was no way ahead except completing the triple test exercise, which will take some time. But today, the apex court allowed the state government to submit the data to MSBCC and further allowed the commission to submit its interim report to the state government, which is a positive development. It shows we are in the right direction and hoping that the OBC reservation will be restored soon.”“The order has come as a big relief for the state as it will allow the restoration of OBC reservation in local bodies based on the interim report of the MSBCC. Based on recommendations made by the MSBCC, the state government can take a decision on OBC reservation,” said advocate Sachin Patil, standing counsel for Maharashtra government in the Supreme Court.“As per data available on the Saral portal, the population of OBC of citizens is tentatively available with the state… This data was available for some time but has been recently analyzed to reveal the population of the backward class of citizens,” the state’s application for recall order said.“The reservation in various districts of Maharashtra is based on the proportion of population of OBCs in the respective districts and is not a blanket reservation of 27% in all the districts in the entire state of Maharashtra,” it said. The quota will not be applicable in the districts of Nandurbar, Palghar and Gadchiroli which have a substantial population of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes, it added.As an intermediate measure to justify the 27% OBC quota in local bodies, the state referred to a sample survey, conducted by Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, which said that the distribution of OBCs in the sample size was found to be 48.6%.Shreehari Aney, former advocate general of the state, said that the interim report will have significance if it is related to determining backwardness for the purpose of elections. “It all depends on the nature of the interim report of the MSBCC. If it is related to reservation in education and reservation in employment then it will have no meaning.”“The data the state government is talking about consists of a report prepared by Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics. It was prepared for Maratha reservation, which focuses more on social and economic status of the communities and it is based upon socio-economic caste census (SECC) made by the Central government. According to the Centre, SECC has errors and the Supreme Court has also said that political reservation is different from socio-economic status of the community. I doubt that OBCs will get reservation in the upcoming local bodies’ elections,” Chandrakant Bavkar, executive president, Jan OBC Morcha, said.As many as 15 out of 27 municipal corporations, 25 out of 34 district councils and more than 320 municipal councils and nagar panchayats are due for elections in the next three months. This is slated to take place across Maharashtra, including in cities like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, and Aurangabad.On December 15, two weeks after striking down two Ordinances promulgated by the state government to ensure up to 27% political reservation to OBC candidates, the SC directed the state election commission (SEC) to hold elections on OBC reserved seats after re-notifying them as general category seats. The SEC held polls for 412 seats from rural as well as urban local bodies on January 18.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||91% licensed arms deposited in Punjab ahead of elections||Chandigarh : A total of 3,54,075 licensed weapons have been deposited in the state after the imposition of model code of conduct for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls scheduled on February 20, said Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju on Wednesday. The weapons deposited in the police stations are 91% of the total 3,90,275 licensed weapons in the state, he said. The Elections commission (EC) teams have also seized 27 weapons without licences. Raju said some of the persons having licensed weapons, including security personnel at nationalised and private banks and other persons facing security issues, will have to approach deputy commissioners for genuine exemptions and complaint redressal. Raju also said after the imposition of the election code, the enforcement teams so far have seized valuables worth ₹46.66 crore. Giving details, he said that the surveillance teams have seized 6.6 lakh litres of liquor worth ₹2 crore. “The enforcement wings have also recovered psychotropic drugs amounting to ₹44.49 crores besides confiscating unaccounted cash of ₹1.74 crore,” he added. The CEO said as many as 1,088 vulnerable hamlets have been identified. Besides, 2,376 persons have been identified as probable sources of trouble, he said, adding that out of these persons preventive action had already been initiated against 1,129 persons while the remaining would also be brought to book. He said 2,221 cases of non-bailable warrants have been executed, while execution in 191 cases is under process. As many as 6,339 nakas are operational in the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/91-licensed-arms-deposited-in-punjab-ahead-of-elections-101642619183446.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Young adult with learning disability makes video memoir||Almost a year after he lost his grandmother, 24-year-old Mukund Pant, who suffers from intellectual disability, released a video memoir dedicated to her, on YouTube, on Tuesday.“Mukund was distraught after losing his grandmother. For many months he struggled with his emotions and finally decided to deal with his emotions by creating a video memoir dedicated to his Dadi. After eight months of hard work, his movie “My Life - why did they take her away” was released on PYSSUM’s YouTube channel,” Mukund’s father, Naval Pant, said.The 11-minute video details the story of the grandmother from her birth till her demise and Mukund’s close connection with her.“Mukund was born with developmental delays. He was slow and had issues with his eyes. Though he went to mainstream primary schools, his actual training started with PYSSUM, a vocational training centre for young adults with mental disability where he joined the child development centre as a young student. After years of hard work, today he trains young adults there,” the father informed.The short movie reflects the struggle of an individual with special needs. It shows many aspects of his creative instincts. The movie also portrays the artistic reflection of an individual with special needs.“Mukund takes care of the office management and assists at PYSSUM, despite his constraints of reading and writing,” the father said.“Mukund had issues with his movement and sight, but with sincere efforts, he chose to create a short movie where eyes and hand movements play a major role, through sheer hard work,” added the father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/young-adult-with-learning-disability-makes-video-memoir-101642619123871.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Channi not a common man but a ‘dishonest man’, says Kejriwal||Chandigarh : Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is not a common man but a “dishonest man” as he sought to corner the Congress leader over an ED raid on the premises of his nephew.Kejriwal made the comment as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided the premises linked to the Channi’s nephew and others as part of a money laundering probe against “sand mafia”. Channi has dubbed the raids an attempt to “trap” him in the case while claiming that it was being done to take revenge as PM Narendra Modi had to return without addressing a rally in Ferozepur earlier this month.Kejriwal through his comment sought to target the common man image, which Channi has tried to cultivate following his elevation as the chief minister last year.“Channi aam aadmi nahi, baiman aadmi hai (Channi is not a common man, he is a dishonest man),” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi attacking the CM on Wednesday.On Tuesday too, Kejriwal had attacked Channi over illegal sand mining.“It is sad that a relative of the chief minister is being raided for sand mining,” Kejriwal had said, adding that his party leader had earlier exposed how illegal sand mining was taking place in Channi’s Assembly constituency Chamkaur Sahib.“Despite uncovering it, the chief minister did not take action and even tried to justify it. It is clear that he (CM) and his family are involved in illegal sand mining. What can be expected for Punjab’s future from a person whose family is involved in illegal mining,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-channi-not-a-common-man-but-a-dishonest-man-says-kejriwal-101642619003807.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Mohindra, Rana Gurjeet back Channi for CM face||Chandigarh : Hours after the Congress reiterated its decision to fight under “collective leadership”, Punjab cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra and Rana Gurjeet Singh on Wednesday pressed for naming incumbent chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi as the party’s chief ministerial face for the assembly elections in the state. Mohindra and Rana Gurjeet put their weight behind the incumbent even as the Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary clarified that the party will not announce its CM candidate for the February 20 state polls, and will go with collective leadership. There is a tussle on in the state Congress over the chief ministerial face with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Channi throwing their hats in the ring. Mohindra, a six-time MLA and one of the senior-most party leaders, urged the Congress high command to clear doubt about the chief ministerial candidate, stating there should not be any confusion in the party about naming the CM face when there is already one who proved himself beyond everybody’s expectations. He also cited in support Channi’s “outstanding performance” as the chief minister in just over three months. “It is the Congress that had set the tradition of declaring the CM candidate ahead of elections in 2012 and 2017. It should continue with that tradition and announce the candidate sooner than later,” the minister said, referring to the AAP’s announcement naming Bhagwant Mann as its CM face and Akalis projecting Sukhbir Singh Badal. The Congress cannot afford to leave any vacuum as it can prove detrimental to party’s interests, and that too when we have a far better choice than others, tried and tested,” he emphasised. Rana Gurjeet, who has been openly backing the present incumbent, also said that he wants Channi as the CM candidate because he has come up to the expectations of the people. “In three months, everyone has seen how hardworking he is and surely deserves another chance,” he said, expressing full confidence in his ability to retain power and deliver the state to the party. CM under fire, Sidhu silent The ministers’ support for beleaguered Channi has come at a crucial time as he is facing fire from all sides after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on his nephew along with some others and huge cash recovery in the illegal sand mining case. Rival parties, including the AAP, SAD, BJP and the Punjab Lok Congress, have gone after the CM all guns blazing, insinuating his involvement. Besides Mohindra, three other ministers, including deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Tript Rajinder Bajwa, were by Channi’s side to show their support at a press conference in which he hit out at the BJP government at the Centre for its alleged “attempts to trap him in the case”. The PPCC chief has been rather muted on this issue. Sidhu also addressed a press conference along with Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala in Chandigarh on farmers’ issue. Surjewala, in response to a query, categorically stated that the chief minister had nothing to do with the FIR. However, Sidhu did not offer any comment. Congress to go with 3 prominent faces Earlier, Chaudhary said the Congress has three prominent faces in Punjab, including Channi, Sidhu and Sunil Jakhar. “In 111 days, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has taken historic decisions focused on public welfare. So, the Congress is going to win more seats in 2022 than in 2017,” he told ANI, claiming that “all is well” inside the party. Asked about the announcement of Bhagwant Mann as the AAP’s CM candidate, he said: “The AAP has already accepted that they have no support base in Punjab. Their call response itself is under question. The Congress demands that all those call responses and call data be kept in the public domain”. 
20-01-2022||Other||Allahabad HC extends all interim relief till Feb 28||Due to increasing COVID-19 cases, the Allahabad high court has extended all interim orders passed by the high court at Allahabad, or its Lucknow bench or at all the district courts and other courts across Uttar Pradesh, that were ending on or before December 31,2021 till February 28, 2022.Hearing a suo moto PIL, a division bench comprising chief justice Rajesh Bindal and justice Piyush Agrawal further directed that the orders granted by criminal courts in the state, regarding bail or anticipatory bail for a limited period, which are likely to expire before February 28, 2022, shall stand extended for a period till February 28, 2022.“Any orders of eviction, dispossession or demolition, already passed by the high court, district court or civil court, if not executed till the date of passing of this order, shall remain in abeyance for the period till February 28, 2022,” the court added.The court further directed that the state government, municipal authorities, other local bodies and agencies and instrumentalities of the state government “shall be slow” in taking action of demolition and eviction of persons till February 28, 2022.Besides, any bank or financial institution shall not take any action for auction in respect of any property or an institute or person or party or anybody corporate till February 28, 2022, the court added.However, the court made it clear that in case of extension of interim orders, any undue hardship and prejudice of any extreme nature is caused to any of the party, the said party/parties would be at liberty to seek relief by moving appropriate application before the competent court and the general direction issued by this order shall not be an embargo in considering such application and deciding the same after affording an opportunity of hearing to all the parties to said case. The court directed to list this PIL on February 24, 2022 for the next hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-hc-extends-all-interim-relief-till-feb-28-101642618823146.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||In UP, maximum Covid cases are of 20 to 40-yr-olds||Among the total Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, 46.54% cases are in the age group between 20 and 40 years of age followed by 30.34% in the age group between 40 and 60 years.Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, while sharing the data regarding Covid-19 positive cases in the state in a press conference said, “Covid-19 infection in less than 10 years of population is 2.89% and in 10 to 20 years it is 8.52%.” In all 11.70% infection, of the total cases, is in the 60-plus age group.UP has reported a total 18,82,028 Covid-19 cases till now and 22,990 deaths. There are 98,238 active cases in the state at present.“A key factor responsible for people between 20 and 40 years of age getting infected is their movement outside their houses. For education, work or for household needs, it is this age group, both men and women, which mostly goes out,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director Healthcity hospital.He said, “Those staying at home are also at risk if family members returning home do not follow appropriate Covid-19 behaviour.”“We need to pay more attention to pregnant women and children apart from the elderly. Also, all eligible should take both their vaccine shots, as the vaccine is a safety shield against the virus,” said Prasad.“Also as the positivity rate has gone up recently, we need to follow Covid-19 protocol even after vaccination,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-up-maximum-covid-cases-are-of-20-to-40yrolds-101642618584713.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||2 charred bodies found from a burnt car in Hardoi orchard||Two unidentified charred bodies were recovered from a completely burnt car in a mango orchard in Hardoi district on Wednesday afternoon, police said.Lucknow police range officials said the Shahbad police received information about a completely burnt Alto car left abandoned in a mango orchard near Narmada Taal in Kareemnagar link road.The police reached the spot and found two charred bodies inside the car. Of the two yet-to-be-identified bodies, one was found on the drivers’ seat, the other on the rear seat.The bodies have been sent for a postmortem examination while forensic experts scanned the car for clues. Police officials said that initial investigation hints towards foul play and the possibility of two people being murdered.“Only a postmortem examination can establish if two people were killed before being burnt in the car or they were charred alive inside the car,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2-charred-bodies-found-from-a-burnt-car-in-hardoi-orchard-101642618523586.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Covid care centre for Delhi Police reopens as nearly 2,000 test positive||A 70-bed Covid care centre for Delhi Police personnel, which was opened last year and shut temporarily after a drop in cases, has been made functional again in the backdrop of nearly 2,000 police staff testing positive for the infection in the ongoing wave of the viral disease. Of the total 2,000 who had tested positive, nearly 1,000 personnel have recovered and joined duty, police officers aware of the matter said. Officials’ in-charge of the Covid Care centre that was set up at the Shahdara police station said no one has been admitted. “Most of our personnel have mild symptoms and are isolating at home. It (the centre) has been made functional as a precautionary measure. We have four ICU beds too at the facility. We are prepared but no personnel so far needed institutional care,” an official, in charge of the centre said, asking not to be named. Delhi Police officers said they are following a detailed standard procedure issued by the police commissioner’s office two weeks ago after cases of infection started rising in the city. “There was a detailed SOP issued in May 2020. That has been revised with new directions and sent to all police personnel across the city. All police personnel have to follow the SOP in letter and spirit,” said a second senior police officer, who too asked not to be named. Like health care workers, who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19, police personnel have also been tagged under the category of front-line workers. According to a copy of the new SOP, seen by HT, the police chief, Rakesh Asthana has directed personnel at the stations to be grouped into different categories. “There are micro groups like field duty staff, which comprises of police personnel who have the maximum contact with the public. Then there is the group of fixed duty staff who have desk jobs at the station. They have been segregated so that if one of them tests positive, a small group is tested or quarantined. There should be least contact between these micro groups,” the second officer mentioned above said. In May 2020, during the first wave of the infection, the Chandni Mahal police station had to be sealed after most officers in the station tested positive. The infection had spread from the barracks within the station. The new SOP also makes it mandatory for station house officers to conduct a “risk profiling” of the personnel at the station. “Risk profiling of the available staff in police station shall be done and appropriate staff accordingly be assigned high-risk duties,” reads the SOP. Separately, the welfare unit of the Delhi police, which is overseeing the Covid-19 cases in the force, has also set up camps for booster doses of police personnel. Such camps are being held across all police districts for police personnel to take time off from their duties and get the third booster dose jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-care-centre-for-delhi-police-reopens-as-nearly-2-000-test-positive-101642618403230.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Law graduate arrested for murdering parents, brother in UP||A judicial services aspirant was arrested on Wednesday on charges of killing his parents and his brother and disposing their bodies at different places on the city’s outskirts. The police officials said the accused Sarfaraz, 31, allegedly murdered his parents Mehmood Ali, 65, and Darkasha, 60, and his younger brother Shaawez, 26, by slitting their throats after putting sleeping pills in their food at his house in Vikas Nagar on the night of January 5. Police said Sarfaraz, a law graduate who was preparing for judicial services, believed his father will oust him from home and transfer all his properties to younger brother. Police believe that this could have been the motive behind this gruesome crime. Circle officer (CO) of Bakshi Ka Talab, Naveena Shukla, who was supervising investigations related to recoveries of three bodies on the city outskirts, said Sarfaraz later disposed of their bodies one by one in Itaunja, Mal and Malihabad. The three areas come under the jurisdiction of Lucknow rural police while the house in Vikas Nagar, where the three were allegedly murdered comes under Lucknow police Commissionerate limits. The CO said the body of Shaawez was found in bushes on Mal road under Itaunja police station limits on January 6, Mehmood Ali’s body was found on a deserted stretch on Zehra road under Malihabad police station limits on January 8 and Darkasha’s body was recovered from Mal area on January 13. “After committing the crime on January 5, Sarfaraz texted a message to his sister Anam, who lives in Delhi, from Shaawez’s mobile phone posing as latter (Shaawez) stating that his parents and brother are going to Jammu and Kashmir for a holiday trip and will return after week while Sarfaraz will remain at home,” the CO said. She said that he later, went to Jammu on January 13 and called up his sister using Shaawez’s mobile phone stating that Shaawez and his parents are stuck in landslide in Ramban district of Jammu,” she stated. “Sarfaraz tried to create an impression among his family that all three deceased are missing after getting stuck in the landslide,” she added. The CO said the real story behind the mysterious disappearance started unfolding when the identities of the three deceased was ascertained on Tuesday through their photographs published in Uddham Singh Nagar edition of a Hindi daily that the three deceased are missing from Raban district and it was found that they all were from the same family. She said Sarfaraz came under suspicion when the locations of mobile phones of all three deceased were found in Lucknow. “The truth was revealed when Sarfaraz was taken into custody and questioned rigorously on Tuesday,” the CO said. She said Sarfaraz had taken help of his friend Anil Yadav to dispose the bodies and both of them have been arrested under charges of murders and concealment of crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/law-graduate-arrested-for-murdering-parents-brother-in-up-101642618343285.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Woman, her three kids die in Delhi flat, probe on||A 30-year-old woman and her three minor children died inside their home in Shahdara's Old Seemapuri area on Wednesday, with police suspecting that they died after inhaling toxic fumes from a burning angithi in the unventilated room. The woman’s husband and a fourth child escaped as they had stepped out from the room in the morning. Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said they got a PCR call around 1.30pm on Wednesday from one of the victims’ neighbours, stating that “four-five people were lying unconscious on the fifth floor of the building”. “The team of Seemapuri police station reached the spot and found a woman and two children unconscious on the fifth floor. A third child was still breathing when the team reached. They were rushed to a nearby hospital but they were all declared dead on arrival,” said the DCP, adding that an angithi was also found on the fifth floor room.Police identified the victims as Radha (30) and her children -- two boys and a girls, aged 3 to 8. The flat owner, Amarpal Singh (60), told the police that she had moved into the new house with her husband, Mohit Kala (35) and their four children on Tuesday, one day before the mishap.“On preliminary enquiry, it seems that they all died due to suffocation because of the angeethi and no ventilation inside a small room. However, the actual cause of death can only be known after we received the post mortem report. We are yet to question Mohit as he was not in a state to speak at the moment. We are further investigating the matter,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-her-three-kids-die-in-delhi-flat-probe-on-101642618224073.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||4 men vandalise liquor vend in Ludhiana, case registered||The Moti Nagar police on Wednesday registered a case against four unidentified persons, who vandalised a liquor vend and opened fire, after they were refused liquor by the vend employees.Complainant Deepak Kumar, liquor vend employee, said the incident took place on January 17 at 10pm when he along with his colleague Rajan Pandey was closing the liquor vent. In the meantime, a man along with a woman arrived at the liquor vendor to purchase liquor worth ₹1000 and said he would make a digital payment for it. The employees declined and told the accused that the vend was closed. At this, the accused began to hurl abuses at the employee and left the scene. Deepak said, “After few minutes four persons on two motorcycles arrived to smash the shutters of the vend. They also opened fire and left the scene.”He said soon after the incident he informed the police. After receiving the information investigating officer Balbir Singh reached the spot and started the investigation.The police have registered a case under section 336 (endangering life of others), 427 (mischief causing damage), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of Arms Act against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-men-mar-liquor-vend-in-ludhiana-case-registered-101642618111601.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 20 booked for attempt to murder following an ugly clash||A heated argument that took place during a cockfight held at Jalandhar nearly a month ago, led to a bloody clash between two groups outside a hotel, near Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, on Monday night. The police have booked over 20 persons from both the groups in an attempt to murder case.The accused of one group were identified as Gurkirat Singh of Baloke village, Romi of Sangam Palace Road, Lalit Kumar of Naali Mohalla, Gurpreet Singh of Vishwakarma Colony in Dholewal, Munish Kumar of Patiala, Shelly and around five are unidentified.While the accused of another group were identified as Paramjit Singh, Mani of Baloke village, Poppy of Haibowal, Aman Kumar and Raman Kumar of Dashmesh Nagar, Peeta of Baloke village, Arjun Kumar of Sher-e-Punjab Colony in Barewal, Shaan Singh of Gopal Nagar, Jagjit Singh of Ayali Khurd village and Sanjay Seetu. The FIR has been registered on the basis of the statement of assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Satnam Singh, who is investigating the matter. He said Gurkirat Singh and Arjun of two groups have suffered severe head injuries and are undergoing treatment at PGI in Chandigarh. The police have also arrested one of the accused — Aman Kumar.ASI Satnam added that in December, the members of both groups had participated in a cockfight held at Jalandhar and they had developed rivalry against each other since then. On January 17, at around 11pm, the members of both groups gathered near DMC Hospital. They were carrying sharp edged weapons in their hands and they entered into a violent clash.A case under sections of Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act 2005 was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-20-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-following-an-ugly-clash-101642618109914.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||SCERT conducts advocacy programme; Ludhiana college principal as resource person||An advocacy programme under the National Population Education Project was conducted by State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) Punjab office through online mode on Wednesday. Jarnail Singh Kaleke, director SCERT Punjab, welcomed all the district education officers present in the meeting. Jarnai apprised the school principals of the importance of programme.State project coordinator Sushil Bhardwaj, while sharing the details of the programme, informed about the academic loss to the children due to non-performance of activities during COVID -19.State resource person Pradeep Chhabra shared details about the National Population Education Programme through his presentation. He also explained about research studies and material published about the programme .Pargat Singh Garcha, principal of GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, was the resource person on the occasion. He shed light on every aspect of the project’s support and answered all the school heads’ questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scert-conducts-advocacy-programme-ludhiana-college-principal-as-resource-person-101642618106293.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||House in Ludhiana burgled, role of domestic help suspected||A Nepalese domestic help, hired about a month-and-a-half ago, allegedly sedated his employer and fled with cash, jewellery and other valuables from his house opposite DAV Public School in Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar, on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.Complainant, Kishan Kumar Bajaj, 57, who runs a bakery in the city, said he was alone at home at the time. Bajaj said that when he woke up on Wednesday morning, he had a headache and his entire house was ransacked. He also found that his domestic help, Maan Singh, was nowhere to be seen. Realising that the domestic help had burgled the house after serving him food laced with sedatives, Bajaj immediately alerted his family members and relatives, and also called the police. On examining closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area, police found a man entering the house at around 12am while two more came around 1am. The trio, along with Maan Singh, was later seen leaving the house in the wee hours. Sarabha Nagar station house officer (SHO) Jaskanwal Singh said the complainant had been alone at home as his family members were in Bathinda to attend the cremation of some relative. The suspect had been employed just a month-and-a-half ago. “The actual loss will be ascertained only after family members return from Bathinda. However, we have got leads regarding the suspect and we will solve the case soon,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/house-in-ludhiana-burgled-role-of-domestic-help-suspected-101642618104974.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | PAU holds webinar on nursery raising||As many as 103 farmers, students and scientists attended webinar on “Nursery raising and cultivation of summer season vegetable crops” organised by department of vegetable science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Wednesday. The webinar organised under the guidance of Tarsem Singh Dhillon, head, department of vegetable science, apprised attendees of cultivation practices of Amaranthus, Basella and King Kong, muskmelon, watermelon, cucumber and other cucurbits, including their new varieties.Professor Parveen Sharma, Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar from Himachal Pradesh. Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Palampur, explained cultivation practices of tomato, a profitable crop that can be grown under open field as well as protected structures.Different methods of nursery sowing were discussed by principal olericulturist Kulbir Singh, whereas assistant professor Nilesh Biwalkar, department of soil and water engineering, discussed the vegetable cultivation methods under protected structures. He explained the methods of nursery raising under low tunnel for early production of vegetables and also dwelt upon vegetable cultivation methods under net house and walking tunnels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pau-holds-webinar-on-nursery-raising-101642618103586.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Can’t allow an absurdity to prevail, amicus tells Delhi HC on marital rape||Putting forward powerful arguments for criminalising marital rape, amicus curiae and senior advocate Rebecca John told the Delhi high court on Wednesday that the current rape laws are based on the doctrine that a married woman grants irrevocable sexual consent to her husband and such “absurdity should not be allowed to prevail”.John told a bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar that the exception in the rape law, which excludes forced sexual relations between spouses from the purview of rape, was carved out to favour the conjugal rights of the husband. She said “consent” is an underlying condition in the exception to Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Exception of Section 375 IPC decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape.The court is hearing PILs by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought striking down the exception in the Indian law, saying that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.John said even before Thomas Babington Macaulay, who presided over the first Law Commission in India in 1833 and said the exception was to protect the conjugal rights of a man, the concept finds its origins in the doctrine of coverture and implied consent.“And according to this legal doctrine, the legal rights of a woman were subsumed by the husband after marriage. By entering into marriage, a wife was considered to have granted irrevocable sexual consent to her husband,” she said.To this Justice Shakdher said, “She (wife) was almost treated under that doctrine as someone who is incapacitated from giving consent. It is like what we have in the Contract Act that certain categories of people cannot give consent. The enunciation (declaration) seems a little problematic.”“The woman’s consent is fundamental to the invocation of 375 and so we cannot wish it away,” John said, adding that even with respect to Exception 1 in Section 375, which states that a medical procedure or intervention shall not constitute rape, a medical practitioner is not permitted to do certain acts that are mentioned in the definition of rape.“So when we look at exceptions drafted in absolute terms, we should not allow an absurdity to prevail,” John argued.In 2017, central government, in its affidavit filed in the case, had said that marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing the husbands.Last week, the union government had told the court that it was considering a “constructive approach” on the issue of criminalising marital rape and has sought suggestions from several stakeholders and authorities to make comprehensive amendments to the criminal law.It said the Centre was undertaking a comprehensive task of amending the criminal law which includes Section 375 IPC as well.In an additional affidavit, the Centre asserted that the marital rape exception could not be struck down only at the instance of the petitioners as the principles of natural justice required a “larger hearing of all stakeholders”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cant-allow-an-absurdity-to-prevail-amicus-tells-delhi-high-court-on-marital-rape-101642617983489.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Mercury inches up but ‘cold day’ conditions prevail in Delhi||Parts of Delhi recorded ‘cold day’ conditions for the seventh consecutive day on Wednesday, despite the maximum temperature going up by nearly three degrees, with Safdarjung -- Delhi’s base station -- recording a high of 18.1 degrees Celsius (°C) – two degrees below normal for this time of year.While Narela was Delhi’s coldest location with a high of 14.7°C, Jafarpur recorded 15°C – both five degrees below normal for this time of the year.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi’s maximum temperature will remain around 18-19°C in the next 48 hours, with rain expected on Friday and Sunday.When the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees or lower than normal, while the minimum is below 10°C, the IMD classifies it as a ‘cold day’. When the maximum temperature is 6.5 degrees or lower than normal, it is classified as a “severe cold day”. Both Narela and Jafarpur met cold day conditions on Wednesday.Delhi last recorded a longer spell of consecutive cold days between December 23, 2019 and January 1, 2020.“The impact of a western disturbance will soon be seen, which is also gradually leading to a rise in the maximum temperature. From Friday night, Delhi will see drizzle, with peak rain expected on Saturday, when light showers could be recorded. More drizzle could be seen on Sunday,” said RK Jenamani, a scientist at IMD.A western disturbance refers to an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure, moving from the west to the east, carrying with it moisture associated with rainfall, snowfall, and fog in northern India.Delhi, meanwhile, recorded a minimum temperature of 7.4°C on Wednesday, which is around the normal mark for this time of the season. The IMD forecast the minimum temperature to rise to around 10°C by Thursday and around 13°C by Saturday. “The minimum temperature will now rise. We are expected to see a low maximum temperature on Saturday now, which will be due to overcast conditions,” Jenamani added.In terms of air quality, Delhi recorded an Air Quality Index reading of 322 in the “very poor” category, according to Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin. It was 352 (very poor) on Tuesday. Agencies forecast the Capital’s air quality to remain “very poor” for the next two days as well.An AQI reading between 201 and 300 is considered “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.“The AQI is expected to remain ‘very poor’ as wind speed and temperature are likely to remain almost the same. It is likely to rain on January 22 and 23 with gusty winds leading to wet deposition and strong dispersion, which will result in an improvement in the AQI,” said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a government forecasting body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-inches-up-but-cold-day-conditions-prevail-in-delhi-101642617928017.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid-19 in Lucknow: With 61% spike in 24 hrs, 3,517 new cases, one death||The state capital reported over 3,517 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Wednesday as new cases took a jump of 1,344 cases or 61% in 24-hours.This is after a gap of over eight months that new daily Covid-19 cases have gone over 3000. On May 5, 2021, there were 3,004 new Covid-19 cases, according to the data from the health department and since then the number of new cases kept falling as the second wave started to recede.The patient who died was admitted at the King George’s Medical University with a kidney ailment. “The 48-year-old woman came for treatment and in the Covid-19 test done at the time of admission she tested positive for Covid-19. She had multiple problems and doctors tried to save her but unfortunately she died,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU.A major chunk of the new cases, during the day, 1,203 of them, were contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. During the day, 3,395 patients recovered and now Lucknow has 16,943 active Covid-19 cases under treatment. Lucknow is the only district with over 10K active cases and Gautam Buddh Nagar is next with 9,503 active Covid-19 cases. Lucknow has till now reported 2,65,380 and 2,654 deaths.“The recovery rate in Lucknow is 92.61%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.Among the new cases, the maximum 502 (14%) were reported from Aliganj, 423 from Chinhat, 381 from Alambagh, 279 from Indira Nagar, 219 from NK Road, 209 from Sarojininagar, 167 from Tudiyaganj, 87 from Aishbagh, 44 from Gosaiganj, according to the health department.“Among the cases 1,139 were females,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer. Among new cases, 39 are health workers, and 74 people who went to hospitals tested positive before they could be admitted for surgical procedures. Covid-19 test is mandatory before admission of patients to hospitals. In all 472 residents tested positive for Covid-19 when they gave samples following mild symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-in-lucknow-with-61-spike-in-24-hrs-3-517-new-cases-one-death-101642617923580.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||NGO protests outside PPCB office over failure to stop manufacture of plastic bags||Members of Action Group Against Plastic Pollution (AGAPP), Jalandhar-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), on Wednesday staged a protest outside the office of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) in Focal point area over the board’s alleged failure to stop manufacturing the banned plastic carry bags in the district. The members carried placards against plastic pollution and raised slogans against the authorities for failing to perform their duty and action against the culprits.The members rued the state government failure to ban plastic carry bags despite issuing a notification in April 2016, adding that it was the joint responsibility of PPCB and Municipal Corporation (MC) to stop manufacturing, sale and use of the bags.Notably, the NGO has been staging weekly protests outside the civic body’s office since last month.“We were surprised to know that PPCB and MC never conducted a meeting in this regard in the last six years. The PPCB has to stop manufacturing and MC has to stop the trade and use of plastic carry bags. But there is a lack of coordination between both departments. We have demanded that PPCB should convene a meeting wherein MC officials and plastic industry representatives should also be invited, so that corrective steps can be taken,” Navneet Bhullar, founding member of the NGO.Bhullar further said they have written a number of letters to the chief minister’s office to impose the ban, adding that they will continue to stage weekly protests outside the PPCB and MC offices until the ban is imposed. He suggested that the authorities promote compostable bags as an alternative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngo-stages-protest-outside-punjab-pollution-control-board-office-in-ludhiana-over-failure-to-stop-use-of-banned-plastic-bags-101642617870213.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi reports 13,785 Covid cases, positivity rate at 23.86%||Breaking the downward trend of the last two days, the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi rose slightly on Wednesday, recording 13,785 new infections out of the 57,776 total tests conducted.The Capital saw 11,684 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and 12,527 cases on Monday.The rise in new infections also reflected in a minor increase in the positivity rate, which rose from 22.47% on Tuesday to 23.86% on Wednesday. The positivity rate was 27.99% on Monday. Death due to Covid-19 meanwhile dropped in the last 24 hours, with 35 people succumbing to infection on Wednesday, as against 38 on Tuesday.Senior officials of the Delhi government’s health department said that the rise in cases is not significant. “The rise should not be read as a spike. Our focus is on hospitalisations which is still stable,” the official said. On Wednesday, 2,734 (17.52%) beds out of the total 15,603 in Covid hospitals were occupied, leaving 12,869 hospital beds vacant. Curiously, the number of Covid patients in home isolation has been consistently going down over the last four days. From 68,411 patients in home isolation on January 16, the count reduced to 68,275 on January 17, before suddenly dropping to 63,432 on January 18 and finally 58,501 on January 19. Health officials attributed this decline in home isolation cases to a shorter infection period among patients in home care. “Unlike Delta wave, when the patients were taking 12-14 days to recover, in Omicron infections, patients are taking fewer days to recover,” the health official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-13-785-covid-cases-positivity-rate-at-2386-101642617866967.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||GRP recoveries of banned substances in Ludhiana saw sharp rise in 2021||With train schedules returning to normality in 2021 after nearly a year of pandemic-induced disruptions, t he Government Railway Police (GRP) also reported a sharp increased in recoveries of banned substances.The GRP seized a total of 135kg poppy husk in 2021, a significant number given that no recoveries were made in 2020.While the railway police seized 95kg poppy husk in May at the Ludhiana railway station, 22 kg and 18 kg of the husk was recovered in two separate incidents in September and November.Speaking about the recoveries, inspector Jaskaran Singh said, “Most of the offenders were held during the checking drives in the trains and a few were nabbed during checking at the platforms.” “At times, we get secret information regarding a person travelling with the contraband or else we arrest the offenders during checking drives,” he added.The GRP also recovered 9.3kg of opium—in four cases seizing 1.5kg, 1.3kg, 3kg and 3.5kg respectively—last year, an increase from 8.4kg in 2020. The amount of seized ganja also went up to 8kg from 4kg, as did the number of pills and tablets that shot up to 2100 from 40 in the period.Decline in recoveries for charas and heroinThe railway police seized only 4kg charas last year, down from 10kg recovered in 2020. The authorities also made no recoveries for heroin, of which 20gm heroin was seized in 2020.GRP, Ludhiana registered a total of 14 Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) cases last year, in comparison to 12 that registered in 2020. “The trains remained off track since lockdown in 2020 and started running in March last year after relaxation in the pandemic safety guidelines and hence no checking drives were initiated in January and February too. Maximum recoveries were made between March mid-November as most of the trains were cancelled permanently due to dense fog by the railways last year,” an official said. 
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Truck runs over two bike-borne migrant workers in Ludhiana||A truck ran over two migrants, who were travelling on a bike, near Jandiali Buddewal Chowk in Focal Point on Tuesday night. The victims have been identified as Nandan, 32, and Vinod, 28, both natives of Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh. The duo had moved to the city about two years ago in search of work, and had got job at a steel factory. They were heading to work after having dinner on the fateful night when the speeding truck rammed into their bike, killing them on the spot, said Focal Point station house officer (SHO) Rajesh Kumar. The incident took place around 10pm. The SHO said the truck driver, identified as Parsu Ram, who also hails from Uttar Pradesh, has been nabbed and a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. Families of both the victims have been informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/truck-runs-over-two-bike-borne-migrant-workers-in-ludhiana-101642617806668.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Substandard work’ under Smart City mission: Council of Engineers submits complaint against Ludhiana MC chief||Criticising the Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) over alleged poor-quality work under Smart City mission, Council of Engineers have submitted a complaint to chief secretary against municipal corporation (MC) commissioner-cum-CEO of LSCL Pardeep Sabharwal on Wednesday.Engineers’ body also accused MC of allowing a trial run at the incomplete Pakhowal road railway under bridge (RUB) on January 1 just to please the ruling party leaders. Also, the complaint has been made against the poor-quality road construction work at Malhar road, as the material started wearing off two months after it was constructed.A copy of the complaint has also been forwarded to the principal secretary of local bodies department wherein the engineers’ body highlighted the anomalies in poor quality construction works.President of the body Kapil Arora said, “RCC work at side retaining walls of RUB is poor and the existing bolts and nuts of the MS structure are rusty. Further no slip has been established at Malhar road and the width of the road has also been reduced paving way for traffic jams.” Arora also highlighted the delay in completing the Pakhowal road RUB project. He also sought compensation for the public due to the harassment, traffic jams and air pollution which is being caused due to the delay in completing the project. Also, he complained that the authorities have still failed to remove interlocking installed around 1m radius of trees, despite the orders issued by NGT in the past. Roots of the trees are being damaged due to the illegal practice.Meanwhile, MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The department is keeping a check on the quality of work and we will also look into the matter highlighted by the engineers’ body. If anomalies are found, then action will be taken against the contractor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/substandard-work-under-smart-city-mission-council-of-engineers-submits-complaint-against-ludhiana-mc-chief-101642617803707.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Special vaccination camp for children of GB Road sex workers||The Delhi government on Wednesday opened a special Covid-19 vaccination camp at Anglo Arabic Senior Secondary School for over 150 children whose mothers work as sex workers in brothels on GB Road. Government officials said the aim of the special camp was to provide as many sex workers’ children in the 15-18 age group with access to the vaccine.“Over the last year, we have identified several areas where people from unorganised sectors cannot easily access vaccination. Last year, we conducted vaccination camps for sex workers of GB Road and we wanted their children to also get the opportunity to get the vaccine shots without any trouble,” said Akriti Sagar, district magistrate (central district), who organised the camp.Since the government started vaccinating teens in the 15-18 age group, the administration has also organised camps for children in de-addiction centres, shelter homes and also for school dropouts, apart from sex workers’ children.A 16-year-old boy who arrived at the Anglo Arabic Senior Secondary School at 9am to receive his first vaccine dose on Wednesday, discussed how Covid-19 cases were rising alarmingly, while occasionally making jokes about how his social life had been impacted by the pandemic. “I live with my mother on GB Road; she has received both her vaccine shots. She insisted that I also receive my dose at the earliest,” said the boy.A 15-year-old, who had also come to get inoculated at the camp, said that such initiatives by the government were a step towards breaking social discrimination against sex workers and their children.“I usually tell people that I live in Sadar Bazar, without giving them specific details of my address. As soon as you tell anyone that you live on GB Road, their attitude towards you completely changes. Children like me would perhaps never even get a shot at life and education if social organisations and governments do not intervene,” the teenager said.Pragya Baseria from Kat Katha, an NGO that works with the sex workers of GB Road, which also helped spread the word among children for Wednesday’s camp, said that while sex workers did initially hesitate to get vaccinated, but now they are getting themselves and their children vaccinated.“Many of these children got enrolled in schools late but they are very smart and pushed their mothers to take the vaccine,” Baseria said.
20-01-2022||Lucknow||CPI to field 40 candidates in Uttar Pradesh polls||Lucknow: The Communist Party of India (CPI) will field around 40 candidates for the assembly elections in the state and is likely to release the list on Thursday, even as the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has already named four candidates and may name one more for Rohaniya seat in Varanasi. “We have shortlisted 40-45 candidates after due deliberations and will release the list on Thursday,” CPI state secretary Girish said, adding the party would field candidates in all the regions from east and west and from central UP to Bundelkhand. CPM, the second most important among Left parties, will be contesting on 4-5 seats only and has already declared candidates for four seats. “We have named candidates for Salempur (Reserved) in Deoria, Chakiya (Reserved) in Chandauli, Korao (Reserved) in Allahabad and Marihan in Mirzapur,” CPIM leader Hira Lal Yadav said. “We are also considering fielding our candidate on the Rohania seat in Varanasi and will take a final call very soon,” he said. He said the left parties’ main objective was to stop the BJP from coming to power and they would support the SP candidates or candidates fielded by other parties on the remaining seats where they were in a position to defeat the BJP candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cpi-to-field-40-candidates-in-uttar-pradesh-polls-101642617563029.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Farmers’ fair at CIMAP: Only fully vaccinated can attend annual event||Amidst rising cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Lucknow-based Central Institute for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) has decided to allow only farmers who are fully vaccinated to the upcoming annual farmers’ fair (Kisan Mela). CIMAP is organising the 10-day annual farmer fair from January 21 to January 31.“About 200 farmers will be participating every day. Interested farmers can register for the event online in advance. The fair will also be telecast for the common man. We have made it mandatory for participants to be fully vaccinated to mitigate any possibility of the spread of Covid-19 infection,” said PK Trivedi, director, CIMAP.Last year, the Kisan Mela was organised for 20 days, wherein, about 4,000 farmers and representatives of the aromatic oils industry from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat participated.The main features of this year’s farmers fair are market data on medicinal and aromatic plants, sale of improved planting material and institutional publications, display of improved varieties and CIMAP products, live demonstration of distillation units processing, training in making incense sticks and rose water and demonstration of advanced agricultural techniques, said the director.“We will also distribute high yielding varieties of mentha, lemongrass slips and other planting material of medicinal and aromatic plants to farmers attending the Kisan Mela,” the director added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farmers-fair-at-cimap-only-fully-vaccinated-can-attend-annual-event-101642617444747.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Finishing touches being given to Central Vista Avenue: Hardeep Puri||Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said that finishing touches are being given to the redeveloped Central Vista Avenue for the Republic Day celebrations.The minister has been regularly visiting the site to monitor the progress of the ₹608-crore project. In a tweet on Wednesday, Puri posted an update about the progress of the work at the Rajpath, and said that only 25 trees have been relocated for the project.Also read | Central vista project work delayed by 1-2 days due to heavy rain: PuriPuri also tweeted photographs of the revamped site. “Finishing touches being put to facilities at Rajpath from India Gate to Vijay Chowk as part of the Central Vista Avenue project. Round the clock work. Pathways ready. Water bodies get bridges. Trees stand tall. Only 25 relocated. 3 on Rajpath itself & 22 to NTPC Badarpur,” the minister tweeted.Last year, the central government came under criticism from environment activists for uprooting trees, especially Jamun trees, for the project. The Centre had then rejected the reports that several trees were being uprooted for the project.After his visit to the project site on Tuesday, Puri said the redeveloped facility will have modern amenities and enhanced green spaces. “Closely monitoring the progress of the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project. Amongst other modern features & amenities, the new Central Vista Avenue will provide enhanced & green public spaces through three parallel pathways of 2 kms on either side of Rajpath,” Puri tweeted on Tuesday.As part of the redevelopment project, the avenue lawns have been refurbished and pathways along Rajpath and across the lawns have been paved with Lakha granite. The heritage light poles along Rajpath have been refurbished, and new light poles near the lawns and canals have been installed. New signages have also been put in place for better directions.While most of the redevelopment work has been completed, work on eight amenity blocks and four underpasses will be completed after January 26, said a senior CPWD official.The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), nodal agency for the execution of the project, has completed the redevelopment work on the Rajpath and the lawns. A CPWD official said, “Only the amenity blocks and underpasses will be completed after January 26. Most of the work for the parade is complete,” said the CPWD official.As part of the arrangements for the Republic Day celebrations, 10 gigantic scrolls, each measuring 750 meters, depicting tales of valour of unsung heroes of India’s freedom movement, will be put at the Rajpath. The CPWD is also installing 10 large LED screens along the Rajpath.The work on the parking lots at the site, where close to 4,000 vehicles can be parked, is also in the final stages. The CPWD and Delhi Traffic Police have made parking arrangements for more than 7,000 vehicles, said a senior Delhi Traffic Police official.“The parking space at the venue has slightly been reduced due to the construction of amenity blocks and underpasses. We have been provided alternate parking sites at Jawahar Bhawan (on Raisina Road) and Vanijya Bhawan (on Akbar road). This is for the first time we have been provided parking sites at these locations,” said a senior traffic police official, who is aware of the matter.CPWD officials said that bleachers have been installed for the parade in the lawns along the Rajpath, but seating has been done in such a manner to ensure social distancing between spectators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/finishing-touches-being-given-to-central-vista-avenue-hardeep-puri-101642617443439.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Baghel releases Congress’ white paper on UP farmers||Lucknow: Chhatisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday released the Congress’ white paper on farmers titled “Aamadni na hui do guni, dard sau guna” (income of farmers has not been doubled while their pain has increased 100 times) and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government had betrayed farmers. Baghel, who along with All India Congress Committee spokesperson Supriya Shrinate and others released one of the Congress’ seven white papers at the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters here, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised to double the income of farmers by 2022 at a rally in Bareilly on February 28, 2016. He said the PM also announced that the report of the Swaminathan committee would be implemented. He said six years after the promise, the income of farmers had not been doubled while their pain had increased 100 times. He said the farmers would not forgive the Modi government for this betrayal. He said the Modi government came out with NSSO survey six years after its promise of doubling the income. The survey report revealed that the daily income of farmers had been reduced to ₹27 per day and loan per farmer was about ₹74,000. He said the Modi government brought three black laws to benefit some industrialist friends and for the first time, taxes were being imposed on agriculture implements. He said such steps along with rising fuel prices were having an adverse impact on the farmers. He called the crop insurance scheme Kisan Loot Yojana. At point number six, titled “Kisan Loot Yojana of the white paper, it has been pointed out that the Prime Minister claimed to have launched the world’s best crop insurance scheme for farmers in February 2016. The Prime Minister’s home state Gujarat, however, has stopped implementation of the scheme. The paper said a sum of ₹21,450 crore was realized from farmers in the name of premium and these companies earned a profit of ₹30,320 crore from 2016 to 2020-2021. Baghel also spoke about the problem of stray animals in Uttar Pradesh and how the same had been handled in Chhatisgarh by buying cow dung and making compost fertilizer from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/baghel-releases-congress-white-paper-on-up-farmers-101642617143054.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Yamuna water too toxic to treat for 134 days last year||Last week, the ammonia levels in the Yamuna, the primary source of water for Delhi, went up so high that the Delhi Jal Board had to shut its three treatment plants. Though it is nothing new for the city, the episode yet again underlined the crucial issue of pollution in the Yamuna which at times become so acute that it renders the river water not even fit for mechanical treatment.High levels of ammonia not only disrupts supply of water to several parts of the city, but is also an indicator of the inability of the river water to support aquatic life.According to data from the Wazirabad water quality monitoring laboratory, the city witnessed 22 ammonia spike episodes spread over 134 days last year, during which ammonia levels went above 1 ppm level. Cumulatively, for over three months during 2021, DJB reported ammonia levels higher than the maximum treatable limit, the data shows. DJB’s plants have the capacity to treat up to 0.9 ppm levels of ammonia in raw water.A senior DJB official said, “The problem is witnessed throughout the year, but the concentration of ammonia recorded in winters (between December and March) is relatively higher.”“We try to divert water from other sources to dilute the raw water to keep the operations running at the treatment plants. Ozonation plants are also being set up to increase the treatment capacity to up to 4ppm of ammonia to help deal with the periodic problem,” the official said asking not to be named.The data from Wazirabad pond shows that ammonia levels stayed above 1 ppm for 16 days in January 2021, and for 27 days in February, 19 days in March and 13 days in April. The DJB report shows that 15 smaller disruption periods varying between two to six days were observed between May and November 2021.Of the total 935 MGD of Delhi’s daily water supply-- over 230 MGD is supplied by Chandrawal and Wazirabad plants both of which draw water from Wazirabad pond fed by Yamuna water.DJB has maintained that the untreated industrial pollutants released from Panipat industrial is the main reason behind the periodic exceptionally high ammonia levels in Yamuna. In a letter to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, DJB vice chairperson Raghav Chadha said the main source of Yamuna pollution are some drains in Haryana.“The pollution is occurring due to waste water and industrial waste water discharge from Panipat drain DD-1 through DD-2, Rohtak X-regulator, DD-6 through DD-8 which reaches Wazirabad barrage and in turn pollutes Yamuna downstream,” the letter dated April 14, 2021 said.A DJB official explained: “Panipat drain 1 and drain 2 carry pollutants from the dye industries. Also, DD 8 and DD 6 drains are vulnerable points in Sonipat as Delhi’s fresh water and industrial waste run parallel in these drains which are separated by just a few inches wide muddy wall.”The Haryana pollution control board and the Haryana irrigation department, however, have repeatedly denied the allegations of DJB. The pollution board did not comment on the matter,Experts say that while Delhi needs to expedite the much delayed upgradation of its water treatment plants, interstate agencies such as the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Upper Yamuna River Board also need to intervene to curb pollution in the Yamuna.Environmental activist Manoj Misra who heads Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan said the main body responsible for controlling the ammonia level spikes is CPCB. “The problem has persisted for so many years and yet no resolution has been found. We require to work on both the technological upgrade of water treatment plants, and tackling the pollution at source. If we know that the problem increases during January to April period, patrolling should be done along industrial areas so that major culprits can be caught,” he said.Misra said zero liquid discharge policy is the only permanent solution. It is a wastewater management system that ensures there is no industrial discharge into the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiyamuna-water-too-toxic-to-treat-for-134-days-last-year-101642616963126.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt addresses NCPCR fears over its ‘Desh Ke Mentors’ programme||Addressing concerns raised by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about the safety of children participating in the Delhi government’s ‘Desh Ke Mentors’ programme, the Directorate of Education (DoE) on Tuesday said necessary police verification of mentors will be conducted and all online sessions will be recorded.The child rights body wrote to the Delhi government on January 11, seeking the suspension of its ongoing ‘Desh Ke Mentors’ programme for school students, citing concerns over children being exposed to unknown persons.The commission alleged that the programme, as part of which students are provided career guidance by eminent citizens, “exposes them to certain dangers”, and asked the Delhi government to suspend the programme till the loopholes are “overhauled”. The NCPCR also wrote to the chief secretary, Delhi government, seeking clarification on the issue of police verification of the staff.In its written response to NCPCR on Tuesday, the DoE stated that new features had been added to ensure the safety and security of children enrolled in the programme, including the police verification of mentors. A report of criminal record (if any) about a registered mentor would be obtained from the police station concerned. In case of an adverse report, the mentor would be de-registered immediately, the DoE informed NCPCR. The exercise will also be undertaken for all mentors already registered under the programme.The department conveyed that all conversations between mentors and mentees will be recorded by the department. “There is no in-person interaction intended among the mentor and mentees and since every phone call will be recorded by the government, there no scope left for child abuse by any mentor,” stated the DoE in its response to NCPCR.Additionally, the contact number of children/mentees shall not be disclosed or made available to the mentor or any other person. Mentors will also not be allowed to meet with mentees offline, and, in case of violation, he/she will be deregistered from the program, DoE said in its response.Along with the addition of the new features, the DoE also issued a circular to all government schools on Monday directing that all parents are advised to ensure the presence of an adult family member during the conversation between the mentor and the mentee through the programme’s app.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia last Friday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was plotting to derail the Delhi government’s ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ programme by asking the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to act against the scheme on a complaint by a party worker from Chhattisgarh.“BJP doesn’t want poor children to have a chance to attend world-class universities so it can spread hate and filth through its ‘WhatsApp University’. BJP is terrified of the success of poor children through ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ and is trying to stop the programme using a complaint by a BJP worker,” Sisodia said, asserting that the programme has checks and balances to leave no scope for abuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-addresses-ncpcr-fears-over-its-desh-ke-mentors-programme-101642616603150.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||5 days after Ghazipur, unclaimed bags in East Delhi spark bomb scare||Five days after an improvised explosive device (IED) containing RDX was found at Ghazipur flower market, two black bags left unclaimed on a busy street in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri sparked fears of a similar bomb threat but a subsequent examination by a bomb disposal squad found just a laptop, cell phone and some documents inside the bags on Wednesday afternoon.Police said the bags belonged to an IT professional from Pitampura who had lost them to a thak-thak gang near Nizamuddin area.A passerby spotted the two bags at Metro pillar number 59, near Trilokpuri and alerted the police control room, following which police teams secured the area as the bomb disposal squad examined the bags. An earthmover too was brought to the spot, in case there was a need to dig a pit to defuse the bomb through a controlled explosion -- as was done in the case of IED found at Ghazipur.Delhi has been on high alert since last Friday, when police recovered an IED from a black bag at the Ghazipur flower market -- less than 5km from Trilokpuri. Police have subsequently said that the IED used in Ghazipur contained about three kilogram of RDX and ammonium nitrate.On Wednesday, residents of the densely populated east Delhi locality were asked to stay away from the spot as police cordoned off the area, but many continued to linger. Police said personnel from the National Security Guard (NSG) too were on their way to the spot when it was found to be a false alarm.Joint commissioner of police (eastern range) Sagarpreet Hooda, said, “Our officers were at the spot and we followed our standard operating procedure. There were no explosives or any illegal item in the bag. It had personal belongings.”Police said Somesh Gupta, the owner of the laptop and the cell phone, told them that the bags were stolen from his car by a thak-thak gang that divert the attention of drivers by tapping on the car’s body, or tyres to steal items left on the backseat or dashboard.“While travelling in his car, Gupta was stopped by two men who claimed that the vehicle was leaking engine oil. When he stepped out, the men stole the two bags and fled. However, it is not clear why they abandoned the bags with the laptop and cellphone inside, in Trilokpuri,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.Police now suspect the thieves may be from a gang that only deals in stolen cash or jewellery. “It is possible that the thieves are from nearby areas of Trilokpuri or Kalyanpuri. We are now looking at the CCTV footage to identify who brought the bags from Nizamuddin to the metro pillar where it was found,” said a police officer.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police control room also received a distress call about a bomb planted at the CRPF headquarters in Lodhi Colony, but it turned out to be a hoax.Deputy commissioner of police (South) Benita Mary Jaikar said police had received the call at 6.36 pm. “Police personnel from the Lodhi Colony station reached the spot. A joint bomb disposal squad team of the CRPF, CISF and Delhi Police was constituted and a thorough search was conducted. They did not filed any such explosives in the premises or outside,” said DCP Jaikar.Police investigation revealed that the PCR call was made from a cell phone belong to a person from Telangana. “We are probing the case,” DCP Jaikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-days-after-ghazipur-unclaimed-bags-in-east-delhi-spark-bomb-scare-101642616184387.html
20-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi among 3 global cities part of Nasa's air pollution challenge||The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) has partnered with a crowdsourcing platform to launch ‘Air-othon’, a competition aimed at utilising a combination of meteorological data, low cost-sensors and satellite imagery to develop models for air pollution in Delhi, Los Angeles and Taipei.It has invited individuals and teams to analyse a 5x5 km grid in the three cities, and the data gathered in this manner will be shared with the US embassy in Delhi and the Delhi government. The winning team will be receiving a prize of $50,000.Launched on Tuesday in Houston, Texas, the ‘Air-othon’ challenge is being undertaken with DrivenData, a social enterprise that uses data tools, and HeroX, a crowdsourcing platform, to generate daily estimates of surface-level NO2 and PM 2.5 across a 5km grid of the participant’s choosing.While high NO2 levels can lead to respiratory and asthma issues and the formation of other harmful pollutants, such as ozone and particulate matter, PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 micrometers in size) is known to penetrate deep into human lungs, resulting in major health concerns in the long-term.‘Air-othon’ officials said existing ground monitors have large gaps in coverage, which can be bridged using forecasting and real-time data models.“This is a difficult problem where better data tools can provide timely information to millions of people to help them protect their health,” said Greg Lipstein, co-founder of DrivenData.“The challenge will test solutions from a global community of experts, with the best approaches automatically rising to the top of the leaderboard,” he added.Experts said models that make use of widely available, low-cost sensor data and satellite imagery also have the potential to provide daily local air quality information to thousands of people. “This effort prioritises the health of entire communities. I am eager to see the innovative ways the crowd can improve air quality data collection and enhance public health,” said Kal K Sahota, CEO, HeroX.A Nasa official said the overarching goal of the challenge is to deliver top-performing solutions to the state department at designated embassy locations, including Delhi.Professor SN Tripathi from IIT Kanpur, who is part of a CPCB committee that is looking at the utilisation of low-cost sensors, said satellite imagery can be used to identify NOx levels, while PM 2.5 data can be utilised from low-cost sensors and fed into a machine which analyses concentration levels at different time stamps. “Machine learning is possible and models can be developed that forecast concentration several hours in advance. Such learnings can be beneficial for India too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-among-3-global-cities-part-of-nasa-s-air-pollution-challenge-101642615403014.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Top Opposition leaders from other states to campaign in Uttar Pradesh||Top opposition leaders with a political base in other states are likely to campaign in support of the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar, Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) leader and former Bihar deputy chief ministerTejashwi Yadav, besides Shiv Sena leaders Sanjay Raut and Aaditya Thackeray will be in action in Uttar Pradesh, leading the opposition attack against the BJP, according to people in the respective opposition parties. Samajwadi Party national vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda had on Tuesday announced that Mamata Banerjee will campaign virtually for the SP in Lucknow on February 8 and she may also campaign digitally in Varanasi.NCP state unit spokesperson Vishal Nath Tiwari said Sharad Pawar will campaign for the Samajwadi Party in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has already announced that NCP leader KK Sharma will contest as the joint candidate of the SP-NCP alliance from the Anupshahr assembly seat in Bulandhshahr district of western Uttar Pradesh. Sharad Pawar may be present with TMC chief Mamata Banerjee during the virtual campaign in Lucknow on February 8, Tiwari said. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav will campaign in support of the SP in the east UP assembly constituencies bordering Bihar, as well as in other segments. RJD state unit president Ashok Singh will be the SP-RJD joint candidate from Sareni in Rae Bareli district. Rahul Yadav, son-in-law of RJD leader Lalu Yadav, is in the fray as the SP-RLD joint candidate from Sikandrabad assembly seat in Bulandshahr district.Ashok Singh said, “Tejashwi Yadav will campaign in support of the Samajwadi Party across Uttar Pradesh.”An SP leader said Jharkhand chief minister and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader Hemant Soren may campaign in support of the SP to help the Opposition give a united fight to the BJP. Talks are going on with JMM leaders to address virtual campaign for the SP. Hemant Soren had campaigned in support of the TMC in the West Bengal assembly election, he said.Shiv Sena state secretary Vishwajeet Singh said the party central leadership’s is in talks with the Congress, which is part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), for pre-poll alliance in UP. If the alliance talks fail, the Shiv Sena will field candidates for 80 assembly seats in UP.“Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and Aaditya Thackeray will campaign for the party candidates (in UP),” he said. 
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Election talk revolves around KV Corridor in Purvanchal||The Kashi Vishwanath (KV) Corridor, inaugurated on December 13, 2021, is at the centre of the election talk , along with other issues, in the Purvanchal (eastern UP) region. Little wonder, as tea boils at a roadside stall in the Pandeypur area of Varanasi (also known as Kashi), the political debate among the locals heats up.Kashi, a prominent pilgrim centre for millions of Hindus and often described as the cultural capital of India, enjoys pride of place in this region.Ashwini Pandey, a devotee of Lord Shiva, says, “The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is grand and divine. Devotees of Baba Kashi Vishwanath are very happy because expansion and beautification of Kashi Vishwanath Dham was needed for a long time. But the previous governments didn’t pay attention to it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi conceived and planned extension and beautification of the Kashi Vishwanath temple and chief minister Yogi Adityanath completed it despite two waves of Covid-19.”“Baba’s devotees are happy. It will benefit the BJP in the election,” Pandey says.But another local Lallu Yadav says, “BJP failed to carry out any development in the state. Therefore, the BJP is once again at God’s mercy to win the election.”Referring to Pandey’s remarks, Yadav says that such bhakts (followers) of the BJP are out to create an atmosphere in favour of the party.“Why don’t you people mention five major developmental works?” he asks.Ramji Mishra aka Bachcha Guru, resident of Ramiliha, says, “The KV Corridor will promote tourism for sure. But we must remember that Kashi is known for its antiquity, lanes and culture. The tourists, especially foreigners, visit the city to feel antiquity, and devotees visit Kashi Vishwanath (temple) to offer prayers due to their faith. Those who feel that many lanes disappeared and those who think that KV temple’s expansion was needed, both are discussing it.”Tea stall owner Vijay Yadav Ballu, another devotee of Kashi Vishwanath, can’t resist the temptation to join the debate and make his point.“No one even thought about expansion and beautification in the last seven decades. When it has been done by the Modi government, many are trying to find a way to criticise it, let alone praising the great work which should have been done long ago,” says Ballu.So grand is the KV Corridor that if the critics visit it, they will be left tongue tied, he adds.Such discussions are common in other eastern UP districts too.In the neighbouring Chandauli district, villagers are curious to visit the KV Corridor to see the transformation around the Kashi Vishwanath temple.Arun Kumar Rai, resident of Udharanapur village in Ghazipur district, says, “Villagers are curious about the grandeur of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, so they are talking about it. Pro-BJP people are discussing it. In addition, issues like unemployment, stray animals are also at the centre of the discussions in villages.”Arvind Rai, resident of Ballia, says unemployment is an issue for the youths. But elderly people are more inclined towards the ruling party due to construction of a grand KV Corridor in Kashi and Ram temple being built in Ayodhya.Piyush Barnwal, resident of Varanasi, says the KV Corridor is indeed grand.“Kashi Vishwanath’s devotees will go with those who built the grand KV Corridor here. Ever since the KV Corridor has been inaugurated, the number of devotees visiting the KV temple daily has increased manifold.”For the first few days, lakhs of devotees (around 5 lakh on the firs day, 3 lakh on the second day and 2.5 lakh on third day) visited the Kashi Vishwanath temple.“It gave a boost to local business. The people are happy,” Barnwal says.On the other hand, Congress leader Shailendra Singh says, “Faith should not be mixed with politics. But the BJP has been doing it as it doesn’t have anything concrete to present before the people, so it always tries to mix politics and religion.”Kashi region BJP leader Somnath Vishwakarma says the Congress did nothing for the expansion and beautification of the KV temple.“Now that it has been done by PM Modi, and it is being praised by devotees of Baba Kashi Vishwanath, the Congress leaders are left with no option but to criticize it. They are making baseless allegations. Devotees of Baba Kashi Vishwanath are very happy.”During his visit to Varanasi in December 2021, Union home minister Amit Shah had instructed BJP office bearers in the Kashi and Gorakhpur regions to keep their election campaign centred around Ayodhya and Kashi in an apparent reference to the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya and the recently inaugurated grand Kashi Vishwanath Corridor.Kaushal Kishore Mishra, dean and professor of the political science faculty at BHU, says, “The KV temple’s expansion and transformation in the form of a grand and divine Kashi Vishwanath Corridor has brought cultural secularism to the centre of debates focused on polls and politics. Now onwards, cultural secularism, which is more or less cultural socialism, will gain momentum across the country.”
20-01-2022||Mumbai||‘Update your bank KYC’: How Delhi man conned people to steal savings; arrested||A Delhi-based loan agent was arrested on Monday for allegedly duping bank customers and extracting their account details by pretending to update their KYC (Know Your Customer).According to the North Mumbai cyber cell of the Mumbai Police, the accused, identified as Vivek Sunil Sabarwal (38), was apprehended after over eight months of search.On July 16, 2021, they received a complaint from a Mumbai-based estate agent that an unidentified caller had posed as a bank employee and asked him to email him his bank details for KYC updation.The complainant in his statement said he had a savings account in Corporation Bank at Malad. However, after the bank’s merger with Union Bank, his account was shifted to the latter.On June 5, 2021, he got calls from an unidentified caller about updating his KYC with Union Bank. On July 16, 2021, he received an email to update his bank details and mobile number.Assuming the email to be genuine, the complainant replied to the email with his account details. A few days later, he learnt that his account was debited of ₹12.73 lakh. The bank informed him that they received a request from the account holder to change the registered mobile number after which the money was withdrawn. He subsequently registered an FIR.PI Savita Kadam, from the cyber cell, said that they began the investigation by tracking the mobile number registered with the bank. “We traced the mobile number to Burari in Delhi,” said Kadam.When we found out the address of the SIM card owner, we kept a watch on the house and on Monday arrested Sabarwal.On searching the flat, the police found five mobile phones, 10 debit cards, 14 fake Aadhaar cards and five fake driving licenses, 35 stamps of companies, 43 letterheads of multiple companies and data of more than 50,000 account holders from different banks.On further investigation, the police learnt that Sabarwal used to call up account holders of banks which had gone through mergers. By posing as a bank employee, the accused used to get their account details and mobile number registered with the bank.After securing the details, he then called up the bank pretending to be the account holder and put in a request to change the registered mobile number. After changing the mobile number, he used to withdraw money from the account.“We are investigating the number of people he cheated and whether there are more people involved in the crime,” said Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/loan-agent-from-delhi-arrested-for-cyber-fraud-of-12-lakh-101642606821839.html
20-01-2022||Mumbai||BJP wins 384 seats in nagar panchayat polls, jabs Uddhav Thackeray over Sena tally||MUMBAI: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday ended up with the maximum number of seats in Maharashtra’s local body elections in semi-urban and rural areas, closing the gap and racing ahead of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) which appeared to have the lead in the early hours of counting of votes.The BJP has won 384 seats in nagar panchayats that govern smaller towns in semi-urban areas as compared to the NCP’s 344 seats. The two other constituents of the state’s ruling coalition Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, the Congress and the Shiv Sena, were pushed to the third (316 seats) and fourth (284) position, respectively.Collectively, the three ruling coalition partners have won 944 seats, more than 60% of the seats for which results have been declared. To be sure, the three parties contested the elections on their own.The NCP, however, has won 25 nagar panchyats, one more than the 24 won by the BJP. The Shiv Sena and Congress have won 14 and 18 bodies, respectively. The election is seen as an indication that the BJP has not lost much ground and the MVA partners will have to stick together if they want to stay in power. Leaders of the ruling coalition suggest that the results also indicate that the OBCs are not furious with the MVA for losing political reservation in local bodies.In all, the Maharashtra State Election Commission held elections for 1,802 seats in 106 nagar panchayats, 105 seats in two district councils and 210 seats in 15 panchayat samitis.Voting was held on December 21 and January 18. The second phase was necessitated due to the Supreme Court verdict of December 15 which refused to allow the seats to be reserved for other backward classes (OBC) for the civic polls and ordered Maharashtra to re-notify them as general category seats. Elections for 336 seats in 93 nagar panchayats, which were earlier reserved for OBCs, were held in the second phase on January 18.On Wednesday morning, the counting of votes in 97 nagar panchayats began in various districts of the state. Votes for the 9 panchayats in Maoist-affected Gadchiroli will be held on Thursday.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil cheered party workers for the party’s performance though the BJP has been out of power for 26 months. He also took a quick swipe at chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “The Shiv Sena got the chief minister’s post, but it is struggling to remain in the third or fourth position in these elections,” Patil said.Chandrashekhar Bawankule, a former minister and OBC face of the state BJP, said: “Despite the use of the money and muscle power by the ruling parties in the local body elections, the BJP has emerged as the leader by winning the highest number of seats. With the help of our allies, we will control more than 30 nagar panchayats that went to polls”.NCP state unit chief Jayant Patil celebrated the fact that the NCP emerged won the largest number of nagar panchayats, 25. “It is the result of our continuous efforts of serving the people and taking up the issues related to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-wins-400-seats-in-nagar-panchayat-polls-jabs-uddhav-thackeray-over-sena-tally-101642600761147.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal tests positive for Covid-19||Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch and former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, 94, was admitted to the Hero Heart Institute of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday afternoon. Also read: Covid 3rd wave: India unlikely to cross 4 lakh cases per day, scientists projectInstitute medical superintendent Dr Bishav Mohan said that Badal had tested positive in the rapid antigen test, while his RTPCR report was awaited. “Due to his age and comorbidities he falls in the vulnerable group, so it was imperative to admit him and keep under observation for further medical investigation,” said Dr Mohan.A team led by Dr Rajesh Mahajan, professor of medicine, emergency in-charge and nodal officer for Covid at DMCH and Dr Anil Kumar Kashyap, pulmonologist, were monitoring the health of veteran politician.In a media release, hospital authorities said Badal was stable and was is in private room area. All necessary investigations for complete evaluation had been sent to the lab.Late evening, Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal also visited DMC Ludhiana to enquire about the health of his father. In a message on social media, Sukhbir said, “I visited DMC Ludhiana to enquire about Badal Sahib’s health. Spoke to him on video call. Felt good to see him in high spirits. by the grace of Guru Sahib. I’m flooded with calls from his well-wishers. He is doing well, thanks for all your prayers.”Recently, the party had shared the picture of Badal during a door-to-door election campaign in his home turf, Lambi. In the pictures, seldom was he seen with a mask.Senior Akali leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said Badal had been suffering from cough, cold and fever for the past few days. As news of the Badal’s hospitalisation spread, Akali workers started gathering at the heart institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-cm-parkash-singh-badal-tests-positive-for-covid19-101642585459713.html
20-01-2022||Lucknow||Bhim Army chief to contest against Yogi in Gorakhpur||Lucknow: Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad will contest the assembly election against chief minister Yogi Adityanath from Gorakhpur urban seat. Chief election in-charge of Bhim Army, Dr Mohammad Akib said Chandrashekhar Azad would contest the assembly election from Gorakhpur urban seat on the ticket of Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram), the political outfit launched by the Bhim Army in 2020. Azad will contest the election on the issue of social justice and share in power of dalits, backwards, Muslims and weaker sections of society. Under the BJP government, the weaker sections had been suppressed. To take the fight for social justice to the Hindutva stronghold Gorakhpur, the Azad Samaj Party had decided to field party chief Chandrashekhar Azad against chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he said. The Azad Samaj Party would release its election manifesto for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections within two days, he said. After failing to stitch an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad had announced on Tuesday that his Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram) would contest the assembly election alone. On Thursday, he called upon the party workers to gear up for the contest against chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been winning the assembly election on Gorakhpur urban seat since 1989. The present BJP MLA from Gorakhpur urban seat Radha Mohan Das Agarwal has won the seat four times. Yogi Adityanath converted Gorakhpur into a Hindutva stronghold after winning the Lok Sabha election in 1998. He won the Lok Sabha seat in 2004, 2009 and 2014. Yogi vacated the seat after becoming chief minister in 2017. In the by-poll held in 2018, the BJP suffered setback after Nishad Party leader Praveen Nishad, who contested on the Samajwadi Party ticket, defeated BJP candidate Upendra Dutt Shukla. In 2019 Lok Sabha election, the BJP captured the seat. Among the 4.53 lakh voters in Gorakhpur urban seat, majority consists of upper castes, trader community, Muslims and backwards. Dalits constitute around 25,000 to 30,000 voters who support the BJP or the BSP in the consecutive assembly and Lok Sabha elections. The BSP enjoys hold over the Jatav voters. BSP candidates had polled 15,000 to 24,000 votes in the last four assembly (2002,2007, 2012 and 2017), The Samajwadi Party that enjoys hold over the OBC and Muslim voters, had been challenging the BJP in the consecutive assembly elections since the early nineties, said Satyadeo Singh, a teacher in government college, Gorakhpur. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is the head priest of Gorakhnath temple that is revered by Hindus belonging to upper caste, backward and dalit sections. The sah- bhoj (community feast) with the dalit community organized by Yogi Adityanath has strengthened his hold over the Scheduled Castes. As an MP, he also launched movements for the rights of marginalized communities, including Musahars and Vantangiyas. In return, these communities had been voting for the BJP in the elections, he said. BJP state unit spokesperson Sameer Singh said under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the party had been working on the Hindutva and development agenda and all communities benefited with the welfare schemes launched by the BJP government with ‘sabka saath- sabka vikas’ mantra. The Bhim Army indulged in caste politics and had nsupport base in Gorakhpur region, he said. 
20-01-2022||Patna||Niti Ayog delta ranking: Backward Khagaria gets tops in Bihar, to get more funds||Khagaria district in Bihar has secured first rank on the basis of overall performance assessment in the month of November 2021, as per the Niti Aayog ranking under the aspirational districts programme, officials said.Niti Aayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant communicated this to Bihar’s chief secretary Amit Subhani on Wednesday. This makes Khagaria entitled to receive additional grant of ₹10 crore, says the Niti Aayog letter.It is a significant development for Khagaria, which is one of the most backward districts in Bihar and is hit by by floods every year. Khagaria district magistrate Alok Ranjan Ghosh said, “It has got top rank in overall as well as health indicators. There are five parameters, of which Khagaria showed maximum improvement from its previous position in two, while in the rest three, it has been ranked third or fourth. There is still a long way to go. For serious illness, people still go to Bhagalpur, Begusarai or Patna. We hope Khagaria will be able to cater to its people’s health care needs within the district one day,” he said.Ghosh said the district had mainly focused on health and education. “Health is one area where improvement can show in a short span, viz, institutional delivery, anaemia control programme, immunisation, functioning of primary health centres, Covid care etc. In some spheres, changes will be visible only over a long period. The district has tried to make small, determined efforts for improvement. The district was ranked No.1 twice in the past also and we got ₹13 crore in funds. Now, another ₹10 crore means we can have more schemes,” he said.The DM said the district would now send proposals to improve the condition of farming and farmers. “Flood is a perennial problem in the area, where 15 panchayats are located in river beds. As a result, health centres also get affected. We plan to send a proposal for special health centres for flood affected places. They could be elevated to ensure people’s accessibility despite floods. We also intend planning for maize production and processing so that the farmers get the benefits. Two upcoming units for animal and poultry feed will help. Ethanol unit is also coming up. There is also immense scope for banana cultivation,” he said.Launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2018, the aspirational districts programme aims to quickly and effectively transform 112 most underdeveloped districts across the country, of which 13 are in Bihar. The broad contours of the programme are convergence (of central & state Schemes), collaboration (of central, state-level ‘Prabhari’ officers & district collectors), and competition among districts through monthly delta ranking. Apart from additional funds, the district magistrates of the performing districts also get commendation.Jamui and Purnia districts have also secured good overall rank, which makes them entitled to receive additional allocation of ₹2 crore and ₹3 crore, respectively, according to officials.Nawada district has got good rank in financial inclusion and skill development and has become entitled to receive additional allocation of ₹3 crore. Begusarai has secured good rank in the field of basic infrastructure, which makes it entitled to additional allocation of ₹3 crore.The ranked districts now have to prepare project proposals in consultation with state and central in-charge officers and send them to the Niti Aayog for final approval. Niti aayog has set to a project management unit comprising experts from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and United National Development Programme (UNDP) to assist the districts in formulation of their projects.
20-01-2022||Patna||Bihar extends all current Covid-19 curbs till February 6||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Thursday that all existing Covid-19 related curbs in the state have been extended till February 6. “The Covid-19 situation was reviewed. After analysing the current scenario, we have decided to extend all restrictions, which are currently in effect in the state, till February 6. I request you all to stay extra vigilant and follow guidelines issued by the government,” Kumar informed on Twitter. कोविड की स्थिति की समीक्षा की गई। कोरोना संक्रमण की स्थिति को देखते हुए वर्तमान में लागू सभी प्रतिबंधों को 6 फरवरी 2022 तक विस्तारित करने का निर्णय लिया गया है। आप सभी से अनुरोध है कि विशेष सावधानी बरतें एवं सरकार द्वारा जारी दिशा-निर्देशों का पालन करें।Due to a surge in Bihar's Covid-19 cases, the state government, on January 4, announced that a night curfew will be imposed from January 6 and will be in place till the 21st of the month. The period of the curfew will be from 10pm to 5am, it said.Also Read | Covid curbs back in Bihar, night curfew from Jan 6-21“Pre-school and classes 1-8 will remain shut, while online lectures will continue. In educational institutions, classes 9-12 will function at a maximum student strength of 50 per cent. Religious places to remain closed. Malls, cinemas, clubs, swimming pools, stadiums, gyms, parks, will also be closed,” the earlier government order read.Also Read | CM Nitish Kumar among 40 new Omicron cases recorded in BiharOn January 19, Bihar saw as many as 4063 fresh coronavirus infections, down nearly 500 from the previous day's caseload; there were 11 fresh fatalities as well, a health department bulletin showed. The cumulative caseload stood at 799,266, including 756,629 recoveries, 30,481 active cases and 12,156 deaths.Patna, the state capital, accounted for 999 new patients. The city's total active cases were recorded at 9619.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-extends-all-current-covid-19-curbs-till-february-6-101642682281395.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 5,818, Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid daily cases hit all-time high||Jammu and Kashmir’s daily Covid cases breached all records since the onset of the pandemic in 2020 after the UT recorded 5,818 fresh infections on Wednesday. Four people also lost their lives to the disease in Jammu division. Before Wednesday’s surge, the highest caseload had been reported at the peak of the second wave on May 7, 2021 when the UT had seen 5,443 infections and 50 deaths. At the peak of the first wave, Jammu and Kashmir had reported a high of 1,698 cases and 10 deaths on September 12, 2020. Positivity rate touches 7%Active cases in the Union Territory reached 26,236 on Wednesday. Officials said a record 83,019 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the UT, taking the daily test positivity rate to 7% for the first time since May when the second wave had peaked. The authorities have increased the testing rate this month as they have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December. Health experts say that the third wave has been fuelled by Omicron, a highly transmissible variable of Covid. “The doubling time of Omicron is 3-4 days, which is why it is spreading so quickly,” said Dr Rouf Hussain Rather, community medicine specialist and in-charge data analysis at divisional Covid control room in Kashmir, adding that on the upside the infectiosn were very mild.  “If one gets infected his or her chances of getting admitted to a hospital are very low and chances of succumbing are also less. Vaccination has also alleviated the situation,” he said. Of the total infections on Wednesday, Kashmir valley saw almost 70 % of the infections with 4,066 cases while 1,752 cases and all the four deaths were reported in the Jammu division.Rather said they are hopeful that the wave will wane quickly, judging by its rate of ascend. “The wave may be over by as early as February-end,” he said. Kashmir sees 1,745 casesKashmir valley saw 1,745 cases, while Srinagar saw 791 cases, Baramulla 594, and Budgam and Pulwama 230.Jammu district reported 1,131 cases, followed by 105 in Udhampur and 100 in Kathua. Srinagar has taken over as the district with highest number of Covid active cases at 6,189, followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 5,760 and 3,856 active cases, respectively.Of the 4,794 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just 8.32% or 416 are occupied in J&K, indicating that the higher cases are not translating into higher hospital admissions. Rather said that the hospital admissions in Kashmir were less than 2% of the active cases. “In the past we usually got 8-10 % of active cases admitted in hospitals. This time our hospital occupancy is less,” he said. “When the wave crosses its peak, the percentage of admissions increases further. We have to keep a track of the active cases. The more the denominator, the more chances of increase in admissions even if they are less than 4% of active cases,” he said.He said that the authorities are looking into that aspect and trying to increase the bed strength further in the divisions. “For example, in Kashmir we have more than 3,000 beds and we can extend it by 1,000 more,” he said.J&K hits milestone of vaccinating 2 crore persons 
20-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad gets over 2,000 fresh Covid cases in a day for second time this month||The district on Wednesday registered 2,041 fresh Covid-19 cases, the second-highest spike in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic. The district reported the highest number of cases in a single day four days ago on January 16, when it recorded 2,103 new cases. According to official data, 19,121 infections have been reported in January alone, the month which has recorded the maximum Covid cases (till Jan 19) since the start of the outbreak. A total of 4,789 samples were collected on Wednesday, the lowest number of samples to be collected in the two weeks ending on January 18. “The sampling got reduced as there were HR issues with the staff, which have now been sorted out. The testing will again increase. The number of fresh cases shot up as we received many pending reports from labs in Lucknow (on Wednesday). Currently, there are about 8,000 test reports pending at Lucknow and we have asked the state officials to get these expedited,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. Experts said cases have not seen a considerable decline so far. “There is a need to ramp up testing to find more cases. This will help in isolating the patients and prevent the further spread of infection,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).Meanwhile, starting January 24, the state government has issued directions for a five-day door-to-door survey across the states to find out people suffering from Covid-like symptoms and people over 60-years-old, who have still not taken their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Officials said the survey will follow the pattern adopted for pulse polio immunisation, and children who have been left out of routine vaccination will also be identified. Officials of the Ghaziabad health department said the survey also aims to identify people, who have been left out of the Covid vaccination programme. “The drive will be launched in rural as well as urban areas. We have formed about 1,950 teams, who will be a part of the door-to-door survey. Proper training schedule has also been chalked out for the teams well before the drive begins. Wherever needed, the rapid response teams will also assist the survey teams,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. He added people suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) will also be identified and tested while people needing vaccine doses will also be jabbed at their doorstep. The order issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), stated that cases of ILI/SARI will be shifted to presumptive Covid wards with the help of ambulances. According to the figures available on the CoWIN portal till Wednesday evening, Ghaziabad district completed administering 2,937,718 first doses, 1,997,365 second doses and 20,555 precaution doses, besides inoculating 125,709 children in the 15-17 age group with the first dose of Covaxin.
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Criminal cases against lawmakers: HC expresses displeasure over slow pace of probe||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over the slow pace of probe in criminal cases against lawmakers.Posting matter for further hearing on March 28, the high court bench of justices AG Masih and Sandeep Moudgil gave time to Punjab Police and Haryana Police to file fresh status reports in pending cases by then.“The assurances which were given on the last date of hearing as recorded in the order dated November 11, 2021, have not been fulfilled in toto. We would not say that the intention on the part of the state of Punjab or Haryana is lacking, but the efforts and the actions supporting the said intention appear to be missing or at least lagging. The reports as have been submitted indicate the movement in the right direction but the pace thereof is moving cannot be, by any stretch of imagination, said to be satisfactory”, the bench observed while perusing the reports submitted by police from both the states.On November 11, the court had observed that the speed at which the progress of investigation is going on is not satisfactory. It had given six weeks to speed up the probes and sought fresh status reports.The court was hearing a plea in which it is monitoring probe in criminal cases against lawmakers on the orders from the apex court since February 2021. According to an affidavit filed last year, 53 criminal cases against former and current lawmakers are pending in trial courts in Punjab.These are other than 29 criminal cases in which probe was pending. As of Haryana, 82 criminal cases are registered in the state against sitting and former MLAs and MPs.In the affidavit filed by Gursharan Singh Sandhu, inspector general of police, Bureau of Investigation, Punjab, had told the court that scrutiny of 29 criminal cases pending till November 11 has been carried out in which untraced and cancellation reports have been filed in 23 cases and submitted before the courts concerned. Investigation is pending in seven cases, the affidavit said. The affidavit reveals that the police filed cancellation reports in FIRs against SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann, Lok Insaaf Party leaders Balwinder Singh Bains and Simarjit Singh Bains, Amarjit Singh Sandhoya and Harpal Singh Cheema, among others. These FIRs were registered under Disaster Management Act and disobedience of order promulgated by public servant during Covid. Criminal cases pending investigationTwo criminal cases were registered against former MLA Anil Joshi in Amritsar in 2012 under the Excise Act and criminal conspiracy and the second FIR was registered against him in August 2021 under the Disaster Management Act and disobedience of order promulgated by a public servant. An FIR was registered against former MLA Malkeet Singh in August 2020 in Amritsar on allegations of disobedience of order promulgated by public servant and performing an act which may cause spread of a disease. Ex-MLA Ajit Singh Kohar and MLAs Pawan Kumar Tinu, Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Baldev Singh Khehra were booked in an FIR registered in Jalandhar in December 2017 on allegations of disobedience of order promulgated by public servant and National Highways Act. MLAs Balwinder Singh Bains and Simarjit Singh Bains were booked in an FIR registered in September 2020 in Patiala on allegations of disobedience of order promulgated by public servant and provisions of the Disaster Management Act.Virsa Singh Valtoha, ex-MLA, was booked in a criminal case in February 2021 in Tarn Taran on allegations of disobedience of order promulgated by public servant.SAD leader and MLA Bikram Singh Majithia was booked in a criminal case in December 2021 in Mohali under the provisions of the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/criminal-cases-against-lawmakers-hc-expresses-displeasure-over-slow-pace-of-probe-101642620505026.html
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Buddha Nullah pollution: World Cancer Care Society asks people to vote wisely in upcoming Punjab assembly elections||Lambasting the industry for allegedly polluting Buddha Nullah and dubbing the city as a ‘hub of cancer’, the World Cancer Care Charitable Society urged the public to question the Punjab assembly elections’ candidates on the steps being taken to clean the drain. A team from the organisation, led by its global ambassador Kulwant Singh Dhaliwal, on Wednesday visited the nullah to spread awareness among residents. Alleging that the industry and administration is putting lives at risk, Dhaliwal say they will submit a report regarding the Buddha Nullah pollution to the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the United Nations Organisation (UNO). “Our society has been working on cancer-related issues in the state for a long time. Knowing about Buddha Nullah pollution, we travelled around 12 kms on Wednesday and appealed to the public to ask questions from the leaders who will come to seek votes,” Dhaliwal said. The Buddha Nullah has been a bane for the city for decades and despite tall claims made by the successive governments, the pollution levels have not been brought under control.“Tall claims have been made of a major ₹650-crore-project to clean the nullah being launched, but nothing has materialised,” the group’s global ambassador claimed.Dhaliwal further said the people living in the vicinity of the drain are suffering from different diseases like cancer, Hepatitis B and C, liver problems among others, before making an appeal to industrialists to end the alleged pollution.He highlighted the huge number of cancer cases in the city, adding that the administration has still failed to take the required steps to clean the nullah.“We have also collected samples of residents from the area and will also submit a report regarding the buddha nullah pollution with UNO and WHO in the coming time,” Dhaliwal said, adding that the organisation had no political affiliations and did not support any party or outfit. The Municipal Corporation (MC) officials and the state government, meanwhile, are said to be working to set up a new sewer treatment plant (STP) and upgrade the old under the project to clean the nullah. They added that a Common Effluent Treatment plant (CETP) has also been established by industry and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to stop the dyeing industry discharge from getting into the nullah. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the STPs are being established at the cost of around ₹519 crores and interceptor lines are also being installed to stop direct discharge, before adding that other steps are also being taken to stop pollution in the drain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/buddha-nullah-pollution-world-cancer-care-society-asks-people-to-vote-wisely-in-upcoming-punjab-assembly-elections-101642617865616.html
