22-01-2022||Pune||As PMC denies tanker water to 23 villages, citizens wait for piped supply||PUNE: As Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked builders to provide water supply to housing societies in the 23 merged villages, residents are living in fear of a water crisis in the coming days. Representatives of various residential societies and elected members met PMC officials and demanded tanker water supply from civic administration. Additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Binwade called a meeting with Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), PMC and district planning officials to address the issue. Vivek Kharwadkar, chief engineer, PMRDA; Aniruddha Pawaskar, head, PMC water department and others attended the meet. Recently, Amol Balwadkar, BJP corporator from Baner-Balewadi, used ward development fund of Rs1 crore to provide water tanker supply in Balewadi, Bavdhan and other areas. “PMRDA had cleared these projects in villages before its merger with PMC last year. While submitting the construction plans, builders gave written assurance to provide water supply. PMC is yet to lay water pipelines in these areas and cannot afford to provide tanker supply,” a civic official said on condition of anonymity. Pawaskar said, “Earlier these areas were getting water supply from local grampanchayats. With rise in population in these villages, grampanchayats were unable to provide water to residents and the responsibility fell on builders. Now, PMC has appointed a consultant to lay water pipelines in these 23 villages. Till PMC is able to provide piped water supply to residents living in these villages, they have to make their own arrangement.” Binwade has instructed PMRDA to issue notices to builders who are yet to handover the housing project to residents to provide water supply. Kunal Joshi, resident of a housing society in Bavdhan, said, “We bought flat here as the rate was low than in PMC areas. However, we face lack of basic services like water, roads and other amenties. Though we were happy after merger with PMC, we need to wait for long period for civic water supply.” Another resident, staying at Ambegaon, said, “It is not possible to purchase water through private tankers daily as it is costly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-pmc-denies-tanker-water-to-23-villages-citizens-wait-for-piped-supply-101642876186381.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||UP’s R-Day tableau themed on KV Corridor, ODOP||Lucknow/Varanasi: Uttar Pradesh’s tableau at the Republic Day parade in Delhi on January 26 will primarily be based on the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi. The tableau will showcase the “cultural revitalisation of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor” and UP’s ODOP (one district, one product) scheme. Last year, UP’s tableau was on the Ram Temple coming up in Ayodhya. A senior state government official, preferring not to be quoted, said: “The UP tableau’s theme was approved by the tableau committee in New Delhi. This time it’s a dual theme-- Kashi Vishwanath Corridor and ODOP. The tableau is being made in Delhi ahead of the R-Day parade.” ODOP is the state government’s flagship scheme to promote--nationally and internationally--the traditional, signature crafts and products specific to particular districts such as brass work of Moradabad, woodcraft of Saharanpur and carpets of Bhadohi. The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13. It has been built in around a 5.5 lakh square feet area. The construction cost of the project is ₹339 crore, while the entire project is worth over ₹700 crore. It has 24 buildings, including Kashi Vishwanath Temple Complex, tourist facility centre, auditorium, cafeteria, virtual gallery, Vedic library, Kashi museum, Bhogshala (sacred kitchen), security hall, a mega meditation platform and seven grand gates. Also, 70 per cent of it will have a green cover. The devotees may also reach KV Corridor by boats. After reaching the KV Corridor gate facing the Ganga, they may reach the KV Temple while walking through the KV Corridor. Last year, the UP tableau’s theme was the grandeur of the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya, the temple town’s culture and Ayodhya as a symbol of social-religious harmony. Last year, the tableau had evoked a standing ovation in reverence from many in the audience. The tableau had showcased Ayodhya as a major religious tourism destination in India and it featured a grand model of the temple, scenes from Ramayan and the new tradition of annual Deepotsav in Ayodhya. Its title was ‘Uttar Pradesh ki sanskritik dharohar: Ayodhya (Ayodhya: Cultural heritage of Uttar Pradesh)’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-r-day-tableau-themed-on-kv-corridor-odop-101642876184916.html
22-01-2022||Noida||Covid cases drop to below 1,000 for the first time in 15 days in Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 987 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday along with 1,724 recoveries. This is the first time that the daily case tally dropped below 1,000 in the district since it crossed this mark 15 days ago.The district reported 1,141 cases on January 8, following which the number of cases recorded everyday remained over 1,000 until now, and even crossed 2,000 last week. The number of daily cases has been steadily reducing in Gautam Budh Nagar for about a week now afterpeaking at 2,230 cases on January 12, while the number of total recoveries has also gone up.According to the district health department, the number of active cases in Gautam Budh Nagar is now 7,578.Though Gautam Budh Nagar has not recorded any death officially in the past fortnight, officials in Ghaziabad said that the death of a Covid patient on Friday was wrongly attributed to the district. The patient who died on Friday was lodged in Luksar jail in Greater Noida and Ghaziabad officials said that the case will be cross-notified to Gautam Budh Nagar.“We have not received the cross-notificaton yet. We will add update the death toll as soon as we get it,” said a district health official, requesting anonymity.So far, 89,262 cases have been reported in the district and 1,869,225 tests have been conducted. In January so far, the district recorded 25,224 cases, the highest monthly tally since the pandemic began in March 2020, said officials of the health department.Though the number of cases is reducing now, the administration has increased surveillance as the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are due to start on February 10.“Even when the cases were increasing, the good thing was that we did not have serious cases. We would like the same situation to continue and are keeping a strict vigil on all election-related activities. We are also monitoring candidates and parties to ensure that Covid-related guidelines are being followed,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Meanwhile, Ghaziabad also recorded 906 cases on Saturday.According to officials of the Ghaziabad health department, the district recorded 22,392 cases in January so far. The number of active cases is now 5,794 as 1,466 people recovered in the last 24 hours.However, the death of a 40-year-old woman was reported due to Covid in the district in the last 24 hours. According to officials, the patient had a history of diabetes and Hepatitis B, meningitis and septicaemia. She was fully vaccinated. This is the fifth death due to Covid-19 in Ghaziabad within the last 15 days, officials said.Since the start of the pandemic, 78,306 cases have been reported in Ghaziabad and 2,408,584 tests have been conducted.Ghaziabad’s sample positivity rate--the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to all those who have been tested for it-- is 9.9%, while Noida’s is 21% as per the tests conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-cases-drop-to-below-1-000-for-the-first-time-in-15-days-in-noida-101642876011462.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Weather update: No respite from chill in Chandigarh||With intermittent rain throughout the day, maximum temperature once again fell from Friday’s 19.5°C to 16°C on Saturday, 4.3°C below normal, in Chandigarh. After trace rainfall in the morning, the city received 17.6 mm showers in short spells till late at night, highest in about 10 days. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), more rain is likely on Sunday.After it started raining, the mercury dipped at the IMD observatory in Sector 39 from 15.2°C at 11:30 am to 12.8°C at 2:30 pm, and remained around 12.5°C till the evening. With fresh snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, chilly winds — with speeds up to 37 kilometre/hour, according to the Air Force observatory — also continued to blow in the city during the day. “An active western disturbance (WD) is affecting the region, which brought the rain. It is the third active WD that we have received this month, after the first two WDs led to over 100 mm rain in Chandigarh,” said IMD, Chandigarh, director Manmohan Singh. Singh said the present WD system peaked on Saturday, though some rain is expected on Sunday as well. “But it will stop after that, and a drop in minimum temperature by four to five degrees can be expected,” he said.Fog, cold days to persistCloud cover is once again expected to give way to moderate to dense fog from Monday morning, said the IMD director, adding: “Like last week, there is a chance that fog will persist during the day, leading to cold day conditions with below average maximum temperature. It will continue for a few days, before clearing up.”According to the IMD, for a cold day to be declared in the plains, minimum temperature must go below 10°C and maximum temperature should remain 4.5-6.4°C below normal. If maximum temperature drops more than 6.5°C below normal, then a severe cold day is declared. A spell of five severe cold days was recorded between January 15 and January 19, when maximum temperature dropped to 11°C on January 16 and 18, making them the coldest January days in six years. In fact, days remained colder in Chandigarh than in Shimla and Manali during this period.442% surplus rain in JanAs far as rain in concerned, 118.7 mm has been recorded in January so far, which is 442% above normal for this time period, according to the IMD. This January is already the wettest in five years. Before this, 132 mm rain was recorded in January 2017. However, after Sunday, more rain remains unlikely, and dry weather can be expected till the end of this month, said Singh.Meanwhile, due to cloudy weather at night, minimum temperature shot up from Friday’s 6.3°C to 9.8°C on Saturday, 4.2°C above normal. In the next three days, it will remain around 9-10°C, while maximum temperature will settle somewhere between 13°C and 16°C, said the weatherman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weather-update-no-respite-from-chill-in-chandigarh-101642876010261.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid claims seven more lives in Chandigarh tricity area||Showing no signs of let-up, Covid-19 claimed seven more lives in the tricity on Saturday, while 2,940 people tested positive in the past 24 hours.Mohali recorded four deaths, followed by three in Chandigarh, which is the highest single-day toll for the UT in the third wave. The number of fatalities in the tricity has remained above four since January 16, when it peaked at eight. The total has climbed to 55 this month, with 31 casualties in Mohali, 21 in Chandigarh and just three in Panchkula district.In terms of fresh cases, Mohali recorded 1,245, followed by 1,149 in Chandigarh and 546 in Panchkula. The tricity had hit the all-time high with 3,907 cases on January 16. After a significant drop to 2,215 the next day, the single-day tally has remained around 3,000 on the subsequent days. The month’s total has reached 45,229.In comparison, during the peak of the second wave in May, the tricity had recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in one month.Talking about the low fatality rate, Dr Sanjeev Palta, the nodal officer of ICU management at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said: “In the first and second wave of the pandemic, the virus was affecting lungs, and people were suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome. But this time, the virus is only affecting the upper respiratory track. As the infection is less in the lungs, the fatality rate too has dropped.”According to Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, most fatalities are being reported among the elderly or those with severe comorbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension, kidney diseases or cardiac-related issues. “A few were also found unvaccinated, and thus low on immunity,” she said.Those who succumbed in Chandigarh included a 65-year-old woman from Sector 26 and a 67-year-old man from Sector 19. Both were fully vaccinated but comorbid. Meanwhile, a 54-year-old man, who resided in Sector 43, tested positive after being brought dead to hospital. He was a chronic alcoholic, though fully vaccinated.In Mohali district, the deceased included two women, aged 75 and 76, from Nayagaon and Sector 67, respectively, besides two men, aged 56 and 75, from Ekta Vihar and Dera Bassi, respectively. Two of them had not taken even a single vaccine dose, said the health authorities.Only 1% positive patients hospitalisedMeanwhile, the active caseload in the tricity stands at 19,836, including 8,834 patients in Mohali, 8,614 in Chandigarh and 2,364 in Panchkula. However, with most being asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms, the cumulative hospitalisation rate is less than 1%. In Chandigarh, only 144 (1.7%) people are hospitalised, while 8,380 are isolated at their homes and 90 at mini Covid care centres.In Mohali, 8,834 are quarantined at home and only 24 (0.3%) are hospitalised, including one in critical condition. Panchkula has 2,343 patients isolated at homes and 21 (0.9%) undergoing treatment in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-seven-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101642876008926.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Decision to close gyms challenged in HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from the Chandigarh administration by February 25 on a plea challenging its decision to close gyms due to the surge in Covid cases earlier this month. The plea has been filed by Pankaj Kasrija and three others, who are running gyms in different parts of the city. It was on January 6, the administration decided to close gyms, but permitted bars, cinema halls, restaurants and spas to operate at 50% of their capacity. The petitioners’ counsel, Jaspreet Singh Brar, told court that there is no rationale behind restraining gyms from operating. Earlier, two lockdowns have ruined business of petitioners and affected families of staff and owners, it was stated, adding that the petitioners are giving employment to 20 persons per gym.Gyms were first closed during the first lockdown Fon March 16, 2020. They were allowed to open on August 2020, but were shut again during the second wave in 2021. On January 1, 2020, even Haryana imposed restrictions on gyms, but permitted them to operate at 50% capacity. However, in Chandigarh, no such relaxation was allowed, the court was told.“There is no science or logic behind the decision of the government which says that gyms are any way different from other activities like saloons, spas, cinemas halls, restaurants or bars. The petitioners are also taxpayers and have not got any government support or subsidy, and had to face the brunt of the orders passed by the respondents (in view of Covid),” the court was informed, demanding that the UT administration’s decision be quashed. The Punjab government’s decision to close gyms has also been challenged in high court. The plea was taken up on January 18 and stands adjourned for February 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-decision-to-close-gyms-challenged-in-hc-101642876006293.html
22-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Man arrested for stealing money from ATM||Police arrested a 29-year-old man on Friday night for allegedly stealing money from an ATM located on Mata Road at East Rajiv Nagar in Sector 14. Police said the suspect earlier worked as an ATM security guard, but has been unemployed since April 2020.According to police, the suspect, Guddu Kumar Choudhary, knew how to disrupt cash flow by powering down the ATM when withdrawal was made by any customer and later used to take the same money away. On Friday evening, Choudhary was hiding inside the server room behind the ATM to steal cash when a private firm’s cash van reached the spot and its occupants spotted him, police said.An FIR was registered under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 454 (lurking house) and 511 (attempt to commit offences) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 14 police station on the basis of a complaint filed by the company that deposits money in the ATMs. Choudhary, a native of Bihar, was living in a rented accommodation at Chakkarpur village in Gurugram’s Sector 28, police said. As per the FIR, Choudhary had worked in the same firm as an ATM security guard and was identified at the spot by one of the employees, the FIR read.Police said the suspect knew how to disconnect an ATM from its server to disrupt cash flow. “Money withdrawn by a customer is not disbursed in such a situation. The suspect used to switch on the power when the customer left while hiding inside the server rooms. Soon after, the ATM disbursed money which he used to steal,” a police officer privy to the case said.Satender Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 14 police station, said that a duplicate key of the server room lock was also recovered from Choudhary’s possession.“Just before being caught, the suspect had successfully disrupted the cash flow of a customer’s withdrawal and was about to steal that money but got caught,” the SHO said, adding that his Chakkarpur accommodation was searched but nothing was found. “Further investigation is on in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-man-arrested-for-stealing-money-from-atm-101642876005170.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh trader caught without mask misbehaves with woman cop, arrested||A furniture shop owner has been arrested for misbehaving with a woman cop, who was fining people caught without face masks at the market in Sector 34, Chandigarh. The accused has been identified as Vikrant Joshi, 32, who resides in Sector 68, Mohali, and owns a furniture shop in Sector 34, Chandigarh. The incident took place on Friday.In her complaint, the sub-inspector stated that Joshi was found without mask in violation of orders issued by the district magistrate. When she was issuing a challan, he not only misbehaved with her but also snatched her mobile phone and threw it on the ground, thus breaking it, it was alleged. Police later arrested Joshi, who was produced in court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody. A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-trader-caught-without-mask-misbehaves-with-woman-cop-arrested-101642876003782.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: Airport Road hot spot for election offices||With the Punjab assembly elections less than a month away, political parties are pulling out all stops to woo voters. The three main contenders — Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal — have set up their election offices in the showrooms, barely 100 metres apart, in Sector 79, Mohali, on Airport Road. The area has become a poll hotspot and the air of festivity is difficult to miss. Outside all three offices, one can find vehicles of supporters parked with tents put up. Tea and snacks are available the whole day long as campaign strategies are chalked out. UT administration, MC staff battling Covid The third Covid wave has taken a toll on the UT administration and the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh. With several employees, including the UT adviser among senior officials, testing positive over the past fortnight, the functioning of both offices has been hit. Thirty-six employees in the Registration and Licensing Authority alone tested positive. Similarly, several staffers in the departments of UT urban planning, estate office, Chandigarh Housing Board and UT Guest House are recuperating after contracting coronavirus infection. Reality check for Chandigarh cops A Chandigarh Police officer was in for a reality check the other day when a worker sought permission to stay back for the night as it was not safe going home after 5pm. “Sham ko ghar nahi ja sakta, loot hoti hai (I can’t go home now due to snatching),” the worker, a resident of Ram Darbar, said. With three serious crimes against women within a week and now incidents of theft in the evening have raised concerns about the deteriorating law and order in Chandigarh. Do away with inaugural functions in pandemic Even in the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT administration is keen about inaugural functions and media coverage. On January 17, for instance, a media invite was shared by the administration, requesting presence at the inauguration of the Mini Covid Centre managed by Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti. UT adviser Dharam Pal was to do the honours at the Police Hospital in Sector 26, Chandigarh. Why can’t they do away with the fanfare during a raging pandemic? Covid+ prisoner breaks out of Sector 16 hospital A woman prisoner was admitted to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Friday, after she tested positive for Covid-19. Since the hospital’s prisoner room was already occupied by another infected inmate, the authorities admitted her to normal room. After a few hours, the woman broke open the window and escaped from the hospital. It was a challenge for the police and health department officials to trace her but they finally managed to catch her after three hours. “She was again admitted to the hospital but now we are keeping a strict watch,” said Dr Suman Singh, the director, health services. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal and Mandeep Narula||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-airport-road-hot-spot-for-election-offices-101642875944053.html
22-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Raahgiri Day to be held online today||In the wake of ongoing third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will organise a Raahgiri Day on Sunday through an online platform for the first time, officials said on Saturday. The e-Raahgiri Day will be conducted between 10am and 12noon with online yoga sessions, webinars on road safety and air pollution, slogan writing competitions, and live and pre-recorded musical performances, among other such activities. The MCG officials said that due to ongoing Covid-19 restrictions and guidelines, they decided to hold the Raahgiri Day online for the interim.“Due to the spread of Covid-19 and imposition of restrictions related to it, the Raahgiri Day is unlikely to be hosted physically in the near future. Hence, e-Raahgiri is now being organised this Sunday instead of the conventional Raahgiri so that matters such as road safety and air pollution continue to remain an important topic of conversation. People can participate by clicking on the online link https://forms.gle/QtL5dLUcG9Ab9VbT9 to join the e-Raahgiri event,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer, MCG.Besides the link circulated by the civic body through its twitter handle and social media platforms, residents can also email at info@raahgirifoundation.org or send a message at WhatsApp number 8595064020 for the link.Inspired by the ciclovia movement in Bogota, Colombia, the first Raahgiri Day in Gurugram was held in November 2013 near the Galleria market in DLF Phase 4. Aimed at reclaiming streets from vehicles, in a conventional Raahgiri event, entry of automobiles is completely forbidden for several hours on a particular stretch. Instead, cycling, walking, and skating are promoted along with activities such as yoga, street plays, pottery, flash mob, and painting competitions.“To promote physical and mental health during these tough times, we are organising activities similar to the conventional Raahgiri via an online platform so that residents can participate from their respective households. Besides providing physical activities, awareness on key issues such as road safety, air pollution as well as entertainment activities have been planned for the pilot online event,” said Shubhra Puri, trustee, Raahgiri Foundation.The last Raahgiri Day was held on November 28 last year at Tulip Chowk located on the sectors 69-70 dividing road.
22-01-2022||Noida||Four persons arrested after exchange of fire in Noida’s Sector 62||Noida police on Saturday afternoon arrested four persons after an exchange of fire in Sector 62 and recovered stolen valuables, weapons, and a car from their possession.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Noida, said that the Sector 58 police on Saturday received information about the movement of some suspects in a white Maruti Suzuki SX4 car near Jaipuria Crossing in Noida’s Sector 62. “A police team signalled them to stop for checking but they opened fire and tried to escape. The team chased the suspects and forced them to stop. In the exchange of fire, two suspects – Arjun Kumar, 25, from Pratapgarh and Mithlesh Kumar, 26, from Madhya Pradesh – received bullet injuries and were arrested,” he said. Two other suspects – Zubair Ahmad, 24, from Daryaganj in Delhi, and Sunil Kumar, 26, from Siwan in Bihar – managed to escape. However, they were later arrested during a combing exercise, police said. Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Noida, said that the police recovered four countrymade guns, eight live cartridges, three used cartridges, ₹4,600 in cash, a stolen smartphone, and a bag from their possession. The four suspects lived in a room in New Friends Colony in Delhi, he added. Verma said that on Saturday morning, one Satyajeet Kumar, 35, a resident of Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad, filed a complaint at Sector 58 police station saying that on Friday evening he was waiting in Noida’s Sector 62 for a bus bound for Anand Vihar when the four suspects offered him a lift in their car. “Satyajeet was on his way to Bihar and was carrying some goods for his family. The suspects snatched his valuables, mobile phone and purse, and dumped him on the way,” the ACP said. The police registered a complaint against the suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.The police team scanned CCTV footage in nearby areas and identified the car used in the crime. “On Saturday, the suspects were in Noida when they were arrested,” Verma said. The four suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-persons-arrested-after-exchange-of-fire-in-noida-s-sector-62-101642875703911.html
22-01-2022||Noida||Noida traffic police develop integrated mechanism to check accidents, improve road safety||The Noida traffic police released a new integrated mechanism to check accidents and improve road safety in the district on Saturday. Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said this new initiative integrates several police services. “When there is an accident, locals or the victim first dial 112 to inform the police. The Dial 112 vehicles, which swiftly reach accident spots, will now inform ambulances and fire tenders, whenever needed. The victims can also dial 108 for ambulances and 102 for fire services. The police team will also inform the traffic department and a team will reach the spot and photograph or videograph the spot and try to find the reason that led to the accident,” he said. The traffic police will feed the data in the Integrated Road Accident Database (iRAD) mobile app for analysis and possible solutions to the problems. The iRAD mobile application is an initiative of the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), which aims to improve road safety across the country. The DCP said that sometimes locals spot accidents and are the first responders. “But some people still hesitate to help accident victims fearing questioning by the police. We want to assure people that they will not be unnecessarily questioned,” he said.Earlier, the government would reward good samaritans ₹2,000 for helping the victims during “golden hour”--the one hour following a traumatic injury during which there is the highest likelihood of preventing death. Saha said that in October last year, the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) revised this amount to ₹5,000.The police officer said the traffic department is also pasting reflective tapes at accident-prone areas for safety reasons. “This is important as fog reduces visibility during winter,” the DCP said. Gautam Budh Nagar’s Dial 112 service comprises a fleet of 66 four-wheel police response vehicles (PRVs) and 60 two-wheelers to attend emergency calls. On average, PRVs reach the accident/crime spots in 6.09 minutes in urban areas and 7.58 minutes in rural areas in Gautam Budh Nagar. The district police department recorded 368 deaths due to 798 accidents last year as compared to 2020, when 380 people died in 740 accidents in the district. In 2021, 504 people were injured in these accidents while in 2020, 528 people were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-police-develop-integrated-mechanism-to-check-accidents-improve-road-safety-101642875583869.html
22-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Cold wave conditions may continue for two days||The city residents woke up to a wet morning on Saturday with most parts receiving light rainfall throughout the day. The overcast sky and a wind speed of around 35 to 40km per hour added to the chill, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting that the cold wave conditions are likely to continue for the next two days. The IMD’s Chandigarh centre also predicted thunderstorm and lightning over south Haryana, including Gurugram and Faridabad. According to IMD, Gurugram recorded 7.4mm of rainfall over the past 24 hours. Manmohan Singh, director at Met centre, Chandigarh, said that there are chances of rains on Sunday as well in Gurugram due to the western disturbance. “Temperature is going to dip for the next two days before it moves towards normal. All precautions should be taken against cold weather and fog,” he said. On Saturday, Gurugram recorded the maximum temperature at 16.5°C, which was five degrees less than normal, said the IMD. The minimum temperature was recorded at 10.8°C, five degrees above normal. Meanwhile, many residents preferred to stay indoors as the rain lashed the city even in the late evening. “The chilly weather has made life difficult. We preferred to postpone our visit to a mall for shopping this weekend,” said Shalu Thakur, a resident of Palam Vihar. However, the rains failed to improve the air quality of Gurugram. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin, the air quality in the city remained in the ‘very poor’ category, with an air quality index of 304, a slight rise from Friday’s AQI reading of 302. “Due to the strong thermal inversion and low temperatures, particles are concentrated in lower atmosphere. Moisture is also holding up in lower atmosphere. All these factors are not good enough to improve AQI to poor category or moderate category,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert. 
22-01-2022||Pune||Sangeet Natak loses its star singer Keerti Shiledar||PUNE Veteran singer and Sangeet Natak (musical drama) actor Keerti Shiledar (69) died due to a brief illness at a private hospital in Pune, early Saturday morning. She was undergoing dialysis treatment. According to her close associate Varsha Joglekar, “She had breathing issues in the morning and was shifted to a hospital where she breathed her last.” Daughter of famous singer duo Jayaram and Jaimala Shiledar, Keerti has given valuable contribution to Marathi theatre and was part of keeping the tradition of Sangeet Natak alive by her family-run Marathi Rangabhoomi Sanstha. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar condoled the death of Shiledar. “With Keerti Shiledar’s passing away, the Sangeet Natak has lost of its crucial link which connected various generations,” said Thackeray in his message. She was also the president of 98th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Sammelan in 2018 and was pivotal in keeping the torch for Sangeet Natak alive. She received her training in Hindustani classical vocals by actor and musician Nilkanth Abhyankar. She is survived by her elder sister Deepti Bhogle. She first stepped on the stage at the age of 10 and her lyrical voice mesmerised the audience. Her rendition of ‘Khara to Prema’ from the musical Sangeet Maanapaman is popular. She has acted in “Sangeet Swarsamradni”, “Sangeet Kanhopatra”, “Yayati Aani Devyani”, “Sanshay Kallol”, “Swaymvar”, “Sangeet Saubhadra”, “Mrutchha Katik” and “Mandodari” to name a few. Keerti recently directed “Sangeet Sabhadra” for Doordarshan which was telecasted on January 14, 2022. She directed shooting for the programme in September 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sangeet-natak-loses-its-star-singer-keerti-shiledar-101642875403728.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Police bust illegal firearms manufacturing unit in UP’s Aligarh||An illegal firearms manufacturing unit, which produced four to five illicit pistols every day and supplied nearly 1,000 to criminals in Delhi and adjoining states in a year, was busted in a residential colony in Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh by the Delhi Police, senior city police officers aware of the development said on Saturday. One of the alleged manufacturers of the illicit firearms was arrested from the factory along with 19 prepared and semi-finished pistols, apart from raw materials and tools used in manufacturing of such weapons, they said.The illegal firearms factory was busted following interrogation of a notorious gunrunner, Shakil alias Sherni, who was arrested on Monday evening following a gunfight with a team of the special staff of outer-north district police in Delhi’s Rohini. Police seized 14 pistols and 38 cartridges from Shakil. The seized consignment of arms and ammunition was to be delivered to the members of a gang led by fugitive gangster Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu and another gang named “Sisodia gang”, said deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Brijendra Kumar Yadav.DCP Yadav said that the special staff team interrogated Shakil to ascertain the source from where he had procured the illegal weapons. Shakil revealed that he had purchased the pistols from an illegal manufacturing unit in Aligarh. The police team obtained Shakil’s police remand and accompanied him to a shop in a residential neighbourhood in SaraiMan Singh near Maya Chowk in Aligarh. The shop was raided and Ravi Mahor was caught manufacturing illegal firearms. Another manufacturer managed to flee.“Several raw materials used in the manufacturing of firearms were recovered such as barrels, triggers, body of firearms along with lathe machine, bits used in the machine and other equipments were recovered. Also, 9 unfinished firearms and 10 finished country made pistols were also recovered,” said DCP Yadav.A police officer who was part of the operation said that the firearm manufacturing unit was running in the residential colony for the past some years. The illegal activity was done in a covert manner as the shop was actually given the design of a scrap and lathe machine-related workshop.“The arrested man Ravi Mahor is also involved in a rape case. His uncle Mukesh was also present at the shop at the time of the raid. But he managed to escape. Mahor disclosed that four to five pistols were manufactured daily. On an average, they produced 1000 illicit firearms and sold them to criminals in Delhi and other states through gunrunners like Shakil,” said an investigator.Police said they were trying to identify the person who ran the manufacturing unit. They were also trying to establish if killed arms manufacturers from Bihar’s Munger and West Bengal were employed there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-illegal-firearms-manufacturing-unit-in-up-s-aligarh-101642875223701.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||23 Muslims, 13 OBCs on BSP’s new list of 51 candidates in Uttar Pradesh||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday released the party’s list of 51 more candidates for the Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly elections. These candidates have been named for the state’s Rohilkhand region where polling will be held on 55 seats in nine districts on February 14.Twenty-three of these candidates are Muslims, 13 belong to the other backward classes (OBCs), 10 are Dalits and five upper castes. There are three women on the list.The names of the candidates for the remaining four seats (of the second phase) will be announced later, said a BSP leader. The prominent candidates fielded by the BSP include Noman Masood from Gangoh in Saharanpur district, Ruchi Vira from Bijnor and Mamta Shakya from Bilsi seat in Badaun district. So far, the BSP has named 109 candidates — 58 for the first phase of polling and 51 for the second.Mayawati also unveiled her party’s slogan for the 2022 UP assembly election — “Har polling booth ko jitana hain, BSP ko satta mein lana hain (The party must win on all booths to come back to power).”The BSP had earlier released the first list of candidates on January 15, party chief Mayawati’s birthday.For the first phase, the party has named four women and there are three for the second phase, taking the total to seven women candidates overall.For the 58 first-phase seats, the BSP named 16 Muslim candidates, 18 OBCs, nine Dalits and 15 upper castes.Overall, the BSP has named 39 Muslims, 31 OBCs, 19 Dalits and 20 upper castes.By giving tickets to a large number of Muslim candidates, Mayawati has intensified the fight for Muslim votes among the Samajwadi Party (SP), the BSP the Congress and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul- Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, said SK Srivastava, a political observer.In the 2017 assembly election, the BSP failed to open its account in the Rohilkhand region while the SP bagged 15 seats. The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) won 38 seats and the Congress two seats in the region. The SP was the runner-up on 21 assembly seats and the BSP was second on 11 seats. There is a large concentration of Muslim voters in these nine districts of the Rohilkhand region namely Saharanpur, Bijnor, Amroha, Sambhal, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Badaun and Shahjahanpur.Riding on the Muslim-Dalit formula, the BSP bagged a majority of the region’s seats in the 2007 assembly election when it also won power in the state.In the 2012 assembly elections, the SP won a majority of the seats on the strength of its Muslim-backward alliance. It also formed the government in UP with a majority of its own that year. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP made a dent in the backward and Dalit vote base of the SP and the BSP to capture 38 assembly seats, Srivastava said. The BJP alone won 312 seats in the 403-member assembly five years ago.The Muslim votes will be decisive for the SP, BSP, Congress and AIMIM candidates in the 2022 assembly election, he said. Fifty-eight seats in 11 districts of western UP will go to polls in the first phase on February 10. The filing of nominations for the first phase seats concluded on January 21, the same date on which the nomination process commenced for the second phase seats.The 11 districts that will go to polls in the first phase are: Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida), Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura and Agra. Uttar Pradesh goes to polls in seven phases between February 10 and March 7 to elect 403 lawmakers. The results will be announced on March 10.
22-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest man for threatening, extorting money from women||A 32-year-old B.tech and MBA degree holder was arrested by the Shahdara district police for allegedly extorting money from women after threatening to upload on social media their objectionable videos and photographs that he recorded while having online video chats, police said on Saturday. The arrested man befriended the women through various matrimonial websites and collected their objectionable videos and images after promising to marry them. A mobile phone containing many such videos and photographs was recovered from him, they said.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said that the suspect, Sahil Sachdeva, was arrested on Friday from south Delhi’s Neb Sarai, following investigation into a case filed by a woman from whom he had extorted ₹2 lakh using the same modus operandi. The woman in her complaint said that in October last year, she met him through a matrimonial site. He introduced himself to her as Sahil Sachdeva having B.Tech and MBA degrees and employed.“Sachdeva made false promises to marry her. On his assurance, they started building their relationship. Sachdeva took her objectionable images during video calling and started blackmailing her. He threatened to post her images on social media if she did not pay him money. In two months, he extorted ₹2 lakh from her,” said Sathiyasundaram.A case was registered at the Shahdara police station and through technical investigation the suspect’s presence in Neb Sarai was found. A native of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Sachdeva was arrested on Friday. His interrogation revealed that he was unemployed and extorted money from women for easy money. Three more women were also found to be extorted to the tune of more than ₹2 lakh each by him. Further investigation is underway, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-man-for-threatening-extorting-money-from-women-101642874984020.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||85% in the 15-18 age group in Delhi’s govt schools have received Covid vaccine: Govt||Around 85% students of Delhi government schools in the age group of 15-18 years had received the first dose of the vaccine till January 21, the government said on Saturday. While appreciating the speed at which inoculation was being conducted in government schools, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said that 100% vaccination of students will help the government in making the shift from ongoing online education to offline classes. He said that a proposal for the reopening of schools could be placed before the DDMA.“In 12 out of the 15 education districts, 85% students of Delhi government schools have been vaccinated and there are about 300 schools where 90% eligible students have got the jab,” said Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio. He said that vaccination was key for combatting covid and called for all eligible students to be vaccinated at the earliest. “Now that the covid cases are declining considerably and most of the students in higher classes have been inoculated, a proposal may be placed before DDMA for reopening of schools,” he added.In a written statement issued on Saturday, the government also said that vaccination in private schools was taking place slowly with only 42% of eligible students have received the vaccine till January 21. “Except East Delhi district, private schools have failed to achieve even 50% vaccination coverage. Private schools have about 3.5 lakh eligible students for COVID vaccination, but not even 2 lakhs have been vaccinated till date. Even aided schools haven’t fared well. So far only 57% of students have been vaccinated in aided schools,” the government said. The Directorate of Education (DoE) has set a target of 100% vaccination till January 30. In a circular issued to schools on Saturday, DoE said that out of 8,07, 738 eligible students of government schools, 6, 80, 210, had been already vaccinated which was roughly 84.21%. The DoE added that 1,27, 528 students of government schools in the eligible category were yet to be vaccinated. The department also underlined that vaccination of the entire eligible student population was vital to any proposal of reopening of schools. It directed officials to persuade private schools to amp their vaccination efforts for achieving the 100% vaccination goal since they were lagging behind, the DoE said. “Heads of these schools may be contacted personally and through the zonal DDEs and authentic data may be obtained from them so that we have accurate numbers of the vaccinated and the remaining students of these schools to work on,” the DoE stated in its circular. Sudha Acharya, chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, admitted that private schools needed to accelerate their vaccination efforts. “While our school and some others have achieved around 80% vaccination, there are other schools that need to amplify their efforts to increase their vaccination numbers. Various reasons could be behind the lag in vaccinations. Some parents are hesitant while other schools are not able to put their full efforts due to school closure. Collectively we all are trying to vaccinate our student population so that schools can be reopened at the earliest,” said Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka. Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools, a consortium of schools, said that more than 60% of eligible students in private schools had been vaccinated and sough that schools are reopened. “Private schools in Delhi have been very proactive in organising vaccination camps and awareness sessions to achieve maximum vaccination of eligible students. The entire school fraternity is working tirelessly to support the government in achieving 100% vaccination target. Some schools have already achieved 85-90% vaccination target. The government should reopen schools since students have been facing major learning losses for around two years now,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/85-in-the-15-18-age-group-in-delhi-s-govt-schools-have-received-covid-vaccine-govt-101642874803700.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai high-rise fire: Woman suffers 50% burns, 7 others in critical condition||Mumbai As many as 17 patients were rushed to hospital with burns and smoke iinhalation from the fire that erupted in Kamala Building on Saturday. Of the 17 patients, two were being treated for burn injuries at Kasturba and Masina Hospitals, while the remaining were admitted to the BYL Nair and Bhatia Hospitals. The condition of at least eight patients was in a critical state. Of the three patients admitted to the BYL Nair Hospital, 38-year-old Manish Singh was critical and on ventilator support. The second patient, Manju Khanna (69), tested positive for Covid-19, while 28-year-old Swapnil Mandavkar was stable and conscious. “All of them have injuries from smoke inhalation,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital. The Bhatia Hospital in Tardeo admitted the highest number of patients from the fire. Of the 20 patients rushed to the hospital, 12 remained admitted. “Six of them are critical and under constant observation in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The patients are being treated for excess smoke inhalation and breathing difficulty,” said Dr Satyadeo Malik, hospital’s chief executive officer. Doctors from the Kasturba Hospital said that they had one female patient Madhuri Chopdekar admitted with burn injuries and remained in a critical condition. “She has suffered about 50 percent burns. She is conscious but her prognosis seems poor,” said a doctor from the burns ward. Another patient with burns was admitted to the Masina Hospital was in a stable condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-high-rise-fire-woman-suffers-50-burns-7-others-in-critical-condition-101642874564146.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Amit Shah raises exodus issue in Kairana||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday launched a door-to-door campaign from the teachers’ colony in Kairana in western Uttar Pradesh (UP) and raised the issue of “palayan (Hindu exodus)” during the Samajwadi Party (SP) rule. He stated that those who were forced to leave earlier have now started returning under the BJP rule. Amit Shah was seen distributing pamphlets carrying information about various welfare schemes that were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He also visited a 70-year-old sweet shop in the Gumbad locality of Kairana where he met those who had to migrate with family. “This is my first visit to Kairana since January 2014. I see a sea change. All welfare schemes by Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji have been implemented by CM Yogi Adityanath till the grass roots level. It’s the same Kairana from where people were migrating earlier. Today, I interacted with many of those who had migrated earlier. I met all the 11 family members of the Mittal family. All of them said that CM Yogi improved the law and order situation and they have no fear. That’s why I say that those who made the people migrate have now migrated themselves,” Amit Shah said. The BJP had won 312 seats in 2017 UP polls. The party has fielded Mriganka Singh, daughter of BJP veteran the late Hukum Singh, from Kairana. “If we have to maintain this law-and-order situation, end appeasement and the practice of governments to work for one caste and we have to develop the state under the leadership of PM Modi, then we have to once again help set up a majority BJP government under CM Yogi Adityanath,” Amit Shah said. “In west UP, elections begin on February 10. With folded hands, I want to appeal to all the voters of west UP that if due to Covid-19, our cadres are unable to reach you, all of you should go out to vote early to help set up a BJP government with a massive majority for the next five years,” Amit Shah said. He said this was necessary for all the hard work done by UP BJP government over the past five years and the efforts put in by PM Modi to better the lives of the people over the past seven years. “In all of west UP, whether they are sugarcane farmers, labourers, the poor, traders or the middle class or those residing in Noida, all of them are saying one thing — “iss baar bhajapa phir 300 paar (this time BJP will again cross 300 seats).” Amit Shah said a new wave of development was witnessed since the BJP came to power.“Many roads, airports, medical colleges. The poor got toilets, electricity and cooking gas, too, along with PM’s free medical insurance scheme. During the corona period, free vaccines and free ration were provided to the poor,” Amit Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-raises-exodus-issue-in-kairana-101642874263841.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Magh Mela: Intermittent rise in Ganga a challenge for Kalpavasis, seers||After showing an increasing trend for the past three days, the level of the Ganga became stable on Saturday thereby providing some relief to a sizable number of seers and Kalpavasis staying in their Magh Mela camps and devotees coming to the annual religious fair. Mela administration is constantly monitoring the situation and providing all help to the affected devotees. The volume of river water, which in previous years has been quite shallow and in fact prompted the Allahabad high court to intervene and ask the authorities concerned to release extra water in the Ganga, is this time flowing 107 cm more than last year as on Friday due to which water has entered a number of Magh Mela camps and thereby creating problems to camping Kalpavasis and seers.Although, on Saturday, the level of water came down a bit but is expected to again start rising following release of more water from Ganga barrage of Kanpur. The increased level of water has caused erosion of river banks and water from Ganga is entering into the camps of sector 2 and 3 of the tent city. While people were shifted to safer places, authorities are also putting up sand bags to check the erosion of the banks by the strong currents of the Ganga. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal along with officiating mela adhikari Arvind Kumar Chauhan and others took stock of the situation and instructed the authorities to provide solution to the problems arising out of the rise in the Ganga.The irrigation department has been ordered to check the water entering the mela area at Gangdweep, Sector 2, Sector 3 and other affected sites of the tent city. The divisional commissioner has also asked for an increase in the number of manpower, tractors and pumps to remove the water from the affected area. During the inspection, Goyal also expressed his displeasure over the slow action being taken by the officials of the Jal Nigam. He has directed all the officers concerned to pour more sand in the affected areas and to drain out the water continuously by installing more pumps.“Due to the rise in water level, the process of shifting all the affected 44 institutions and Prayagwals of Gangadweep to Sector 5 and to provide all the basic facilities has already started. But as many devotees do not want to shift to Sector 5, we are taking a written consent from those who do not want to move despite being provided with all the basic facilities”, said the Mela Adhikari.Commenting on the rising Ganga water, head of the geography department, Allahabad University, and weather expert prof AR Siddiqui said, “It is because of the heavy rainfall in the Himalayan region and as farmers do not use much water in their fields owing to rains along with low usage of water for irrigation during Rabi crops, the volume of water in Ganga is fairly more this time around.” Executive engineer at flood control department, Brijesh Kumar Verma said, “We are keeping a constant watch on the level of water in both the Ganga and the Yamuna and fortunately the water level is stable for the moment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/magh-mela-intermittent-rise-in-ganga-a-challenge-for-kalpavasis-seers-101642873004055.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Centre provided all possible help to each state overcome Covid: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that the central government has provided all possible facilities to each and every state to overcome the Covid-19 crisis, adding that, UP has developed its own Covid management model."The central government has provided all possible facilities to each state in the country for overcoming the Covid crisis. Uttar Pradesh is the most populated state in the country and we have developed our own model of Covid management," said Yogi Adityanath.Adityanath said this after addressing a party gathering in Bulandshahar of Uttar Pradesh.Earlier in the day while addressing party workers, UP CM praised the central government over its Covid-19 management."Covid management by PM Modi is praised by the entire world. India has administered 160 crore vaccine doses so far. No oxygen crisis, only one per cent hospitalization and administration of free vaccines to everyone has helped us to defeat Covid-19 to some extent," he said.Yogi Adityanath along with Union minister Anurag Thakur and other BJP leaders also flagged off Prachar Rath (election campaign vans) from the party office in Lucknow on Saturday.Uttar Pradesh assembly elections will be held in seven phases from February 10 to March 7.The polling in Uttar Pradesh will be held on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27 and March 3 and 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/centre-provided-all-possible-help-to-each-state-overcome-covid-yogi-adityanath-101642872146049.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Cong to launch ‘speak up’ drive for youths on Bose’s birth anniv||The Congress will on Sunday (January 23) launch its “speak up” campaign for the youth to register themselves for a job in accordance with the party’s youth manifesto “Bharti Vidhan” that senior leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra released in New Delhi on Friday.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) media department chairman Naseemuddin Siddiqui, while speaking to media persons, said the campaign to register the youth would be launched on the occasion of birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Sunday. He said the youth would also express their views on the party’s youth manifesto and their experiences during the previous regimes.Siddiqui said Congress and National Students’ Union of India’s (NSUI) workers would set up stalls at different places to get the registration forms filled by the eligible youth and give them an employment registration number. He said the Congress’ youth manifesto was a document of hopes and aspirations for seven crore youths of Uttar Pradesh.Siddiqui used the occasion to target the BJP government for “plight of youths” following paper leaks and claimed that the examination papers had been leaked for 12 times so far. He said the youth camped in big cities like Prayagraj, Lucknow, Kanpur, Meerut and Jhansi to study and prepare for competitive examinations. He said after taking the exams, they realise that the examination question paper was leaked. He said the students have to wait for results of examination papers too for long time if examination is conducted.Meanwhile, UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu targeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the latter’s claims that the Mafia was fleeing the state due to actions of police. He alleged that in reality the criminals were having a field day in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-to-launch-speak-up-drive-for-youths-on-bose-s-birth-anniv-101642872163565.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: AIMIM bets on Prayagraj’s past of favouring ‘women in trouble’||Hyderabad Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM)’s decision to field Mafioso-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad’s wife Shaista Parveen from Allahabad west seat in 2022 UP assembly polls is a well thought out move as Prayagraj district has a history of electing women facing personal challenges as their representatives, say poll analysts.They point out if Prayagraj has many second and third generation politicians taking forward their families’ political legacies, there are also many women leaders too who have jumped into the poll fray amidst tough personal circumstances and emerged victorious from different assembly seats. Some of such women leaders include Samajwadi Party’s former MLAs Vijma Yadav and Pooja Pal, both of whom entered politics after the murder of their husbands, besides Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Neelam Karwaria, who contested and won the polls from Meja seat after her husband Udhaybhan Karwaria had to go to jail as an accused in the murder case of former MLA Jawahar Yadav aka Pandit, husband of Vijma Yadav, they say.“The name of Vijma Yadav comes at the top in terms of such examples. After the murder of her husband Jawahar Yadav aka Pandit on August 13, 1996, Vijma Yadav was fielded from her husband’s seat of Jhunsi assembly seat by the Samajwadi Party and emerged victorious. After that, she again represented Jhunsi in 2002 and then Pratappur seat in 2012. However, in 2017 she lost the Pratappur seat,” says prof MP Dube, political scientist and former vice chancellor of Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU), Prayagraj.“Similar is the story of Pooja Pal. After the murder of Raju Pal, the then sitting MLA from Allahabad west seat on January 25, 2005, his wife Pooja Pal entered politics and fought from the seat in 2005 by-polls but lost. However, in 2007 elections as a BSP candidate at the age of 27 she bagged the seat. After that, in the 2012 elections too, she defeated Mafioso-turned-politician Atiq Ahmed to get elected from her husband’s seat. But, in 2017 she lost the elections from Allahabad west polling third. Recently she shifted to the SP,” prof Dube added.Prof Dube said a similar case was seen in the 2017 elections when Neelam Karwaria, the wife of jailed former MLA Udaybhan Karwaria, contested and reached the state assembly after being elected from her husband’s Meja seat. “Presently, Neelam Karwaria is the only woman MLA out of 12 assembly constituencies in the district,” he added.So at a time when ex-MP Atiq Ahmad and his brother Khalid Azim aka Ashraf are in jail and Ahmad’s two sons are on the run, AIMIM fielding a woman claiming that the state government is targeting her family may strike a chord with the voters, especially from Allahabad west seat having a sizable number of Muslim voters and from where both Atiq and Ashraf between them have won six assembly polls, poll analysts opine.
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Amit Shah back to set the poll narrative from western UP||After targeting the opposition camp with the “NIZAM” jibe during his first-round electioneering in western Uttar Pradesh (UP) in December, Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday launched the second phase of the poll campaign from Kairana. Kairana is a western UP town from where BJP had first flagged the “palayan” (Hindu exodus issue). More recently, amid growing criticism from the BJP, the Samajwadi Party was forced to replace its Kairana candidate Nahid Hasan with his sister Iqra. The step was taken after Hasan was arrested under the Gangsters Act, a development that provided fresh ammunition to the ruling party to target the SP.All top BJP leaders have trained their guns on the SP for fielding “tainted candidates”. The BJP leaders who have led the attack include chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, Union minister Anurag Thakur, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev and former UP DGP Brij Lal, now the BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP.“The first candidate on the SP list was Nahid Hasan, who is now in jail. While they field such candidates, we have fielded honest officers like IPS Asim Arun and that’s why we say farq saaf hai (the difference is clear),” said Thakur. “The SP list shows its character. After their first list, the SP has now developed cold feet,” Yogi Adityanath has been stating. Deputy CM Maurya has said that replacing a tainted candidate with a family member was unacceptable too.Back in 2017, with AMit Shah as BJP chief, the party had gone into the elections targeting the SP with the slogan “na goondaraj, na bhrastachar bhajapa layegi aisi sarkaar (no hooliganism, no corruption, such will be BJP government).” Now, after five years in power, Amit Shah is back again to set the narrative, targeting the SP to strike down its campaign to unseat the BJP. In December, Amit Shah while campaigning for the BJP, pitched the Yogi Adityanath government as one that had ended the rule of “bahubalis (strongmen)”. He had made this point during his “Jan Vishwas” rallies in Aligarh and Moradabad.“Now, there are no bahubalis in UP. There is only Bajrangbali now,” Amit Shah had said. Bajrangbali is a Hindu god. Amit Shah had also set the poll pitch with his NIZAM jibe at his opponents. “Nizam means rule. So, during the pre-BJP days, NIZAM, especially that of the SP, meant N for Naseemuddin, I for Imran Masood, AZ for Azam Khan and M for Mukhtar Ansari,” he had said. Shah, who is widely credited for tapping the Modi wave to script BJP’s spectacular success in UP in 2017 (when he was the party’s UP in-charge), had also coined triple P – “parivarwad (dynastic rule), pakhshpat (favoritism) and palayan (exodus)” – to target the Samajwadi Party. He had pitched the BJP as a party with triple Vs – “vikas (development), vyapar (trade) and virasat (cultural heritage),” Amit Shah had said. “Amit Shah does his homework before undertaking any task. Naturally, this choice of Kairana wasn’t coincidental,” a senior BJP leader said. This BJP leader also recalled how Shah had spent months in UP fine-tuning the party’s strategy.“Passion and commitment are synonymous with Shah. As the UP in-charge, he kept a strong grip on the narrative, toured extensively, stayed in the state for months and operated from a rented accommodation. This time, too, despite his pressing responsibilities as the Union home minister, he has held nearly 15 rallies and road shows in phase 1 of the UP campaign. He is now back again to work for the party’s cause,” the leader said. In his previous campaigns in the 2014 Lok Sabha election, Amit Shah had also flagged the issue of appeasement with a cleverly crafted line. “Amit ka haq Anwar ko kyon (why should Anwar grab what is Amit’s due),” he had said. Now, in the 2022 UP polls, Shah’s selection of Kairana to launch phase two of the campaign has its own meaning, political experts say.It’s from Kairana that the BJP veteran the late Hukum Singh had flagged the “palayan” (Hindu exodus) issue. It became a key BJP plank in the 2017 UP elections. Five years later, the issue is still being raised in the 2022 UP polls but with a difference. “I am coming here for the first time since 2014 January and today, I can say that palayan karane wale hi palayan kar gaye (those behind the exodus have run away now),” Amit Shah said during his door-to-door campaign in this constituency from where BJP has fielded Hukum Singh’s daughter Mriganka.She was present with Amit Shah during the door-to-door contact. The seven-phase UP polls begin from western UP with Kairana among those constituencies where the first phase of polling will be held on February 10.Nearly all the UP BJP leaders prominently flagged the “palayan” issue on Saturday. The Yogi Adityanath government has said that families who had fled Kairana have started to return. The chief minister, while campaigning in Bulandshahr, roughly two hours’ drive from the place where Shah interacted with families that had returned, said that his government had poured cold water on the plans of those who were dreaming of turning “Kairana into a Kashmir.” Since Saturday morning, hours before Amit Shah landed in Kairana, BJP leaders, including Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, both OBC leaders, had begun raising the issue of “palayan”. Some political experts believe the issue also played a part in Hindus voting as one rather than on caste lines in 2017.
22-01-2022||Mumbai||4 years later, Kamala Mills fire victims still await justice||On December 29, 2017, around 12.30 am, a fire broke out first in 1Above and then spread to Mojo’s Bistro restaurant inside the Kamala Mills compound, killing 14 people and injuring several others.Altogether 14 people were booked by the Mumbai Police, including the owners of the restaurants and their employees, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, and the mill owners.The Mumbai sessions court on November 10, 2020, discharged the owners of the Kamala Mills compound -- Ramesh Gowani and Ravi Bhandari -- booked in connection with the 2017 inferno. The court, however, refused to discharge the owners of the restaurant, BMC officials and others.Gowani and Bhandari had claimed that they cannot be booked for the incident as they had no connection with it. They contended that they had given the restaurant premises to their respective owners on lease and therefore they cannot be held responsible for the acts of commission or omissions of the restaurant owners.The court rejected the discharge plea of nine others -- Kripesh Mansukh Sanghavi and Jigar Mansukh Sanghavi, Lisbon Lopes and Kevin Bawa of 1Above; owner of Mojo’s Bistro pub - Yug Ravindrapal Singh Tuli; fire officer Rajendra Baban Patil; BMC’s sub-engineer Dinesh Yashwant Mahale; assistant divisional fire officer (Worli division) Sandeep Shivaji Shinde and hotelier Vishal Kariya.All the accused face charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder among others under the relevant provisions of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-years-later-kamala-mills-fire-victims-still-await-justice-101642871383768.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Goods train derails in Mathura, traffic hit||As many as 15 cement-laden wagons of a goods train from Rajasthan and heading towards Ghaziabad derailed on Mathura-Palwal main line on Friday night disrupting train traffic on Delhi-Agra route. “The accident occurred at 11.30 pm on Friday disrupting both up and down routes and the third line,” said Agra division railways PRO SK Srivastava. He said senior officials of railways, including divisional railway manager (DRM) Anand Swaroop, visited the spot and were supervising the restoration work that weren’t completed till last report came in on Saturday evening. “Over 300 men are working continuously to remove the wagons,” Srivastava said. Short distance trains were cancelled while those of long distance were diverted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/goods-train-derails-in-mathura-traffic-hit-101642871325986.html
22-01-2022||Other||Punjab records 7,699 Covid cases; 33 deaths||Chandigarh Punjab registered 7,699 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, also recording 33 deaths, the highest single-day toll that the infectious virus, has taken in this wave. The positivity rate of the state, however, touched the lowest figure over the past week of 16.65%. The state, however, has seen more than 100 deaths over the past three days; this is a fresh source of concern for the administration. SAS Nagar registered the highest number of 1,244 cases; followed by 939 in Ludhiana; 759 in Jalandhar; 654 in Amritsar; 517 in Bathinda; 414 in Hoshiarpur; 369 in Sangrur; 359 in Patiala; 291 in Ropar; 254 in Tarn Taran and 246 in Muktsar.The maximum number of deaths, seven, were registered in Ludhiana; four in Ferozepur and four in SAS Nagar. With 7,210 persons recovered from the virus, the number of cured persons is now 6,42,335. To date, the virus has claimed lives of 16,948 persons; with total Covid cases at 7,07,847. The number of active cases is now 48,564. Ex-CM BADAL’S HOSPITAL STAY EXTENDED BY TWO DAYSIn Ludhiana, where former Punjab chief minister Prakash Singh Badal, 94, who had tested Covid positive and was scheduled to be discharged from hospital, was kept under observation for two days; the veteran Akali leader had developed fever again. Dr Bishav Mohan, medical superintendent, Hero Dayanand Heart Institute (HDHI), confirmed that his stay had been extended due to fever. He was admitted to hospital on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-records-7-699-covid-cases-33-deaths-101642871324019.html
22-01-2022||Pune||Pune district sees 16,296 Covid cases, 13 deaths||PUNE Pune district on Saturday reported 16,296 fresh Covid-19 cases. Omicron cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits are now 1,002. Omicron cases in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are 118 and in Pune rural are 62. As per state health authorities, 13 Covid deaths was reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Out of these one death was reported from Pune rural. No death was reported from PCMC and 12 deaths were reported from PMC in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 617,660 Covid cases and 9,323 deaths till Saturday. PCMC has reported 3,533 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 400,268 total cases so far and 7,061 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,331,866 lakh Covid cases. Out of this, 1,228,092 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 20,267 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 83,507 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 30,795 patients were discharged on Saturday in Maharashtra taking the total to 70,40,618 in the State. The recovery rate in the state is 94.3%.Across Maharashtra, 48,393 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Saturday and 48 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Saturday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.9%. The state health department stated out of 7,31,74,656 laboratory samples, 74,66,420 have been tested positive till Saturday. That is 10.2% of patients till Saturday. Currently 21,86,124 people are in home quarantine and 3382 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-16-296-covid-cases-13-deaths-101642870789224.html
22-01-2022||Pune||16,416 Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative Bank depositors get ₹5 lakh deposit insurance||PUNE At least 16,416 investors have received ₹5 lakh each as deposit insurance against their defrauded amount in the Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative Bank Limited fraud case. RS Dhondkar, administrator of the bank, said about ₹234.74 crore has been credited to the account of depositors. “The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has credited ₹281 crore to be given to the aggrieved investors. Around 60,000 depositors will get the benefit of the insurance money as the process moves ahead,” he said. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had cancelled the licence issued to Shivajirao bank under Section 22 of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as applicable to cooperative societies read with Section 56 of the Act, with the executive director’s (ED) speaking order dated May 28, 2021. Accordingly, registration of the bank as an insured bank stood cancelled by the corporation on May 31, 2021. The registrar of co-operative societies appointed Dhondkar as the liquidator of ‘Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank Ltd, Pune, Maharashtra’, vide order dated July 1, 2021. With the cancellation of licence and commencement of liquidation proceedings, the process of paying the depositors of Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank Ltd., Pune, Maharashtra as per the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961 was set in motion. The RBI stated that according to the data submitted by the bank, more than 98% of the depositors will receive full amounts of their deposits from DICGC. On liquidation, every depositor would be entitled to receive deposit insurance claim amount of deposits up to a monetary ceiling of ₹5,00,000 from the DICGC subject to the provisions of the DICGC Act, 1961. A case was lodged against the bank directors under Sections 406, 408, 468, 471 and 34 of IPC and relevant sections of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID). At the directions of the RBI, the complainant, identified as an independent chartered accountant Yogesh Lakade (29), conducted a financial audit in 2018-19 and found ₹71.78 crore underreported in the “cash in hand” segment of the bank. In October 2019, the state co-op department had dismissed the bank’s board of directors and appointed an administrator to look after the daily affairs of the bank. The audit report revealed that Bhosale and other accused prepared forged and fraudulent entries, wherein the facts were fudged to manipulate the accounts of the bank. Bhosale (47) was arrested on February 25, 2020, by the economic offences wing (EOW) of Pune City police after he was booked on the charges of cheating, forgery and relevant sections of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Institutions) MPID Act, along with 16 others, including former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Anil Bhosale and his wife Jyotsana. BOXMarch 2021 The ED arrested four persons — former NCP MLC Anil Bhosale, Suryaji Pandurang Jadhav, Tanaji Dattu Padwal and Shailesh Bhosale for duping Shivaji Bhosale Co-operative Bank of over ₹71.78 crore December 2020 The State Co-operative Department submitted a proposal to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) seeking liquidation of the Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative Bank||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/16416-shivajirao-bhosale-co-operative-bank-depositors-get-rs-5-lakh-deposit-insurance-101642869164128.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Bullet-riddled body of real estate agent found in Lucknow||Bullet-riddled body of a 32-year-old real estate agent, who was missing since Friday evening, was found in an abandoned plot under Para police station limits here on Saturday morning, said police. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Kakori, Ashutosh Kumar said Sandip Pal’s body was found in the plot behind plywood factory at Salempur Pataura village of Para. He said some locals informed the police after spotting the body at around 9 am. The victim’s motorcycle was found nearly 500 meters from the spot, he added. He said the initial examination of the body revealed a bullet wound near the stomach but the exact cause of death will be ascertained only after getting the post mortem report. He said the victim’s body was identified by his brother Vikram Pal who lodge an FIR under Indian Penal Code sections 302 and 201 for concealment of crime at Para police station. The ACP said the complainant has raised suspicion on some friends of the victim. The complainant had mentioned in the FIR that Sandeep left his house along with one Manish Gautam after getting a call from their common friend Akash Gautam. He said they had gone to celebrate Akash’s birthday and did not return since then. The ACP said some suspects have been taken into custody and were quizzed. He said the case will be worked out and the culprits will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bulletriddled-body-of-real-estate-agent-found-in-lucknow-101642869103526.html
22-01-2022||Pune||Five arrested for sexual assault of widow in Shirur||PUNE The Pune rural police arrested five men on the charge of sexually assaulting a young widow in the jurisdiction of Shirur police station over the past few months. A complaint in the matter has been registered by a 32-year-old woman. The men assaulted her between April 1, 2021 and May 31, 2021 and even after that at times, according to the police.The men allegedly approached her at various locations including her home, the fields, behind the school building, by the banks of the river in the village, according to the police.“We have registered a case of sexual assault of a middle-aged woman over the past six months by eight men from her village at various times based on a complaint that we have received. Till now we were rested five people,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police.A case has been registered under Sections 376(2)(f)(h)(k)(n), 376(d), 323, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code at Shirur police station. Police inspector Sureshkumar Raut is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-arrested-for-sexual-assault-of-widow-in-shirur-101642868803483.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||UPTET on Sunday: STF put on alert||UP police special task force (STF) has been put on alert in view of UP Teachers Eligibility Test (UPTET) scheduled on Sunday, said senior police officials here on Saturday.The exams were cancelled earlier on November 28, 2021 after the question papers were leaked. The STF had exposed the questions paper leak racket after arrest of over 50 people from different districts across the state between November 27 and December 7. In the case, the state government had suspended Sanjay Kumar Upadhyaya, the then secretary of Prayagraj-headquartered Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA) responsible for conducting the exam. Upadhyaya was later arrested by the STF for negligence and connivance in the entire episode. A senior police official at DGP headquarters said “The STF is vigilant and its multiple teams are already camping in different districts to ensure that nobody could compromise the examination process either by leaking question papers or by making proxy candidates to appear for real candidates.”The official added that the STF was also keeping a tab on those involved in providing copying facilities in the exam. He said the police officials at district level have also been asked to remain vigilant and ensure foolproof security at examination centers lying in their jurisdiction areas. The official said the UP police were giving its full cooperation to the examination regulatory authority officials to carry out the exam in hassle-free and fair manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-on-sunday-stf-put-on-alert-101642868745008.html
22-01-2022||Pune||State board schools and students gear up for offline practical exams||PUNE The Class 10 and Class 12 students of Maharashtra state board are preparing for their offline practical exams scheduled to begin from January 25. As schools had reopened offline for these students in the past two months, they attended at least one practicals practice in campus. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune District Headmaster Association, said, “Even though the offline practice has not been continuous, students got the opportunity to attend practice in schools for a while. It is difficult to teach all subject practicals offline in a month when they are expected to be completed in a year. However, students could practice at least a little bit when schools were briefly reopened.” Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) has decided to conduct final examination offline from March 15 onwards. For practicals, schools can schedule Class 10 exams post January 25 and Class 12 exams post February 4. Sneha Waghmare, a Class 10 student, said that she would need one more practice session offline. “We have covered all important practicals offline. But one more session would be helpful before the final exam,” said Waghmare. “Many schools have conducted revision, updated notebooks and projects by students offline. However, practical material from the Board has not reached schools. Also, external faculty that conduct practicals and oral exams are also not appointed yet. In the next few days, external teachers may be appointed,” said Gaikwad. Medha Sinnarkar, principal, Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, said, “Like every year, we will conduct practical exams and oral exams of language on the same day for students. This way, we can call 15 to 20 children to school and follow Covid-appropriate norms. Students of Class 10 and Class 12 are eager to practice and clarify their doubts in school.” She said that students would be able to practice for practicals if offline classes resume as students need one more round of practice. “We had scheduled school practicals on February 2 and February 3. We are hopeful that there won’t be any need to postpone the dates. We can start making batches for the exam as soon as we receive material and numbers from the board,” said Sinnarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-board-schools-and-students-gear-up-for-offline-practical-exams-101642868563427.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||UP teachers association demand life cover of ₹1 cr for govt school staff engaged in poll duty||The Uttar Pradesh Primary Teachers association has demanded life insurance cover of ₹1 crore for every government school staff who will be engaged in election duty during upcoming UP assembly polls.In a letter dated January 22 to Chief Election Commissioner (CEC), president of the association Dinesh Chandra Sharma said, “Life insurance of ₹ 1 cr should be provided to every school staff involved in poll duty. In case of any eventuality from Covid-19 infection within 30 days of poll duty, compensation can be given to the kin of government school staff along with a job.”In panchayat poll held last year, the state government had given compensation to 2200 government staff, including 1100 from primary schools.To ensure that school staff get a chance to exercise their voting rights, appropriate arrangement should be made at block or tehsil levels, Sharma said and demanded that in case both husband and wife were in government job only one should be deployed in poll duty.The association also suggested that a week-long quarantine leave be provided to every school staff soon after they return from election duty. Sharma suggested that pregnant women, physically challenged, staff battling terminal diseases must not be deployed in election duty. During the panchayat poll in UP last year, at least two pregnant government school teachers died of Covid 19.To ensure teachers safety, the association suggested that all Covid-19 protocols should be strictly adhered to during training, transit and at polling stations. Scared after hundreds of government school staff succumbed during panchayat election duty after getting infected with Covid-19, he said, “The EC should take measures to ensure safety of government school staff from getting the viral infection during election period. Masks, sanitizers and gloves should be provided to every school staff on polling duty.”
22-01-2022||Pune||31-year-old arrested for sexual assault of minor girl in Chakan||PUNE A 31-year-old man was remanded to the custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police by a local court on Saturday for sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl. The arrested accused is a native of Malegaon in Washim.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the girl’s mother to whom she revealed what had happened.On January 19 at 3 pm the man came to their house and told her to come with him. Due to the familiarity of being a neighbour, the girl went with him where she was assaulted sexually and physically.The man then proceeded to threaten her with dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident. However, the girl narrated the incident to her mother who approached the police.Assistant police inspector Sarang Chavan said, “She was taken for medical tests and we will know if she has any other injuries. The investigation has been taken over by the divisional assistant commissioner of police as sections of the Atrocity Act have also been invoked.”The police have invoked sections of the Atrocity Act as the accused was aware of the cast of the minor girl while he assaulted her.A case was registered under Sections 377, 504, 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 2015 Amendment, and Sections 4, 8, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence was registered at Mhaunge outpost of Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31yearold-arrested-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-girl-in-chakan-101642867903817.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai records 3,568 new Covid-19 cases, daily tally down for 4th straight day||Mumbai continued a downward trend in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday with 3,568 cases reported, pushing the caseload to 1,032,283 according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC's) bulletin. This is the fourth consecutive day that the fresh cases in Maharashtra's capital have been declining.However, only 231 patients recuperated on Saturday and the total recoveries have climbed to 995,569. The toll is nearing 17,000 with 10 more deaths reported on Saturday.The active cases in Mumbai currently stand at 17,497, the BMC's bulletin also showed. The overall recovery rate in the city is at 96%.On Friday, Mumbai had reported 5,008 cases, 12 deaths and nearly 13,000 recoveries.Authorities tested 49,895 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, 137 less than that of Friday's.From Monday, schools will reopen in Mumbai for all classes, including the pre-primary section in adherence with Covid-19 SOPs which will be issued by the BMC soon.Also Read| Mumbai schools to reopen on Jan 24The decision comes after Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced on Thursday that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray gave consent to resume offline classes in schools across the state from January 24.However, online classes will also continue for all students.According to a notice issued by the BMC on Friday, parents who will be sending their children to schools will have to submit written consent to the school authorities. All students who are eligible for vaccination should take the jab before resuming online classes, the notice said.Previously, schools had been closed in Mumbai for classes 1-9 till January 31 while students of classes 10-12 were allowed to continue their offline lectures as usual.Meanwhile, Maharashtra also saw a slight reduction in its daily cases on Saturday at 46,393 and the caseload is over 7.4 million. More than 142,000 patients have died due to Covid-19 in the state so far and 7,040,618 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-3-568-new-covid-19-cases-daily-tally-down-for-4th-straight-day-101642863632706.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Elderly couple found murdered at home in Bhiwandi||A couple in their 80s were found lying in a pool of blood at their home in Ganeshpuri area of Bhiwandi. Police found the two murdered on Saturday morning while the television in the room was still switched on.The police are yet to confirm the motive for the murder but say that the accused was known to the couple. Police have detained a suspect but no arrest has been made yet.The deceased are identified as Jagannath, alias Balu Patil, 83, and his wife, Satyabhama Patil, 80, both residents of Pendhri Pada of Akloli Village in Ganeshpuri. They stayed alone while their two sons and a daughter are married and stay separately.The family’s house help reached their home on Saturday morning. The couple did not open the door but she heard the television playing. She approached the neighbouring shopkeepers who went to check if the two were ill. They found the door was just shut and not locked. They peeped through the window and saw the couple lying in a pool of blood.Senior police inspector S Jadhav said, “The couple’s throats were slashed with some sharp object. We are checking all angles of the case. We have sent their bodies for post-mortem. We are questioning all their family members for the details of any rivalry or other property matters.”The jewellery on the woman’s body was intact. Police are looking for other motives for murder.DySP, Navnath Dhavale, said, “The incident must have occurred after 8.30pm. The door was not broken by the accused but he was known to the deceased and easily entered the house.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elderly-couple-found-murdered-at-home-in-bhiwandi-101642866943716.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai’s temperature to drop after unseasonal showers||Mumbai Following light and unseasonal rains in parts of the city on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that temperatures will dip steeply over the next few days. Between January 23 and 25, the daytime maximum temperature is expected to drop to around 25 degrees Celsius on Sunday, and the nighttime minimum temperature is expected to hover around 14 degrees Celsius.Isolated drizzles across the city on Saturday marked the second instance of unseasonal rain this month. The showers were attributed to the passage of a western disturbance, and an induced cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan.Officials in IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai said that these weather systems will draw moisture from the Arabian Sea and cause widespread, though mild, showers across parts of North and Central India and over parts of the Konkan and Northern Madhya Maharashtra.As per official forecasts, the next three days in Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Pune are likely to be marked by cool, strong winds and cloudy skies with a chance of thunderstorms. “But the chances of rain will remain extremely low on Sunday and Monday. Temperatures will also remain low for at least two-three days after the influence of the Western disturbance subsides, because of moisture. Warm conditions will return closer to next weekend,” said an official from IMD Mumbai.On Saturday, Mumbai recorded a maximum temperature of 29.7 degrees Celsius (one degree below normal) and a minimum of 19.8 degrees Celsius (three degrees above normal), as per IMD’s weather station in Santacruz. The city also recorded 0.4 mm of rain in the eight hours ending 5:30 pm. Overall, Mumbai has recorded 4.5 mm of rain this month, marking this the wettest January in at least a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-temperature-to-drop-after-unseasonal-showers-101642865990604.html
22-01-2022||Patna||Bihar offers 200 acres for Vikramshila central university, awaits Centre’s nod||Seven years on, the proposed central university near the ancient seat of learning in Vikramshila (Bhagalpur), announced as part of the ₹1,25,000-crore special package for Bihar by Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of the 2015 assembly elections, awaits land acquisition to get closer to reality. The Bihar government had offered three sites for the proposed university and the a committee headed by the then Vice-Chancellor of Central University of South Bihar, HCS Rathore, had visited the sites last year and submitted a preliminary report in March 2021 itself regarding one of them. However, there has been no forward movement since then. Bihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said the government has identified around 200 acres of land and sent a proposal to the Centre. “For central university, the demand was for 500 acres, which is difficult to find. We have sent a proposal of over 200 acres and await Centre’s response. Once the Centre’s nod comes, we will initiate the process for acquisition,” he said.The matter was also raised in the Rajya Sabha during the winter session by Sushil Kumar Modi, Bihar’s former deputy chief minister, who sought to know when the Centre would take a decision on the committee’s report and convey the same to the State Government.In a written reply, the Centre said that the action in such matters are taken as per established procedure of the government. Once land is made available, the Centre will take up infrastructure development for starting academic activities. “The PM package for Bihar, 2015, provides for establishment of a new central university near Bhagalpur at the historic site of Vikramshila University. The government of Bihar has offered the site for the proposed university and a preliminary report has been submitted,” said Union minister of state for education Dr Subhas Sarkar had said.Rathore had earlier said that he had given a positive interim report to the Centre pertaining to suitability of land shown to the committee. “The 282-acre plot identified by the Bihar government should be sufficient to start with, but land acquisition has to be completed. It is four kilometres from the ancient site. The decision has to be taken by the Centre,” he said.Bhagalpur district magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen said that three plots close to the ancient site of Vikramshila had been shown to the committee, which visited the place. “Once we get any communication from the Bihar government and the required funds, the acquisition process will be started,” he said.Bihar’s glorious history in the sphere of education is marked by two great institutions, Nalanda and Vikramshila universities, both of which predate Oxford and Cambridge. Though the revival of Nalanda has been on and the campus is being developed close to the ancient site, the ruins of Vikramshila located near Antichak village in the Kahalgaon subdivision of Bhagalpur have remained neglected for decades.Land has been a major problem for central universities in Bihar. The Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) was provided land by the defence ministry from its abandoned airfield in Panchanpur (Gaya), while for the Mahatma Gandhi Central University (Motihari), the wait for its own permanent campus is getting longer and it is still operating from a makeshift campus.“We have got just 135 acres of land, but that is in two parts, while another 165 acres is yet to be handed over. As a result, the detailed project report cannot be made. Out of the 135 acres also, one part is around 35 acres and another of 100 acres, while the land between them is yet to acquired and handed over. The university, started six years ago, has around 1,400 students and it will only increase if there is required infrastructure. Any work can start only after land is cleared,” said a senior official of the Mahatma Gandhi Central University. The Kishanganj branch of Aligarh Muslim University was started in 2014, but it is also still operating from rented accommodation despite being given 224 acres of land. It is awaiting funds for building construction and recently a social media campaign has been launched demanding funds for it so that it could have its own campus and much needed expansion. 
22-01-2022||Other||Top cops, officials visit Saran after hooch deaths||Top officials of Bihar government on Saturday visited Chapra, the headquarter town of Saran district, which has reported 15 deaths from various villages allegedly due to hooch consumption over the last three days.The tragedy has come only days after 13 hooch deaths reported from Nalanda, the native district of chief minister Nitish Kumar, whose government imposed total ban on liquor in Bihar in April 2016. Home secretary K Senthil Kumar, additional director general (ADG) of police (law and order) Sanjay Singh and inspector general of police (prohibition) Amrit Raj visited Chapra on Saturday and took stock of the situation.ADG Singh said the deaths prima facie were because of hooch. “However, some deaths have also been reported due to cold,” he said.Saran’s superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar said a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the deaths. “In areas under Amanuar and Maker police stations, where most of the alleged hooch deaths took place, we have constituted separate teams,” he said.Kumar said 158 people have been arrested so far.Meanwhile, Lok Janshakti Party (Ramvilas) chief Chirag Paswan visited Amnaur and met with the victims’ families. Talking to reporters, Chirag said his party has written to Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan, urging him to recommend President’s Rule in Bihar to prevent such tragedies.
22-01-2022||Other||Snubbed by BJP, JD(U) names 26 seats it will fight in UP polls||PATNA After failing to get any word from ally Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), the Janata Dal (United) on Saturday announced the names of 26 seats it would contest in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. The list of seats announced on Saturday by the party’s national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh included Rohaniya, which falls in the Varanasi Lok Sabha seat represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. JD (U), however, did not name the candidates for the seats announced on Saturday. “Names would be announced by JD(U)’s Uttar Pradesh unit president Anoop Patel as there are multiple claimants. The party has also authorized him to announce more seats from where the party would contest,” Singh told reporters in New Delhi. JD(U) and BJP are part of the ruling alliance both in Bihar and at the Centre.The JD(U) president minced no words in showing his frustration after being cold-shouldered by BJP on their demand. “We would have fought the Uttar Pradesh polls with more strength and on more seats had we not waited so long after Union minister R C P Singh conveyed that BJP was agreeable to an alliance,” he said in an oblique attack on union minister who also belongs to JD(U). Lalan Singh repeatedly mentioned that it was R C P Singh who was authorised by the JD(U) leadership to speak to BJP leaders and that any other person was not part of negotiations.“We waited for so long at the instance of the union minister. Now we are going ahead with the decision to fight the polls independently after BJP president J P Nadda said publicly that his party’s allies in Uttar Pradesh are Apna Dal and Nishad Party and made no mention of JD(U),” said Lalan Singh, who represents Munger parliamentary constituency. He, however, clarified that his party’s decision to fight UP polls independently will have no impact on its ties with the BJP in Bihar. “The JD(U) has fought separately in several state polls,” he said. JD(U)’s national principal general secretary KC Tyagi said list of seats will be released phase-wise . According to Tyagi, who is also party’s UP in-charge, nothing worked out in talks R C P Singh had with several top BJP leaders, including Amit Shah, JP Nadda, Rajnath Singh and Dharmendra Pradhan. Experts say the chasm between BJP and JD (U) and within the JD (U) would increase further after this development. “More than the BJP, the divide within JD (U) is increasing and R C P Singh and party national president are not on the same page simply because Lalan Singh was also eyeing the union cabinet berth,” said professor Gyanendra Yadav of department of sociology at College of Commerce in Patna. 
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Turtles found dead at Gauripada Lake in Kalyan||Around 50 turtles were found dead at Gauripada Lake in Kalyan (W) on Saturday afternoon. As soon as the turtles were found dead, locals informed the forest department, whose officials rushed to the spot.The representatives of Wild Animal and Reptile Rescue (WARR) also joined the rescue operations.As per WARR members, six turtles were rescued alive from the lake on Saturday evening.“As of now, we have recovered around 50 dead turtles from the lake and the search operations are still under way. The locals claimed that the turtles were found dead since Friday. We have also informed the local civic body and the pollution control board to select the samples of the water and check the cause of the incident,” said RN Channe, Kalyan forest range officer.“All the turtles that were found dead are Indian flapshell turtles. No fish was found dead in the lake,” said Suhas Pawar, secretary, WARR.
22-01-2022||Other||EC launches apps for transparency, ease of voters||Chandigarh The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday launched a mobile application ‘Know Your Candidate’ for electors to know exact particulars and the criminal antecedents of candidate, if any, said Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju.He asked voters of the state to download the app, which has been developed to make public publicity criminal antecedents of contesting candidates, as move towards more transparent polls “This app can be downloaded from Google Play Store and Apple App store and the link is also available on the Commission’s website,” he said, adding that all returning officers had been directed to ensure that the right document are uploaded on the app. Another important app is C-vigil, which provides time-stamped, evidence-based proof of the Model Code of Conduct / Expenditure Violation, having live photo/video with auto location data. Any citizen can lodge a complaint through this app. Flying Squads then investigate the matter and the Returning Officer has been mandated to take a decision within 100 minutes. Raju added that another app Voter Helpline provides citizens the convenience of finding their names in the electoral roll, submitting online forms, checking the status of the application, filing complaints and receiving the reply on their mobile app. The app also lists contact details of Booth Level Officers (BLOs), Electoral Registration Officers and District Election Officers. These details are also available on nvsp.in portal or helpline number 1950. The CEO added that special apps had been launched for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) to request for new registration, change in address, change in particulars and register as PWDs. On the entry of their contact details on the app, the BLO gets a notification/ is assigned to provide doorstep facilities to enable this category to vote. PwDs can also request for a wheelchair||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eclaunches-apps-for-transparency-ease-of-voters-101642864483315.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Court refuses pre-arrest bail to TikToker booked for raping girlfriend||Mumbai The Dindoshi sessions court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail application filed by Tiktok influencer Mohammed Shadan Farooqui, who has been booked for raping his girlfriend. The court observed the allegations that the accused had physical relations with the complainant and got her pregnant on the pretext of marriage were serious.“He forced her for abortion and thereafter refused to marry her. From the First Information Report (FIR) and prosecution’s claims, it reveals that the offence is serious,” said additional sessions judge, l M I Lokwani.The court further observed that the investigation is still in progress and if the applicant is released on bail then it is a possibility that he will pressurise the informant and prosecution witnesses.The FIR said that both the accused and the complainant were working as social media influencers and met in October 2019. Their friendship developed into a relationship and they decided to marry each other.The duo also started living together and the woman alleged that on the pretext of marriage, the accused allegedly had physical relationship with her. The FIR further states that after the complainant became pregnant, the accused compelled her to get an abortion and never spoke about marriage.Therefore, the woman lodged a complaint with the Oshiwara police station.Farooqui’s lawyer RJ Baddam argued that it was a consensual relationship and there was nothing to be recovered from the applicant. “Applicant is ready to cooperate with the police investigations therefore custodial investigation is not required,” he added.Opposing the bail plea, Assistant Public Prosecutor, YD Ambekar contended that the offence was serious. The investigation is still in progress and the medical examination of the applicant was not done, he said.Advocate Ali Kashif Khan Deshmukh, who appeared for the informant woman, objected to the grant of anticipatory bail and argued that custodial interrogation is necessary for a detailed investigation. He also submitted video footage to the court wherein the informant was allegedly beaten by the applicant. “Post FIR, she was threatened by the accused,” the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-tiktoker-booked-for-raping-girlfriend-101642864427300.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Education Min Varsha Gaikwad directs authorities to approve Ranjitsinh Disale’s study leave||Mumbai Ranjitsinh Disale, the winner of the prestigious Global Teacher Prize 2020, will now be able to pursue a scholarship in the United States after school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Saturday directed authorities to approve his leave application. Disale had applied for six months’ leave to study in the US on a Fulbright DAI scholarship.  A teacher at a Zilla Parshad school in Solapur’s Paritewadi, Disale is the first teacher from India to win the prestigious $1-million Global Teacher Prize for innovation in teaching. After a delay in Disale’s leave approval came to light, the school education minister directed Dilip Swami, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Solapur Zilla Parishad, to approve his application. “Had a chat with Dr. Dilip Swami, CEO Solapur on Global Teacher Prize winner @ranjitdisale leave application for further studies. Have directed that it be approved. The department believes in continued education for not just students but also teachers,” Gaikwad tweeted on Saturday.Disale later thanked the minister for her intervention. Speaking to ABP Majha, Disale said, “I had applied for six months leave on December 14 but it is yet to be approved by the senior officials. The last day to submit the approval for Fulbright DAI is January 25.” He was among the 12,000 educators from 140 countries who were nominated for the prize. The Global Teacher Prize was set up to recognise teachers making outstanding contributions to the profession as well as to shine a spotlight on the important role teachers play in society. In 2015, the Maharashtra government had adopted Disale’s idea and made QR codes available in Balbharti textbooks. Subsequently in 2018, the then Union Human Resource Development minister Prakash Javadekar had announced that all National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) textbooks will have embedded QR codes.Post the win, Disale appeared in Kaun Banega Crorepati’s (KBC) Karamveer episode in December 2020.
22-01-2022||Delhi||After CM Kejriwal, BJP requests L-G to end weekend curfew, other curbs||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi urged lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal to end the ongoing restrictions imposed in the national capital to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In a letter addressed to Baijal, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta requested that the ongoing weekend curfew and the opening of shops on an odd-even basis should end. Gupta also demanded that restaurants and gymnasiums should be allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity.Also Read| Delhi L-G rejects CM's proposal to lift weekend curfew, advocates status quoCiting data published by the Delhi government, Adesh Gupta said that the spread of Covid-19 is under control and the third wave of the pandemic seems to have subsided.He added that due to the current restrictions imposed, trading activities have suffered badly and traders are facing huge losses.कुछ दिनों से दिल्ली में कोरोना के मामलों में कमी आयी है, इसको ध्यान में रखते हुए आज माननीय @LtGovDelhi को पत्र लिखकर मांग की है कि बाजारों पर लगाए गए Odd-Even के निर्णय व Weekend कर्फ्यू को वापस लिया जाए। Restaurants & Gymnasiums को भी 50% क्षमता पर संचालित करने की अनुमति दी जाए। pic.twitter.com/1bS0DbMUo1“Apart from traders, thousands of people who work in trading establishments are facing salary cuts while daily wage labourers are totally losing their income,” the Delhi BJP also said in his letter to L-G Anil Baijal.Gupta pointed out that public transport services in Delhi, which are operating at their full capacity, have not reported any specific spread of infection."I request you (Anil Baijal) to immediately convene a meeting of DDMA to review the restrictions and orderly withdrawal of the odd-even system for markets along with the lifting of the weekend curfew,” he said.The BJP's request to Anil Baijal comes a day after the Delhi L-G rejected chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's proposal to lift weekend curfew amid a drop in daily Covid-19 infections.Also Read| Night and weekend curfew to continue in Delhi as DDMA issues fresh guidelinesPeople familiar with developments told Hindustan Times on Friday that Baijal suggested maintaining the status quo on lifting weekend curfew and removing the odd-even rule for the opening of shops till the pandemic situation improves. However, he allowed private offices to operate with 50% capacity.Later on Friday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) announced that both weekend and night curfew will continue until further orders and also introduced fresh Covid-19 guidelines.The national capital has so far recorded more than 1.78 million cases since the onset of the pandemic. On Saturday, the daily tally surged again with 11,486 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. However, the fresh infections have been below the 20,000-mark since January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-cm-kejriwal-bjp-requests-l-g-to-end-weekend-curfew-other-curbs-101642860963967.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Nerul police to trace third child sold by couple one-and-a-half years ago||Following the arrest of the husband-wife duo for selling three of their newborns in the last three years, the police have formed a special team to trace the third child who would now be one-and-a-half years old.The duo, Sharada Ayub Shaikh (30) and Ayub Shaikh (33), were arrested after a social worker observed that though the woman was pregnant last month, her new born was not seen. Nerul police questioned Shaikh and found that she had sold the baby to a woman in Solapur for ₹2 lakh.“She further revealed later in 2019, a new-born daughter of hers was sold for ₹90,000 to a resident of Belapur and a year-and-a-half ago, a son was sold for ₹1.50 lakh,” assistant police inspector, Raj Ghevdekar from Nerul police station, said.The couple stayed on the platform of Nerul Railway station and the police suspected that since they did not have a livelihood, they made this a way of earning.The lady from Belapur who purchased the baby, has also been made a co-accused in the case. “The two-and-a-half-year-old girl from Belapur and the 28-day-old girl from Solapur have been found and handed over to the child welfare department. A special team is trying to find her son who now would be close to a year-and-a-half old. As of now, the couple say that they don’t know whom they gave the child to. They would be in custody till Monday and we would request the court to extend the custody in order to trace the child,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nerul-police-to-trace-third-child-couple-sold-by-couple-one-and-a-half-years-ago-101642863223335.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||2 teenagers drown in Upvan police firing range in Thane||Two teenagers drowned in deep pits of water at the police firing range in the Upvan area of Thane on Saturday afternoon.Officials said that five people have lost their lives at the spot in the last six months.According to the Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) of the Thane Municipal Corporation, the incident was reported to them at around 3.34pm on Saturday. The RDMC received a phone call informing them about the mishap and the information was immediately relayed to all the concerned agencies. Within the hour, personnel with the Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF), as well as from the Thane Fire Brigade and the Vartak Nagar police station rushed to the spot.“Bodies of both the victims were pulled out from the pits within an hour. Each pit is at least eight feet deep and has water collected in it,” RDMC chief, Santosh Kadam, said.The deceased were identified as Gautam Valmiki (12) and his cousin brother Nishu Valmiki (15), both residents of the Rambaug area near the Upvan police firing range, where police personnel practice with their official firearms round the year. Officials said that they had entered the firing range to swim in the water-filled pits.“For obvious reasons, the firing range is situated in a low-lying area, due to which water collects in several deep pits in the ground. The entire area is off limits to civilians, despite which people keep entering. This is the third such case we have seen at the same spot. Earlier, a man had entered the area under the influence of alcohol and drowned in one of the pits, and before that, two minors had drowned while swimming,” Kadam said.The bodies have been handed over to the Vartak Nagar police, who are in the process of registering Accidental Death Reports (ADRs) in connection with the deaths, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-teenagers-drown-in-upvan-police-firing-range-in-thane-101642861844000.html
22-01-2022||Other||{Ahead of R-Day} Security beefed up along border, SWAT teams launch search ops||Amritsar Punjab Police have beefed up security along the India-Pakistan border launching special search operations in border villages and strengthening nakas set up on roads leading to the international border. This comes in view of the Punjab assembly polls, and the Republic Day. In Pathankot, Punjab Police’s Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) teams, an elite commando force specialised for counter terrorism, is carrying out search operations in the border villages. On Saturday, Tarn Taran SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana, along with other senior police officials, took stock of locations on the border, which are considered vulnerable for smuggling of arms, ammunition and drugs, especially with drones emerging as the new threat. In Gurdaspur, Punjab Police teams have been deployed to search fields along the barbed-wire fence and other vulnerable spots. On Friday, Gurdaspur police had recovered a 40mm under barrel grenade launcher with two 40mm compatible grenades, 3.79-kg RDX, nine electrical detonators and two sets of timer devices from improvised explosive device (IED). The consignment is believed to have smuggled from across the border by Pakistan-based International Sikh Youth Federation chief, Lakhbir Singh Rode. “Strengthening security at vulnerable spots on the border is our top priority. A meeting with the Border Security Force (BSF) officials will also be conducted,” said SSP Khurana who visited border villages on Saturday. Pathankot SSP Surendra Lamba said, “To provide a sense of security among people during ongoing state assembly polls and ahead of the Republic Day, our forces, including the SWAT teams, are regularly visiting border villages. We have also increased our presence in the city area due to its proximity to the international border.”A senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “Punjab is already on high alert. We are regularly meeting BSF officials. The major threat is to tackle the movement of drones being used by the anti-national elements in Pakistan to air-drop arms, ammunition and drugs into the Indian territory.”On January 14, the special task force (STF) wing of Punjab Police had recovered an improvised explosive device (IED) weighing 5kg and ₹1 lakh in the outskirts of Dhanoa village in Ajnala sub-division, near the international border. The police had said the IED was to be used, ostensibly, during the ongoing assembly polls.A BSF official said, “We are in regular touch with Punjab Police officials and other sister agencies. We have asked border villages to inform us, when they hear buzzing sound of drones coming from Pakistan. We are trying new technologies, including illuminating bombs, to tackle the threat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-r-day-security-beefed-up-along-border-swat-teams-launch-search-ops-101642861603501.html
22-01-2022||Pune||29-year-old history sheeter held for 4 more house thefts||PUNE The Pune police have arrested a 29-year-old history sheeter and found that he has been involved in four more cases of house break-in and theft. The arrested man has a history of 30 earlier cases registered against him in the city, according to the police.The man was identified as Chandrakant alias Chandya Anant Mane, 29, a resident of Morya Housing Society in Chaphekar chowk area of Chinchwad gaon.The man was arrested and remanded to police custody during which he was found in possession of valuables reported stolen in four cases.“During investigation, he was found with valuables from four cases including 95.3 gram of gold jewellery, 42 gram silver jewellery, ₹9,000 cash and tools used in the crimes collectively worth ₹4,69,262 all of which has been seized,” read a statement from Unit 2.The police also found that he conducted a recce of the society before opening the locked doors with the tools that were found in his possession. That has been his modus operandi for the past as well as current cases that he has been arrested in.He landed on police radar while the police were investigating a case of house theft registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station on January 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/29yearold-history-sheeter-held-for-4-more-house-thefts-101642861303090.html
22-01-2022||Other||Bus driver, conductor killed in mishap||Hoshiarpur A Punjab Roadways bus rammed in to a stationery canter near Tuto Mazara village on Chandigarh road on Saturday, killing its driver and conductor and resulting in injuries to four bus passengers. The bus was coming from Delhi; the victims are Gurnam Singh, 50, of Una, Himachal Pradesh and Jatinder Kumar, 35, of Tibri Camp, Gurdaspur, the driver and conductor respectively. Mahilpur station house officer (SHO) Balwinder Pal said a case had been registered against the canter driver under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) as he had wrongly parked the vehicle on the road. The bodies had been handed over to the kin after post-mortem, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bus-driver-conductor-killed-in-mishap-101642861243694.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane district has most population in State with 10.99L not vaccinated against Covid at all||Around 1.17 lakh people in the rural areas of Thane district are due for their second dose. This means merely 35.73% have taken both the doses in rural parts of the district.Though the Zilla Parishad has taken various efforts, the number of individuals taking the second dose of vaccine continues to be lower in the rural areas.“The response to vaccination here was slow and delayed as initially there was a shortage of vaccine. Still, there are very few who willingly approach for the second dose. Now that the Covid cases have gone down drastically in rural areas, we have to again convince villagers to take the second shot of vaccine,” said Anjali Chaudhari, vaccination officer, Thane district.According to the data released by the State Health Department recently, Thane district, overall, has vaccinated 85.49% with the first dose and 66.30% with the second dose. However, the district continues to have around 10.99 lakh people who have not been vaccinated at all. While a spike in the daily vaccination has been noted across Thane district since the last two months, it has not been able to reach out to certain pockets.Within urban areas of the district, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has completed the second dose vaccination of 54.90%, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has fully vaccinated 93.37% and Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation has 68.43% who are fully vaccinated. Overall in the State, Thane district has the most unvaccinated population.Thane district’s rural areas comprise five talukas – Ambernath, Kalyan, Bhiwandi, Shahapur and Murbad. There are around 431 villages in these talukas and most of them are in Bhiwandi.In rural areas, from the target population of 15 lakh, till now 14 lakh doses have been administered including the first and second vaccines. Till now, around 9 lakh have received the first dose and 5.37 lakh, the second dose in the rural areas.“Time and again, various efforts are being taken to ensure that more people are vaccinated. While we assumed that after the first shot many shall willingly step forward for the second dose, reluctance continues in people’s minds. We are, hence, making special provisions all over again and trying our best to reach out to villagers who are sceptical about getting vaccinated,” said Dr Manish Renge, health officer, Zilla Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-has-most-population-in-state-with-10-99l-not-vaccinated-against-covid-at-all-101642860766354.html
22-01-2022||Pune||Parents relieved as schools to remain shut for another week in Pune||PUNE Even as schools in Maharashtra will be allowed to conduct physical classes starting Monday, the schools in Pune will continue to conduct classes online for at least another week, a decision most parents have welcomed. With Covid cases rising and the daily case load touching a new high, many parents said they are relieved. “The Covid cases are very high in Pune and it’s increasing every day,” said Anagha Jangale, a mother of an 8-year-old and 14-year-old. Although children between the age of 15 and 18 are being vaccinated in schools, children under 15-years are still unvaccinated and that is worrying the parents. “None of my two children are vaccinated, so, I do not intend to send them to school even if the schools had opened this week,” said Jangale. Some parents who had previously advocated the reopening of schools are now more inclined to keep the schools closed in Pune. Krutika Hosur, who has a son studying at Bal Shikshan Mandir, Kothrud, said, “The authorities have taken the right decision. The online classes are going fine. Keeping the schools closed for one more week wouldn’t do much harm.” Pune district guardian minister, Ajit Pawar during Covid review meeting on Saturday decided to keep schools closed in Pune district. Anuradha Kulkarni, a a geography teacher at MES Boys High School, and a mother of a 13-year-old said,“The authorities have decided in favour of the parents and also the teachers. Asking the children to come to school when Pune is recording the highest Covid cases in the state, would be putting them in danger.” Another parent, however, was of the opinion that although Covid cases are high in Pune, one must take into consideration the severity of the cases as well. “High school and junior college students who are vaccinated should be called back for physical classes in schools because Omicron cases are not very severe,” said Ketki Kashikar, mother of a student studying in Class 8. Younger students, however, should continue online classes, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-relieved-as-schools-to-remain-shut-for-another-week-in-pune-101642860709764.html
22-01-2022||Other||Moga man booked for murdering wife||Moga Police have booked a 52-year-old man, Angrej Singh, for the murder of his wife at Thathi Bhai village near Samalser. Police have found only ashes and burnt bones from their house; sources in the force said Charanjit Kaur, 50, was mentally ill and had been living with their relatives. A week ago, her husband had brought her back to their house in the village.On Friday her brother, Satveer Singh went to her sister’s house and found her house locked. He broke open the lock and found a burnt human body in the courtyard. He immediately informed the cops. Police claim the accused told Satveer that the woman had died a natural death and he had cremated her inside the house. Samalser station house officer (SHO) inspector Goldy Virdi said, “We have registered a case of murder on the complaint of the deceased’s brother. The accused is yet to be arrested. The motive of the crime and other things will be clear after his arrest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/moga-man-booked-for-murdering-wife-101642860643311.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Self-proclaimed godman in Dombivli booked for looting family of Rs31L||The Ramnagar police in Dombivli have registered a case against a self-proclaimed godman who allegedly looted a family of ₹31 lakh on the pretext of removing negative energy from the family.The complainant, 33-year-old Priyanka Rane, came to know that her mother and brother have given almost ₹31 lakh over the past few months to a godman, Pawan Patil, for curing their problems. The godman told them that someone had done black magic on the family and after removing that, their problems would be solved.An investigation officer said, “The man had shown the family different tricks and magic to gain the trust of the family. To solve their problems by performing different pujas, he had taken the money from the family. There are several other followers of this man and we are investigating it. We are yet to arrest the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/selfproclaimed-godman-in-dombivli-booked-for-looting-family-of-rs31l-101642857582903.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Experts highlight PM Modi’s integrated approach to security in anthology of essays||India is no bull in a china shop. It is not an aggressive state but is committed to safeguarding its territorial integrity. Alert to the changing threat landscape in the subcontinent, experts say the country’s approach to national security under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has seen pre-emptive, proactive and graded responses. Only the third country after the United States and Israel to carry out cross-border strikes, such as the 2016 Uri surgical strikes and 2019 Balakot air attack, India has shown resolve, read political will, in its response and it has been effective. “Compare this to our delayed response to the Mumbai terror attacks in 2008. Under Modi, there is an element of self-control. His ‘think thoroughly through’ approach is aimed at long-term strategic planning. Ad hocism has been done away with. Since 2018, the emphasis is on creating an integrated national security system,” says Uttam Kumar Sinha, a leading scholar at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi. He is one of the editors of ‘Modi 2.0 — A Resolve to Secure India’, a volume of essays by experts on national security released in New Delhi recently. The book, which brings out the important aspects of national security under the ‘Modi 2.0’ government, comprises 17 chapters by experts from fields of diplomacy, military, academics, politics to media. “When we were dealing with the Covid pandemic within and our armed forces were safeguarding our borders, particularly with China, we realised how critical security is for the nation’s prosperity. People’s confidence in Modi on national security is high and his emphasis has been on an integrated approach and honour,” says Sinha, when asked on the significance and timing of the book. The book, released by BJP national general secretary KL Santhosh, includes an essay by Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Research Foundation’s honorary director Anirban Ganguly on ‘Modi’s Quest and Action for Securing India’; Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s writeup on ‘Strategies to Countering Insurgency in Assam’; the PM’s economic council chairman Bibek Debroy’s ‘Need for Police Reforms’; former NDRF chief Ranjit K Pachnanda’s writeup on ‘India’s Disaster Preparedness’; former diplomat Sujan R Chinoy’s ‘The Return of India’s Stolen Heritage’; former navy chief RK Dhowan’s ‘Securing India’s Maritime Interests and Harnessing Blue Economy’; former high commissioner TCA Raghavan’s ‘Reflections on India’s Policy towards Pakistan’; and National Commission for Women former chief Lalitha Kumaramanagalam’s ‘Women in the Time of Modi’. Former army chief and Union minister VK Singh has shared his viewpoint in the book, too. The writers speak of how the era under Modi has transformed India into a secure nation whether it’s countering terrorism in Kashmir, building infrastructure along the China border, initiating multi-pronged measures to counter insurgency in the North-East or resorting to community policing in Naxal-infested areas or empowering border forces to bring down narco-terrorism. Safeguarding infrastructure development, including expressways, bridges and metro lines, when our subcontinent is vulnerable to hydro-meteorological challenges is also highlighted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/experts-highlight-pm-modi-s-integrated-approach-to-security-in-anthology-of-essays-101642856863056.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: SUV occupants speed away after leaving cash bag at checkpoint||Two men in an SUV sped away after dropping a bag containing ₹17.9 lakh cash at Bharat Nagar Chowk after cops stopped them for checking on Friday evening. Police suspect that the accused may be involved in hawala money transactions or drug peddling. They are also exploring the possibility of the cash being spent on election by some contestant. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gursharanjit Singh, in-charge of the Bus Stand police post, said police had set up a naka at Bharat Nagar Chowk. When they stopped a Mahindra Scorpio SUV for checking, one of the occupants got off the vehicle with a bag in his hand. When the cops told him to open the bag for checking, the accused jumped back into the car and sped away, leaving the bag on the road.On checking, cops found ₹17.90 lakh in the bag. Police have seized the cash and registered a case against the duo under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code, for fleeing the checkpoint. On tracing the registration number, police found that the vehicle belongs to Hoshiar Singh of Dolewal village of Moga. When a team raided his house, Hoshiar Singh was not present there. Notably, police have formed special teams to keep tabs on illegal money transactions ahead of Punjab assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-suv-occupants-speed-away-after-leaving-cash-bag-at-checkpoint-101642855482885.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Response for booster dose in Navi Mumbai less: civic body||Despite the Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) and the general hospitals of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) offering booster doses for the eligible 60-years and above population, the response for the same has been very less, claimed the civic body.Till now, only 4,824 beneficiaries have taken the booster dose.Hence, the corporation has planned to take up Information Education and Communication (IEC) activities to get maximum response from the eligible citizens for the booster dose.Citing the reasons for the poor response, municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “One of the reasons is that most of the people are down with flu. Hence, they are not stepping out to take the vaccine. Another reason is that with the third wave being very mild, the fear among the people has gone. People have become fearless about the infection and believe that they would not be affected. The two doses of vaccine are the reason why the third wave was so mild. People need to understand that and all those eligible need to get their booster shot.”The NMMC has started making announcements in all areas asking those eligible to come forward and take the booster shot.“We are also planning to write to the local representatives and housing societies to give details about the 60-years and above eligible candidates in their areas. The call centre would be given the task of calling up the eligible beneficiaries. The teams would also visit the homes individually. It would be a tedious process but to protect all of them, it is necessary. We also plan to hand out cards to every individual with their names, requesting to get the booster dose. Instead of a generic card, each one will get a card with their respective names to make them feel that getting the booster dose is important,” Bangar added.Till now, 99,372 people above the age of 60 years have got their first dose while 94,800 have got their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/response-for-booster-dose-in-navi-mumbai-less-civic-body-101642854942715.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Garbage dumping ground in mangroves area of Uran to be beautified||The nearly four-hectare garbage dumping ground in the mangroves area of Uran across Mumbai harbour would soon be beautified following a Bombay High Court order and then handed over to the forest department.Uran Municipal Council (UMC), which was at the receiving end of the greens for allegedly dumping garbage on mangroves and wetland at Bori Pakhadi, has initiated the process of scientific closure of the dumping ground through bio-mining and bio-remediation process.Following a tender, a private firm has been entrusted with the contract for separating wet garbage for compost and the rest for scientific disposal. The work costing ₹10.50 lakh started on January 21 and is expected to be completed in three months.Santosh Mali, chief executive officer of UMC, said, “The dumping ground plot at Bori Pakhadi had been given to UMC in 2007 by Raigad Collector. In 2011, there were litigations and objections by local residents on the stench. Meanwhile, mangroves that were not there earlier, too, came up nearby due to the presence of the creek. A PIL was then filed by Hanuman Koliwada Machchimar Vikas Sanstha Maryadit in 2018.”During the hearings, the Court asked the State Government to provide an alternate dumping site. The government has facilitated the use of CIDCO dumping ground at Chal village in Panvel taluka.Mali added, “We have signed an agreement with CIDCO accordingly. Thirteen tons of garbage is generated in Uran daily, which is now dumped at Chal as we stopped using our dumping ground at Bori Pakhadi since December 10. In fact, on receiving information that some illegal dumping was taking place at night, we started 24 hours vigilance by setting up a chowki there with personnel and also installed CCTV cameras. The approach road too has been closed.”UMC decided to remove the almost 15-year-old garbage dumps and hand over the area to the forest department. The scientific closure process has begun. The entire area will be properly levelled and handed over to the forest department for conserving the mangroves.Hanuman Koliwada, a resettlement of a displaced fishing community from Sheva, is in the vicinity of the garbage dump at Bori Pakhadi, which also has been posing health hazards. Bori Pakhadi residents, who had to brave the suffocating smoke from frequent fires at the dump apart from the stink and insect menace, now heaved a sigh of relief.“It is like the end of a 14-year-long life-term fight for justice,” said Samir Ashrit, who, along with Yuva Uran platform, spearheaded the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/garbage-dumping-ground-in-mangroves-area-of-uran-to-be-beautified-101642853862652.html
22-01-2022||Pune||Covid vaccine not mandatory, but state has right to offer certain services for fully vaxxed: Ajit Pawar||PUNE The state government has clarified that it has not made vaccination mandatory though the government intends to encourage everyone to get both doses of vaccine to prevent Covid-19 infection and an order regarding carrying vaccine certification at certain places are made with the same intention.The response in this regard came from deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar while answering a query about the Centre’s stand in the Supreme Court that no one can be vaccinated against their will.Earlier last week, the Centre informed the Supreme Court that Covid-19 inoculation guidelines issued by the Union health ministry do not envisage forcible vaccination without obtaining the consent of an individual.On the issue of exempting persons with disabilities from producing vaccination certificates, the Centre told the apex court that it has not issued any standard operating procedure (SOP) that makes it mandatory to carry the vaccination certificate for any purpose. The Centre said this in its affidavit filed in response to a plea by NGO Evara Foundation seeking door-to-door, priority Covid-19 vaccination for persons with disabilities.Speaking on this, Pawar on Saturday said in Pune that, the Centre has submitted what it felt right though state the state government has certain rights, which it is exercising.“Our intention is not to make it as a precondition. One can take risks by not taking both doses, but he or she doesn’t have the right to pose threat to others and this has been our stand. Having said everyone has the freedom to decide. We are not denying them basic facilities or their rights. The same vaccination rule was even in place for MLAs during assembly session,” said Pawar.His response was to the question about the rule pertaining to allowing only those with both doses at the swimming pools and open grounds.In Pune, the local administration recently made it mandatory for those commuting through Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus to carry certification for double vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-vaccine-not-mandatory-but-state-has-right-to-offer-certain-services-for-fully-vaxxed-ajit-pawar-101642853142767.html
22-01-2022||Pune||After growing demand from citizens, gardens to reopen in Pune||PUNE Gardens along with swimming pools, open grounds, tourist places and religious places will once again reopen in the district from Monday after Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar made an announcement to reopen gardens for morning walks after growing demand from citizens.After attending a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the district,Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday said swimming pools and grounds will be open to sportspersons and people who have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Apart from this, tourist places such as Lonavla and Sinhgad will be thrown open to limited number of visitors in order to sustain small business operating at these locations, said Pawar. Pawar said, “It was demanded by many to allow the gardens to be opened again for morning walks. The elected members too demanded to reopen gardens. Considering this, we have asked both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations to reopen gardens for citizens.” During the meeting BJP legislator from Shivajinagar Siddharth Shirole had demanded to allow players to carry out practice sessions in swimming pools, stating that they are facing various issues. “As tourist places were shut, the local vendors have been facing the problem of livelihood. They cooperated for past few months. Considering this, we have allowed to reopen tourist places like Sinhgad, and places like Lonavla in Pune district but citizens need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. At these tourists places, small traders and eateries will be allowed to reopen,” said Pawar. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “As the guardian minister has allowed the reopening of swimming pools and gardens, we will issue the detailed orders accordingly.”Meanwhile, those above 60-years can get precautionary dose even on Saturday and Sundays, said officials.According to Pawar, there were complaints from family members that it was difficult for them to take seniors for vaccination on weekdays . “Considering this, we have allowed precautionary dose for those above 60-years on Saturdays and Sundays,” he stated. BOX: The district collector plans to hold a meeting next week with industries to make sure that these firms have ensured double vaccination of all workers. The information in this regard was shared by Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-growing-demand-from-citizens-gardens-to-reopen-in-pune-101642853083238.html
22-01-2022||Pune||Schools in Pune district to remain shut till next week: Ajit Pawar||PUNE As the Covid-19 positivity rate is higher than the state average and is increasing continuously, it has been decided to keep schools closed in Pune district, said Ajit Pawar, Pune district guardian minister, after the Covid-19 review meeting held in the city on Saturday.According to Pawar, the decision to reopen school will be taken next week on Friday or Saturday when the situation will be reviewed again.Currently, Pune’s weekly positivity rate stands at 40%. Pune district on Friday reported 16,459 cases which was higher than the peak of the second wave which reported 12,385 cases on April 17 in 2021. The progressive count stood at 13,15,570 lakh Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 1,216,470 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,254 deaths in the district, and at present, there are 78,846 active cases.MPs, MLAs from the district, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor, divisional commissioner, district collector and various office bearers were present for the meeting.“It has been decided to keep schools closed in Pune district till next week. Authorities will meet next week and take the review of the situation and then decide on the reopening of schools,” he said.Pawar was earlier of the opinion to reopen schools in Pune though both mayors of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad along with officials from administration informed about the ground situation as cases are rising. The experts too asked for restraining, following which the decision to defer school reopening was taken.“The cases in Mumbai are coming down though, in Pune, the current situation is opposite. We have not yet hit the peak and every day the cases are inching up. Experts in this field have said at least this trend will continue for next few days and later the trend will start to bring down the cases,” said Pawar.The state government has decided to start offline classes between Classes 1 to 10 from January 24, though local administration will take a final call on this depending on the ground situation in various parts.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We presented the current Covid figures before the guardian minister and requested to not reopen schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-in-pune-district-to-remain-shut-till-next-week-ajit-pawar-101642852782893.html
22-01-2022||Jaipur||Parts of Rajasthan receive light to moderate rain||Light to moderate rain was recorded in some parts of Rajasthan during the 24-hour period that ended at 8.30 am on Saturday with Fatehpur in Sikar receiving the highest rainfall at 41 mm, the meteorological department here said.It said 15 mm rainfall was recorded in Nagaur's Jayal area in western Rajasthan.The weather department has predicted light to moderate rain and thundershowers in some districts of Jaipur, Bharatpur and Bikaner divisions of the state for the day.Scattered rainfall is likely in Bharatpur and Jaipur divisions on Sunday, it said.The temperature on Friday night was recorded between 8.6 degrees Celsius (Karauli) and 18.6 degrees Celsius (Dungarpur).The night temperatures in the state are likely to dip by two to five notches from Sunday onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/parts-of-rajasthan-receive-light-to-moderate-rain-101642850984541.html
22-01-2022||Bangalore||Former PM HD Deve Gowda tests positive for Covid-19 again, clinically stable||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) president HD Deve Gowda, who has tested positive for Covid-19, is clinically stable and is responding to treatment, Manipal Hospitals, Bengaluru said on Saturday.“HD Devegowda was admitted on Jan 21 and has been clinically stable since then. His vital parameters are within normal limits and he has been responding to treatment. He is comfortable and attending to his activities from his room,” the hospital was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. It added that Deve Gowda's health is constantly being monitored.HD Deve Gowda's office confirmed earlier on Saturday that he has tested positive for Covid-19 but has no symptoms and his health is stable. Taking to Twitter, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai also confirmed the news and extended best wishes for Deve Gowda's recovery.Also Read| Karnataka lifts weekend restrictions based on low hospitalisation rateThis is the second time that the former Prime Minister has been infected with Covid-19. On March 31 last year, Deve Gowda and his wife Chennamma tested positive and both were admitted at Manipal Hospitals in Bengaluru.Upon hearing the news, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had phoned Deve Gowda and offered the veteran politician to get treated at any hospital of his choice in any city. “I am grateful to Prime Minister @narendramodi for calling and enquiring after my health. I am also deeply moved by his offer to get me treated in any hospital of my choice in any city,” Deve Gowda tweeted on March 31 last year.Karnataka is continuing to see an upward trend in its daily tally of coronavirus disease with 48,049 cases recorded on Friday, taking the tally to more than 3.42 million. The total cases include 3,063,292 discharges, 323,143 active cases and 38,537 deaths.The state government has decided to withdraw the weekend curfew with revenue minister R Ashok saying the decision was taken based on low hospitalisation rates.However, the night curfew from 10 pm-5 am will continue and all existing Covid-19 restrictions including 50% capacity in commercial establishments such as malls, hotels and bars will remain in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/former-pm-hd-deve-gowda-tests-positive-for-covid-19-again-clinically-stable-101642848696256.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||In December alone, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation received one-fifth of entire Covid vaccine doses of 2021||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation received the highest number of vaccine doses in December, which was 20% of the total doses received throughout the year 2021.NMMC received 15.52 lakh doses in 2021, out of which 3.13 lakh were in December alone.This also helped improve the vaccination status in the city. Of the total vaccination doses administered, 11% was in the month of December.In the whole of 2021, a total of 21,94,639 were jabbed including first and second doses of which 12,94,773 (59%) were jabbed by the NMMC.In January 2021, when the vaccination drive had started, the corporation had received 40,000 doses. This decreased to 12,000 in February. In April, for the first time, the doses received crossed a lakh with 1.82 lakh made available for Navi Mumbai citizens.But in May, the received doses went down again to 59,650, while in August, the supply once again crossed the mark of one lakh. For the first time, the received supply crossed 2 lakhs in September with 2,28,870 doses made available. “As and when the doses were available, we kept increasing the number of booths in the city. Whatever the number of booths, senior citizens and handicaps were never asked to wait in queues. From just five vaccination centres in the beginning of the vaccination drive to more than a 100 centres now, we not only used the hospitals but also schools, malls, mobile vans for vaccination. Visiting the homes, markets, railway stations too added to the drives to make sure that all of the eligible population received both the doses,” Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.Various drives targeting the vulnerable, homeless, beggars, sex workers, maids, watchmen and journalists were planned over the period of a year by focusing on the vaccination of the most vulnerable and under-privileged.Currently, the call centre of the corporation is also making calls to the citizens registered in their database to ensure that both the doses of the beneficiaries are done. As of now, a total of 13.11 lakh population of Navi Mumbai has received its first jab and 10.33L, their second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-december-alone-navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-received-one-fifth-of-entire-covid-vaccine-doses-of-2021-101642850202508.html
22-01-2022||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about startup, business news in Pune||AI-based location intelligence platform ‘Dista’ has raised $1.2 million in seed funding. Pentathlon Ventures led the investment with participation from Core 91 and other individual investors. Dista plans to use the investment to scale its presence in international markets, strengthen its workforce, focus on R&D, and elevate the user experience. Founded by Shishir Gokhale, co-founder and CEO; Deepak Garg, co-founder and CTO and Nishant Kumar, co-founder and CPO, Dista’s location intelligence platform streamlines business processes and enhances customer experience with its robust suite of products. Dista has helped global businesses achieve quicker TATs, higher conversion and engagement rates, and enhanced customer experience. “Our core platform gives us the launchpad to solve new and rapidly changing location data-driven solutions,” said Shishir Gokhale. Nishant Kumar said, “Now that we have a strong base of over 50 enterprise customers, we plan to take our offering worldwide.” Deepak Garg said, “The road ahead is challenging yet exciting as more and more enterprises are becoming location-aware, and the need to apply location intelligence to every dimension of business decisions is becoming imperative. We will need to match this demand with tremendous scale and reach.” Geographic Information System (GIS) software and solutions provider Esri India announced GeoInnovation 2022 – an acceleration platform for startupreneurs in partnership with AGNIi (Invest India). Esri India actively works with start-ups to provide them with an early-stage technology support. GeoInnovation program aims to help start-ups leverage Location Intelligence technology to build new businesses. GeoInnovation 2022 would be divided into three phases. Phase 1 - Applications Phase (ending on Jan 25, 2022); Phase 2 – Technical guidance and business focused mentorship from Esri India, AGNIi and Funding companies (Feb – March 2022) and Phase 3 – Business pitch (April 2022). Agendra Kumar, Managing Director, Esri India, said, “Now is the right time to make bold transformations, aided by GIS technology and data, start-ups can aim to develop solutions that solve critical problems. “With this partnership with AGNii, we want to make Location Intelligence Technology available to every start-up in India and pave way for its large-scale adoption. This program will enable brightest talents in start-up community of India to build specialized businesses leveraging the power of Mapping and Location Intelligence.” KisanKonnect, a farmers’ owned company from Shrirampur, has introduced traceability technology for the supply of their strawberries. As consumers across urban cities like Mumbai, Pune become mindful of their diet and are becoming increasingly aware about the sourcing of their consumable fruits and vegetables, customers ordering from KisanKonnect will now be able to know exactly where the strawberries come from and their authenticity. KisanKonnect farmers have created a unique QR code system for the farmers who grow strawberries that will help the consumers to trace the farm from which the strawberries are coming from, the variety, when was it harvested, etc. Consumers can now scan the QR code which is printed on the packs with their mobile phones and understand more about the process of strawberry growing, ensuring they are getting the most authentic produce from the farms in Maharashtra. Vinod Gunjal of KisanKonnect, said, “We want our customers to know what they are ordering and how authentic is our produce. We are constantly striving to provide them with the best produce that our 1000+ farmer members are growing across over 100 farms in the region.” Fittr announced a collaboration with Vedantu to promote healthy and active living in children through monthly sessions. Starting from January 26th, the first session on ‘Masterclass on fundamentals of Science backed Exercise and Nutrition’ will be hosted on Vedantu’s platform, led by Fittr coach Nachiketh Shetty. With this one-of-a-kind collaboration, Fittr and Vedantu aims to connect with over two million kids associated in the next 12 months. Jitendra Chouksey, founder and CEO, Fittr, said, “At Fittr, we have a dedicated vertical for children, Fittr Kids, wherein certified coaches and experts offer scientifically backed solution towards exercise and nutrition. We also offer activity and training-based plans for holistic wellness solutions. “This is for the first time a fitness and an ed-tech platform are coming together to achieve an exceptional goal of making over two million lives healthier. With Fittr’s expertise in urging people to lead healthy lifestyle and Vedantu’s remarkable knowledge and network, we aim to educate children about the importance and fundamentals of nutrition and physical activity.” Crypto native social platform Sahicoin raised $1.75 million in the latest seed round led by Alameda Ventures (FTX), Better Capital Ventures and other institutional investors. The fresh round of funding will be deployed to scale the team across engineering & product, and grow the platform. Founded by IIT Kanpur alumni, Amit Nayak, Ankush Rajput, and Melbin Thomas, the platform aims to empower the next billion crypto enthusiasts to make faster and better investing decisions. “Millions of users who start their Crypto and Web3 journey struggle to understand the underlying assets to make the correct investment decisions. Sahicoin is the only education-first app that helps users learn about Crypto and Web3 assets from trusted experts and friends to invest smartly and confidently. We are excited to partner with the Sahicoin team as they unlock their full vision”, said Vaibhav Domkundwar, Better Capital. Amit Nayak, Co-founder & CEO of Sahicoin, said, “Since crypto is global by nature, our growth too, is not just limited to India. “We plan to partner with key exchanges, DeFi, and NFT players, which will expedite the onboarding of the next billion users onto the crypto ecosystem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-startup-business-news-in-pune-101642849122505.html
22-01-2022||Pune||Startup Mantra: Company flies high on faujis’ trust, good feeling and economical facilities||udChalo is a consumer-tech startup that exclusively serves travel needs of India’s defence forces and their dependents. Ravi Kumar, son of a 1971-war-veteran, founded this startup in 2015 with a mission to ‘make life simpler for soldiers’. This startup has clocked US $110 million+ turnover last year – its sixth year – and is now looking for its first fundraise of US $100 million for expansion into new verticals like housing, ecommerce and financial services. On National Start-up Day celebrated recently, udChalo was awarded as the most innovative and socially impactful startup in the travel planning and discovery segment. In the beginning… Ravi Kumar is a native of Patna, born in Kolkata and stayed in Jhansi, Delhi, Bengaluru cities because of the Army family background. Son of a 1971 war veteran, Ravi did his Mechanical Engineering from Pune’s Army Institute of Technology (AIT) in 2009. Although Ravi was placed with the Tata AutoComp Systems (TACO) company, the joining came after a delay of nine months because of ‘The Great Recession’. Says Ravi, “Since my first job was with a Tata company, we have built udChalo culturally the Tata way. Trust, good feeling is a part of culture. While working at Tata, I decided to get into teaching. I needed to have a PhD and for that I had to do Master’s degree first. So, I left the job at TACO and joined an engineering college in Mumbai. I taught there for seven months and then I cleared my Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) examination. I got a call from IIT Bombay and decided to join, but before I took admission, this idea of udChalo came to my mind.” After engineering, Ravi Kumar also pursued one-year offline course from Stanford Graduate School of Business called the Stanford Seed. Kingfisher debacle Ravi Kumar’s idea of startup came at a time when the Kingfisher airlines debacle happened. When he analysed the reasons behind the airlines failure, Ravi Kumar realised that there are three primary reasons for such a failure – high taxes, high aviation fuel rates and low passenger-load factor. Says Ravi Kumar, “While we can’t do much about high taxes or high aviation fuel rates, what we can address is the passenger-load factor. We were taken aback due to Kingfisher’s failure, but then we realised that we can actually convince other airlines of offering a completely new customer segment – the AC Tier 2 and Tier 3 passengers of railways who can be converted to airline passengers.” But it was easier said than done. Ravi says, “In 2012 we started working on the idea. At any point of time in those days, around 48,000 seats (in all airlines together) were going vacant and on the other side, three lakh people in wait-lists were being rejected. So, clearly there was a mismatch. We met a lot of executives from various airlines. Everybody liked the idea; however, airline officials were sceptical about this customer segment. The officials believed that leisure and business travellers are their main customers and they never thought of any other class of customer.” Network is networth Ravi Kumar and his team had to do a lot of convincing from 2012 to 2015. Recalling his early struggle to ‘network’ with right set of people, Ravi says, “I was fresh graduate from college and had no ‘network’ then. We were facing a huge challenge of how to reach the airline executives just to tell them that this idea can really do wonders. We visited airline websites and noted down names of the persons concerned. We used to guess and randomly send emails using combination of domain and names. One fine day, one of the chief commercial officer of an airline responded to us and he called us to Mumbai. He liked the idea and introduced us to a few more people. That’s how we started building reputation with the airline industry. After three years of perseverance, udChalo managed to bag our first customer. It was Jet Airways who agreed to offer us discounted fares.” “In the three years, we had also evolved. We told Jet Airways that we will bring only those passengers who are entitled to travel by railways. All the defence personnel (Army, Navy, Airforce and Paramilitary), except officers (who are 2 to 3 per cent of the entire force), was our target customer. We were the first to launch defence discount concept in aviation sector in the country,” he added. Bengaluru first When udChalo started with the defence market in 2015, they realised that leaves of defence personnel are approved at the last moment and hence they barely manage to get a confirmed railway ticket. Recalls Ravi, “In September 2014, I had also thought of doing job. I had gone for an interview to SSB Bengaluru where I realised that candidates coming to SSB Bengaluru knew their arrival date and time, but departure was not fixed because a candidate could be rejected on the very first day or fifth day. So, nobody could book return tickets. That prompted me to start from Bengaluru first. I decided to start an offline booking office in Bengaluru.” “We asked Jet Airways to provide tickets from Bengaluru to any other destination. We were offered tickets at about 50 per cent discounted rate by Jet Airways. If any candidate wanted a ticket from Bengaluru, he could get one to Delhi and Chandigarh. It was a win-win situation for both – the airlines and customers. Business started picking up from Bengaluru and then we decided to start pan-India services instead of restricting ourselves ‘from Bengaluru’ only,” said Ravi. “After Jet airways, Go Air and other airlines came on board. In the first financial year we could book 1,600 flight tickets. Today we book about 20 lakh flight tickets annually,” Ravi Kumar proudly claims. ‘Sarhad Se Ghar Tak’ Changing the mindset of ‘faujis’ was also a challenge. Ravi Kumar said, “Most of the ‘faujis’ were shy about how to behave in the flight, what items they can carry in their luggage, what could be prohibited and screened, etc. To address all their concerns, we did offline presentations on a massive scale. Now we have our representatives in areas like Kargil, Baramulla, Kupwara and Uri. We have our own offices there.” “Even today there many challenges to be resolved. For example, a flight won’t take any soldier directly to their native place like Satara, Solapur, etc. We had started a scheme called ‘Sarhad Se Ghar Tak’ to address this issue. In this scheme, for example, a soldier would travel from Srinagar airport to Pune airport and a car would pick-up passengers and drop them to Karad, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli villages. We had tied up with some travel companies and it was doing very well, but due to coronavirus outbreak we had to stop it temporarily,” he said. “If you look at the idea, the core value is to make life simpler for soldiers. Anything which makes life simpler for soldiers we do it,” adds Ravi. Million dollar take off In its second financial year of operations, udChalo sold two lakh tickets. It was recognised as the fastest growing MSME with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) growth of 495 per cent for the period of 2015 to 2020. When asked whether he expected such growth and what clicked with the customers, Ravi said, “Our model was well understood by the customers as they would reach home early by paying a bit of extra money as compared to railway fare. We would help them in documentation and claim settlement as the reimbursed railway-fare amount would get deposited in their bank accounts. We made our website more robust and spent some money on infrastructure. My co-founder Varun Jain, who used to run a travel technology company, helped me in making the app, website and infrastructure.” “There were two advantages of offline booking offices. First is that we got closer to our customers and hence we could convince and explain them how to fill the documents and reimbursement form. Second advantage was that we got visibility in the Cantts (Cantonment areas). We also created employment opportunity for one ex-service person per office. Presently, we have 70 such offices and at each location, including Sub Area Canteen, BEG Center at Khadki in Pune, and other locations at Jammu and Kashmir and North East, one ex-service personnel or war widow or their dependents have been employed,” Ravi stated. Diversifying Says Ravi Kumar, “In April 2021, Samsung India joined hands with us. We have over 20 lakh members on our website and hence they asked us to offer their mobile phones to our members. It was a huge success and today we are selling mobiles worth ₹25 lakh and above every month. That’s why we thought, let’s not restrict ourselves to travel. We started exploring other verticals like housing, ecommerce, financial services. There is an initiative like Army Welfare Housing Organisation (AWHO) but it is not available in all cities. Recently, we tied up with a Pune-based developer and within two months we sold 26 units. We will tie-up with one developer and builder in every city. We will give them exclusive customers in return of exclusive rates for us.” Financial services udChalo holds ERI License from department of income tax. “We have pivoted ourselves, after we realised that we can do many things. This year we have filed income tax of more than 2,000 members and next year we are aiming to file IT for all personnel of armed forces. With this information, we can also offer instant low-interest loans to our members. At present, many soldiers end up paying high interest rates to their village money-lenders. Banks ask for heavy documentation. We will offer the ‘faujis’ best interest rates in the slab of 12 to 13 per cent as against 18 per cent of other NBFCs,” says Ravi Kumar. “When we pivoted from a travel to a consumer-tech company, we wanted to leverage the consumer base using technology. We had two options – build an internal team of data analysts and infrastructure or to acquire a data analytics company. We got to know about Dimentrix company which was already into data analytics domain. With its acquisition, we fastened the process of our entire consumer-technology part to push more products,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-company-flies-high-on-faujis-trust-good-feeling-and-economical-facilities-101642848583575.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||3 including minor arrested for activating SIM cards using forged documents in Bhiwandi||The Bhoiwada police in Bhiwandi have busted a racket where three SIM card vendors were activating SIM cards using forged documents based on details submitted by bonafide customers.According to the Bhoiwada police, the three accused – Irfan Ansari (23), Saeed Sheikh (24) and a 17-year-old – were arrested on Thursday on the basis of a tip off received by senior police inspector SA Indalkar.Acting on a tip-off, police conducted raids at multiple locations in Dhamankar Naka and Gayatri Nagar in Bhiwandi, and arrested the trio, who worked as SIM card vendors for leading cellular service providers.“Whenever a customer bought a SIM card from the accused, they’d take photographs of their Aadhaar cards as part of the purchase process. These Aadhaar cards would be edited using computer software with pictures, names and addresses on them being changed to generate a completely new identity. The forged Aadhaar cards would then be used to activate new SIM cards,” Indalkar said.The accused had also found a way to beat the electronic thumb impressions.“While collecting electronic thumb impressions of genuine customers, the accused would claim that there was some problem with their machine and get the customers to record their impressions multiple times. These extra impressions, stored separately, would then be paired with the bogus identities created by the accused while activating new SIM cards,” Indalkar said.The police recovered a total of 361 activated SIM cards as well as 250 photocopies of Aadhaar cards, all bearing the same person’s photograph but different names and addresses, along with a colour printer and a SIM card activation machine, from the accused.The trio was charged with cheating and forgery under the Indian Penal Code, and the two adult accused were placed under arrest, while the minor accused was sent to a juvenile detention facility.“We are interrogating the accused to identify all the persons to whom they have sold the activated SIM cards so far,” Indalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-including-minor-arrested-for-activating-sim-cards-using-forged-documents-in-bhiwandi-101642848522613.html
22-01-2022||Pune||Pune schools won't resume physical classes from Monday, Covid cases high||Pune schools will not resume physical classes from January 24, as announced by the Maharashtra government earlier, as the number of Covid cases is quite high. Schools will remain online in Pune for at least the next one week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said. Covid numbers are not likely to come down in Pune, not for at least the next eight days, the minister said.Pune on Friday reported 16,618 fresh infections in the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic.The Maharashtra government has decided to allow physical classes in schools starting from coming Monday as the daily caseload in the state has somewhat stabilised. However, the decision to reopen schools at a time when the threat of the third wave is not yet over rests with the local administrations, the government said.Following the go-ahead from the government to resume physical classes, Maharashtra social justice and special assistance minister Dhananjay Munde has directed officials to reopen hostels and residential schools under his department.The decision was taken after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray agreed to the proposal of the school education ministry to resume physical classes from classes 1 to 12 in view of the daily Covid cases stabilising. Districts where daily cases are low have been allowed to resume physical classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-schools-won-t-resume-physical-classes-from-monday-covid-cases-high-101642846243577.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Kamla building’s firefighting system wasn’t working: Mumbai Fire Brigade||MUMBAI: The internal firefighting system of the Tardeo’s Kamla building, also known as Sachinam Heights building where a massive fire killed 6 people and injured 23 on Saturday morning was not operational at the time of the fire, according to Mumbai’s fire department officials.Residents of the building said they did not hear the fire alarm of the building go off after the fire.The massive fire gutted an apartment in Kamla building at Nana Chowk on Saturday. The first information abouot the fire was received at 7.28am. It was classified as a level 3 (massive) fire at 7.42 am, and took the fire brigade 2.5 hours to bring the fire under control, and almost five hours to douse the fire.This is the fourth high-rise fire in three months in the city to have resulted in casualties.On October 23, one person was killed in a fire on the 19th floor of a 61-storey building One Avighna Park at Currey Road in Mumbai. Two people were killed in another fire on the 14th floor of 15 storey Hansa Heritage in Kandivali on November 7; one woman was killed as a fire erupted in Notan Villa in Khan on September 23. In each of these cases, the fire fighting system of the building was not operational at the time of the fire.HT reported in November last year, that of the 324 fires reported in the city’s high-rise buildings between January 2020 and October 2021, 127 buildings, or 39.2%, did not have an operational firefighting system.In case of the Kamla building fire of Saturday too, Chief Fire Officer of the Mumbai fire brigade, Hemant Parab said, “The internal firefighting system of the building was not working, and the building has not even submitted it -bi-annual fire safety audit to the fire brigade.”The entire building was smoke logged, even though the fire completely gutted only flat number 1904 and the common passageway of the floor. Smoke spread through the building due to a duct running along the length of the building. Parab said, “The building has two refuge areas, but none of the residents were found in the refuge area. The fire brigade rescued about 28-29 residents using the staircase of the building.”A total of 29 people were rushed to three hospitals: Nair, Kasturba, and Bhatia hospital. Three patients among these were later shifted to Masina, Reliance, and Wockhardt hospitals for treatment. 7 out of these patients were discharged after treatment, while 16 others are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kamla-building-s-firefighting-system-wasn-t-working-mumbai-fire-brigade-101642844262205.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||Toll in Kamala Building fire in Mumbai's Tardeo rises to 6||The toll in the Mumbai building fire rose to six on Saturday after four more people succumbed to their injuries, BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said. The level 3 fire broke out on the 18th floor of the 20-storey Kamala Building in Tardeo, Mumbai.According to fire department, the blaze was reported at 7.28am on Saturday and declared level 3 at 8.10am.The fire was caused by a short-circuit in an air conditioner in one of the apartments, news agency Associated Press quoted Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar as saying.Residents said a big column of black smoke soon enveloped the building after the fire started. More than 90 people escaped the building on their own or helped by neighbours, they added.Chief fire officer Hemant Parab said that around 30 people were rescued by fire Brigade using staircase. "The entire building was smoke-logged due to a common duct running along the length of building," he added.Twenty one fire engines and seven jumbo tankers were deployed, said DCP Saurabh Tripathi. The blaze was brought under control after a five-hour effort."Traffic police and local police were involved in rescue operations. The most affected with 19th floor," added Tripathi.As many as 19 people were injured in the hospital and rushed to Bhatia and Nair hospitals. While 15 of the injured were admitted to Bhatia Hospital, other four were sent to Nair Hospital.Of the six deaths, five were reported from Nair Hospital. One of them had succumbed to smoke inhalation burns, one was charred to death and three had both burns and suffocation injuries, said dean Ramesh Bharmal. One person died at the Kasturba Gandhi Hospital.Meanwhile, Pednekar told reporters that six old people needed oxygen support system because they had inhaled the smoke.Maharashtra BJP president Mangal Prabhat Lodha called it an "unfortunate incident".In August, a fire killed eight coronavirus patients at a hospital in Ahmedabad, a major city in Gujarat state. In December 2018, a late-night fire in a Mumbai restaurant killed 15 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/toll-in-kamala-building-fire-in-mumbai-s-tardeo-rises-to-7-101642830324804.html
22-01-2022||Mumbai||2 dead, 19 injured in major Mumbai building fire||Two people were killed in a major fire at Kamala Building, in Nana Chowk, in Mumbai's Tardeo on Saturday morning. Nineteen others have been injured in the incident. The level 3 fire was reported on the 18th floor of the 20-storey building.According to fire department, the blaze was reported at 7.28am and declared level 3 at 8.10am.Thirteen fire engines and seven jumbo tankers were deployed to control the fire, the department said.The injured were rushed to Bhatia and Nair hospitals; the doctors at Nair hospital said that two people were brought dead. “Six old age people needed oxygen support system. The blaze is under control but smoke is huge,” Mumbai's mayor Kishori Pednekar told reporters.Maharashtra BJP president Mangal Prabhat Lodha called it an "unfortunate incident".Fifteen of the injured have been admitted to Bhatia hospital - three in the intensive care unit (ICU) and 12 in general ward - while four others have been sent to the Nair Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fire-breaks-out-in-20-storey-kamala-building-in-tardeo-101642822080514.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: The changing Shahjahanabad||It is as if these patches of sky could no longer hold together. As if they had given up, falling down here and there over the city. This is one of the ways of looking at the blue tarpaulin sheets that shroud parts of the Walled City of Shahjahanabad these days.On this cold afternoon, the main market street between Tiraha Behram Khan and Chitli Qabar Chowk is filled beyond capacity with shoppers (mostly maskless). The shop windows are filled with distractions—laces, dupattas, sheets and lehengas. Nobody bothers to look up, and yet, the tarpaulins hanging on several facades are quite a sight. Apart from their intense colors (often in blue), they are evidence of ongoing constructions, and have been wrapped about the upcoming structures to prevent the dust from spreading around, as one shopkeeper says.The tarpaulins tell it most starkly — Purani Dilli is changing furiously fast. Old buildings are being replaced by new ones. Take this draped edifice-in-progress on the market road, for instance. It is standing next to a time-worn building with arched doors, wooden windows and intricately carved balconies. If one wonders how long this faded edifice will be allowed to stand, one does not really wonder about the look of the adjoining veiled building coming up. Its shiny cousins are already springing up in the historic quarter, and they all look similar — monolithic blocks of residential apartments. The turning towards Gali Kala Mahal, at Kamra Bangash, is landmarked by such a multi-storey tower of flats, which would not look out of place in a Ghaziabad suburb.Some distance away, the cramped alley at Kucha Tara Chand is resounding with the twak-twak of labourers hammering with their miscellaneous tools. There, one construction site is barricaded by an elaborate blue and yellow tarpaulin. Right next to it stands a beautiful, old building with a most arresting doorway. A spectator might be haunted by the mystery of what old beautiful building used to stand behind the tarpaulin.A devotee of old architecture might feel helpless walking around here, and experience a sense of profound loss. This sentiment might not necessarily be shared by those who live in the Walled City. This reporter personally knows scores of households that had to leave the Walled City for modern and spacious apartments, so as to accommodate their expanding families. They might see the new multi-stories as a necessary convenience.One of the most poignant illustrations of this ongoing change lies on a lane near Kalan Masjid, where a construction site is partly covered with a giant sheet of tarpaulin. The building appears to be complete, though it is still scaffolded with wooden beams. The finished wall is paved with what looks to be stone tiles. Just beside it stands a Mughal structure adorned with a vaulted arch of red sandstone, its surface sculpted with patterns of flowers. Both buildings are fused into each other, except for a thin vertical line of slim lakhori bricks of yesteryear. The bricks seem to be squeezed between the old and new. This sight (see photo) is today emerging as the most defining symbol of contemporary Old Delhi — yesterday and tomorrow, flirting with each other. Be a witness of this shift in time, before Shahjahanabad changes forever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-changing-shahjahanabad-101642802994638.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||HC marital rape hearing: Role of husband’s expectations in focus||Continuing her arguments before the Delhi high court on Friday for criminalising marital rape, amicus curiae Rebecca John said the expectation of sexual relations by a husband cannot result in him having forcible sex with the wife.John told the bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar that while there is no doubt that there was an expectation of sexual relations in a marital relationship, consent can only be achieved through dialogue, and if the wife is also willing and ready to have conjugal relations.“Expectation is not wrong. Both sides can have expectations. However, that expectation cannot result in the husband having forcible sex with the wife. The issue is not about expectation; it is about the man exercising his dominant right over the wife, despite the wife saying I cannot and will not have sexual relations with you,” John said, after Shankar asked her about the expectations that a husband may have in a marital relationship.Justice Shankar reiterated that there is a qualitative difference between the sexual equation that exists between parties who are married and those who are not. He said while the parties who are married may have a right to expect sexual relations, there is no such right between couples who are unmarried.Exception 2 in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape.Justice Shankar asked John that if the country’s legislature considered as different the situations of a married and unmarried couple, was it possible for the court to do otherwise.Earlier, Shankar said when a man is married, there is a social, moral and legal right for each partner to expect meaningful conjugal relations with the other. Correcting his earlier stance, the judge said, “Let us not call it a right. Let’s call it an expectation.”The bench is hearing PILs by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, and two individuals seeking to strike down the exception granted to husbands.During the proceedings, senior counsel John also submitted that if the exception in the rape law was gender neutral, it would create a false equivalence to suggest that husbands and wives are equal, disregarding the lived experiences of women as wives.She also gave examples of various provisions in different statutes which specifically focussed on the victim being a woman, including the Domestic Violence Act, Section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), Section 113B of Indian Evidence Act (presumption as to dowry death) and Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act.She submitted that the scheme of IPC, Criminal Procedure Code and the Indian Evidence Act has been amended by the legislature, putting the woman at the centre of the provision and keeping in mind the procedural and evidentiary safeguards that must be given when a complaint is filed by a woman.Arguments will continue on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-marital-rape-hearing-role-of-husband-s-expectations-in-focus-101642802708738.html
22-01-2022||Noida||Two arrested for cheating people in Noida on pretext of jobs in airline company||Police arrested two men on Friday for allegedly duping many people on the pretext of facilitating jobs in a private airline, said officials.The suspects used to buy data of job seekers from job portals (data not available) and call them to extract money on pretext of registration, offer letter, security deposit and other procedures, according to police.The suspects were identified as Rahul Kumar, 30, and Kamal Kumar, 28, said police.Abhishek (goes by first name), deputy commissioner of police (crime), Gautam Budh Nagar, said they received a tip on Friday on suspicious activities being carried out by some people inside a building in Noida Sector 6. “A police team reached the spot and conducted a search there. Police arrested the duo and recovered 11 cellphones, two laptops, 29 calling data-sheets and a fake stamp of an airline from their possession,” he said.The suspects revealed during interrogation that they operated a fake company to cheat people on pretext of facilitating jobs in a private airline. The duo used fake stamp in offer letters issued to the people to make the documents look genuine, said Abhishek, adding, “The police team also attended to an incoming call on one of the cellphones recovered from the possession of the suspects, where the caller identified himself as Vipin Chand Singh, a resident of Himachal Pradesh. Singh revealed that he had received several calls from the suspects, who cheated him of ₹7 lakh on pretext of a job in the airline company.”Police said the suspects have been cheating nearly 100 people in Noida in the past six months. A case has been registered against them under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust). “The suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Friday,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-cheating-people-in-noida-on-pretext-of-jobs-in-airline-company-101642802139364.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Cases fall to 10.7k, positivity now 18%||The daily tally of Covid-19 cases in Delhi fell to its lowest since January 5 on Friday, as the city added 10,756, as the test positivity rate also fell to its lowest in two weeks.Of the 59,629 tests conducted in the city, 18.04% samples returned positive results. This was the lowest positivity rate since January 7, when the Capital reported a positivity rate of 17.7%, state government data showed.The city also added 38 deaths of the infection on Friday.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said infections in the city were showing a declining trend and that hospitalisation numbers have stabilised over the last week.“The number of patients admitted to the hospital is stable at present. The Delhi government is prepared to bolster health services on all fronts. Delhi government has been the first in the country to take the most stringent steps in view of the threat of new variants, due to which the situation of coronavirus in Delhi is under control and there is a decline in cases,” Jain said.Government data also showed that out of the total 15,557 beds in dedicated Covid hospitals, 2,656 (17.07%) were vacant as on Friday, leaving the larger share of 12,901 beds (82.93%) vacant. The number of people recovering in home isolation went down on Friday.At no point since cases of Covid-19 began surging in the Capital this year has the hospital bed occupancy rate been beyond 20% of capacity, data released by the Delhi government every day showsOn Friday 48,356 Covid-19 positive patients were on home isolation as opposed to 53,593 on Thursday.“In 2021, the rise in cases was very drastic, but in 2020 also we saw a similar trend in Covid numbers. We are also seeing now that there are very few young and healthy adults infected with severe infections. The severely impacted are still senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, a senior pulmonologist at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.The health minister on Friday also reiterated the need for people to wear masks and follow Covid protocol strictly.“I appeal to people again to not lower your guard, we are seeing a decline but it is still very important to follow social distancing norms and also to wear masks,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-cases-fall-to-10-7k-positivity-now-18-101642801477311.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: Man shoots himself in female acquaintance’s car||A 33-year-old man was critically injured after he shot himself in the temple with his licensed pistol in the car of a woman whom he had been allegedly harassing, at the Phase-5 market on Friday. A resident of Janta Nagar, Kharar, the injured man works as a private personal security officer. He was rushed to Cheema Hospital in Phase 4, from where he was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh. Till the filing of this report, doctors were still operating on him to remove the bullet lodged in his head.According to the woman in whose car the incident took place, she knew the man was the past five months and lately he had been harassing her. She and her husband had even filed a police complaint regarding this, but later a compromise was reached.On Friday, when she reached the rear parking lot of the Phase 5 market to visit a salon, the man was already present there and threatened her at gunpoint to get back in her car, she told the police.He also sat inside the car, adjacent to her, and suddenly shot himself in the temple after threatening to shoot her. Meanwhile, the man’s father filed a complaint against the woman and her husband, alleging that he and his son were previously assaulted at the couple’s house when they had visited them to address the woman’s harassment complaint. He claimed that his son had befriended the woman over Instagram and they often used to talk on the phone.Phase 1 SHO Shivdeep Brar said the complaint by the injured man’s father was being verified. “The woman and the man were known to each other. All facts are being probed. No case has been registered as of now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-man-shoots-himself-in-female-acquaintance-s-car-101642801719905.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Kin to explain why unvaccinated deceased skipped jabs||The UT health department on Friday said that the family members of Covid victims, who were not vaccinated against the virus, will have to explain why the deceased was not immunised.“Though we have fully vaccinated more than 99% of the targeted adult population, yet many Covid deaths were of unvaccinated people. From Saturday, family members or relatives of unvaccinated deceased will have to explain the reason for non-vaccination. Also, they will have to show that they are fully vaccinated or give an explanation if they have also defaulted.”On January 19, HT had highlighted that around 60% of people, who succumbed to Covid in the tricity since January 1, had not taken a single dose of vaccine. Chandigarh recorded 18 deaths in this period and six of these deceased had not received even the first dose, while 10 were fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-kin-to-explain-why-unvaccinated-deceased-skipped-jabs-101642801359650.html
22-01-2022||Noida||High-rises in Greater Noida West step up testing for coronavirus infection||Noida: As Gautam Budh Nagar continues to report over 1,000 Covid-19 cases daily, the Apartment Owners’ Associations (AOAs) in the district are on their toes to ensure residents get tested in order to ensure the early detection of the virus. On the request of AOAs in the Greater Noida west region, which houses over 70 high-rise societies with a population of over one lakh residents, the district health department has stepped up testing by holding doorstep camps. “Almost all high-rise societies in the Greater Noida west area have seen a spurt in cases this month. The population in many of these societies is more than 1,000 and poses a risk of spread if testing is not carried out on a war-footing. There is an urgent need to hold more testing camps for the residents at their doorsteps,” said Rahul Garg, a member of Noida Extension Flat Owners’ Welfare Association (NEFOWA). A five-day mass testing camp is being organised between January 24 and 29 with one camp at one housing society a day. “Each AOA is informed beforehand about the camp and a medical team is provided from the district health department that carries out the testing. The AOAs also assist the team with manpower to carry out registration of the residents,” said Abhishek Kumar, the president of NEFOWA. According to the district health department, the Bisrakh Community Health Centre (CHC) caters to the population of Greater Noida west region. “Testing facility is available at Bisrakh CHC daily between 10am and 2pm. However, we are carrying out testing camps at high-rise societies because testing and tracing is vital to contain the spread of the virus. An average of 100 tests per day are being carried out at each camp,” said Dr Shirish Jain, additional chief medical officer in-charge of Covid sampling in Gautam Budh Nagar. Since January 5, the health department has also organised five-day testing camps for other high-rise societies of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/highrises-in-greater-noida-west-step-up-testing-for-coronavirus-infection-101642801239259.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Few admissions during 5th wave question need for ongoing curbs||At no point since cases of Covid-19 began surging in the Capital this year has the hospital bed occupancy rate been beyond 20% of capacity, data released by the Delhi government every day shows. At its peak, the city recorded 43 deaths in a day on Thursday – of these, only three could be directly linked to Covid-19 alone, the city’s health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday.Another other way to look at Delhi’s current outbreak is to consider diagnosis and the predicted spike in admissions, which typically take place a week later. In Delhi, the peak of recorded cases came on January 12, and that of the test positivity on January 14. Since then, the number of people in the hospital have remained in the 2,600-2,700 range, even in fact dipping slightly in the last three days. And cases too have fallen sharply to 10,765 on Friday, from this wave’s peak of 28,867.Whichever way the data is sliced, the import is clear: Delhi’s health care infrastructure has been far from a crisis. And this prompts questions on the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) response, including a decision by Anil Baijal, who as the Union territory’s lieutenant governor heads the body, to not lift the weekend curfew or allow shops in markets to return to business as usual (instead of opening on alternate days).There’s also no talk of reopening schools, which Maharashtra (and Mumbai) have already indicated that they will do as early as next week.Looking at Delhi’s restrictions from the perspective of guidance by World Health Organization (WHO) and conversations among experts from the fields of epidemiology, public health and economics, it is clear that it is following a paradigm set in 2020, when the world faced an unknown threat. That is out of place in 2022, when there is high vaccination coverage, effective treatment protocols, and wider understanding of early clinical risks.If restrictions and lockdowns were meant to “flatten the curve” of cases to under a level that the health care infrastructure could manage, Delhi, with over 80% of its beds still vacant in the third week of its outbreak, may have actually flattened it too much.“The availability of effective vaccines provides an additional, potent tool to exit the pandemic, allowing the progressive reduction of non-pharmaceutical interventions while maintaining low incidence…” jointly wrote a group of experts in medical sciences, public health and economics in the Lancet Global Health’s January, 2022 issue.Among themselves, they came to several conclusions. “First, strict public health interventions such as school closures, curfews, or lockdowns might no longer be justified as the risk attached to contracting Covid-19 has been starkly reduced by vaccines”.“Second, countries’ persistent efforts to control the virus have led to an increasing fatigue among the population…”And, most of all, if there is no wide-reaching coordination on what the correct strategies should be, “we might face years of increased morbidity and mortality due to not only Sars-CoV-2 itself, but also the resulting economic instability and increased inequalities”.In other words, eliminating the virus – essentially what curbs like those in Delhi are meant to do – has no place at a time when vaccination has largely eliminated the risk of death.In the Capital, 80% of the adult population has been fully vaccinated.The administration needs to merely look back at WHO’s guidance on approaching public health measures during Covid: “Any decision to introduce, adapt or lift” them should be based “primarily on a situational assessment of the intensity of transmission and the capacity of the health system to respond”, but, crucially, “must also be considered in light of the effects these measures may have on the general welfare of society and individuals”.On this yardstick, as the numbers demonstrate, Delhi’s restrictions are an overkill, prolonging not just deep economic losses, but also posing little epidemiological benefit.“Since this variant is so transmissible, restrictions are only delaying the decline in infections,” Dr Jugal Kishore, head of department of community medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital, told HT on Thursday.Kishore pointed out that prolonging the epidemic also poses another risk: “The longer we allow the virus to stay in the community, the greater are its chances of mutating.”
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||No At-Home function in Chandigarh on Republic Day||In view of the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in the city, the UT administration has decided against holding the “At Home” function at the Punjab Raj Bhawan on Republic Day for the second year in a row. Other celebrations planned in the city will also remain a low-key affair.Last year too, with the pandemic raging in the city, the authorities had kept the Republic Day event in Sector 17 restricted to a few participants only.Scaling down the events further this time, there will be no large gathering or cultural event by schoolchildren.The award function will be organised with only the awardees and their families in attendance. The police march-past will also be presented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-at-home-function-in-chandigarh-on-republic-day-101642800880498.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases recede after climbing for three days||In some sign of respite, the tricity recorded 3,032 Covid-19 infections on Saturday, 9% down from 3,320 a day ago.However, five more people died due to the virus – three in Mohali and two in Chandigarh.The drop in daily cases came after a steady rise for the past three days. After 2,215 infections on January 17, the daily tally had spiked to 2,966, 3,185 and 3,320 in the subsequent three days, respectively.Right before the 2,215 cases on January 17, the tricity had recorded its highest daily count of 3,907 on January 16.Among the cases surfacing on Friday, 1,313 were reported from Mohali, lower than 1,360 on Thursday. Chandigarh also saw the cases dropping from 1,294 to 1,172 in the past 24 hours. Panchkula matched the trend as cases dipped from 2,207 to 2,108 in the same period.With this, tricity’s active cases also decreased from 21,142 to 20,476 between Thursday and Friday. At 9,260, Chandigarh still has the highest number of positive patients, followed by Mohali with 9,018 and Panchkula with 2,018.Slight drop in positivity ratesThe 9% drop in cases in the past 24 hours also helped slightly lower the positivity rate across the tricity.Chandigarh found 17% positive cases among total samples tested, compared to 19.3% on Thursday.At 31%, the proportion of positive samples in Mohali, though tad lower than 32% the day before, was still worrisome. Panchkula’s positivity rate was also still high, though it dipped from 29% to 25%.Three senior citizens among latest fatalitiesAmong the five Covid-related deaths in the tricity on Friday, three were senior citizens.Two of them, a 70-year-old man and an 87-year-old woman, were residents of Dera Bassi, Mohali. The elder man was in home isolation, while the woman died at the Ambala civil hospital. The third fatality in Mohali was a 25-year-old woman from Sohana, who was admitted at Shalby Hospital, Phase 9.The deaths reported from Chandigarh included an 80-year-old fully vaccinated woman, who lived in Manimajra. Admitted at a private hospital, she was also suffering from heart and lung disease, hypertension and diabetes mellitus.The other patient, a 58-year-old woman from Raipur Khurd, was also fully vaccinated, but was also getting treated for peritonitis. The Covid deaths on Friday took Mohali’s toll till date to 1,101 and Chandigarh’s to 1,097. Panchkula has recorded 384 deaths so far, last among them on January 16.A total of 83,735 people have tested positive for Covid in Chandigarh since the beginning of the pandemic and 73,378 have been cured. Mohali has logged 85,325 cases, including 75,116 recoveries. Panchkula’s caseload of 39,285 comprises 36,793 recoveries.55 people in UT guest house test positive As many as 55 guests and staff members tested positive for Covid-19 at the UT Guest House on Friday. A total of 163 people were sampled for RT-PCR tests. Following the positive results, the Guest House premises were sanitised and all services continued as usual. The positive patients have been isolated, and other staff and guests have been asked to strictly adhere to the Covid protocols.Kin to explain why unvaccinated deceased skipped jabsCHANDIGARH The UT health department on Friday said that the family members of Covid victims, who were not vaccinated against the virus, will have to explain why the deceased was not immunised.“Though we have fully vaccinated more than 99% of the targeted adult population, yet many Covid deaths were of unvaccinated people. From Saturday, family members or relatives of unvaccinated deceased will have to explain the reason for non-vaccination. Also, they will have to show that they are fully vaccinated or give an explanation if they have also defaulted.”On January 19, HT had highlighted that around 60% of people, who succumbed to Covid in the tricity since January 1, had not taken a single dose of vaccine. Chandigarh recorded 18 deaths in this period and six of these deceased had not received even the first dose, while 10 were fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-recede-after-climbing-for-three-days-101642800819280.html
22-01-2022||Noida||1,489 fresh coronavirus infections recorded in Noida, increase in recoveries||Noida recorded 1,489 fresh Covid-19 cases -- a decline in the trend -- and 2,178 recoveries on Friday. The number of recoveries in the district have been higher than daily positive cases for the sixth consecutive day, said officials of the health department, adding that the daily Covid-19 count is still over the 1,000-mark. On an average, nearly 6,500 Covid infections are being conducted daily in the district, while the positivity rate has reduced to 25% compared to 36% till around 10 days ago. However, the positivity rate was less than 1% till the beginning of December. “We cannot be very complacent as the positivity rate needs to improve further. It is definitely better for now, and we are hoping that it will continue to reduce now,” said Dr Shirish Jain, district nodal officer for Covid testing. 24,237 Covid cases have been reported in January alone, taking the total tally to 88,236 since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020.A total of 1,864,230 tests have also been conducted in the district so far. 3,603,000 vaccine doses have been administered to the beneficiaries in the district, including 2,109,000 first doses, 1,476,000 second doses and 18,374 precautionary doses. Nearly 70,000 people in the 15-17 age group have been vaccinated so far, as the health department has a target of vaccinating 115,000 teenagers in total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1489-fresh-coronavirus-infections-recorded-in-noida-increase-in-recoveries-101642800759260.html
22-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad records 780 fresh coronavirus infections, lowest in the past 13 days||The district on Friday registered 780 fresh Covid-19 cases, which is the lowest per day figure since January 8, when Ghaziabad recorded 683 cases. The district also reported one death, but officials said that it was wrongly notified and took place in Gautam Budh Nagar. With Friday’s figure, the overall tally has touched 77,400 with 21,486 cases in the month of January alone, the highest monthly figure since the start of the pandemic. Officials said that the death of an inmate in the district jail of Gautam Budh Nagar took place at Meerut Medical College on January 20. “The death was wrongly added to Ghaziabad district. The case will soon be cross-notified to Gautam Budh Nagar,” said additional chief medical officer Dr Sunil Tyagi. The deceased patient was a 27-year-old man who was admitted to the hospital on January 15 with fever and shortness of breath, said officials, while adding that his vaccination status is not yet known. The overall tally of fatalities in the district stands at 465. Meanwhile, officials said that they are roping in the services of nursing and medical college staff for expanding the vaccination coverage. “They will be deployed for another vaccination drive which will start on January 24. We intend to increase the vaccination coverage and the trend of fresh cases indicates that the district has reached its peak and cases have started to stabilise. From here on, the cases will only see a decline. But we will observe the figures for another week,” Dr Tyagi added. According to the CoWIN portal, the district has so far administered 5,036,646 vaccine doses and the figure includes 29,61,098 first doses. Apart from this, the district has also completed vaccination of 132,613 children till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-records-780-fresh-coronavirus-infections-lowest-in-the-past-13-days-101642800399191.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admissions: Four convents hold draw of lots for entry-level classes||A total of four convent schools in the city held draw of lots for admissions to their entry-level classes on Friday.The UT education department has directed private Schools to display the list of selected candidates for the 2022-23 admission session by February 1, while the last date to deposit the fee is February 11.Amid the rise in Covid cases in the city, all four schools held virtual draw of lots for LKG class. A limited number of parents were called to the schools to observe the process and ensure transparency. Out of the four schools, St Anne’s Convent School, Sector 32, had received the highest number of applications, with 1,662 children applying for 200 seats. Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, had received 1,052 applications for 160 seats.At St John’s High School, Sector 26, 659 children applied for 133 seats, while 908 students were hoping to secure one of the 120 seats at Carmel Convent School, Sector 9.Gurukul Global School, Sector 13 (Manimajra), also held the draw of lots for nursery class, which has 54 seats. As many as 124 applications were received. Other private schools will also hold their draw of lots in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admissions-four-convents-hold-draw-of-lots-for-entry-level-classes-101642800041145.html
22-01-2022||Noida||Woman found murdered in Sector 94; family alleges rape||Noida: Police have booked unidentified people for allegedly killing a 20-year-old woman, who was found dead in her house in Noida Sector 94, on Thursday evening.The victim’s husband, a street food vendor, alleged that the woman was raped and then killed and filed a complaint at the Sector 126 police station on Friday.The complainant, a native of Aligarh, said he had been living in Noida for the past four years. “Last year, I got married and brought my wife to our rented house in Noida. I work as a street food vendor near Mahamaya Flyway, and my wife was a homemaker. On Thursday, I left home for work at 10am and returned at 6pm. I found the door of our house bolted from outside,” he said.When he opened the door, he found his wife dead on the floor, covered under a blanket. “She had severe injury marks on her face and body. I immediately informed the police and some of my relatives,” he said, alleging that it appeared his wife was raped and then murdered.Police took the victim to the district hospital, where she was declared dead.A case has been registered against unknown people under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) at the Sector 126 police station on Friday. “A police team along with forensic experts collected evidence from the house. Police are investigating the matter and have launched a search to arrest the suspect(s),” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida.Bharat Kumar Rathi, station house officer (SHO), Sector 126 police station, said that the body was sent for post mortem and medical reports were awaited. “We will add rape charges in the FIR if the post mortem report reveals so,” Rathi said.The victim lived in a one-room makeshift house at an isolated place near a dense bush in Naurangabad village in Noida Sector 94. It is nearly 200 metres away from Gaushala. There are a few plotted rooms at some distance, which appeared abandoned, said police.According to the complainant, he does not have any personal enmity with anybody. “I had seen some youth roaming around the area purposelessly in the past. I suspect those anti-social elements have committed the crime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-found-murdered-in-sector-94-family-alleges-rape-101642799919189.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gangster Bambiha’s aide arrested in Kharar||A team of the organised crime control unit (OCCU), along with Mohali police, arrested a close associate of gangster Davinder Bambiha and Sukha Duneke gang on Friday.“The accused, Happy Singh, alias Amy, is a resident Muktsar, Punjab. He was arrested from Kharar following a tip-off. A .32-calibre foreign-made pistol, along with six live cartridges, were recovered from him,” said Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harjeet Singh. He added that Happy and his gang members had been executing crimes in the region on the directions of Canada-based Duneke, who is involved in various heinous crimes in Punjab’s Malwa region, such as murder, kidnapping, extortion and carjacking. “During questioning, Happy disclosed that he was involved in the kidnapping of a prominent doctor in Muktsar in December last year. They had kidnapped the doctor while he was out for a walk and demanded ₹1 crore as ransom. They held the doctor captive for three hours and released him after the family paid ₹25 lakh,” the police official added.Provided weapons for murders of slain gangster’s aidesThe SSP said on Duneke’s directions, Happy had also provided weapons to the shooters, who killed Manpreet Singh, alias Challa Sidhu, and Manpreet, alias Vicky, both close aides of murdered gangster Kulbir Singh Naruana, in Bathinda on January 12.Apart from this, Happy and his gang members were involved in more than 10 criminal cases in Punjab. A fresh case under Sections 392, 382, 384, 364-A, 365, 473 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act has been registered against him at the Kharar police station. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-bambiha-s-aide-arrested-in-kharar-101642799559930.html
22-01-2022||Noida||2 robbers who attacked NTPC official’s family in Noida arrested, one absconding||Police arrested two suspects on Friday for allegedly barging into a flat and robbing jewellery and cash worth ₹10 lakh at scissors’ point from the house of an NTPC official in Noida Sector 70 on Wednesday afternoon. The 55-year-old additional general manager of NTPC, Kalyan Mondal, is posted in Chennai. His wife, Jyoti Mondal (51) is a homemaker, daughter Ananya Mondal (23) is a final year student of Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) at a private college in Ghaziabad, and son (17) is a special child were at home when the incident took place on Wednesday. Ananya, who moved back to home in Noida from her college hostel on January 8 due to the Covid-19 situation, said, “We heard a knock on the door around 3:30pm on Wednesday, and as soon as I opened the door, two masked men caught me by neck and threatened to handover all the valuables. I was gagged, and could barely manage to scream and alert my mother,” Ananya said. Jyoti, who was in the other room, heard the noise and came outside to rescue her daughter. The suspects, meanwhile, hit her in the left leg. “The two suspects held us at a scissors’ point and threatened to harm us if we did not hand over the valuables to them. We were afraid and gave them the keys to the safe. They ransacked the house in 10 minutes, and escaped with the jewellery and cash,” she said. Jyoti immediately informed the police and a team of officials from the Noida phase 3 police station reached the spot and launched a probe accordingly. A case was registered against the two suspects under Indian Penal code (IPC) sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful consignment) and 392 (robbery) at the Noida phase 3 police station on Wednesday, said Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida Central.“We scanned CCTV footage and found three men entering the premises. We found out during investigation that shoes óf one of the suspects matched shoes of a person who could be seen inside the building a few times in the past. He was identified as Vikas Singh, 22, a native of Farrukhabad,” he said. Police found out that Vikas worked as a caretaker at a gurukul based in Noida, and he used to visit the second floor of that building, which was put on rent, for official purposes. Niraj Singh, manager of the gurukul, said that Vikas has been working there for the past four years. “Vikas informed us on Tuesday that he would be on leave for a few days... As we suspected his role in the loot incident, we shared information about him with the police,” Singh said. On Friday, police conducted a search at Vikas’ hideout in Ghaziabad and arrested him from there. They have also arrested another suspect Naveen Kumar, 23, also a resident of Ghaziabad, from his house.Vivek Trivedi, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station, said that Vikas revealed during interrogation that he engaged two of his friends -- Naveen and Bhura, 22 -- also a resident of Ghaziabad in the crime. “Vikas used to visit the victim’s house to attend their special child. He believed that the family was well off, and the trio could get handsome money out of the robbery. The three suspects reached the housing complex on the motorcycle of Vikas’s brother on Wednesday afternoon. Vikas knocked the door and left the spot, as the other two committed the crime,” he said. Police have recovered the stolen valuables and motorcycle used in crime. The two arrested suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Friday.We have launched a hunt to nab Bhura, who is still on the run, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-robbers-who-attacked-ntpc-official-s-family-in-noida-arrested-one-absconding-101642799439260.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid +ve drug peddling accused escapes from GMSH-16, caught again||Day after arrest:Arrested with 610gm heroin on Thursday, a 37-year-old woman on Friday escaped from the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where she was admitted after testing positive for Covid-19. However, the accused, Poonam, landed back in police net after cops tracked her down to an acquaintance’s house in Sector 56 following a two-hour search.Popularly known as “Bhabi” in the region’s drug circles, Poonam was arrested, along with her accomplice, Sandeep Khatri, 40, a resident of Narela, Delhi. While 404.2gm heroin was recovered from Poonam, another 205.9gm heroin was found in Khatri’s possession after their car was intercepted at a naka in Industrial Area, Phase 1.Following the arrest, Poonam tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted in the Covid ward on the first floor of GMSH-16. Around 5am on Friday, while the female constable on duty went to the toilet, Poonam escaped through a window with the help of two tied-up patient robes.After she was caught from her acquaintance’s house, she was shifted to the police hospital in Sector 26 for quarantine. Meanwhile, Khatri was sent to judicial custody by a court on Friday. Police have registered another case under Sections 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, against Poonam at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-covid-ve-drug-peddling-accused-escapes-from-gmsh-16-caught-again-101642799319133.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Sanjeev Khanna is BJP’s pick for Dera Bassi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has declared Sanjeev Khanna as its candidate from the Dera Bassi constituency for the Punjab Assembly elections scheduled on February 20. His name figured in the first list of 36 candidates declared by the party in Delhi on Friday.A realtor based in Dera Bassi, Khanna, 57, has been a state executive committee member of BJP’s Punjab unit since December 2020, apart from being an RSS activist. He has also been involved in social work for the past three decades.Khanna has been pitted against Shiromani Akali Dal’s two-time MLA NK Sharma and Aam Aadmi Party’s Kuljeet Singh Randhawa.Congress has not nominated its candidate yet, though Deepinder Singh Dhillon, who finished second in the 2017 elections, and Amit Bawa Saini are the frontrunners.“As the BJP has put a huge responsibility on me, I will ensure all-around development of the constituency, with special focus on Zirakpur, which is home to a large number of people, even from other states. The constituency has seen huge growth in terms of commerce, but it still lacks basic amenities due to the Congress-led government’s apathy,” Khanna said.The Dera Bassi assembly constituency has always remained a stronghold of the SAD under former minister late Captain Kanwaljit Singh, with the party triumphing consistently for the past three decades.NK Sharma won the elections in 2012 and 2017, beating Congress’ Deepinder Singh Dhillon on both occasions.But in the civic body elections held in February last year, the Congress routed out the SAD from all three civic bodies in the constituency – Dera Bassi, Lalru and Zirakpur.
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala gang war: 20 bullets crossed gangster’s body, four found inside, autopsy reveals||A day after a gangster affiliated with the Bhupi Rana gang was shot dead in Ambala Cantonment, the autopsy revealed that 20 bullets passed through his body and another four were lodged inside.Autopsy on the body of Mohit Rana, a resident of Khelan village, Dera Bassi, Mohali, was conducted at the Ambala sub-divisional civil hospital on Friday.Carried out by a board of three doctors, it continued for nearly two hours, with a large number of Rana’s relatives and friends present on the hospital premises. Heavy police force was deployed to avert any law and order situation.Dr Munish Singla, a forensic expert on the board, said as per preliminary report, 20 bullets passed through the body, leading to 40 wounds, mostly on the chest, abdomen and thighs. “We were able to extract four bullets from the chest, head and shoulder. These were handed over to the police. The final report will be ready in a few days, after which a ballistic report will be prepared to determine the weapons used in the crime,” he said. Inspector Suresh Kumar, station in-charge, Mahesh Nagar police station, said after the autopsy, the body was handed over to the family for last rites.The other victim of the attack, Vishal, alias Bhola, a private employee and a resident of Ambala Cantonment, remains critical at PGIMER, Chandigarh.Police uncertain of assailants’ identity 24 hours laterMeanwhile, the police failed to establish the identity of the assailants 24 hours after the gang war took place in broad daylight near DAV Public School on the Ambala-Jagadhari road on Thursday.Soon after the incident, a Facebook post by Goldy Brar had claimed responsibility for the murder with his “brother” Kala Rana. Police said Brar was affiliated with the Lawrence Bishnoi and Kala Rana gangs, and operated from abroad.Both Kala Rana and Monu Rana operate in association with the Bishnoi gang against a common enemy – the Bhupi Rana gang. A number of clashes and executions have been reported between the gangs in several north Haryana districts like Ambala, Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra.Ambala superintendent of police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said his teams were working on several initial tips, adding that the murder was a fallout of the enmity between the gangs over the 2014 murder of a Bhupi Rana aide, Mohammad Mushtaq, in Barara.A senior cop said they were looking into the role of gangster Virender Pratap, alias Kala Rana, who was also a co-accused in the 2014 murder case.He had gone missing soon after the murder in which gangster Shamsher Singh, alias Monu Rana, was sentenced to life imprisonment.“Kala is a native of Karnal and later shifted to Yamunanagar. Other than the 2014 case, he was recently named in the murder of a Yamunanagar businessman, Raghunath Prajapati, in which Sandeep, alias Kala Jatheri, confessed to his involvement. Kala is also facing cases for threatening the Yamunanagar CIA-2 in-charge last month and seeking extortion money from mining contractors in Yamunanagar in August 2020, among others. He currently operates from a foreign country,” the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-gang-war-20-bullets-crossed-gangster-s-body-four-found-inside-autopsy-reveals-101642798599011.html
22-01-2022||Noida||2022 UP assembly elections: 73 file nominations for five seats in Ghaziabad||When the time for filing nominations under first phase of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh ended on Friday, there were at least 73 candidates in the fray for the five assembly seats in Ghaziabad district, the provisional figures from the district election office indicated. The assembly constituencies of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar together have 2,899,484 eligible voters, as per the latest electoral rolls. While many candidates filed a single set of the prescribed nomination form, a few candidates -- Sunil Kumar Sharma of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Chhavi Yadav of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Sachin Sharma of the AAP, Nand Kishor Gurjar of the BJP, Atul Garg of the BJP, Madan Bhaiya of Rashtriya Lok Dal, Yameen Malik of the Congress, Sushant Goyal of the Congress and Sudesh Sharma of the RLD -- filed multiple forms.“Many candidates file multiple forms as a fail-safe against one of their forms getting rejected during scrutiny. They can file a maximum of four set of forms and parties also field substitute candidates (as per Form B) in order to remain in the fray even if the candidature of the main candidate gets rejected,” said Vivek Srivastava, additional district election officer According to district election officer RK Singh, 13 nominations were filed till Friday from Loni, 18 each from Sahibabad and Ghaziabad while 16 were from Muradnagar and eight from Modinagar assembly segments. According to district records, 42 nominations were filed till Thursday while 31 were filed on the last day on Friday. In all, 73 nominations were filed for the five assembly seats.During the 2017 elections, 88 candidates had filed their nomination papers while 53 contested the elections from the five seats in Ghaziabad,after scrutiny and withdrawal of nominations. As per the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India, January 24 has been fixed for scrutiny of nominations while the selected candidates may withdraw their names till January 27. Thereafter, the list of final candidates will be rolled out for the polls on February 10. Political experts said the practice of filing more than one set of forms and substitute candidates during the nomination is an old one. “It is generally due to fear or to safeguard against rejection of candidature, on one account or the other during the scrutiny stage, that people file multiple sets of forms. Since the forms require a lot of personal details in prescribed formats, some people generally file more than one. The replacement candidates also file nominations as a fail-safe, in case the main candidate of a party gets rejected, the other steps up,” said Dr Virendra Singh, associate professor (political science), MMH Degree College, Ghaziabad. There were other reasons too, said Vikrant Sharma, a criminal lawyer at Ghaziabad court. “Since each form has a different proposer, some candidates try to portray that they have a proposer who may belong to a particular caste or religion. Although no party or candidate would admit it, but caste equations play a vital role in elections. In the past, when incidents of violence were rampant during elections, people also fielded their relatives or family members as substitute candidates so that they may contest if the primary candidate suffered any harm,” said Sharma. “Despite the Election Commission of India issuing detailed guidelines, many still find it difficult to fill up forms and attach the required documents. They take the help of lawyers for that. There is a need for awareness sessions for candidates and help desks may be set up to assist them,” Sharma said. 
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 Amritsar men feared drowned in Chenab in Ramban, searches on||Two men were feared drowned in the Chenab in Ramban district on Friday, officials said. They were identified as Manjeet Singh 50, and Jatinder Singh, 28, both residents of Amritsar. SHO, Ramban police station, inspector Sandeep Singh Charak said, “Preliminary reports revealed that they were partying by the riverside when one of them fell into the river and the other one jumped into the river to rescue him.” There were two other young men aged 19 and 21 with them, who were away from the place of the incident. The police informed that these men had parked their truck on the roadside and had descended the slope to reach the riverside. “We have launched a search operation but so far there is no clue of the missing men,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-amritsar-men-feared-drowned-in-chenab-in-ramban-searches-on-101642797881442.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panthers Party protests outside Nirvachan Bhawan, seeks publication of delimitation report||Seeking immediate publication of the delimitation report followed by early assembly elections in J&K, former minister and chairman of the Panthers Party Harsh Dev Singh along with party activists held a protest demonstration outside Nirvachan Bhawan here on Friday. The infuriated protesters raised slogans accusing the BJP government of colluding with the delimitation commission in delaying and denying the assembly elections to satiate its vested political interests. The party leaders questioned the credibility of the delimitation commission for inexplicable procrastination of publication of its much-trumpeted draft report in the public domain despite a lapse of 22 months since its constitution. Alleging subversion of democracy in J&K post Article 370 abrogation, Harsh Dev Singh claimed that the BJP-led government appeared to be averse to the idea of holding assembly elections in the new setup. “Where is Delimitation Commission? Has it gone missing? Why its draft report has not been put in the public domain as of now? While the BJP regime was drum beating over the ‘fudged narrative’ of increase of seats for Jammu, the fact remained that it had failed to initiate any concrete action except the constitution of the Delimitation Commission on March 6, 2020. The rumours were agog that the commission was dancing to the tunes of the BJP government,” he said. Harsh further said, “It has been intentionally delaying the process to deny elections in J&K to allow the saffron party to run its proxy rule in the erstwhile Dogra state through its chosen ones.” He further added that while delimitation of DDC constituencies in J&K was effected within one week by the present dispensation in 2020, the draft report of the Delimitation Commission which was supposed to be put in the public domain had failed to see the light of the day despite the term of commission nearing its completion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panthers-party-protests-outside-nirvachan-bhawan-seeks-publication-of-delimitation-report-101642797880286.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir reports 5,720 Covid infections; highest number of active cases in Srinagar dist||After Jammu and Kashmir witnessed the highest-ever daily Covid-19 spike of 5,992 infections on Thursday, 5,720 cases and five fatalities were reported in J&K on Friday.Among the deaths, four patients died in Jammu and one in the Kashmir division.Before this week’s surge, the highest novel Coronavirus cases reported in the union territory were 5,443 and 50 deaths on May 7 when the second wave had peaked. The first wave had peaked in September 2020 reporting the highest surge of 1,698 cases and 10 deaths on September 12.The active cases in the union territory reached 34,882. On December 31, the union territory had just 1,337 active cases.The officials said a record 82,903 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. The authorities have increased the testing rate this month as earlier they have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December.Of the total infections on Friday, Kashmir valley saw 3, 830 and single death while 1,890 cases and four deaths were reported in the Jammu division.Srinagar has taken over as the district with the highest number of Covid active cases at 8,544 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 7,540 and 5,213 active cases, respectively.This month has witnessed a steep rise in cases with daily infections shooting up from 1,148 on January 11 to 5,992 on January 20. From January 5 to 10, the union territory saw between 400 to 700 cases daily. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 1,877 with active positive cases reaching 34,882.However, of the 4,794 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 9.33 percent or 466 are occupied in J&K. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 39,460 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to cross 2.001 crores. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,44,908 while the recovery rate has dropped to 90.10%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,84,381 and the death toll has reached 4,591.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,180 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 889 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-5-720-covid-infections-highest-number-of-active-cases-in-srinagar-dist-101642797878927.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||31 kg heroin seized on LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||The Army on Friday claimed to have unearthed a huge consignment of narcotics along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district. “Based on inputs of smuggling of narcotics through the LoC in Poonch, the Army along with the JKP launched search operations in the area. The operations were backed up with a surveillance grid coupled with extensive domination of the areas close to the Line of Control. On the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, narcotics weighing approximately 31 kg were recovered in a search operation,” said a defence spokesman.A police official said that the narcotics were heroin and were estimated at ₹114 crore in the international market.Pakistan, as part of its narco-terrorism strategy, keeps pushing drugs into Jammu and Kashmir to spoil the lives of youth and use the money earned from drugs to fuel terrorism in the region||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/31-kg-heroin-seized-on-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch-101642797828488.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Nine more die of Covid in Himachal; Kangra worst-hit district||Himachal’s tally of Covid deaths jumped to 3,908 on Friday after nine more patients succumbed to the infection.This is the highest single-day fatalities since November 11, 2021, when 10 people had died due to the Covid in the state. In the last one week, Himachal Pradesh has seen nearly five-time increase in Covid deaths.As many as 36 people have died in the state since January 15 compared to only eight the previous week.The highest 12 deaths have occurred in the most populous district Kangra, seven in Shimla, four in Una, three each in Mandi, Solan and Chamba, two in Sirmaur and one in Hamirpur.More than 90% of cases were comorbid and in the age group above 49. Only two people were in the age group of 16 to 22. The eldest victim was a 105-year-old female and the youngest a 16-year-old boy.Meanwhile, the state recorded 2,940 fresh infections on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 2,57,350. The highest 721 cases were reported from Shimla, 438 from Solan, 396 from Kangra, 350 from Mandi, 220 from Hamirpur, 212 from Una, 154 from Bilaspur, 131 from Sirmaur, 121 from Kinnaur, 109 from Kullu, 81 from Chamba and seven from Lahaul-Spiti.Active cases have jumped to 17,071 while recoveries reached 2,36,327 after 1,477 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 57,774 cases followed by Mandi with 35,155 and Shimla with 16,997 cases.
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||INS Ranvir blast: Hamirpur sailor cremated with military honours||Surender Dhatwalia, Navy sailor, was cremated with full state and military honours on Friday at his native village in Hamirpur district. His daughter lit the pyre.Dhatwalia, 47, was among the three Navy sailors killed in a fire caused by an explosion in the air-conditioning compartment of the guided-missile destroyer INS Ranvir on January 18 at the naval dockyard in Mumbai.Dhatwalia belonged to Sathvi village of Barsar subdivision in Hamirpur district. Eleven sailors were injured in the incident. Serving as a Master Chief Petty Officer (MCPO), Dhatwalia joined the Navy 28 years ago.The sailor is survived by his mother Kehro Devi, wife Neelam Kumari and two daughters. A pall of gloom descended on the Sathvi village when his mortal remains were brought to the village late on Thursday.INS Ranvir was on “cross coast operational deployment” from the Eastern Naval Command since November 2021 and was due to return to its base port of Visakhapatnam. The Navy has instituted a board of inquiry to go into the cause of the mishap.Destroyer INS Ranvir was commissioned into the Navy in October 1986. It is manned by a crew of 30 officers and 310 sailors and is equipped with surface-to-surface and surface-to-air missiles, anti-aircraft guns, anti-missile torpedoes and anti-submarine rocket launchers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ins-ranvir-blast-hamirpur-sailor-cremated-with-military-honours-101642797826032.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board to conserve environment, beautify tracks||In its endeavour to improve facilities for the visiting pilgrims, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has been devoting attention to conserving the environment and ecology and carrying out the greening of the Trikuta Hills and the spaces along the tracks leading to the shrine, said officials on Friday. In this context, a meeting was held on Friday under the chairmanship of the chief executive officer, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, Ramesh Kumar at Katra to review plantation activities and various fruit plants of seedling origin supplied by the horticulture department of J&K to the shrine board with the aim to explore the possibilities for planting more such plants in the vicinity of shrine forest area in the coming years. Ram Savak, director, horticulture, Jammu; Brij Vallabh Gupta, chief horticulture officer, Reasi, and Vinay Khajuria, ACF, SMVDSB, attended the meeting. While taking stock of the fruit plants received from the horticulture department, the CEO was informed that fruit-bearing species are being planted in the Serli forest area of the shrine board, whereas, the CEO proposed to identify species of fruit-bearing plants seedlings to be planted in Bhairon, Sanjichhat, and Natali areas during the winter. The director, horticulture, assured to provide more such high-yielding seedlings like mango, guava, peach, orange, etc, during the ongoing winter plantation and also assured to provide more high-density seedlings during ensuing summers. The CEO was also informed about the creation of the mother plant area in Kunia Nursery to be created for fruit-bearing species like mango, litchi (Muzaffarpur), guava, etc, in 2-hectare area in Phase-II of the nursery. The CEO laid emphasis on planting high-density varieties of plants that gives fruits of good quality and are compatible with the local climatic conditions. He underscored the need for planting fruit-bearing plants to minimise the monkey menace. He asked for carrying out timely execution of the plantation activities during the ensuing months and side by side taking all requisite steps to increase the green cover of the Trikuta Hills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shri-mata-vaishno-devi-shrine-board-to-conserve-environment-beautify-tracks-101642797824821.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal govt imposes ban on transfers till Budget session||The Himachal Pradesh government has imposed a ban on the general transfers in the state departments, boards and corporations till the Budget session of the state assembly.The Budget session of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly usually starts in the last week of February and ends in April.The notification regarding the ban on transfers was issued by undersecretary (personnel) Balbir Singh on Thursday.“I am directed to invite attention and to say that it has been decided by the government to enforce a complete ban on transfer in the state till the Budget session is over. Accordingly, no transfers or adjustments shall be ordered by any department/ board/ corporation/ universities, etc,” states the notification.It further states that the transfers can be done in the rarest of rare cases, including only on extreme medical grounds or on administrative exigencies, that too with the prior approval of the chief minister through the concerned minister-in-charge in accordance with the comprehensive guiding principles dated July 2013, it added.All the departments, boards, corporations and universities have been directed to ensure strict compliance of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-govt-imposes-ban-on-transfers-till-budget-session-101642797822143.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Government revises guidelines for management of Covid in children||The ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has revised the guidelines for the management of Covid-19 in children and adolescents (below 18 years), a state government spokesperson said on Friday. In a press statement issued here, the spokesperson said that for the management of Covid-19 in children, they have been categorised into asymptomatic, mild, moderate and severe cases.He said that asymptomatic children, who are positive without any symptoms, required only home isolation under the care of parents or guardians. In such cases, no tests or medicines are required and in case symptoms develop then seek medical advice. He said that mild cases who have symptoms like sore throat, running nose, cough without breathing difficulty, SpO2 is ≥ 94% on room air, fever needs symptomatic treatment with paracetamol and saline gargles. Antibiotics are not required and monitoring of symptoms like respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, and activity level are needed. The mild cases can be managed at home or at Covid care centres, he said.He added that children with asymptomatic infection or mild disease should receive routine childcare, proper nutrition and psychological support.The government spokesperson said that the moderate cases are those who have mild symptoms and in addition have fast breathing at rest, SpO2 is 90 to 93% on room air. The children with these symptoms need admission to dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) or Covid-19 hospitals. He said the children with severe symptoms of pneumonia, shock, respiratory distress and SpO2 <90% on room air require admission to ICU of Covid hospital for further management.The government spokesperson said keeping in view the increase in the number of cases, it is important to teach children and adolescents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviours like washing hands frequently, maintaining a 2-metre distance, wearing masks and staying in open spaces and well-ventilated areas. He appealed to the parents to ensure vaccination to adolescents of the age group of 15-18 years to decrease the risk of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/government-revises-guidelines-for-management-of-covid-in-children-101642797820559.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Technical University, Hamirpur, issues tentative schedule for entrance exams||The Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU), Hamirpur, has issued the tentative schedule for screening exams for admission to various courses, including BTech and BPharmacy in July.HPTU registrar Aupam Kumar Thakur said the HPCET-2022 will be held on July 9 and 10. HPTU is holding the Himachal Pradesh Common Entrance Test (HPCET) after a gap of two years due to Covid-19. For last two years the admissions were being done on merit bases.Thakur said that the HPTU has started the preparations for the entrance exam. He said that as per the tentative schedule the screening exam for admission to the MBA, MBA (tourism) and BBA will be held on July 9 in the morning session while exam for BCA and MCA will be held in the afternoon session.On July 10 screening test for BTech, BPharmacy, BPharmacy (Ayurveda) and MSc Physics will be held in the morning session while in the afternoon for MSc Physics, MTech, M Pharmacy, MSc Environment Science and other subjects. He said details about the process for applying for the exam will be uploaded on the university website soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-technical-university-hamirpur-issues-tentative-schedule-for-entrance-exams-101642797819009.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees 1, 265 new Covid cases, 5 more casualties||Ludhiana The district saw 1,265 fresh cases and five more virus-induced deaths on Friday. The victims include a 30-year-old woman, a resident of Samrala Chowk, and four men aged 89, 85, 57, and 32, of BRS Nagar, Shaerpur Area and Railway Road in Jagraon, respectively. Ludhiana’s death toll now stands at 2,153.The district has 8,020 active Covid cases, of which 7,829 patients are in home isolation while 171 are undergoing treatment at private hospitals and 20 at government hospitals. The cumulative count has increased to 1,02,639, of which 92,456 persons have recovered.Meanwhile, to facilitate police personnel and their family members, the department has released special mobile teams to administer booster doses to them. On Friday, the camps were held at the commissioner of police ‘s office, while the camps will be held at Mai Bhago College Ramgarh and Maharishi Balmiki Bhawan, Chandigarh Road for CRPF personnel on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-1-265-new-covid-cases-5-more-casualties-101642797519116.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Proceedings initiated to declare MLA Bains a proclaimed offender||Troubles are mounting for MLA and Lok Insaf Party (LIP) chief Simrajit Singh Bains, who has been accused of rape by a 44-year-old woman, as the court of judicial magistrate Harsimran Kaur has initiated proceedings to declare him a proclaimed offender The proceedings were initiated after Bains did not respond to bailable and non-bailable warrants issued by the court. The next hearing is scheduled for February 11.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and advocate Harish Rai Dhanda, counsel for the complainant, said after the police failed to arrest Bains and other accused persons in the case despite issuance of non-bailable warrants multiple times, the court has published a notice and initiated proceedings to declare the accused as proclaimed offenders. “The statements of police personnel concerned were also recorded in the court on Thursday, following which a notice has been published declaring Bains and other accused persons in the case as absconders. Their response is awaited and if they fail to reply till February 11, the court will pronounce them as proclaimed offenders,” said Dhanda, adding that Bains was openly addressing political rallies in the city, and the police have expressed their inability to arrest him claiming that he is evading arrest.The complainant has lodged a complaint against MLA Simarjit Bains , and has accused his accomplices Karamjit Singh, Sukhchain Singh, Paramjeet Singh, Pardeep Kumar alias Gogi Sharma, Baljinder Kaur and Jasveer Kaur alias Bhabi for helping him. On the orders of the court the Division 6 police, a case was lodged on July 7, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-proceedings-initiated-to-declare-mla-bains-a-proclaimed-offender-101642797279040.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Readers’ Take: Reclaim the night, curb crime||Sensitisation at grassroots requiredThough the importance of policing cannot be denied, making tricity safe for women needs to be addressed at other levels too. The fear and insecurities created by the pandemic are a major trigger, leading to venting of anger and frustration. Despite societal changes, we are still predominantly in a patriarchal setup. To counter this, we need sensitisation and awareness drives at the grassroots level, for which the police and the civil society needs to work in tandem. Renu Mathur, PanchkulaPublic spaces & transport should be made saferAccording to World Health Organisation (WHO), one in three women has experienced some kind of physical or sexual violence. To eliminate this problem, simple measures like shifting a bus stop, installing streetlights or constructing public toilets can greatly improve women’s safety in tricity. Public transport is crucial for economic development and should be made safer at night. Raising awareness is the first step to building support and mobilising key stakeholders to work to reduce and prevent violence and the threat of violence against women and girls in public spaces. Art is one powerful way to bring attention to harassment. Technology is having a profound impact on women’s ability to raise awareness against sexual harassment, report assault and unsafe areas, share personal stories, and mobilise across tricity. It helps to empower women to stand up for their right to safe public spaces. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhTrack criminals hiding in plain sightFirstly, the major reason for crimes against women is the presence of criminals and inimical elements who hide in plain sight in the civilised society. Other reasons are many, but not nearly as significant as this, the most overarching one. Consequently, targeting them and bringing down them to book should be the society’s highest priority. We have technology and means to do so, but lack the single point, undistracted focus that is at the heart of any strategy to counter this looming menace. A highly planned city as Chandigarh tricity has only so many places a criminal can breed and slink away to after perpetrating a crime. Such areas have been identified and sanitised previously too, what’s needed is a will to completely eliminate criminals once it’s clear there’s even a shadow of doubt something may have been done that can be termed as crime adjacent. Any delay or half-hearted measure can only delay the inevitable showdown that civilised society needs to eventually have with criminals. Ajay Dogra, PanchkulaVirus not the only enemyImposing night curfew to control the spread of Covid-19 infection has created more problems than it was meant to solve. Rape of a female passenger by an autorikshaw driver in a place like Sector 17 during curfew hours, is the crime that could not possibly occur if there was no curfew. Murder of two women in Maloya and Mauli Jagran last week, can also be somewhere attributed to the fact that criminals could easily get away with the crime without the possibility of any witness around. UT administration will do to review the decision or else ensure additional police patrolling and proper illumination at all the secluded places in the city.SC Luthra, Chandigarh Promote gender equityViolence against women is the manifestation of historically unequal power relations between man and woman. Successful prevention requires political commitment and leadership for implementing laws and policies efficiently to promote gender equity. Police and the judicial system are unfortunately not as active and prompt as desired for the delivery of justice to the victims. Most of the crimes in Chandigarh, in the recent past, were committed by three-wheeler drivers and persons from other states. Police should do well to get a fresh verification of three-wheeler drivers, tents and PGs done. All religious and educational institutions should promote respect for women and girl children. Parents should also educate their children against crime and criminals.Kidar Nath Sharma, via emailSelf defence classes for allSelf defence is a means by which we can protect ourselves from those who would do us harm. It entails simple things like using our body parts, things in our possession like keyrings etc as a means of defending ourselves. Self-defence is for everybody. Today almost everyone from teenagers to grannies, to office executives and retired couples, need at least a basic knowledge of simple self-protection measures. Learning martial arts can be very rewarding at a personal level, but for most people. People who have little physical skill can easily absorb and use the basic forms of self-defence. B S Handa, via emailBetter infrastructureIncidents of violence against women and girls are increasing and continue to plague roads, public transport facilities and places of recreation too. To make tricity roads safer for women, the administration needs to improve the streetlight cover in the city, introduce women-friendly transportation facilities, bring more CCTV cameras, equip all public transport with GPS-tracking and increasing policing. Sessions on prevention of sexual harassment should be held for both men and women. Also, we need to make girls and women self-sufficient to protect themselves in case of any eventuality. Prabhjot NagpalInstill fear of law in criminalsThe society must stop viewing women as the weaker sex. Self-defence classes will go a long way in helping women protect themselves. Besides, the age-old patriarchy must go and women and girls must be encouraged to speak up against form of harassment. Policing must be strengthened and law enforcement agencies must also play an active role in bringing to book the perpetrators so that women and girls feel more confident about speaking out about such harassment. Stricter punishment can help instill the fear of law in the criminals. Abhishek Kumar, Chandigarh Keep tabs on cab, auto driversChandigarh administration has failed to curb the menace of crime rate against women in the city. Dense forest areas, with no streetlights and no cop deployment, give ample opportunities to the criminals to commit crime. Security should be beefed up at secluded places and special light arrangements should be made to avoid such incidents. During winters, night patrolling should be beefed up and cops should be deployed at every one kilometre. Illegal occupants, migrants, and squatters should be checked. ID cards with their background written on it should be made mandatory for auto and cab drivers. All public transports should be connected to a centralised system to keep track of the drivers to safeguard women against crime in the city.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliPolicies for women’s safetyIt is unfortunate that women are considered to be objects of desire as a result of which heinous crimes of murders and rapes are committed by the unscrupulous elements. Policy rejig is needed to dent this menace. Efficient police patrolling at night must coupled with police and law enforcement agencies working together.Raj Kumar Kapoor, RoparWomen safety is a basic necessity Chandigarh has a woman MP and a woman mayor, yet still women’s safety becomes an agenda only after some untoward incidents occur. Women safety should be a priority for the lawmakers. Better street lighting, better CCTV coverage, panic buttons at public places etc should be created. Police too needs to up the ante in this matter.Kampreet Gill, ChandigarhNight patrolling needs to be strengthenedCrime graph is vertically rising in the tricity. Rape, murder, carjacking, snatchings are happening daily. Not only women but children, elderly and individuals are victims. Senior police officials and administration officers should supervise night patrolling. Forest guards should be deployed 24 hours in forest area as most crimes are committed there. Navjot Singh Chhabra, MohaliHarsher punishment for crimes against womenWomen have been suffering atrocities from partners, strangers etc. It is high time that we find ways to protect women from heinous crimes like rape and murder. We need more cops on the ground, especially women cops, to make women feel safer. Also, we need harsher punishments for those perpetuate crimes against women. Kundan Lal Sharma, MohaliHold cops accountableThe three recent crimes against women that took place in the city must enrage us all. A city that cannot ensure safety for its women is of no good. There must be exemplary punishment for the perpetrators of crime. Law and order seems to have gone out of order in the city. The in-charge of the police station concerned in the area must be held accountable for crimes on streets. Dark spots in the city also need urgent police verification and the drivers of all autos and cabs must be given strict orders to ensure the safety of their passengers. Time to time workshops for them can prove handy. P Mehta, via email No lessons learnt from the pastThe recent cases of crimes against women, are not the first case. In the past too, many such crimes, involving auto drivers, have taken place. But nothing was done to check such criminals. Why don’t autos have GPS systems like cabs. Most autos are run by migrants, who feel that they can flee to their hometown easily after the crime. Introducing women-only buses for educational institutions, deployment of more women constables in plain clothes at public places etc will also help. Also, registering of complaints must be made easier for women. Advocate Vijay Malia, ChandigarhIntensify night patrolUT is facing a rise in crimes against women. To check it, police should intensify night patrol on bicycle or on foot in civilian clothes. As the three cities are clinging to each other with multiple entry points, their police should also work in tandem. All dark areas should be illuminated properly. Police and citizens through Residents Welfare Association should work together to eliminate the crime.Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd.), ChandigarhPolitical, administrative will to bring change missingPolice and administration make many policies to tackle women’s safety issues but sadly, are able to achieve precious little as the problems at the grassroots levels has not been addressed. Every few months, we come across cases of rapes and murders. When such a crime takes place, initially, there is a lot of hue and cry but slowly, it dies down. Unless there is political and administrative will, nothing much will change. Aarti Verma, PanchkulaPolicing needs to improveTo make city safer for women, police should keep patrolling external as well as internal roads all the time. Hidden CCTV cameras with audio should be installed on the city roads. Secret nakas should be conducted. Police helpline should be made operational. Only vigilant cops should be recruited by experienced recruiters. There should be security in markets, hotels and restaurants. Cops should not be lazy and should remain alert all the time. Cops should investigate the crimes properly. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhPlug loopholes in systemThe recent rise of various forms of crimes against women in the tricity area has raised many questions regarding the safety of women especially during night. The primary reason of course is the poor policing but we cannot overlook other reasons also behind all such crimes. The criminals are aware of the gaping loopholes in all the existing laws towards protection of women. There is no fear of police and other law enforcement agencies in the minds of the criminals. At the family level, we need to inculcate values in boys regarding extending respect to all females in the society. Moral education in schools can also help towards drilling values in our society. All women should also be taught skills to defend themselves in case of assault. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhKeep safety tools like pepper spray handyPolice is not alone to blame in this issue. Well-lit roads and CCTV cameras on every road can help curb crimes against women. Girls should also carry some kind of safety tool, for example a pepper spray, a small knife or something with which they can attack their attackers. Women also need to equip themselves with self-defence techniques. While venturing out at night, it is good idea to share your location with a trusted confidante so that help can arrive quickly in case of some trouble. Ishita Nara, PanchkulaRound the clock surveillanceCrime against women has increased in tricity. It is high time that separate women police cells be opened in each police station for speedy trial of women-related crimes NGOs and social organisations should also be involved in carrying out night patrolling. Lastly, high definition CCTV cameras be installed and round-the-clock surveillance for early detection of crime in tricity must be imposed. Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliField staff must be increasedCrimes against women are a matter of concern not only for the Chandigarh administration, but all of India. Crimes against women like rape, eve-teasing and domestic violence are increasing every year. Each time, the administration demands strict against the accused, but in maximum cases, they are unable to punish all those guilty. More field staff has to be deployed and CCTV cameras must be installed in every sector and village. Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh Admns must put plan in placeThe three incidents of horrific crimes against women reported from tricity in the past week are truly horrifying. It seems that police and administrations of tricity are not taking any lessons from the past and if proper action plans were in place, these crimes could have been avoided. The security of citizens of tricity, especially women, should be the top priority of the police and to ensure that, there has to be 24X7 vigilance on all the roads through patrolling vans and CCTV cameras must be installed in every place.Sanjay Chopra, Mohali Patrolling must be intensifiedThe rising graph of heinous crimes against women has put the nation and society to shame. It is obligatory to make public spaces safe for women at all times. The forest areas in Mauili Jagran and Maloya are especially unsafe, as the streets are poorly-lit. Police patrolling must be intensified and the municipal corporation(MC) should install streetlights at the earliest. Registering autorickshaw drivers should also be made mandatory. While the strictest action should be taken against the culprits, it is imperative to change the patriarchal mindset of the society at large. Usha Verma, Chandigarh Auto drivers must carry id cardsThe police department is totally failing to control crime, even during curfew .The authorities of tricity must form a sub-committee to control crime and the police must be instructed to perform their duties properly. Auto drivers must carry their identity cards and display the owner’s details on the vehicle. Vehicles should be impounded if the driver does not provide documents Police patrolling needs to be increased in the winter nights and they should conduct inspections at vacant plots and forest area. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali Women must be cautiousApart from police patrolling being increased, women must also be cautious. They must not wait at secluded dark places and avoid taking lift from unknown people. If they take a lift in case of an emergency, they should take a photo of the vehicle and forward to any friend immediately. Inderjit Singh Sidhu, MohaliAdmn needs to wake up to women safety It has once again come to the fore that the city is far from safe for women. What is more shocking that no arrests have been made for the cold-blooded murders. If the administration is serious about making the city safer for women, it needs to go for a complete overhaul of the police force. Patrolling needs to be stepped up in and around the vulnerable spots across the city. The authorities concerned need to identify the dark spots and order installation of streetlights around forested areas. Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarh Reader of the weekSelf-defence is the best weapon The three crimes – two murders and a rape – that took place in the city in the last few weeks bring out the loopholes in the system. Cops need to be stationed, not just at crowded spots, but also in secluded areas where such crimes are most likely to take place. Women should arm themselves with pepper spray etc while venturing out at night. Knowledge of self-defence techniques will be an added benefit. Such lessons must be compulsorily imparted in schools and colleges. Police should also promote women safety apps, with which help can be called for with the click of a button. Omika Sachdeva, via emailExpertsSafer streets We have identified dark spots in the city and written to authorities to install streetlights there. Night patrolling has also been increased and all calls to police control room, especially reporting crimes against women are immediately attended. A night-drop facility is also available with Chandigarh police. Shruti Arora, ASP, (South), ChandigarhAwareness Women safety apps, installation of CCTV cameras, awareness regarding the safest routes to travel at night, and self-defense techniques can help ensure women’s safety.Harjeet Singh, Mohali senior superintendent of policeAction Police have taken every precaution to ensure that there is a check on crime rate. We have installed CCTV cameras, lights at dark spots, have made women aware. But still if any such heinous crime happens, then it is dealt at priority by police force. Any crime against woman is taken very seriously and immediate action is taken. Mamta Sodha, ACP, PanchkulaCommunity policing Community policing is needed and each neighbourhood must hire at least a chowkidaar at night so that women feel safe. RWA members must also contribute more as the police and authorities are already doing a lot. CCTV cameras can help make neighborhoods safer.Manoj Kumar, associate professor of sociology at PGGCG- Sector 11, ChandigarhMindset change Authorities must increase patrolling in suburban parts, where most crimes take place. However, this is a short-term fix. To tackle this problem, awareness needs to be imparted at school-level to change the mindset of people. The employers must also arrange safe transportation for women who work the night shift so that such incidents can be avoided. Deepika Bahri, Women’s Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s Chandigarh Council president||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/readers-take-reclaim-the-night-curb-crime-101642797040784.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||57,862 illegal buildings constructed in Ludhiana between 2016-20: Inquiry||A whopping 57,862 illegal buildings were erected in the city between 2016 and 2020, an inquiry has found, sparking a blame game among municipal corporation councillors. The report, which was submitted by municipal corporation additional commissioner Rishipal Singh, was prepared by comparing power connections issued by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) against the building plans approved during the period. As per the report, the PSPCL had issued 76,770 connections in areas falling under the civic body’s jurisdiction. However, the civic body has only issued approved plans for 7,471 buildings. “Biased report”: Councillors Though a section of the Opposition is claiming that the report is “biased” and many of these buildings may not have been constructed in the last five years, others have been taking potshots at the ruling Congress saying that widespread corruption, and rampant illegal construction had been prevalent during its regime. Bhartiya Janata Party district president Pushpinder Singal alleged that the Congress MLAs and Cabinet ministers have provided patronage to violators. “Leaders of the ruling party, stop officials from acting against violations. They have caused losses to the tune of hundreds of crores to the public exchequer. An independent inquiry should be carried out against Congress MLAs,” said Singal, while promising to conduct an inquiry, should the MC be voted to power. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) trained its guns against the Congress , SAD and BJP and alleged that the three mainstream parties were collectively responsible for shortage of parking space on city roads, and traffic chaos. AAP spokesperson Ahbaab Grewal said, “Both the Congress and the previous SAD-BJP governments are responsible for the issue. With construction of illegal commercial buildings being allowed in residential area, traffic chaos is seen across the city.” While maintaining that the report was biased, SAD district president Shiromani Akali Dal Harabhajan Singh Dang placed the blame squarely on the shoulders of the ruling party. He said, “Many building owners got a sub-metre installed in the same building, and many complexes were constructed with a number of power connections. The additional number of power connections has also been added to the list. Labour quarters and vehras have also been constructed with different power connections in the same building.” Notably, in June 2021, BJP leaders led by state vice-president Parveen Bansal had also objected to thousands of ‘absurd’ notices issued by the civic body for illegal constructions, and the MC had to stop issuing notices after receiving flak from the Opposition and public.No action taken over last 2 monthsThough additional commissioner submitted the report with municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, no action has yet been taken. Singh has recommended forensic audit of the building branch in his report, and has held all officials of building branch, including assistant town planners, and building inspectors responsible for the illegal constructions. Claiming that the failure of the municipal corporation has caused a loss of ₹300-500 crore to the public exchequer, an activist has also written to the chief secretary seeking a vigilance probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/57862-illegal-buildings-constructed-in-ludhiana-between-201620inquiry-101642797039307.html
22-01-2022||Noida||Despite campaigning curbs and Covid, 52 nominations filed in Gautam Budh Nagar||By the end of Friday -- the last day of filing nominations for the three assembly seats of Noida, Dadri and Jewar in Gautam Budh Nagar -- 52 candidates across political parties filed 97 nominations for the Uttar Pradesh assembly election to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases.Gautam Budh Nagar goes to polls in the first phase on February 10. Under phase 1 of the election, candidates began filing their nominations on January 14. The last date to file nominations was January 21; nominations will be scrutinised on January 24, and the last date of withdrawal of nominations is January 27, according to the Election Commission of India.Twenty-three candidates in Noida filed 34 nominations, 16 candidates in Dadri filed 36 nominations and 13 candidates in Jewar filed 27 nominations by Friday. All candidates from major parties, including those from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress, have filed their nominations, according to party workers. Many have also filed multiple nominations for fear of being rejected, they said. While it is a common practice for candidates to file multiple nominations, candidates in the district have also learned their lessons from experience.In the Lok Sabha election of 2019, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Shweta Sharma’s candidature from Gautam Budh Nagar was rejected as she failed to get the mandatory 10 proposers required for a candidate who is not from a recognised national or regional party in the state.All three sitting MLAs in the district have also filed multiple nominations. While Tejpal Nagar of Dadri has filed two nominations, Pankaj Singh of Noida has filed three nominations and Dhirendra Singh of Jewar has filed four nominations -- the maximum number allowed in an election.According to Anubha Vashishth, School of Humanities and Social Science, Sharda University, “people wait five years to prepare for elections, the festival of democracy. Especially for serious contenders, the elections are what they have spent the last few years of their lives on. They don’t want to take any risk while filing a nomination that can be rejected based on a technicality. Filling up the forms can be a complicated process. So, it is common practice for candidates to file multiple nominations.”While political experts expected that the total number of nominations would be lesser than those during previous elections because of restrictions in place due to the pandemic, the difference is minimal.During the 2017 assembly elections, 31 nominations were filed and 13 were rejected in Noida. Of these, 14 candidates had finally contested for the Noida seat, while 12 had to forfeit their deposits. Similarly, for the Dadri assembly seat, 18 candidates had filed their nominations, of whom four were rejected and one withdrew his candidature. Eventually, 13 candidates filed their nominations, of whom 11 had to forfeit their deposits. For the Jewar seat, 13 candidates filed their nominations, of whom six were rejected and seven contested the elections. Five had to forfeit their deposits.The candidates who contest elections need to forfeit their deposits if they fail to get one-sixth of the total valid votes cast.Experts say that it is encouraging that the number of candidates is not very less as compared to the previous elections, despite the pandemic as it shows growing political participation.“The age group of the candidates is to be taken into consideration. If relatively younger people are filing nominations then it shows growing political vigour and initiative in the region. The fact that nominations, and especially rallies, are being conducted online also attracts more people since this provides those individuals who do not have a very strong financial background an opportunity to fight an election, and allows them to pose a challenge to the centuries-old tradition, which has nurtured the money-power nexus,” said Shalini Saxena, associate professor (political science), Amity Institute of Social Sciences, Amity University.The four election observers for the district also reached Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday. District magistrate Suhas LY informed that IAS officer L Franklin has been deputed as the observer for Noida and Dadri constituencies. Similarly, IAS officer Rajesh Dhiman has been appointed as the observer for the Jewar assembly segment, while IPS officer Rajendra Kumar Meena has been appointed as the police observer. IRS officer N Ashok Babu has been deputed as the expenditure observer. The DM said that residents can register election-related complaints with the observers concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/despite-campaigning-curbs-and-covid-52-nominations-filed-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101642796919458.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Grenade launcher, 3.79kg RDX recovered in Gurdaspur, 1 held||The Punjab Police on Friday claimed to have thwarted a possible terror attack around Republic Day by recovering a 40mm Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) with two compatible grenades, 3.79kg RDX, nine electrical detonators and two sets of timer devices for IEDs from Gurdaspur. Inspector general of police (IGP, Border Range) Mohinish Chawla, said, “As per the information, UBGL is a short-range grenade launching area weapon with an effective range of 150 meters and It could be detrimental to the VVIP security as well.” “The recovery was made on the disclosure of Malkeet Singh, a resident of Gazikot village in Gurdaspur, who was arrested on Thursday, based on secret information. The police have also booked Malkeet’s aides, identified as Sukhpreet Singh alias Sukh Ghuman, Tharanjot Singh alias Thanna, and Sukhmeetpal Singh alias Sukh Bikhariwal; all residents of Gurdaspur, besides, Pakistan-based International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) chief Lakhbir Singh Rode and fugitive gangster Arshdeep Singh alias Arsh Dalla,” he said in a press release issued here. Chawla said investigations revealed that Malkeet was in contact with Sukh Ghuman, a conduit of Rode, a designated terrorist, and fugitive gangster Arsh Dalla of Moga, now based in Canada. The consignment of explosives was sent by Rode from Pakistan, he added. Meanwhile, Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh said the role of Malkeet Singh in retrieving the consignments of firearms/explosives was revealed during the investigations into the recent ISYF terror module busted by the SBS Nagar Police. An FIR under sections 17 and 18 of UAPA, sections 4 and 5 of Explosive Substances Act, Section 120B of the IPC, and sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of Arms Act has been registered at Dinanagar police station. “Investigations are on to identify remaining members of the module,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grenade-launcher-3-79kg-rdx-recovered-in-gurdaspur-1-held-101642796860908.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Will file defamation case against Kejriwal: Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said he will file a defamation case against Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejrwal for maligning his image using morphed pictures and dubbing him a “dishonest man” after the recent cash recovery by the ED during raids at multiple locations in Punjab. “I have sought permission from the Congress high command to file a defamation case against Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for posting my morphed picture with cash on his official social media accounts and terming me a dishonest person. It is highly condemnable and unacceptable,” Channi said, while addressing mediapersons in his constituency, Chamkaur Sahib. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had on Wednesday said that it seized cash amounting to over ₹10 crore, including about ₹8 crore from the house of Channi’s nephew during raids conducted in connection with an anti-money laundering investigation against illegal sand-mining operations in the poll-bound state. Channi said Kejriwal was in the habit of making uncorroborated allegations and then apologising for the same. “He had tendered apologies to Akali leader Bikram Majithia, Union minister Nitin Gadkari, Congress leader Kapil Sibal and former Union finance minister late Arun Jaitley after making accusations against them,” the Punjab CM said. The chief minister said it can be his mistake that he did not keep an eye on his relatives but why is Kejriwal connecting things to him. “What money came to me, what is my fault in this? Why are you dragging me into this? Someone else’s money has been seized... there was a raid at ten places in Punjab, why are you linking me with it? Had the money been seized from me, the ED would have conducted raids at my house, arrested me, questioned me,” Channi said. He also asked if a person’s son gets into a drug habit, will his father be punished for it? “My sons are here, my wife is here. Hang me if my family has any ill-gotten money but why am I being dragged into this issue,” he said. Channi said he does not even have money to erect his hoardings for polls in his constituency or to run a TV ad campaign, “whereas the AAP has installed hoardings worth ₹200 crore in Punjab, besides running election campaign advertisements on television”. He questioned where the party had got the funds from? “They are defaming a person who does not even have funds to fight his own election,” he said. To another question, he said it was his party’s prerogative to announce a chief ministerial face ahead of the February 20 polls. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-file-defamation-case-against-kejriwal-for-linking-me-with-ed-cash-seizure-channi-101642796859649.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | AAP ups the ante, fields KNS Kang from Dakha||In the run up to the Punjab assembly polls, the political scenario in the district is an ever-changing tapestry. In an unforeseen development, AAP has upped the ante by fielding KNS Kang, a distinguished businessman, who heads the PCTE Group Of Institutes from Dakha constituency.Before Kang’s entry, the odds of Congress candidate Sandeep Sandhu and sitting SAD MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali winning seemed even. However, Kang’s entry has intensified the contest. Kang, who is former Ludhiana Management Association (LMA) president, and former Smart City Project director, enjoys considerable clout among the intelligentsia and the business community. A long-time loyalist of AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal, Kang had hosted the Delhi chief minister at his house during the previous assembly elections and had even campaigned for party candidate HS Phoolka. Notably, AAP had won the seat in 2017 assembly elections, with Phoolka securing 58,923 votes. However, it had to bite dust during the byelection, with their candidate Amandeep Singh Mohie securing just 2,804 votes. SAD MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali had secured 66,297 votes in the 2019 by-election, while Sandeep Singh Sandhu had been the runner-up with 51,625 votes.In 2017 assembly elections, AAP had fielded Phoolka from Dakha constituency and he was elected the MLA with 58,923 votes, defeating his nearest candidate Manpreet Singh Ayali by a margin of 4,169 votes.All three candidates have a strong base in the constituency. While Ayali has homeground advantage and has been credited with developing parks and facilities in the villages, Sandhu has remained halka in-charge of the constituency and enjoys immense support in Dakha Mandi and the rural belt of the constituency. Meanwhile, Kang has set up his educational institutes in Baddowal, which falls in Dakha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-aap-ups-the-ante-fields-kns-kang-from-dakha-101642796678889.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration acquires 3.72-acre land to build govt school, community centre||The UT administration has acquired 3.72 acre land in Kishangarh village at a cost of ₹12.40 crore. A government model high school, community centre and tubewell will come up at the site. As per the notification issued by the land acquisition office, the land has been acquired at the rate of ₹3.33 crore per acres, including 100% solatium of ₹1.48 crore and interest of ₹37.26 lakh.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSCar silencer stolen in Sec 37A resident of Sector 37 reported that the silencer of his car which was parked outside his house was stolen on January 6. A theft case has been registered against unidentified accused at the Sector 39 police station. Government should immediately open all schools: NISAThe National Independent School Alliance (NISA) has demanded that the Haryana government immediately reopen schools for kindergarten to senior secondary students in the state. At a press conference in Chandigarh on Friday, NISA president Kulbhushan Sharma also expressed displeasure on the state government’s recent decision to conduct board examins for the Classes 5 and 8.Fire at Tibetan market in Ambala A major fire broke out at the Tibetan market in Ambala city in the wee hours of Friday. Several fire tenders were pressed into action and managed to douse the flames. The reason behind the blaze is yet to be ascertained. Shopkeepers said that they have suffered huge losses and sough financial help from the administration. Anti-encroachment drive in Sec-26 vegetable marketThe municipal corporation and UT estate office carried out an anti-encroachment drive in Sector 26 vegetable market on Friday and removed 10 temporary hutments. After a protest by the hutments’ residents, the drive was suspended midway.4 held for theft at PUNSUP officeFour men were arrested for stealing AC copper pipes from the PUNSUP office in Sector 34. The accused have been identifed as Sandeep Kumar alias Kala and his accomplices Naveen Kumar, Vishal and Jeet Lal, all residents of Sector 52. The compliant was lodged by Mohinder Kumar, a watchman at the office.Abandoned newborn boy dies of coldThe body of a newborn boy was found on a vacant plot in Kishangarh village on Friday morning. A passer-by alerted the police after spotting the infant wrapped in a red blanket near a dharamshala. The baby was rushed to the Manimajra civil hospital, where doctors declared him dead. Police said the child had died due to the intense cold. They have registered a case under Section 318 of the IPC at the IT Park police station and are scanning CCTV footage from nearby establishments to trace the person who dumped the child there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administration-acquires-3-72-acre-land-to-build-govt-school-community-centre-101642796623013.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Municipal body seals 25 shops in Manesar for lack of permission from authorities||The enforcement wing of the Municipal Corporation of Manesar on Friday sealed 25 shops in three areas in Sikanderpur Barha village in Sector 85. Officials said the shops were built in violation of rules and without any permission from the authorities. The shops were built in a line along the sector dividing road in Sector 85. R S Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said, “Shopkeepers, who had taken these shops on rent, were allowed to shift their belongings. The owners have agreed to take requisite permission for regularization of the shops. They will remain sealed as long as they don’t get the permission,” said Bhath. Around 20 members of the enforcement team of the municipal corporation and police personnel from Gurugram police took part in the anti-encroachment drive. Bhath also said that they have conducted surveys in areas falling under the jurisdiction of the Manesar municipal corporation and identified violators, against whom action will be taken soon. “The property owners in Manesar must follow urban rules as they are now under the jurisdiction of a municipal body,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/municipal-body-seals-25-shops-in-manesar-for-lack-of-permission-from-authorities-101642796618983.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sukhpal Khaira’s son points out ‘chinks’ in ED charge sheet against his father||Punjab Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s son Mehtab Singh on Friday issued a statement saying the Enforcement Directorate’s challan (referring to charge sheet) “exposes the deep-rooted conspiracy to malign, intimidate and harass my father”, besides a mischievous attempt to keep him out of the election frame. As reported by HT on Friday, the central agency has filed a charge sheet against Khaira under the money-laundering charges for allegedly having links with drug smugglers. The agency has said Khaira’s expenses were in excess of his income. Mehtab said, “The ED while raiding our premises on March 9, 2021, had led loose a plethora of allegations, targeting my father as an international drug kingpin, having fake passports, having illegal foreign currency/donations, amassing ill-gotten wealth through drug money etc., but in its challan, it has miserably failed to prove any of the charges and has assumed the role of a mere income tax inspector.” He said the charge sheet contains no mention of illegal foreign funds to the tune of $ (US) 1.19 lakh collected by my father as alleged at the time of his arrest on November 11 last year. “The web of concocted lies built by the ED in its 80-page challan only revolves around ₹3.82-crore difference between our income and expenditure from April 2014 to March 2020. The ED which claims to be the premier agency of India to prevent money laundering stooped to a low to investigate the marriage expenses of my sister’s and my marriage in 2016 and 2019, respectively, and small renovation of our Chandigarh house. Surprisingly, while indicating a difference of ₹3.82 crore in our income and expenditure for a period of six years (2014 to 2020), the ED has wilfully and purposely ignored to include our two agricultural loan limit accounts of Union Bank of India and the regional Capital Bank, Kapurthala, to the tune of ₹2 crore raised by my father for the purpose of said marriages,” Mehtab Singh said. “Similarly the ED did not take into account approximately ₹60 lakh received during the said weddings, or loans raised from closed friends and relatives; and most importantly, our family agricultural income of ₹1.5 crore (approx) during these six years, which sufficiently explains the said difference between our income and expenditure,” he added. The ED, without providing any proof or evidence, has verbally attributed the ₹3.82 crore as the proceeds of crime (drug money) received from Gurdev Singh (mastermind of 2015 Fazilka drug smuggling racket), he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhpal-khaira-s-son-points-out-chinks-in-ed-charge-sheet-against-his-father-101642796500790.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: State Rera to reduce average time for plea resolution to 15 days||The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) plans to reduce the average time taken to resolve a petition--from three months to 15 days-- this year onwards. To achieve this objective, the authority will hold summary trials and set up a digital judicial court to help reduce arbitration time and adjudicate disputes between homebuyers and developers, according to officials in the know.Dr KK Khandelwal, chairman, H-Rera, Gurugram, said that currently the authority takes around three months to resolve a petition, and reducing this time would greatly benefit homebuyers, who are already suffering due to project delays.Another reason for the authority to embrace the idea of digital courts and summary trials is that the resolution of complaints has slowed down over the past couple of years due to repeated disruptions because of the pandemic. According to data shared by H-Rera, the authority received 5,733 complaints from homebuyers in 2021 and was able to resolve only 1,669 cases--a disposal rate of around 30%. However, in 2020, the authority received 4,830 complaints and managed to resolve 3,832 cases, a disposal rate of around 79%.A comparison of the data in the last two years revealed that while the disposal of cases reduced by almost 50% in 2021, the number of complaints rose by around 20% last year.Pointing to the frequent lockdowns as the reason, Dr Khandelwal said that disruptions caused by Covid-19 last year impacted the work, but the authority had now decided to adopt the digital court system and summary trials, to accelerate the resolution of complaints. “The digital court will allow a person to lodge a petition from anywhere without being physically present. The decisions will be faster and based on quick facts. The summary trials will also enable quick resolution of complaints,” he said.According to legal experts, in summary trials, procedures are simplified, cases are decided speedily and recording is done summarily. Mostly minor cases and small offences are tried using this method. The objective of these trials is to reduce the high caseload in a judicial system.“We learnt a lot over the last three years and faced teething troubles, which have been resolved. We will use a mix of technology and human resources to optimise results for homebuyers. Rera Act also faced legal challenges but these are now over as the apex court has decided the matter and we are poised for better implementation and enforcement,” he said.Khandelwal added that of the 82,000 petitions disposed of by H-Rera courts across the country, the bench in Gurugram had disposed of almost 18% of the petitions filed across the country.“Since the inception of the Gurugram bench, we received 19,136 petitions, of which 14,801 were disposed of, he said. The authority said that it had managed a disposal rate of 75% since its inception in 2017.
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Wild sambar rescued from busy marketplace||A wild sambar strayed into the market area of Dhanas on Friday and was rescued by the UT department of forests. He was later released into its natural habitat in Kansal forest.UT chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai, said, “There were around 200 people at the market which had scared the sambar and it stayed in a corner. It was a challenging operation to rescue the animal without injuring it. One of the forest department employees also sustained minor injuries during the rescue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhwild-sambar-rescued-from-busy-marketplace-101642796320326.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||R-Day parade: Young dancers to showcase myriad moves||New Delhi Among the many firsts this year, Republic Day 2022 will not see participation of school children in the usual awe-inspiring annual parade at Rajpath. Instead, as you stay glued to your TV sets to view the spectacle on the ceremonial boulevard, get set to witness around 500 young dancers, from across the country, who will get together to showcase a gamut of dance forms — including Giddha (Punjab), Maharashtra’s martial arts, Manipuri from the Northeast, Kathakali (Kerala), and Bharatanatyam (Tamil Nadu). To be performed in a synchronised choreography, this recital will mark the 75 glorious years of India’s independence as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. Rehearsing as part of 36 teams that won the pan India Vande Bharatam dance competition, these enthusiastic troupes comprising students and young professionals are presently practising at Indira Gandhi Stadium. “We are rehearsing to perform semi-classical. I’m learning Kathak since six years, and so happy that while being a student I’ve got a chance to travel to Delhi to perform at such a platform. Everyone here speaks a different language and comes from a different culture. There’s lots to learn, and as an artiste I’m so grateful to be able perform for my country,” says Kathak dancer Heta Patil, a student of MBA (Finance) from Surat, Gujarat. Kolhapur (Maharashtra) based BSc student Prathmesh Patil, spins a martial pash (chakra), quite effortlessly, as part of the folk segment of the 12-minute choreography. “Back home, we practice for two hours daily. We have struggled a lot and it’s great to be at the national stage today. No other group in Kolhapur has reached this level, and we feel humne Kolhapur ko aur apni mitti ko proud kiya hai,” says Patil. And 26-year-old Abhinav Mangure, who works in a Pune-based company, adds, “Humare group mein sab students ya young working professionals hain. Dance is our passion and I’m happy to bring the native martial art form of Mardani Khel Yuddh Kala to a parade that we have all been watching since our childhood.”“We watched the parade on television, and it’s wonderful that we are going to perform in the Republic Day parade. It’s a big boost to our confidence as budding artistes,” says Chennai-based Bharatanatyam dancer and college student Smriti Venkatesh. Kathak exponent Rani Khanam, who is one of the four choreographers appointed to curate the recital, says, “The opening segment will involve big props and elephants. Our theme concept is Unity in Diversity and Naya Bharat. We are trying to connect all regions from north to south, and trying to showcase the spirituality of Buddhism with Hinduism. We are showing colours, customs, and culture of India through our dance. The expressions and rituals of each group are different, yet so vibrant.”“In the end, we will create a formation in which the dancers will resemble the feathers of the peacock, our national bird,” says Maitreyee Pahari, Kathak and Manipuri exponent. And Santosh Nair, who has formal training in Kathakali and Chhau and choreographs contemporary dance as well, shares, “The idea is to show our diverse culture, so it’s a beautiful idea to have a mix and match of each group. We are showcasing our progressive and modern India and the theme of Atmanirbhar Bharat. The buzzword now is youth, and this is a good way to bring forth the young artistic talent on the national stage.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-parade-young-dancers-to-showcase-myriad-moves-101642796204900.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | BJP finally releases first list of candidates||The saffron party released the first list of candidates who will contest the Punjab assembly polls from the district on Friday. The list features two former bureaucrats, an advocate, a turncoat leader and a businessman. Former IAS officer SR Laddhar, who had merged his political outfit, the Kirti Kisan Sher-e-Punjab Party,with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in December, will contest from Gill constituency, which is at present represented by another former bureaucrat – Congress’ Kuldip Singh Vaid.Former tehsildar Kanwar Narinder Singh, will slug it out in Jagraon against sitting AAP MLA Sarvjit Kaur Manuke and former SAD MLA and ex- bureaucrat SR Kaler.AAP turncoat Gurpreet Singh Bhatti, who had formed the People’s Party of Punjab (PPP) with state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal (Congress), will be contesting on a BJP ticket from the Khanna assembly constituency. Bhatti had defected from the AAP in November in favour of the BJP.The party has fielded advocate Bikram Singh Sidhu from the Ludhiana West constituency, which is being represented by Congress heavyweight Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Political pundits had already predicted that Sidhu was the probable BJP candidate from the West constituency as he had been vigorously canvassing in the area and had been posturing himself as the BJP candidate for around a year. From Ludhiana Central, Gurdev Sharma Debi has clinched the party ticket for the second time, edging out the BJP’s state vice-president, Parvin Bansal, who had also been eying the ticket. Debi, who is the state treasurer of the saffron party, had lost the 2017 election to Congress leader Surinder Dawar. Those in the know say Bansal wants to fight the poll from Ludhiana North, but party spokesperson Anil Sareen is also vying for a ticket from the constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bjp-finally-releases-first-list-of-candidates-101642796141332.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram dist court rejects bail plea of prime suspect in multi-crore heist case||The district sessions court on Friday rejected the bail application of Dr Sachinder Jain Nawal, one of the prime suspects in the multi-crore heist at a residential society in Sector 84 on August 4 last year. The bail plea was listed twice last month, but was withdrawn by Nawal’s counsel. On January 10, the bail application of Dr Gurpartap Singh alias Dr GP Singh, another suspect in the case, was rejected. He was a visiting doctor in the society and allegedly passed on the information about the cash bags to Dr Nawal, said police. Around ₹40 crore was stolen from the maintenance office of the residential society in Sector 84 on August 4. On August 20, when an employee of the maintenance company went to collect the cash to deposit it in the bank, he realised that it was missing. After scanning the CCTV camera footage, the company discovered that the money had been stolenNawal’s lawyer Rahul Chauhan said his client had no role to play in the case and despite his remand by the Special Task Force (STF), they were not able to recover any money from Nawal.“Nawal has been framed in the case and he has no link with the people who were involved in the robbery. We will now approach the high court,” he said. During arguments, the counsel argued that the main co-accused--former deputy commissioner of police, Gurugram, Dheeraj Setia and gangster Vikas Lagarpuria--are yet to be arrested and the supplementary charge sheet has not been filed yet. Police said the evidence, such as call detail records and location of mobile phones, were matched with the co-accused to corroborate the facts in the case. Chauhan sought Nawal’s bail stating that the case is still in the initial stages of investigation. The court dismissed the plea stating that since the case was still in the initial stages of investigation, Nawal may tamper with evidence. So far, 16 people, including seven henchmen of the gangster, three doctors, two employees of the housing complex developer, two financers and an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Delhi Police have been arrested. On November 10, the STF arrested Nawal, a leading pediatrician who owns two hospitals in Gurugram, and Singh, who was the visiting doctor at Gurgaon One residential society in Sector 84. Satheesh Balan, deputy inspector general of STF, said Nawal and gangster Vikas Lagarpuria planned the robbery and were involved in each and every step. “Nawal’s driver Joginder has also been arrested. He is the maternal uncle of Lagarpuria, with the help of whom Nawal got in touch with the gangster,” he said. Balan said now their prime focus is to arrest Lagarpuria and that they have formed teams to arrest the gangster. “We have enough evidence against Nawal and Lagarpuria to prove their involvement in the multi-crore heist,” he said adding that statements of the other arrested suspects have been recorded. According to police, the robbery plan was allegedly hatched after Dr Nawal got information about the money from Singh, who is currently lodged in Bhondsi jail, and passed on the information to the gangster. The theft was allegedly committed by Lagarpuria’s henchmen. To cover up the matter, Nawal allegedly involved then Gurugram DCP Dheeraj Setia. Setia has been suspended by the Haryana government and an arrest warrant has been issued against him by the court, said police. Setia has filed an anticipatory bail application in Gurugram sessions court, the hearing for which has been fixed for January 24. He has also filed a petition in the high court to squash the FIR registered against him, which will be heard on the same date. According to STF officials, Nawal is a native of Hisar, who also tried to get a ticket for the assembly elections held in 2019 from Barwala. Officials said Nawal had opened a multi-specialty hospital in Bhiwadi and allegedly suffered losses to the tune of ₹6.5 crore and was under pressure to return that money to the investors. Balan said the had kept more than ₹40 crore in the two apartments -- one on fourth floor and the other on 11th floor -- of GurgaonOne society in Sector 84. Surprisingly, the money was kept in the open without any security guards deployed outside the apartments, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-dist-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-prime-suspect-in-multi-crore-heist-case-101642796139896.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram reports over 3,500 fresh Covid cases, three fatalities||The district on Friday reported 3,509 fresh Covid-19 cases and three fatalities, including that of a four-year-old girl who was suffering from blood cancer. The district has reported 15 deaths from Covid-19 so far this month. Currently, there are 25,306 active cases in the district. This is the first time since May last year that active cases have crossed 25,000. Currently, there are 175 patients taking treatment in hospitals. According to data available with the health department, the district has reported less than 3,000 cases in the past two days. The health department collected 10,401 samples with the positivity rate standing at 33% on Friday, a sharp rise from the 22% recorded on Thursday. As many as 3,031 people were declared ‘recovered’ on Friday. “Three Covid-19 positive patients, including a four-year-old girl suffering from acute lymphocytic leukaemia, died in the district on Friday. This is the first Covid-19 death of a minor in Gurugram. She had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital for the past 15 days and was under chemo therapy for four months. It is not known if the patient contracted Covid-19 before or during treatment,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. “A 40-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 and had not taken any of the vaccine doses, also died due to blood cancer. A 32-year-old fully vaccinated man also died of Covid-19. He had no comorbidities but was hospitalised for the past two days,” said Prakash. On Friday, the district administration declared eight more areas as containment zones as a majority of these cases are coming from these areas. Currently, there are 14 active containment zones in the district. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram said, “We have reached a plateau, where we are not witnessing a steep rise in cases. Cluster cases continue to get reported with families testing positive, but there is stability in the number of cases being reported. The number of tests being conducted daily is also stable between 10,000 to 13,000 a day. The figure varies a little depending on the weather as many people do not prefer to come out for testing in cold weather conditions.” Meanwhile, on Friday, a total of 12,692 doses were administered, including 4,379 first doses, 6,258 second doses and 2,055 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.70 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-reports-over-3-500-fresh-covid-cases-three-fatalities-101642795899095.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Nepalese cook steals ₹15 lakh||In the second such incident in three days, a Nepalese man, who was employed as a cook stole ₹15 lakh from his employers house in Urban Estate, Phase-1, Dugri on Thursday.The accused, Amar, had been working at the house of the victim, Kawaljit Singh, for two-and-a-half years. In his complaint, Kawaljit Singh, said , “On Thursday, my wife left our house to run some errands, and asked the cook to take care of the house. However, on returning she found the cook missing and the cupboard locks broken.” Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Section 381 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the accused, a resident of Nirmal Nagar, Dugri.The police are scanning CCTV footage to find whether the accused received any assistance in executing the crime. Two days ago, on January 18, another Nepalese man, working as the house help in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, had robbed his employers and fled with cash, jewellery and other valuables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nepalese-cook-steals-15-lakh-101642795718888.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Over 14k locals register on job reservation portal in first week||After the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act was implemented on January 15, 14,687 local candidates and eight companies have registered on the labour department portal so far, said Haryana additional chief secretary of the labour department, Raja Sekhar Vundru on Friday.He added companies will take some time to register as they have to share detailed data pertaining to employees who earn upto ₹30,000 per month.“Till Friday 3.30pm, 14,687 applicants and eight firms registered on the portal created by the labour department from the date when the portal was opened on January 15. We have made it easy for firms to upload data and basic details of employees, their qualifications and background information. Still, it will take some time for updation as the domicile of employees is also to be uploaded,” said Vundru, adding that a transparent digital framework for implementing the job reservation has been created and will be finetuned further.The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 was passed by the state assembly on March 2, 2021 and was approved by the governor. On November 6, it was notified by the state labour department and came into force from January 15, 2022.The Act mandates 75% reservation to job seekers from Haryana in the private sector.Vundru said that the Act was transparent and that the government and labour department plan to work hand in hand with the industry and businesses to create an environment wherein both local and outside talents are valued equally.As far as the apprehension of companies pertaining to the lack of skilled manpower is concerned, Vundru said that while the database is being updated, the labour department will conduct a statewide skill gap analysis, and ensure that the local youth is trained, has employable skills and there is no shortage of manpower.“In case local manpower with adequate skills is not available, companies can always seek exemptions online. All efforts are being made to ensure that this framework has minimal human interface and decisions are taken quickly and without any interference,” he said.Haryana has a large number of ITIs and a Skill Development University, whose services will be utilised to study the data and create skill-based courses, said Vundru.“We are also aware of the apprehensions of the license permit raj plaguing the system. But we would like to assure stakeholders that this system will be very flexible and concerns of all stakeholders will be considered,” said Vundru.The additional chief secretary said a notification pertaining to exemptions was issued within two days after the Act came into force and this showed the flexibility of the mindset of the department and government. “We are taking feedback from all stakeholders continuously, and it is because of this reason new IT companies and startups have been exempted for two years. An exemption has also been given to work related to the sowing of crops, embroidery, primary works related to fruits, vegetables, tea leaves, coffee, fish, animals. Exemptions have also been given to domestic servants and those industries for which skilled workers are not available,” he said.Vundru, however, said that though collaboration with industries will be key to implementing job reservation, the Act provides for review of employment by companies every three months and there are penal provisions for violating norms. “The review of employment too will be online and permission has to be taken from the labour commissioner, Haryana, for inspection with a notice of three days,” he said.The Act has been challenged in the Punjab and Haryana high court by the Gurgaon Industrial Association and other associations in the state--the next date of hearing is February 2.On Tuesday, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, the driving force behind the local reservation, had said that the government will hold discussions with industry associations, who have opposed the reservation in a court of law and find a solution to their issues as well.JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association, said that it will become clear in the next three months how the Act is implemented. “If the government and the labour department are saying that they will work in close coordination with industries and adopt a flexible approach, then it is a welcome decision. However, they have to ensure that the law is not misused to perpetuate the stranglehold of government functionaries,” he said. 
22-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s good Samaritans rain-proof winters for the underprivileged||New Delhi It’s going to be yet another rainy weekend, according to the meteorological department. And if the cold wave wasn’t enough to leave Delhiites shivering then brace yourselves for the upcoming rain spell will add more misery, especially to the woes of the homeless on the streets. It is to help the needy brave such harsh weather conditions that some good Samaritans are coming forward. “Every winter season we organise drives to distribute blankets and sleeping bags to the homeless and the underprivileged. This year, we’ve so far managed to reach out to more than 250 individuals including street vendors and labourers in areas of Old Delhi and Kashmere Gate alongside night shelters at Safdarjung and AIIMS,” says Yusra Khan, from an NGO Yellow Streets, adding, “Winter potentially lasts for two or three months, so the underprivileged don’t invest much in warm clothing or blankets as they don’t have a fixed place to store them, and it gets difficult for them to take care of their belongings while they are constantly moving. So we are distributing them blankets that are lined with waterproof tarpaulin on one side. And alongside we are also giving them woollens, to keep themselves warm.” Also distributing tarpaulin-lined blankets is the NGO Lakshya Jeevan Jagriti. Rahul Goswami, from this NGO, informs, “The rainproof blankets have a reflective surface, so it helps the drivers on the road know that someone is sleeping by the roadside. This helps avoid them from accidentally ramming into the homeless. We are also distributing winter kits, grocery, and sanitary pads for women, and cooked meals.” Considering rains breed infections, some kind souls have also been catering to the demand of medicines. “A sound immune system is necessary to fight adverse situations that come to our body on a bad day. And rain brings along a multitude of health problems and virals like cold and cough, which common issues among those who live on the streets,” says Arushi Jain, a pharma professional, adding, “Especially at a time when we need to give a tough fight to Covid, it becomes important to help the homeless get access to medicines that can help keep cough and cold away. Health is a priority for all, and that’s why we recently distributed health benefiting kits to the children at Nirbhed Foundation, which looks after their education, clothing, nutrition, medical facilities, and skill development. This kit has medicines and supplements to avoid infections and sickness that usually fosters in the rainy season.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-good-samaritans-rain-proof-winters-for-the-underprivileged-101642795239660.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Spa owner thrashed for asking customer to wear face mask||A 42-year-old spa owner was allegedly assaulted and threatened more than a week ago after she asked one of her customers to wear a face mask and show his vaccination certificate before entering the establishment. The incident occurred in a commercial plaza in Palam Vihar around 3pm on January 13 when the owner of the spa centre Suman Pandey was standing near the entrance and a man without a face mask tried to enter the premises. Pandey alleged the same man had been visiting her spa for three days and she was turning him away as he was not following Covid-19 protocols. “The man was under the influence of alcohol when he visited on January 13. I politely asked him to wear his face mask and show his vaccination certificate, which irritated him and he started abusing me. When I said he cannot enter without showing the certificate, he started assaulting me and punched my right eye and stomach,” she said. Pandey said she vomited on the spot and could not get up. The injury she sustained on her eye was such that she was not able to see. “I called the police control room, following which a team from the Palam Vihar police station arrived and took me to a private hospital. I was not in a state to lodge a complaint. After getting discharged on Thursday, I submitted the registration number of the suspect’s vehicle and also showed police CCTV footage,” she said. Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police, said the suspect called the victim on Thursday and threatened her. “We have identified the suspect through his vehicle number and mobile number but we are yet to arrest him,” he said. A case under sections 323 (assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC was registered against the man at Palam Vihar police station on Thursday, said police. At least 10 people have been assaulted and threatened in the last one month for asking customers to wear a face mask before entering any shop or market, said police adding that such cases have mostly been reported from Sadar market, Vyapar Kendra, Sector 56 market, Sector 10 and Pataudi. The victims mostly include grocery store owners, vegetable vendors and store managers. Last week, a 27-year-old grocery store owner in Pataudi was assaulted after he asked two men to wear face masks. The victim was taken to a private hospital where he had to get six stitches for his injuries, said police.On January 1, the state government had announced the “no mask, no service” policy, barring the entry of persons without masks to public offices. The guidelines also bar those who have not taken both doses of vaccine from entering any public place, including sabzi mandi, grain market, liquor and wine stores, local markets and shopping complexes. Saharan said shopkeepers are not allowing anyone without a face mask to enter their stores as they have been warned of strict action for violating the norm. “Since January 1, we have asked the members of market associations, mall associations and resident welfare associations to ensure no one roams around without a face mask. Teams have been formed to randomly check vaccination status of people in markets and malls. If anyone is found without having taken both vaccine doses, then the market or mall association concerned will be penalised for ₹5,000,” he said. On January 3, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar asked the police and the district administration to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols and said penalties should be imposed on individuals and institutions found violating the norms. Police said nearly 500 people are fined every day for not wearing a face mask, the violation of which attracts a penalty of ₹500. They have deployed more than 2,000 personnel across the city to check violations of Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-spa-owner-thrashed-for-asking-customer-to-wear-face-mask-101642794880372.html
22-01-2022||Other||Kerala high court to hear actor Dileep’s anticipatory bail plea today||Kochi The Kerala high court will hear on Saturday the anticipatory bail plea filed by actor Dileep in a case registered against him and five others for allegedly threatening investigation officers probing the sexual assault of an actress back in 2017.Justice Gopinath P on Friday said a special sitting will be held in the high court on January 22 for the detailed hearing of the anticipatory bail plea filed by the actor.The Crime Branch wing of the Kerala police had on Thursday filed a statement in the high court opposing the anticipatory bail plea and said it was for the first time in the state’s history that a person accused of a serious offence hatched a criminal conspiracy to harm the life of investigating officers.Meanwhile, the Crime Branch had recently submitted a report before the Judicial First Class Magistrate court at Aluva, which is the trial court in the threatening case.The Crime Branch report said it had added Section 302 (murder) along with Section 120-B of the Indian Penal Code since the accused had conspired to murder the probe officers as per the first information statement.Besides Dileep, his younger brother — P Sivakumar — and brother-in-law — T N Suraj — have also moved the high court seeking the same relief.The Crime Branch had said that the allegations against Dileep and other petitioners are “very serious” and said custodial interrogation of the accused is required to unearth the criminal conspiracy hatched by them.The Crime Branch had on January 9 registered the case on a complaint filed by an investigating officer based on a purported audio clip of Dileep, which was released by a TV channel in which the actor was allegedly heard conspiring to attack the official.The actor and five others were booked under various provisions of the IPC, including Sections 116 (abetment), 118 (concealing design to commit offense), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (criminal act done by several people).The joint plea moved by all three has claimed that the complaint lodged against them by the officer — Deputy SP (Crime Branch) Baiju Paulose — was “false”.They have contended that the allegations in the FIR, registered on the base of the complaint, are “wholly false and baseless”.The actor and his relatives have alleged, in the petition filed through advocate Philip T Varghese, that the intention behind registration of the case was to take them into custody and humiliate them before the public.This apprehension is borne out of the past conduct of the complainant officer who right from the start has been trying to falsely implicate the actor in the sexual assault case, the petition has alleged.The victim — an actress who has worked in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam films — was abducted and allegedly molested inside her car for two hours by some of the accused, who had forced their way into the vehicle on the night of February 17, 2017 and later escaped in a busy area. The entire act was filmed by some of the accused to blackmail the actress.There are 10 accused in the case and initially, police arrested seven people. Dileep was arrested subsequently and released on bail later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-high-court-to-hear-actor-dileep-s-anticipatory-bail-plea-today-101642794878812.html
22-01-2022||Other||42-year-old techie, wife, child found dead in home near Hyderabad||Hyderabad: A 42-year-old software engineer, his 42-year-old wife and seven-year-old daughter were found dead in mysterious circumstances at their residence at Beeramguda in Ameenpur town in Telangana’s Sangareddy district, about 35 km from Hyderabad on Thursday, the police said.While the techie was an employee in a reputed software firm in Hyderabad, his wife was a mathematics teacher in a corporate school and their daughter was also a student of a reputed school in the area.“While the man was found hanging to the ceiling fan in the bedroom, the two others were poisoned to death and were found lying on a bed in the adjacent room. It appears the techie first killed his wife and daughter by administering them poison and after their death, he hanged himself,” Ameenpur inspector of police Srinivas Reddy told the reporters.The police suspect that the family might have performed some rituals in their puja room before resorting to the extreme step. “All the three were sporting long streaks of vermillion on their foreheads and the portraits of gods were scattered in the room,” he said.The police suspect that the family might have died by suicide a couple of days ago, as the techie and his wife were not taking the calls made by their family members for the last two days. “The servant maid also revealed that she was asked not to come to work two days ago,” the inspector said.On Thursday afternoon, the father-in-law of the techie came to his residence only to find the house bolted from inside. When there was no response from inside to the calling bell sound, he peeped into the house through the window and noticed the son-in-law hanging from the ceiling fan.He immediately alerted the police, who rushed to the spot and broke open the doors only to find the bodies of the family. The police did not find any suicide note.The techie’s parents, who belong to Pothaipalli village of Shamirpet area on the city outskirts, told the police that there were no financial problems for the family. “Theirs was a love marriage 10 years ago and it was a happy family without any family disputes. We don’t know what exactly is the cause for their death,” his father told the reporters.The police have registered a case of suspicious death under section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and are investigating.
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Serial snatcher held after fleeing with mobile phone||Police arrested a suspected snatcher when he along with his accomplice collided with a street pole and fell off their motorcycle near Nirvana country in Sector-50 late on Thursday night. They were allegedly trying to flee after snatching a mobile phone. Police said the accused identified himself as Tasleem alias Gopi, (21), a native of Guwaldah village in Alwar, Rajasthan. After the arrest, he confessed to his involvement in almost a dozen cases of snatching in Badshahpur, Sector-40 and Sector-50 in the last three months. Police said the second suspect, who managed to escape from the spot after the accident, is Tasleem’s kin. Police said the accused had allegedly snatched a mobile phone from a security guard and were trying to escape from the spot on their bike when local residents started chasing them due to which they panicked and met with the accident. Cops have also confiscated the bike used for their nefarious activities. An FIR was filed alleging that the accused snatched victim Navdeep’s phone. Police said Tasleem’s associate, who managed to escape, had snatched the guard’s phone. “On the night of January 10, both had looted a purse containing cash and a gold ring from a woman soon after she had come out of Spaze i-Tech park under Sector-50 police station limits. Tasleem has confessed to his involvement,” a Gurugram police officer said. He said that Tasleem is a suspect in at least six snatching and loot cases. The accused was arrested earlier in a snatching case and had come out of jail after procuring bail in August. “However, he again got involved in the same activities,” he added. Police alleged that Tasleem’s accomplice sold the stolen phones and other valuables in Faridabad and Alwar and he is expected to be nabbed soon. Rahul Dev, the station house officer (SHO) of Sector-50 police station, said Tasleem is in one-day police remand and is being interrogated about his network and crimes that he allegedly committed after coming out of jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-serial-snatcher-held-after-fleeing-with-mobile-phone-101642794459254.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wrong policies of BJP-JJP govt ruined Haryana’s economy, claims Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has accused the BJP-JJP coalition government of ruining Haryana’s financial health.“The wrong policies of the present government have pushed the state’s economy on the brink of ruin. Haryana was number one in per capita income and per capita investment during the Congress regime,” the two-time CM said during his visit to Kurukshetra on Friday.“The BJP-JJP government has made Haryana number one in unemployment, inflation, corruption, crime, atrocities on farmers, mis-governance and fiscal mismanagement,” Hooda added.He said the ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ programme scheduled for Kurukshetra on January 21 was postponed due to Covid-19 restrictions and the schedule for the programme will be announced after the restrictions are lifted.Hooda slammed the Haryana government for not taking action against the mafia involved in illegal mining in Yamuna to the hills of Dadam and Nangal Choudhary.“Many people have died due to illegal mining but police did not registered murder cases against the accused. The government is only setting up committees in the name of investigation,” he said, adding that a dozen scams including those of liquor, land registries, paddy procurement, and recruitment, the government had formed committees but no action has been taken against anyone.He demanded investigation by the CBI under the supervision of a sitting judge of the high court in the scams to punish the guilty.“Farmers have been facing the wrath of the weather. Compensation for farmers was repeatedly demanded by the Opposition, but till now, the government has not even compensated for the losses caused last season,” he added.The leader of Opposition said every section of society, including farmers, labourers, employees, and anganwadi workers, is on the roads but the government is not concerned about them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wrong-policies-of-bjp-jjp-govt-ruined-haryana-s-economy-claims-hooda-101642793979153.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram to chalk out water plan by March to reduce stress on groundwater||The district administration has decided to prepare a water plan by March this year keeping in view the declining groundwater levels in the district and the estimated population growth by 2041, said officials on Friday. Deputy commissioner of Gurugram Yash Garg, while chairing a meeting in this regard on Friday, appointed nodal officers from different departments and asked them to submit a detailed report of the current demand and supply of water and other resources from the entire district to the GuruJal Society by January 31. GuruJal society is an integrated water management initiative of the district administration. “The depleting groundwater level in Gurugram is a matter of concern. Double the amount of water is being wasted in the district, than what gets recharged. In such a situation, the district water plan needs to be made considering the population standards for the next 20 years,” said Garg. The deputy commissioner said that the data received from different departments will be assessed by mid-February and a draft will be prepared. This draft will be shared on a public domain for taking citizen feedback from February 25 till March 1, and thereafter, the final district water plan will be shared with the Haryana Water Resources Authority (HWRA) in the first week of March. Officials said that in industrial areas, there is a need to encourage the use of treated waste water and reducing the dependence on ground water sources. In the meeting, Garg said 53% of the ground water in Gurugram district is used for agriculture purposes. “In such a situation, farmers in the district will have to be made aware and encouraged to adopt micro and drip irrigation. There is also a need to increase the supply line of treated waste water in the district,” said the deputy commissioner. On Tuesday, the HWRA directed the Gurugram administration to come up with an action plan for increasing the groundwater level in the district. Asserting that the district needs to focus on the use of treated waste water, the authority also asked the district administration to form a sub-committee, under the district water harvesting committee, which will submit daily reports which can be used to make a water action plan for Gurugram. Gurugram has been a dark zone district and has seena reduction in the groundwater levels for the past few years. A dark zone refers to an area where the groundwater level has dipped beyond the acceptable parameter in a block. An area is first identified as critical before it is declared a dark zone. According to HWRA, 98 out of 200 villages in Gurugram are under the severely stressed category due to over-extraction of groundwater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-to-chalk-out-water-plan-by-march-to-reduce-stress-on-groundwater-101642793859939.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana ULB minister finds 56 HSVP staffers absent during surprise inspection||Newly-inducted Haryana minister for urban local bodies and housing for all, Kamal Gupta on Friday carried out a surprise inspection at the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) office in Hisar and found 56 staff members absent.The minister visited the HSVP office at 9.10am and found 56 staffers absent from duty. Except one official, others including HSVP administrator Rajesh Jogpal, were found missing from the office.Gupta said he is disappointed that most of the staff were absent. “I made a surprise visit after taking details of the office for the last two days. Strict action will be taken against those absent without a genuine reason. The officials will have to take responsibility,” the minister added.He also reprimanded a superintendent for not maintain a register of details of movement of officials.Gupta marked the staff missing from the office as absent and directed them to follow government norms while performing their duty.Meanwhile, the minister carried out the inspection without wearing a face mask despite Covid case surge amid the third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-ulb-minister-finds-56-hsvp-staffers-absent-during-surprise-inspection-101642793798575.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Former home guard shoots at his second wife, kills self in Nuh||A 35-year-old former home guard allegedly killed himself after he shot at his wife following an altercation at their rented room in Nuh on Thursday night. Police said the wife suffered bullet injuries on the chest and face. She is stable and is being treated at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital,. According to police, the man was deployed at Faridabad police station but left his job three months ago. Police said the man lived with his second wife, who is from Delhi, in a rented accommodation in Nuh and had an estranged relationship with her. He has two children from his first marriage. Police said they are trying to find out what caused the man to take the extreme step. Family members of the man’s second wife alleged the woman was not happy and that she was being mistreated by her husband for the past few months. Police are also looking into claims of the man borrowing ₹10 lakh from his relatives and being heavy indebted to several people. Taking their allegations into account, a team was formed to conduct investigation and record the statements of family members, relatives and neighbours, said police. Varun Singla, superintendent of police (SP), Nuh, said the incident took place around 8pm on Thursday after the man returned home, along with his brother, who was visiting them. “The couple fought over the man’s job and financial issues. His wife started threatening to leave him and return to her parents, following which the man took out a countrymade pistol and shot at her,” he said. Singla said seeing his wife bleed profusely, the man got scared and asked his brother to take her to the hospital in their car. “While leaving, the landlady asked them what was going on, but they did not reply and went to Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College in Nalhar. He asked his brother to remain in the hospital and left the hospital saying that he would return in sometime,” said the officer. Police said the man parked his car by the road in Khelra village and shot himself with the pistol. Passersby found the car parked at an isolated stretch and informed police, following which a team of Nuh police reached the spot and identified the man lying on the front seat holding a pistol. Bijender Singh, station house officer (SHO) of City Nuh police station, said that the woman was referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital and was reportedly stable. “We are questioning the brother and are also waiting to record the woman’s statement, which will provide us with more clarity on why the man shot at her. We are also investigating where the man purchased the countrymade pistol from,” said Singh. Based on the complaint lodged by the landlord, police have registered an FIR against the man under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IP C and relevant sections of the Arms Act at City Nuh police station on Friday. “We have initiated an inquiry into the allegations made by the woman’s family members,” said Singla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/former-home-guard-shoots-at-his-second-wife-kills-self-in-nuh-101642793558736.html
22-01-2022||Other||BHU numismatist bags project to study Punch-marked coins||VARANASI Banaras Hindu University (BHU) numismatist Amit Kumar Upadhyaya of Department of Ancient Indian History, Culture and Archaeology, Faculty of Arts, has bagged a prestigious project from Indian National Science Academy (INSA), to study the Punch-marked coins found in Uttar Pradesh. These coins are believed to be about 2,800 years old and made of pure silver. The coins were widely in use all over the peninsula in ancient times, however, there are questions regarding their issuer, origin and supply, which still require deeper and comprehensive study. Upadhyaya received an incentive grant under the Institution of Eminence Initiative project in BHU, for a proposal on Punchmark coins. He further developed the idea to study the coins in the whole state of Uttar Pradesh and applied for the project, which got INSA approval. “Once my study in Uttar Pradesh is over, I plan to take this study to other states and all over the country,” said Upadhyaya. The study will aim to answer three primary questions, including who was the issuing authority of these coins, where the coins minted; will this help understand where the coins originated, in India or elsewhere; and what was the economic condition of that time? According to Upadhyaya, the project is going to be a collaborative one and experts from the departments of geology, metallurgy and physics of the university would also be involved in this study. “The study will serve another greater purpose of checking the modern forgery of Punch-marked coins as after historic scientific analysis of these coins we would be able to know the exact process and composition of the coins. This is important because when coins, that carry historic value, are forged, analysing historical facts become impossible,” said Upadhyaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhu-numismatist-bags-project-to-study-punch-marked-coins-101642793498921.html
22-01-2022||Other||7,792 new Covid cases in Punjab; positivity rate at 18%||Chandigarh Punjab on Friday registered 7,792 fresh cases of Covid-19 with 28 patients succumbing to the virus over the past 24 hours. The positivity rate of the state also remained 17.95% on Friday, with SAS Nagar registering the maximum positivity rate of 47.28% with 1,313 fresh cases. Ludhiana reported 1,265 fresh cases followed by 737 in Jalandhar, 573 in Hoshiarpur, 511 in Batala , 487 in Amritsar, 381 in Patiala and 257 in Ropar. A maximum of five death were registered in Ludhiana, followed by four in Amritsar and three in Gurdaspur. With 6,882 persons recovering from the virus, the number of cured persons has reached 6,35,126, the bulletin said. To date, 16,913 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. with 7 lakh persons found positive, with the number of active cases in the state reaching 48,183. The state administered 2,93,952 doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7792-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-positivity-rate-at-18-101642793381683.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana-Himachal sign MoU for construction of dam to revive Saraswati river||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said the extinct Saraswati river will get revived with the construction of Adi Badri dam. The area will also get developed as a pilgrimage site.The CM said this while speaking at the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Himachal Pradesh for construction of a dam at Adi Badri.Haryana chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal and his Himachal counterpart Ram Subhag Singh signed the MoU for construction of the dam in the presence of Khattar and Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.Khattar said due to construction of Adi Badri dam, 20 cusec water will flow continuously in Saraswati river throughout the year.Khattar said the presence of Saraswati river has been proved through satellite. For conducting research on it, a chair has been set up at the Kurukshetra University. Besides, the Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board has also been established.The Haryana government has notified an area of 200km from Adi Badri to Ghaggar river via Kaithal for Saraswati river. Its mention can be found in the revenue records. Khattar said this dam will be built on 31.66 hectare in Himachal Pradesh and an amount of ₹215.33 crore will be spent.Khattar said the objective of this project is to revive Saraswati as well as increasing the groundwater level. With commissioning of the dam, the flood situation arising out of excessive rainfall during rainy days will also be dealt with. The lake being built near it will also promote tourism.The Haryana CM said with construction of Adi Badri Dam, the area around it will also develop as a pilgrimage site. He said the area from Kalka to Kalesar is important from the tourism point of view. Many religious and tourist places fall in this area including Adi Badri, Lohagarh, Kapal Mochan, and Mata Mantra Devi.Khattar said many projects will be worked out in collaboration with Himachal including the construction of a dam at the Hathnikund barrage.Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur said Adi Badri dam will meet the requirement of irrigation and drinking water for both the states. Compensation will be given to people whose land will be used for construction of the dam, he added.Thakur said in the coming days, foundation stone of the dam will be laid after completing all formalities related to the project. Governments of both the states are also preparing a roadmap for many other projects together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanahimachal-sign-mou-for-construction-of-dam-to-revive-saraswati-river-101642793379028.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Speeding car mows down 23-yr-old man in Pataudi||A 23-year-old man was killed after a speeding car hit his motorcycle near Khetiawas bus stand in Pataudi on Thursday morning. Police said the deceased, identified as Sachin Yadav, worked with a private firm and was on his way to Rewari when the accident took place at about 10.30am. They said he was rushed to a government hospital in Rewari but doctors declared him dead. Cops registered an FIR at Pataudi police station on Thursday evening under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the basis of a written complaint submitted by an eyewitness, Deepak (28), against an unknown person who was driving the speeding car. The complainant, who was also travelling to Rewari for personal work, said that the biker was travelling just ahead of his car when the accident took place. “A car at a high speed was coming from Rewari. The driver suddenly slammed the brakes and the car hit Sachin’s motorcycle. The victim was wearing a helmet,” said Deepak, who works with a public sector insurance firm. He said that he took out the deceased’s identity cards from the wallet and called his family and police to inform them about the accident. “Other commuters also gathered at the spot and one of them rushed him to the government hospital in Rewari in a car,” Deepak said. He also said that the accused driver immediately took a U-turn after hitting Sachin and sped towards Rewari again. “There was fog when the accident took place. I could not see the driver or occupants in the car but memorised the vehicle number and later gave it to police,” Deepak added. Rakesh Kumar, the station house officer (SHO) of Pataudi police station, said that the owner of the car has been traced with the help of its registration number but is yet to be arrested. “Investigation is underway. No arrest has been made yet,” he said. Police said that the car belonged to a Rewari resident. Sachin’s body was handed over to his family members after an autopsy on Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/speeding-car-mows-down-23-yr-old-man-in-pataudi-101642793202604.html
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Remove encroachment from your land, HC tells Rlys admn||PRAYAGRAJ The Allahabad high court observed that the Railways administration had miserably failed in its duty to prevent encroachments over its land and directed it to take action against encroachers and remove such encroachments. On Thursday, a two-judge bench comprising justice Pritinker Diwakar and justice Ashutosh Srivastava allowed a writ petition filed by one Anoop Kumar Mishra of Prayagraj, alleging that certain land in his area was encroached by locals. The petition was treated as public interest litigation by the bench.In the petition, it was stated that the land belonging to the Indian Railways had been encroached upon by certain people, which was known to the officials of Indian Railways, and yet no action was taken by officials to remove the said encroachment.The court directed railways authorities to immediately issue notice to the encroachers of railways’ land, asking them to vacate the land within three weeks of the notice being served on them.“If the occupants/encroachers fail to vacate the land despite notice being served, it shall be open to the railways authorities to initiate appropriate action to forcibly dispossess such occupants/encroachers and demolish or remove the unauthorized structures raised by them by taking assistance of the local police force,” added the court. The court had asked the superintendent/commissioner of police of the area to ensure that adequate force is deployed on the site and surrounding areas including protection to the officials/staff engaged in the demolition of the illegal structures and eviction process.The court observed, “The railways administration is expected to initiate civil/criminal action against the encroachers/unauthorized occupants on the railways properties at the earliest, once it is brought to the notice of the officials of railways.”The railways administration as also the local administration and the state government are expected to initiate appropriate action against the erring persons, including officials of the establishment concerned for allowing and tolerating such encroachment and for not taking corrective action for removal of encroachment at the right time,” added the court in its seven-page order.The writ petition was disposed of by the court by observing: “We hope and trust that the above directions would go a long way in ensuring that no similar case is instituted and the menace of railway land being encroached is finally put to rest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/remove-encroachment-from-your-land-hc-tells-rlys-admn-101642793078856.html
22-01-2022||Other||Andhra to go ahead with revised pay scale, govt staff to strike from Feb 7||The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to go ahead and implement its pay revision decision without any changes, however, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government has appointed a five-member committee to consult with the employees’ unions and look into their objections.Meanwhile, the state government employees on Friday decided to go on an indefinite strike from February 7 demanding the withdrawal of the alleged arbitrary pay revision.“The cabinet has decided that the government will implement the revised pay scales as announced by the chief minister last week. It also approved the increase in retirement age from 60 years to 62 years,” state minister for information Perni Venkatramaiah alias Nani told the reporters after the meeting.The five-member committee will include Nani, finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, municipal administration minister Botsa Satyanarayana, state government advisor on public affairs Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and chief secretary Sameer Sharma.The committee would study the demands of the employees and make appropriate recommendations to the government.However, various employees’ associations of the state government which came together under the umbrella of PRC Sadhana Samithi (committee to achieve pay revision) decided to step up their agitation till the government withdraws its orders on pay revision.The associations have decided to go on indefinite strike from February 7, after a series of agitation programmes. “We will serve the strike notice on the state government on Monday,” employees’ joint action committee chairman Bandi Srinivasa Rao said.The meeting has decided to hold district-wise round-table conferences with all the employees on January 23, followed by rallies and protest dharnas in the district headquarters on January 25, submission of representations to Ambedkar statues on January 26, relay hunger strikes from January 27 to 30, Chalo Vijayawada rally on February 3 and non-cooperation to the government from February 5.Apart from the employees’ strike issue, the cabinet also took other decisions, including steps to contain Covid-19 spread, launching of a new scheme – EBC Nestham, for economically backward class women under which each the family would be paid ₹15,000 per year, administrative approval for setting up of six new medical colleges at a cost of ₹7,880 crore and provision of jobs on compassionate grounds to one person from each of the family members of the employees who lost their lives.
22-01-2022||Other||ED raids have exposed Channi’s ‘suitcase di sarkar’: Capt||Chandigarh Calling Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi “unreliable and untrustworthy”, Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday alleged Channi had made transfers and postings into an industry in the state over the past three months. The former CM alleged that the incumbent government has been exposed as a ‘suitcase di sarkar’ after the recent Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids that had unearthed crores of rupees from Channi’s kin. “The ED seizure is a follow-up on the case that the agency had registered after I had ordered an inquiry, while heading the government,” he said in a social media interaction. Capt added that, unfortunately, he had been unable to take any serious action against the Congress MLAs who were involved in illegal mining in the state as that would have damaged the party’s interests and Sonia Gandhi had failed to respond to his query on which minister or MLA she wanted him to sack over the issue. He also regretted having helped Channi resolve the #metoo complaint against him, saying the then minister had fallen on his feet and pledged loyalty to him for life. “Now, he has changed colours and is claiming he had been trying to get rid of me for the past two years!” the PLC leader remarked. The PLC chief said the new CM had done nothing, except indulge in postings and transfers since taking over. “Three DGPs have been changed, his home minister has been openly accused in a cabinet meeting by his colleague that money was being taken for posting of SSP, there was a tug of war on the AG’s post…This is not ‘lokaan di sarkar’ but ‘transfer posting di sarkar’,” he added. He also accused the Channi government of ‘stage-managing’ the blockade that had led to the serious security lapse on the Prime Minister’s route. “Clearly, the Channi government had instructed the police to not remove the farmers who were stopping BJP buses from reaching the spot,” he said. On why no sitting Congress MLA was joining the PLC, Capt Amarinder said they were only waiting for their party to announce the tickets, which was being deliberately delayed as the Congress is scared of defections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-raids-have-exposed-channi-s-suitcase-di-sarkar-capt-101642792960266.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||R-Day parade dress rehearsal on Sunday: Delhi Police lists traffic curbs||The Delhi Police on Friday said they have prepared elaborate traffic and security arrangements for a smooth and incident-free dress rehearsal on January 23 (Sunday) for the Republic Day parade in the national Capital.The parade rehearsal will start at 10.20am from Vijay Chowk and will proceed to National Stadium. Delhi Metro services will be operational during the rehearsal but boarding and de-boarding at two stations – Kendriya Sachivalaya and Udyog Bhawan --will not be allowed between 5am and 12pm.Traffic restrictions and route diversions will be in place in several central Delhi areas, as the parade will proceed from Vijay Chowk and enter National Stadium from gate number 1 via Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, roundabout Princess Palace, turn left towards Tilak Marg and turn right on “C” Hexagon, the Delhi Traffic Police said.“To facilitate smooth passage to the parade, no traffic will be allowed on Rajpath from Vijay Chowk to India Gate from 6pm on Saturday till parade is over on Sunday. No cross traffic will be allowed on Rajpath from 11pm on Saturday at Rafi Marg, Janpath and Man Singh Road. Also ‘C’-Hexagon-India Gate will be closed for traffic from 9.15am on Sunday till the entire parade and tableaux enter National Stadium,” joint commissioner of police (traffic) Vivek Kishor said, requesting commuters to plan their journey and routes accordingly.Motorists travelling between north and south Delhi can use Ring Road-- Rajghat to Ashram Chowk via Sarai Kale Khan. Those travelling to central Delhi from south Delhi will have to take the Ring Road towards Dhaula Kuan and from there to Vande Mataram Marg, Shankar Road and Park Street or Mandir Marg.Motorists travelling between east and west Delhi can use the Ring Road--Bhairon Marg to Lodhi Road and further towards AIIMS and Dhaula Kuan. Motorists can also use the Ring Road in north Delhi starting from Boulevard Road to Rani Jhansi Flyover and further to the Shankar Road roundabout. Another available route is from ISBT Kashmere Gate to IP College and further to Azadpur and Punjabi Bagh.Though there is no restriction for people from north Delhi travelling towards New Delhi Railway Station or Old Delhi Railway Station, they are advised to plan their journey in advance to avoid possible delay, according to an advisory issued on Friday by the traffic police.No heavy or goods vehicles will be allowed to enter Delhi from neighbouring states from 10pm on January 22 till the parade rehearsal is over the next day.Keeping in mind the possibility of terror strikes and the recent recovery of an RDX-based improvised explosive device (IED) at the Ghazipur flower market in east Delhi, the city is already on high alert with intelligence agencies keeping a vigil on the activities of suspected anti-social elements and anti-nationals. The city police have been carrying out mock drills in markets and other crowded public places to check their preparedness.The number of security persons on streets has also been increased while security arrangements around important installations and iconic structures have also been strengthened. The checking of vehicles at border points and strategic locations across the city has also been increased, said a senior police officer.Flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, paramotors, hang gliders, UAVs, UASs, microlight aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small powered aircraft, quadcopters or para jumping from aircraft are already prohibited in the jurisdiction of the National Capital Territory of Delhi from January 20 till February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-parade-dress-rehearsal-on-sunday-delhi-police-lists-traffic-curbs-101642792958670.html
22-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: Kaushambi woman reunited with siblings after 25 years||PRAYAGRAJ: Around 25 years after getting separated from her family, a 53-year-old woman of Kaushambi district has been reunited with her siblings (who work in Bangalore) by a Chennai-based NGO—Udavum Karangal (Helping Hands). She will be arriving in Kaushambi on Wednesday. Kusum, who endured an abusive marriage, psychiatric ailment and living on the streets of Chennai before being rescued in 1996, was nurtured back to her good health through medicines, counselling and personal care by volunteers of the NGO during the past years. They constantly tried to extract information from the woman about her family and the effort finally led to her being reunited with her siblings in Bangalore on January 19, 2022. The woman, who has seven siblings including six brothers and one sister, was married to a local man in her early 20’s but unfortunately her husband died a couple of months after their marriage. Kusum had second marriage with Bhailal, a worker in a steel factory at Pune. However, the happiness of the married life was short lived as Kusum was often thrashed by her drunkard husband. Offended by the repeated torture, she came back to her parents but under depression, she developed psychiatric problems and finally ran-off from her home at the age of 28 from her Basethi village in Kaushambi. “She was later identified by a well-wisher of Udavum Karangal at Tambaram, a suburban city located in south of Chennai, who found Kusum lying on the streets and people teasing her. She was handed over to us in January 1996 and she was nurtured, given psychiatric treatment and is now in normal condition,” shared Pappa S Vidyaakar, founder of the NGO. He further informed that Kusum responded well to the psychiatric treatment. After recovery, she started getting involved in various activities in the rehabilitation home at Thiruverkadu, a Western suburb of Chennai. However, she was always reluctant to divulge the details of her native place and said that she did not want to go back. “After repeated counselling, she started giving vague details like her village name and name of her brothers. With these small details, a social worker, Y Srinivasa Rao, through Google found a school called Balamandir School, and spoke to one Mallick Chand who knew her family. Soon, we were able to contact Ramchand Yadav and Prakash Yadav, the two brothers of Kusum,” informed Vidyaakar. The NGO arranged a WhatsApp video call between Kusum and her family and she was overjoyed. Later, Phoolchand Yadav, her other brother, was contacted in Bengaluru who came to Chennai to take her sister home to Kaushambi. “On meeting, the duo hugged each other and were in tears,” said the chairman of the NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-kaushambi-woman-reunited-with-siblings-after-25-years-101642792779139.html
22-01-2022||Other||Kerala CPI(M) suffers jolt as HC bans public events for week||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) suffered a setback on Friday after the Kerala High Court banned all the programmes exceeding presence of 50 people, putting a question mark on the ongoing party district committee meetings in Thrissur and Kasaragod. Hearing a public interest litigation questioning big participation in party meetings during pandemic times, a division bench of the court said, “If participation in Republic Day parade can be limited to 50 persons, it can be applicable to party meetings also.” It also said the government’s explanation in this regard was not satisfactory and banned all programmes that exceed more than 50 people for a week. Petitioner Arun Raj contended that earlier the Kasaragod district collector had issued a directive banning all public functions but later he was forced to issue a fresh circular to facilitate the party district conference. He said Covid -19 restrictions were compromised to facilitate party district meet and he also cited the so-called “super spreader party event” in Thiruvananthapuram last week. The court questioned the logic behind organising major party programme when less than 50 persons were permitted for Republic Day events in the state. The court also said in Kasaragod district test positivity rate was over 36%. The court later gave an interim order banning all programmes that exceed 50 people. Meanwhile, Opposition Congress has welcomed the court decision. “The party should realise its blunder at least for now and suspend the ongoing meetings,” said Opposition leader V D Satheesan. CPI(M) leader A N Shamseer said the party state leadership will take an appropriate decision after going through the court directive. Both district meetings were inaugurated on Friday morning. Despite heavy virus caseload and subsequent restrictions the CPI(M)’s decision to go ahead with two district committee meetings invited widespread criticism. Opposition Congress and BJP alleged that the pandemic restrictions were tweaked by the government for the smooth functioning of the meets and the party was repeating its mistakes. After Thiruvananthapuram district conference last week, about 100 delegates, including education minister V Sivankutty and two legislators had tested Covid positive. The mega ‘Thiruvathira’ dance programme during the conference where more than 500 women artists participated drew enough flak and later the party had to admit that it was wrong to conduct such a mass dance programme amid the pandemic. “The government manipulated restrictions to conduct party meets. In both districts test positivity rate is more than 35%. The party thinks that it can do anything and get away easily. How can the government insist common man to follow restrictions? asked Satheesan. Instead of postponing these meets the party was posing a challenge to others and reduce itself to a laughing stock, he said. He said Congress has postponed all its programmes due to spike in cases and the ruling party should have been more considerate and responsible. Meanwhile BJP leader S Suresh said, “Blind with power, the party has lost its balance and semblance. When cases mount it is in a race to organise mega meets. The party’s Thiruvananthapuram meet has turned into a super-spreader event and it is yet to learn a lesson from its mistakes.”  But party politburo member M A Baby refuted criticisms. “These meets are conducted in a scientific and Covid-appropriate manner. Our political rivals are cooking up stories to take the spirit out of the meets,” he said. Meanwhile, the state on Friday reported another spike with 41,668 cases after 95,218 samples were tested with a TPR of 43% . According to the data released by the state health ministry, active cases rose to 2,23,548 and 33 deaths took the death toll to 51,607.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-cpi-m-suffers-jolt-as-hc-bans-public-events-for-week-101642792658669.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Expectation of conjugal relations can’t be reason to force wife, Delhi HC told||Continuing her arguments before the Delhi high court on Friday for criminalising marital rape, amicus curiae Rebecca John said expectation of sexual relations by a husband cannot result in him having forcible sex with the wife.John told the bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar that no doubt, there was an expectation of sexual relations in a marital relationship and that is not wrong, but it can only be achieved through dialogue or if a wife is also willing and ready to have conjugal relations.“Expectation is not wrong. Both sides can have expectations. However, that expectation cannot result in the husband having forcible sex with the wife. The issue is not about expectation; it is about the man exercising his dominant right over the wife, despite the wife saying I cannot and will not have sexual relations with you,” John said, after Shankar asked her about the expectations that a husband may have in a marital relationship.Justice Shankar reiterated there is a qualitative difference between the sexual equation that exists between parties who are married and those who are not. He also said while the parties who are married may have a right to expect sexual relations, there is no such right between couples who are unmarried.Posing a query to senior advocate John, Shankar said given such a right, if the legislature decided not to equate the two situations, owing to the difference within which the parties were placed, can the court examining the constitutionality of exception in the rape law -- it decriminalises marital rape -- say that there is no such difference in the situations?Exception 2 in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 115 years of age, is not rape.On an earlier occasion, Shankar had said that when a man is married, there is a social, moral and legal right for each partner to expect meaningful conjugal relations with the other. Correcting his earlier stance, the judge said, “Let us not call it a right. Let’s call it an expectation.”The bench is hearing PILs by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association, and two individuals seeking to strike down the exception granted to husbands in the Indian rape law.During the proceedings, senior counsel John also submitted that if the exception in the rape law was gender neutral, it would create a false equivalence to suggest that husbands and wives are equal, disregarding the lived experiences of women as wives.She also gave examples of various provisions in different statutes which specifically focussed on the victim being a woman, including the Domestic Violence Act, Section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), Section 113B of Indian Evidence Act (presumption as to dowry death) and Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act.She submitted that the scheme of Indian Penal Code (IPC), Criminal Procedure Code and the Indian Evidence Act has been amended by the legislature, putting the woman at the centre of the provision and keeping in mind the procedural and evidentiary safeguards that must be given when a complaint is filed by a woman.Clarifying that it was not her case that other sexual minorities must not be given adequate protection, John said that in order to do so, other special provisions will have to be introduced which specifically protected their rights.The arguments will continue on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/expectation-of-conjugal-relations-can-t-be-reason-to-force-wife-delhi-hc-told-101642792598678.html
22-01-2022||Other||Varanasi: Sampurnanand Sanskrit University to mention BA on Shastri’s degree||VARANASI Sampurnanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya (SSU), Varanasi, has now decided to mention ‘BA’ (Bachelor of Arts) on the degree of Shastri. This arrangement will be implemented from the current session (2022), said SSU vice chancellor Prof Hareram Tripathi on Friday. Recently, the candidature of Shastri degree holders from this institution was not considered for the post of Dharma Guru in the Army.“Now, BA will also be mentioned in the marksheet and degree of Shastri’s students who have already passed the examination of the year 2022. Purva Madhyama and Uttar Madhyama certificates will be marked as 10th and 12th, respectively,” he said.Prof Tripathi said that a decision regarding this was taken in a meeting held in the SSU on Friday. Registrar Dr Omprakash, Controller of Examinations Archana Johri, Prof Sudhakar Mishra, Prof Mahendra Pandey, Prof Ramesh Prasad, Prof Hirakkanti Chakraborty, Dr Vijay Kumar Pandey and Vijay Kumar Mani Tripathi attended the meeting.The students, who have already completed Shashtri degree course from the SSU and have applied for the post of religious teacher in the Army, will also be given a certificate of Shahstri degree with BA printed on it. It will be given on demand and the certificate will be signed and certified by regiatrar and examination controller.Sanskrit University issues marksheets and certificates of high school in the name of Purva-Madhyama, Inter’s Uttar-Madhyama and Graduation in the name of Shastri. The university is already mentioning MA-Sanskrit on the title of Acharya. Prof Tripathi said, “I am always devoted to the interest of this institution and the students here. I will keep working in the interest of the farmers. Recently, the candidature of Shastri degree holders from this institution in past, was not considered for the post of Dharma Guru in the Army.”As soon as it came to the VC’s notice, Prof Tripathi met defense minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi and requested him for a permanent solution to this problem. Singh assured him to find a solution to this by April, said SSU public relations officer Shashindra Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-now-shashtri-degree-from-sampurnanand-sanskrit-university-to-be-equivalent-to-ba-101642792418582.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Gunrunner, wanted for involvement in plan to kill Kashmiri activist, held||A 55-year-old alleged gunrunner from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh was arrested by the special cell with five pistols and 20 cartridges on Wednesday, police said Friday.He was wanted for his involvement in a case of conspiracy to kill a Kashmiri social activist, in which his role as the supplier of weapons emerged during an investigation, police said on Friday.The arrested man, identified as Hazi Shamim and popularly known as Shamim Pistol among gunrunners, was arrested on Wednesday from Muzaffarnagar, after the special cell team received information about his presence in the city, police said.On February 26 last year, Delhi Police had claimed they had averted an assassination plot on human rights activist Sushil Pandit after arresting two alleged contract killers Sukhvinder Singh, 26, and Lakhan Rajput, 22, from Delhi’s RK Puram.The two had disclosed that they were hired by one Prince Kumar alias Tuti. They were promised ₹10 lakh each for killing the activist, they said. The special cell had registered a case and later arrested three more alleged conspirators – Tuti, Jagdeep alias Kaka and Rohit Chaudhary.Their interrogation revealed that Chaudhary’s brother Rahul, who was a constable in the Indian Army and an expert in drone handling, was arrested by the Punjab Police for his alleged role in smuggling narcotic drugs into India from Pakistan using drones. When Rahul was in jail, Chaudhary was contacted by some persons from Pakistan (who involved him in drug trafficking) through one Randeep alias Romi, a member of banned terrorist outfit Khalistan Zindabad Force, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah.“A resident of Punjab, Romi also runs an international drug syndicate. He has been on the run since 2014 and is hiding abroad. Romi assigned the task of killing the Kashmiri social activist to Chaudhary, who asked his associate Jagdeep alias Kaka to arrange someone to do so, and offered him ₹50 lakh. Kaka had already murdered someone in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, on Chaudhary’s instructions,” said DCP Kushwah.According to the DCP, Kaka wanted to complete the job but Chaudhary suggested that the murder should be committed by someone else so that they are not linked to the killing. Kaka took the help of Tuti, who hired Sukhvinder and Rajput. The two came to Delhi and were provided with firearms and ammunition and a photo of the target. However, the two were arrested before they could finish the job, the police said.“Our probe revealed that the weapons and bullets were supplied by Hazi Shamim. He attempted anticipatory bail after learning about the arrest of Chaudhary, but it was rejected. Shamim went on the run and a non-bailable warrant was issued against him. He was arrested on January 19,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gunrunner-wanted-for-involvement-in-plan-to-kill-kashmiri-activist-held-101642792358602.html
22-01-2022||Gurugram||Police arrest three for hacking daily wage labourer to death in Pataudi||Police arrested three people for allegedly killing a daily-wage worker at Jaitpur village in Pataudi on Sunday night after he demanded his pending wage of ₹8,000. Police said that the arrested persons--Mangal Singh, Ravi alias Ravinder and Kanwar Singh--were neighbours in Jaitpur. While Mangal and Ravinder are cousins, Kanwar is Ravinder’s maternal uncle. Police said they were arrested on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday after searches were carried out in their village. The deceased, Mahesh Kumar (30), also a resident of Jaitpur, was allegedly thrashed and then hacked to death using an axe in the village late on Sunday night. Police said Mahesh was accused in at least seven criminal cases, including of attempt to robbery and assault.According to the FIR registered on Monday, Mahesh’s father Ranvir Singh alleged that the suspects killed his son when he had gone to Mangal’s residence asking to clear his dues of ₹8,000.Police said on the basis of the statements given by the suspects, an axe, a steel rod used in construction works and an iron pipe used in the crime were recovered from a well in the fields owned by Mangal. Police have sent the weapons for forensic analysis to study the blood samples on them.A police officer privy to the investigation said that Ravinder allegedly used the steel rod while Mangal used the pipe to assault Mahesh. “It was Kanwar who used the axe to hit Mahesh, which fatally injured him. Mahesh worked in Mangal’s fields in November last year and was due to receive his pending wages,” said the officer quoting the statements of the arrested trio.He said Mahesh reached Mangal’s residence on Sunday night and demanded his pending wage.“Mahesh was in a highly inebriated state and was hurling abuses. Mangal lost his cool and started assaulting Mahesh. Later Ravinder and Kanwar also assaulted Mahesh, resulting in his death,” said the officer. Rakesh Kumar, station house officer of Pataudi police station, said all three suspects were sent to judicial custody and further investigation is going on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/police-arrest-three-for-hacking-daily-wage-labourer-to-death-in-pataudi-101642792301511.html
22-01-2022||Other||Pongal gift hamper row: Stalin orders to black list erring firms||Chief minister (CM) M K Stalin on Friday directed the concerned officials to take action against errant firms if irregularities were found in the 21-product Pongal gift hamper distributed among the ration card holders.The move comes amid the corruption allegations labelled by the NDA allies, BJP and AIADMK. “Firms which supplied low quality items should be blacklisted,” Stalin said, according to a government statement released following a review meeting he had conducted on the issue. In the review meeting, the chief minister consulted with officials from the department of cooperatives, food and consumer protection and the finance department. The chief minister has instructed the officials to take ‘strict action,’ including blacklisting of companies. The DMK government distributed Pongal gifts consisting of a total of 21 grocery items, including 100-gram ghee produced by the state-owned Aavin, different varieties of lentils, and a full sugarcane to more than two-crore ration card holders ahead of the three day-festival earlier this month. Following the distribution, complaints were received from a few regions about the jaggery melting and pepper and turmeric being of poor quality. The scheme was full of irregularities, alleged former chief minister and AIADMK’s joint coordinator Edapaddi Palaniswami on Thursday while he was speaking to reporters in Salem. Stalin took strong note of the issue after the AIADMK and the BJP accused the DMK-led government of covering up irregularities in the scheme by shifting focus on other issues. Palaniswami said that the DMK raided AIADMK’s former higher education minister on Thursday to divert people’s attention while BJP’s Tamil Nadu president K Annamalai tweeted, “To hide the pathetic failure and gross mismanagement in Pongal kit distribution, the DMK government is resorting to a Republic Day tool kit now” referring to Tamil Nadu’s tableau being rejected by the Union government. As per the official information, about 2.15 crore beneficiaries received the Pongal gift which cost the government ₹1,297 crore. “During the last regime, six items were procured and this year we procured 21 items and not just that, even the weight of these items was significantly additional,” said the statement. “While the distribution was going on well, the government received complaints from some parts of the state that there were some deficiencies in the products provided by certain companies. And they were investigated,” the statement added. “Only quality products of all kinds should be provided to the public and any attempt to tarnish the reputation of the state should not be allowed,” Stalin reportedly said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pongal-gift-hamper-row-stalin-orders-to-black-list-erring-firms-101642792180257.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi crime: Woman found murdered in Saket, husband hurt||A 50-year-old woman was found murdered and her husband injured at their home in south Delhi’s Saket on Friday night, the police said. The man has been admitted to a hospital, where he is undergoing treatment, said officers aware of the matter.Police are trying to ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the woman’s death and injury to her husband. A case was registered and investigations are underway. The police were also probing the possibility of the woman’s husband allegedly killed her before trying to kill himself. They said that the preliminary inspection of the crime scene did not suggest the possibility of robbery at the house. A police officer, who confirmed the crime, said that the couple lived with their children in the house. The children were not at home when the incident took place. The police were informed about the crime around 8pm. “We are looking into the case. It’s too early to reach any conclusion on what exactly happened inside the house,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.The injured man worked with a private company. However, he had lost his job some time ago. The woman was a homemaker, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-crime-woman-found-murdered-in-saket-husband-hurt-101642792178522.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: 50-yr-old sets self ablaze outside Supreme Court, admitted in hospital||A 50-year-old man allegedly set himself ablaze in an attempt to kill himself outside the new building of the Supreme Court on Friday afternoon. Police said that they shifted the man to the hospital where he is being treated. Security personnel posted at the gate extinguished the fire by wrapping the man in blankets.According to police, the man, a resident of Noida, was allegedly unhappy because the factory he worked at did not pay him a salary for the last three months and the owner allegedly fired him a few days ago.Police said around 2pm on Friday, the man reached the new building of the Supreme Court near Pragati Maidan on Mathura Road, went to the two-wheeler parking area outside Gate No 1 and poured some inflammatory substance on himself before setting himself ablaze. He then went running towards Gate No 1. As soon as the security personnel at the gate caught sight of him, they immediately caught him and extinguished the fire by wrapping him in a blanket.A PCR van stationed at the gate immediately took the injured man to Lok Nayak Hospital, where he was admitted for treatment.He told the police that he pleaded for help several times but to no avail.Police said he received 10-12% burn injuries on a part of his arm and around his neck.A video of the incident was also circulated on social media.This is the second such incident outside the Supreme Court in the last six months. In August last year, a 24-year-old woman, who alleged that she was raped in 2019, and a man, set themselves on fire outside the Supreme Court. They were taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where doctors described their condition as critical. They both died within a week of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi50yrold-sets-self-ablaze-outside-supreme-court-admitted-in-hospital-101642792118780.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi budget to focus on bringing economy back on track: Sisodia||The Delhi Budget 2022-23 will focus on bringing the Covid-19 hit economy back on track and also on developing Delhi as a hub for business and services so that more job opportunities are created, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, on Friday. The Kejriwal-led Delhi government is conducting surveys to ascertain ways to boost the capital’s economy and increase job opportunities amid the pandemic. Marking the beginning of the budget preparations, Sisodia on Friday also conducted a high-level review meeting with officials. The minister said Delhi Budget 2022- 23 will be “special” and will foster the economic growth of the national capital. “The budget will be prepared by keeping the needs of Delhi residents in mind. Along with that, based on the findings of various studies conducted by the planning department, we are trying to understand what innovations can be introduced to boost the capital’s economy and increase job opportunities,” said Sisodia in a statement. “The economy has suffered great losses in the past two years due to the Covid pandemic. We will give special attention to bringing the capital’s economy back on track. Delhi Budget 2022-23 will also focus on industrial development. The Kejriwal government will focus on developing Delhi as a hub for business and services,” Sisodia said. The government will pay special attention to various public welfare schemes, including those in the fields of education, health, electricity, and clean drinking water, among others. “The necessities of all Delhi residents will be kept in mind while preparing this year’s budget and it will help them recover from the pandemic-induced economic crisis,” said Sisodia. Last year, Sisodia had presented ₹69,000 crore budget for fiscal 2021-22, which had an emphasis on ”deshbhakti” as the AAP government planned to inspire patriotism among the people in the run-up to the 75th Independence Day celebrations this year. 
22-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: Former MP Atiq’s wife alleges harassment by cops||PRAYAGRAJ: Former MP and mafia-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad’s wife Shaista Parveen has alleged misbehaviour by cops during a late-night raid at her parent’s house in Chakia area on Wednesday. However, the police have denied the charge. Cops are carrying out raids at different places in search of Atiq’s son Ali, who is named in a case of assault on a property dealer, on December 31. Shaista alleged that on Wednesday night at around 1 am, policemen entered their house after scaling the boundary wall. “There were no males in the house at that time. Cops make them awake and carried out a search of the house during which they ransacked the rooms and misbehaved with family members,” Shaista claimed adding that many cops were in an inebriated state. Shaista and lawyers of AIMIM’s legal cell have made complaint to senior police officials in this connection. AIMIM leader advocate Arif Iqbal said that an online complaint had been made to senior officials and this case would also be presented before the court. Meanwhile, SHO of Kareli police station Anurag Sharma said that women constables accompanied the police team during the raid and all allegations of harassment, including consumption of liquor by cops, were baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-former-mp-atiq-s-wife-alleges-harassment-by-cops-101642791641351.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Rainy weekend in store for Delhi, Met predicts in weather update||New Delhi: After a sunny Friday, Delhi is expected to witness a wet and windy Saturday with light to moderate showers expected to hit the Capital during the day, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The rain will be accompanied by gusty winds with speeds of upto 30-40 km/hr, making for another cold day, with the maximum temperature expected to hover around 15-16 degrees Celsius (°C) on Saturday, IMD said.When the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees or lower than normal, while the minimum is below 10°C, the IMD classifies it as a ‘cold day’.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 19.6°C on Friday – two degrees below normal for this time of year, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 7.6°C, which is normal for this time of the year. Delhi also reported shallow to moderate fog in the early hours of Friday, with the visibility dropping to 200 metres at Safdarjung, and 700 metres at Palam.RK Jenamani, a scientist at IMD, said the spell of rain over the weekend is due to a western disturbance, which will lead to drizzle towards Friday night and in the early hours of Saturday as well.“While there may be some drizzle at night, light to moderate spell of rain will be seen on Saturday during the day, with wind speeds touching 40km/hr. The maximum temperature will remain quite low,” he said, adding Sunday and Monday could be cold days.A western disturbance refers to an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure, moving from the west to the east, carrying with it moisture associated with rainfall, snowfall and fog in northern India.“A drizzle is expected on Sunday with the impact of this western disturbance expected to be over by Sunday night. The maximum temperature could hover around 17°C by Monday as well,” Jenamani added.Delhi’s air quality has also remained in the “very poor” category in the last 24 hours, with an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 365 according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin. The AQI reading was 387 (very poor) on Friday.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a forecasting body, Delhi’s air quality will improve in the next 24 hours following the rain. “It is likely to rain on January 22 and 23, with gusty winds leading to wet deposition and strong dispersion, which will result in significant improvement of AQI,” said Safar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rainy-weekend-in-store-for-delhi-met-predicts-in-weather-update-101642791458599.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||DU releases draft four-year UG curriculum framework, seeks suggestions||The Delhi University (DU) on Friday released the draft curriculum framework -- a structure for four-year undergraduate programmes in different disciplines with multiple entry/exit options -- for admissions under its revised admission policy starting this academic calendar. The draft is in the public domain on the DU website and stakeholders, including teachers, academicians, students, parents and recruiters, may share their suggestions online, in the prescribed form, till January 30, 11.59pm.Aligned with the National Education Policy (NEP), the Undergraduate Curriculum Framework 2022 (UGCF) outlines 176 credits for a four-year honours degree and 132 credits for a three-year honours degree. Last December, the university shared two proposed NEP frameworks with colleges for deliberations, apart from a skeletal framework that was discussed by the academic council (AC) and the executive council (EC) last August when the FYUP (four-year undergraduate programme) agenda was approved. However, the draft UGCF that was put in the public domain on Friday was different from these three earlier versions, council members said. While the DU AC in August approved 196 credits for a four-year honours degree and 148 credits for a three-year honours degree, the credits were reduced to 184 and 140, respectively, in the second proposed course structure and 164 and 124, respectively, in the third proposed course structure. The fourth and latest framework outlines 176 credits for a four-year honours degree and 132 credits for a three-year honours degree.Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh said the framework had been formulated with a student-centric approach. “The framework provides flexibility in terms of choice of discipline (s) of study, developing academic pathway having creative combinations of disciplines for study with multiple entry and exit options, and determining semester-wise academic load and the ease to learn at his/her own pace,” Singh said in the draft. He also said the increase in the number of choices and courses will also increase the need for more educators. Under the framework, a certificate will be awarded to students who exit at the end of the first year after securing 44 credits. A diploma shall be awarded to students who exit at the end of the second year with 88 credits. Students will secure a bachelors degree with honours if they exit at the end of the third year with 132 credits in a single core discipline course. In the fourth year of the programme, students can either choose to pursue an Honours degree in a particular discipline or an Honours degree with research with 176 credits. They will be required to work on a dissertation or an academic project. The minimum credit to be earned by a student per semester is 18 and the maximum is 26, according to the draft framework. Several DU teachers said the latest framework has reduced the course credits, which would lead to loss of jobs along with dilution of course content. Abha Dev Habib, associate professor, Miranda House, and former EC member, said the framework put in the public domain has reduced the number of hours (of study) and hence the credits. “The latest model reduces weightage in terms of number of hours and, hence, the credits for discipline specific core (DSC), discipline specific electives (DSE) and generic elective (GE) have been reduced from six to four. This dilution is not acceptable,” said Habib. Rudrashish Chakraborty, associate professor, Kirori Mal College, said the draft framework demonstrated a major dilution of academic rigour and quality owing to the reduced number of credits. “Each core paper gets four credits instead of six at present and the ability enhancement courses (AEC) and skill enhancement courses (SEC) get two credits instead of the present four. Moreover, the students get 132 credits after six semesters in the proposed programme instead of 148 in the present structure,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dureleases-draft-four-year-ug-curriculum-framework-seeks-suggestions-101642791278413.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||HT Code-a-Thon ends on a high note: Six crowned winners of Olympiad||Over five months after the second edition of one of the country’s biggest coding Olympiads -- HT Code-a-thon -- was launched, six students from across the country were crowned winners and 12 others were declared runners-up as the results of the grand finale held on January 15 was declared on Thursday.The winners were awarded a laptop, the first runner-ups received a tablet and a smartwatch each, and the second runner-ups were given a tablet.The grand finale, held virtually on Thursday, was attended by Union minister of state for electronics and information technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar; Rajeev Beotra, executive director, HT Media; Vivek Varshney, founder, SpeEdLabs; Manoj Balachandran, head - CSR, IBM India and South Asia; and Deepali Naair, chief marketing officer, IBM India and South Asia, among others.The experts noted that the new National Education Policy (NEP) also laid emphasis on holistic skill-based learning, and said that the skillsets acquired by students through coding would prepare them for jobs of the future.While outlining the role played by technology during the pandemic, Chandrasekhar said that it was crucial to develop skills that would prepare the country for an increasingly digital future.“The deeply disruptive Covid pandemic has taught the world and India that the future will see an increasingly accelerated digitisation of governments, businesses, and consumer lives. The accelerated digitisation presents a tremendous opportunity to India. We are at an intersection where both the opportunities and solutions to pursue those opportunities are present,” said Chandrasekhar.He added that vocational training and vocational skilling had been integrated into the curriculum under the NEP and the need of the hour was to develop abilities needed for addressing emerging opportunities. “Among our younger generation and student communities, we need to create capabilities to address these emerging opportunities. The world and the globe are increasingly digitising, therefore, our youngsters can play a big role if offering the skill and talent base that the world requires. Coding skills are a very important part of the basket of abilities and capabilities that our youngsters need to have to go ahead,” said Chandrasekhar.Varshney said that coding was a skill of the future and jobs across a wide spectrum would require computing skills going forward. “Coding is going to be the language of the future. Around 90% of jobs after five years will require some kind of computing skills. A basic understanding of coding will be important for individuals to perform and innovate,” said Varshney.Balachandran said that by learning to code, youngsters will be able to excel in their respective fields. “Apart from being consumers of technology, we should also know how to create technology. That’s why programs such as the Code-a-thon make a huge difference. Such programmes and interventions to address the skill gap go a long way in shaping Digital India and Skill India mission,” said Balachandran.During the five-month-long coding programme initiated by HT on August 31, 2021, students were trained through various modules, followed by a qualifier round and a final competition.Mihika Ghai from Somerville School, Noida, was declared the winner in the north zone app development category, with Aanya Singh (Little Flowers Public School, East Delhi ) and Sanjeev Mehta (Delhi Public School, Noida) emerging as first and second runners-up respectively. In the south zone, Ajaay Akaash from KC High International School, Chennai, won the app development award, with Rajath Sukreeti (Harvest International School, Bengaluru) and Trisha Chauhan (Suyog Sunderji Wisdom School, Pune) as first and second runners-up respectively.In the web development category, Springdales School student Saion Gupta won the first prize while Veeranjay Singh (Ryan International School, Gurugram) and Akshat Gupta (Rukmini Devi Public School, North Delhi) were the first and second runners-up respectively in the north zone. In the south zone web development category, Mumbai-resident Saurish V Bihani (R N Podar School) won the event, with Anshveer Singh (Oberoi International School, Mumbai) and Param Dipak Vasoya (MKVV International Vidyalaya, Mumbai) emerging as first and second runners-up respectively.In the game development category, Sahil Gupta from Somerville School, Greater Noida, won the first prize while Amogh Gupta (PIET Sanskriti Sr. Sec. School, Panipat) and Ashmeet Singh (Delhi Public School, Greater Faridabad) were the first and second runners-up respectively from the north zone. The south zone winner in the game development category is Mumbai-resident Shashwat Singhal (Reliance Foundation School, Navi Mumbai), with Tejas (Eggheads Education Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru ) and Ameeth Kulkarni (D.A.V. Public School, Thane) coming up as the first and second runners-up respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/htcodeathon-ends-on-a-high-note-six-crowned-winners-of-olympiad-101642791038494.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Business at Nehru Place hit as buyers turn online||Despite a high demand for computers and related items as firms switch to work from home, traders in Nehru Place market, the biggest computer and electronics marketplace in the Capital, claim that restrictions on marketplaces in the Capital have resulted in a decline in business as more people turn to online marketplaces to buy electronic goods.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has ordered for shops to open on odd-even basis from January 1 and imposed weekend curfew from January 7. In its order on January 21, the DDMA said that weekend curfew will continue.JK Gupta, chairman of Nehru Place Market Welfare Association, said, “During our discussion with district authority, we have requested them to bring the market under ‘essential services’ as people are totally dependent on computers for work. People come from various parts of Delhi and neighbouring cities to buy computers and related items. But due to the present restrictions, the business has been badly hit,” said Gupta.Anil Taneja, president of the association, said, “There is no relief from the government on taxes, but we are not allowed to do business. There are so many shops on rent that runs into over a lakh per month. How will traders pay rent and continue the work? The government should relax the norms.”Manoj Makkar, who runs a computer hardware shop in the market, said he has opened his shop for just eight days so far this month. “Shops open just twice-thrice a week ever since the weekend curfew was imposed along with odd-even. The business has declined considerably despite huge demand for computers and related items,” he said.Referring to the drop in sales, Aman, a store manager of a premium laptop brand, said, “We used to sell 15-18 laptops daily. But now the number has dropped to just 5-6 from this store. We have one more store in Nehru Place and two in Laxmi Nagar. We are somehow managing to meet the demand. The demand is there. But with markets closed and people ordering online, the business has been badly affected.”Upesh Kumar, another store manager, agreed: “People still prefer to come to the market and buy the product, especially laptops and desktops. Nehru Place is a preferred destination for any computer related item, as customers know that they will get the best prices. But sales have seen a sharp decline.”With schools closed and work from home becoming the norm in offices, the demand for second-hand computers, especially laptops, has increased, said people associated with the business. “Due the pandemic, many people bought second-hand laptops, available for ₹8,000- ₹15,000, depending on the condition. Now, we get a lot of calls for repair and maintenance. But we can do it only on days when we are allowed to open. So we tell the customers to come on the day when we open the shop,” said Iqbal Ahmed, who runs a laptop repair store in the market.The premium market for computers and mobile phones is also home to many service centres, second hand computers, data recovery centres, which also have been hit.Kabir Yadav, in-charge of one of the laptop service centres in Nehru Place, said, “The building in which our centre is located has banned the entry of customers. This has made it difficult for us to carry out work. At Nehru Place, we don’t take service requests as of now. We have other centres from where we are carrying out the work.”AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj blamed the Centre for the traders’ plight.“The LG (lieutenant governor) has rejected the proposal (for discontinuing weekend curfew) of the Delhi government despite the fact that Covid cases are reducing at a very fast pace. When all the markets of Gurugram and Noida are open, why should the business community of Delhi be made to suffer by BJP’s Central Government... The LG is a representative of the BJP’s Central government and has deliberately forced Delhi to impose the weekend curfew and odd-even arrangement of shops. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority is chaired by the LG, in which the elected Delhi government can only present a proposal, and the final decision belongs to the LG.”The Delhi BJP said AAP is trying to mislead people. “...everyone knows that the Delhi’s LG and Chief Minister constitute the DDMA which decides on curbs and relaxation. There is no BJP representation in DDMA hence it will be better if CM Kejriwal calls for DDMA meeting and gets traders relief,” said Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, adding that Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and leader of opposition in Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri have already urged authorities to withdraw weekend curfew and the odd-even rule in markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/business-at-nehru-place-delhi-s-biggest-computer-market-hit-as-buyers-turn-online-101642790740760.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||Over 8,000 held in north-west Delhi after new police combing drive kicked in||The northwest district police has arrested over 8,000 criminals and anti-social elements, including 126 robbers, 168 snatchers, 49 burglars, 141 vehicle thieves, 306 thieves and 367 habitual offenders, in over three months since it launched ‘Operation Sajag’ -- a special combing and area dominance exercise, said senior police officers from the district on Friday.Officials said the district also witnessed a 24% decline in calls to the police control room and 33% decline in street crimes since the project was launched 108 days ago.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said that the operation was started on October 4, in line with the city police chief Rakesh Asthana’s directions for police domination of streets to curb street crimes such as snatching, robbery and vehicle thefts.“The objective was to keep a vigil on criminals and other anti-social elements, apart from establishing confidence among the public through higher visibility of police personnel on streets and residential colonies in the northwest district. The operation was carried out in the form of a special combing and area dominance exercise during which personnel between the ranks of constables and DCP remained in the field for 24 hours,” said DCP Rangnani.The DCP said that the northwest district is a densely populated area, with many slum clusters, like that in Wazirpur Industrial Area, Shakurpur, Haiderpur and Lal Bagh, and sensitive areas such as Sangam Park, Shah Alam Bandh Road, B&C block and Jahangirpuri. The district also has industrial areas at Wazirpur, GTK Road, Lawrence Road, Udyog Nagar and Mahindra Park. The largest fruit and vegetable market of Asia, Azadpur Mandi, also lies in its jurisdiction.“Such diverse socio-economic populace, dwelling units and institutions give rise to a number of challenges with respect to crime. Therefore, Operation Sajag was started and under it, strengthening of daily static pickets was done by equipping the personnel with wireless sets and weapons. Patrolling was also enhanced by adding more patrol bikes in the area for controlling street crimes and apprehending criminals,” she said.Police said they adopted comprehensive patrolling strategies with focus on specific areas, and outcome oriented tasking of pickets and patrolling staff. Officials said there was a 47% increase in preventive action against listed and budding criminals, apart from surveillance over criminals released from jails.Another focus area was the detection of sources of illicit firearms, drugs, illicit liquor and receivers of stolen property, and the force also carried out surprise raids and combing operations based on intelligence inputs in the district along the railways lines, in association with the railway police and personnel of the paramilitary forces.“As a result, 8,006 people were arrested in the last 108 days. These included 126 robbers, 168 snatchers, 141 vehicle thieves, 306 thieves and 49 burglars. A total of 5,269 unclaimed vehicles were seized while 23 firearms and 91 knives were recovered from 114 arrested people. We also arrested 244 people for gambling and recovered over ₹33.55 lakh. Our teams recovered 288 stolen mobile phones,” said DCP Rangnani, adding that the operation is continuing in the district.
22-01-2022||Lucknow||Former top cop Asim Arun says he will try to work more effectively for people after donning khadi||Former Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun, who opted for voluntary retirement from the Indian Police Service (IPS) earlier this month to take the political plunge, said in an interview that his decision to join politics was an immediate one and despite transition from khaki to khadi, he would continue working for the people, doing so more effectively now.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has now fielded him from Kannauj, a reserved seat.Born on October 3, 1970, Asim Arun joined the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 1994 and served for about 28 years. His father, the late Sri Ram Arun, was a 1963-batch IPS officer, who served as the Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP) twice between 1997 and 2000.Asked what his immediate reaction was to the thought that he was going to don khadi immediately after leaving khaki, Asim Arun said, “Even earlier, I worked for people when I wore khaki. I will try to work more effectively for the welfare of the people after donning khadi. There is no change in integrity, transparency and inclusiveness but the canvas will be large now.” On whether he decided to quit the IPS before, Asim Arun replied, “No, it was an immediate decision. I received a suggestion to join the BJP between January 1 and 8. I talked to my family, but their response was negative. I was confused, but decided to quit the Indian Police Service and join politics after meeting chief minister Yogi Adityanath.” On what made him join the BJP, he said, “It was only after meeting the CM that I decided to join politics. It was surprising for everyone, even (those) very close to me. Particularly, I am comfortable with the BJP because the basic values that I have inherited from my father for working for all the segments of the society are the basic values of this party.”Asked how he would approach people to vote in his favour, Asim Arun said, “I will approach people (by) only stating that I prefer the rule of law and no lawlessness, as well as a corruption- free model of development and extending help to everyone, especially the Dalits.”On why he preferred Kannauj, the former Kanpur police commissioner said, “It has been my motherland and (I) have been trying to help people there. My father was very active in the social field in the vicinity. My family and I became active after his demise around three-and-a-half years ago. I want to contribute to my motherland in a much larger way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-top-cop-asim-arun-says-he-will-try-to-work-more-effectively-for-people-after-donning-khadi-101642790440520.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drug peddler arrested with 1.1 kg heroin, ₹54,000 drug money in Ludhiana||The Special Task Force (STF) arrested a man for allegedly peddling drugs, recovering 1.1kg heroin and ₹54,000 worth of drug money from his possession.The accused, identified as Naseem Saffi, 37, of Mohalla Harjap Nagar, was arrested on 33 Feet road, Jamalpur.STF in-charge inspector Harbans Singh said the accused was heading towards Ludhiana from Jalandhar in a Hyundai Eon when the team stopped him for checking at Ladhowal Chowk. During checking, the team recovered a handbag hidden under the driver seat containing the heroin and money. The team also impounded the vehicle.Police said the accused admitted to having purchased the heroin near the Amritsar border. The Inspector added that the accused is unemployed and had at least six cases of drug peddling registered against him at different police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-peddler-arrested-with-1-1-kg-heroin-54-000-drug-money-in-ludhiana-101642789901107.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Armed robbers target petrol pump, flee with ₹42,000||Two armed robbers, impersonating as customers, on Friday morning robbed petrol pump station employees of ₹42,000, a printer, an LED screen and a cabinet containing important documents on the National Highway near Sahnewal.Brijmohan, manager at the station, said the incident took place at 5.30 am when the robbers arrived at the station in a Skoda car with no discernible license plate. Three employees—Neeraj, Kundan and Chandan—were present at the station at the time.The robbers, who had covered their faces with masks, wielded a gun at one of the employees before taking away the money and valuables.The police said the incident had been captured in the CCTV installed at the office, adding that the robbers can be heard threatening the employees in the recordings.Notably, this is the second such incident in the last five days. Unidentified robbers had made a failed robbery bid at a station in Dolon Khurd village earlier on January 16.Assistant sub-inspector Harmesh Singh, in-charge of the police post Kanganwal, said a case under sections 379-B (snatching using force) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against had been registered against the two unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-armed-robbers-target-petrol-pump-flee-with-42000-101642789899275.html
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wife, step children booked for abetment after man attempts suicide in Ludhiana||Police registered a case after a 40-year-old man’s wife, three step daughters and a step son after her accused them of pushing him to commit suicide.The case was registered after the victim, Amarjit Singh, 40, of Green City, Raikot, consumed poison in a suicide bid. He later alleged that his wife, his step children tried to implicate him in a false case in an attempt to grab his property.The victim added that he has been suffering from depression and consumed poison in a foiled attempt to end his life.The accused, Gurmeet Kaur, who married the victim six years has in turn lodged an FIR against her husband, alleging harassment.Assistant sub-inspector Avtar Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 511 (attempting to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wife-step-children-booked-for-abetment-after-man-attempts-suicide-in-ludhiana-101642789838628.html
22-01-2022||Delhi||30-year-old stabbed with icepick by neighbour in west Delhi’s Tagore Garden||A 30-year-old man was stabbed in the right eye with an icepick after a heated argument with his neighbour in west Delhi’s Tagore Garden on Friday.Police said that the victim Bablu, who lives in a shanty near Kukreja Hospital, allegedly misbehaved with and passed lewd comments at the wife of one of the suspects. It led to an altercation and the man, along with his friends, attacked Bablu.Bystanders caught two of the suspects, Anuj and Nilothi (identified by their first names only), both 28, and one juvenile. They also thrashed them before handing them over to the police.Another suspect, identified as Sohan Thakur,30, fled the spot.Police said Bablu is admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Hospital and is receiving treatment.Police added that Bablu allegedly misbehaved with Anuj’s wife and there was an enmity between them which led to the incident. Police said that they are investigating the matter and have registered a case under Section 307 (punishment for attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/30yearold-stabbed-with-icepick-by-neighbour-in-west-delhi-s-tagore-garden-101642789602351.html
22-01-2022||Patna||Saran hooch tragedy: Toll climbs to 15, SHO suspended||With the death of nine more persons since Thursday night, the toll in alleged hooch tragedies in two villages of Bihar’s Saran district climbed to 15 on Friday, locals and police sources said.Bihar, where total liquor ban has been in force since April 2016, has seen a number of hooch tragedies in quick succession over the last few months alone.“Late Thursday night, a police team raided liquor manufacturing unit and arrested its owner Birendra alias Maina Mahto, his associates Banarsi Rai and two others,” Saran superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar said. Birendra was facing at least four cases of liquor smuggling and was released from jail on December 23 last year, he said.Following the seizure of ingredients used to make spurious liquor, the SP suspended the station house officer of Maker police station, Rajesh Prasad, and chowkidar of Jagdishpur village for dereliction of duty. “The chowkidar was later arrested and sent to judicial custody. His role has come under scanner on suspicions that the illegal liquor manufacturing unit ran with his connivance,” the SP said.The raids were conducted after Saran district magistrate Rajesh Meena and SP Kumar, along with excise officials, visited one of the affected villages. “Urmila Devi, wife of one of the deceased, Birendra Thakur, showed them a plastic container with alleged liquor which her husband brought from Jagdishpur-Janta Bazar and consumed,” said a family member. Meanwhile, there were heart-rending scenes in the affected villages. In Parmanandpur-Chhapra falling under Amnaur police station area, Gunjan Singh, father of one of the hooch victims, Mithilesh Singh, told HT that his son had consumed liquor and died on way to the hospital on Friday morning after vomiting blood.Another man, Suraj Kumar Rajak of Tarapur village, who was admitted to a Patna hospital after he lost his vision, died Friday morning. “My son was tired after hard physical labour and consumed liquor at Janata Bazar before coming home on Wednesday,” said Meera Devi, fighting tears. These deaths, which occurred in a group of villages under the jurisdiction of Amnour, Maker, Bheldi and Marhaura police stations, come close on the heels of 13 hooch deaths in chief minister’s native Nalanda district last week.As per the data provided by the state police headquarters, from January till November 2021, a total of 13,439 vehicles were caught carrying liquor in Bihar. During the same period, 4,198,523 litres of liquor were seized in the state. Officials, however, continue to dispute hooch deaths. Saran district magistrate Rajesh Meena said that deaths caused by spurious liquor could be proved either by investigation or medical examination. He, however, said the last rites of many of the deceased have been performed, which was proving to be an obstacle in determining the exact cause of deaths.Earlier, Marhaura subdivisional police officer Indrajit Baitha, who visited the villages, had emphatically rejected spurious liquor as the cause behind deaths. “They might have died due to severe cold. Someone may have spread rumours over the deaths,” he had said.Meanwhile, Satyadeo Ram, CPI (Marxist-Leninist) MLA from Darauli, the local assembly constituency where the latest hooch deaths took place, said he had visited the victims’ families and they confirmed that their kin had consumed hooch and developed complications. “Facts cannot change just because the administration as usual remains in denial mode,” he said.
22-01-2022||Other||Amaravati tower project: 18 NRIs move high court, demand refund||As many as 18 Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) of Andhra Pradesh origin have moved the Andhra Pradesh high court challenging the decision of the AP Non-Resident Telugu Society (APNRTS), a state government-run organization, to withhold the investments made by the NRIs in the 33-floor iconic commercial complex proposed to be constructed in Amaravati capital region.The NRIs, presently residing in different countries like US, Australia, Singapore and Malaysia, are demanding that their money be refunded along with interest, as the multi-storeyed tower is unlikely to come up because of the uncertainty over continuing Amaravati as the state capital.Admitting the petition, a high court bench headed by Justice D V S S Somayajulu served notices on the state government, APNRTS and AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) among others, asking them to submit their responses. The matter has been posted for hearing on February 4.The foundation for the mega project was laid by then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu in June 2018. The APNRT had raised ₹34 crore from the NRIs, mostly from the US, through the initial investments.With the change of government in May 2019 and chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy dumping Amaravati capital project, the NRIs began mounting pressure on the APNRT to refund their money, as they realized that the tower would be of no value if the capital city doesn’t come up at Amaravati.“Even if Amaravati is continued as the legislative capital, it will not get the same grandeur as envisaged by the previous government. So, the NRT Icon tower can never come up,” the NRIs said in their petition.APNRTS president Venkat S Medapati, however, allayed their apprehensions. “We have not shelved the project and the chief minister also has given consent for the construction of NRT Icon tower. But 90% of the NRIs are not convinced and want their money back,” Medapati said.He said out of ₹34 crore mobilized from the NRIs for booking in the complex, ₹21 crore has already been spent on purchase of land, securing approvals, processing fees, payments made to consultants like KPMG and architects and advance payment to world-class builders. “We are ready to reimburse the remaining amount to the investors, but they want their entire money. How is it possible?” Medapati asked.Senior advocate Jandhyala Ravishankar, who is arguing the case on behalf of the NRIs, pointed out that the APNRTS had sent notices to the NRI investors saying that they would forfeit their money, if they won’t pump in more money to complete the project. “We have challenged it in the court,” he said.Medapati said the NRIs have to pay money for the projects in instalments to ensure its completion. “The construction agreement clearly says if they don’t release their dues, their initial booking money would be forfeited,” he said. He added that since the issue is in the court, the APNRTS would abide by whatever decision the court will take.In 2018, over 100 NRIs had invested in the ₹500 crore 158-metre high 33-floor mega iconic tower, NRT Icon, proposed to be built on a 5.4 acres on the banks of Krishna River at Rayapudi village of Amaravati, which was then being developed as the greenfield capital city of AP.The tower was expected to house several multinational companies, mostly software firms, providing employment to over 5,000 people.According to the project report made by the APNRT, the tower was designed with a shape “A” representing Amaravati. It was to have a total space of nine lakh square feet and every floor was planned to have an office space of 20,000 sq feet. A mega convention centre accommodating 5,000 persons and a revolving restaurant at the top were also conceived.Other facilities to include were an international standard shopping complex,world-class auditorium, high-end classrooms with state-of-the-art audio-visual equipment, sustainability features with water and energy conservation etc.As many as 110 units, each comprising around 5,000 square feet, were offered for sale in the NRT Icon, of which 102 were booked. The NRIs had paid booking amounts ranging from ₹10 lakh up to ₹2 crore. 
