23-01-2022||Lucknow||Denied ticket, sitting BJP MLA quits; joins Samajwadi Party||Agra ::: Denied party ticket this election, BJP’s sitting MLA from Fatehabad assembly constituency Jitendra Verma quit the party on Sunday. Later in the day, he joined Samajwadi Party and was named its district president the same day. Originally a Samajwadi Party leader, Jitendra Verma had switched to the BJP in 2014 and was given party ticket for 2017 assembly elections. Verma won the election and remained BJP MLA for almost five years but was denied assembly ticket this time as BJP declared candidates for nine assembly seats of Agra. Verma on Sunday sent a letter to BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh, communicating his resignation as primary member of the party. Later in the day he returned to the Samajwadi Party and was nominated as its district president by state SP president Naresh Uttam, after he met national president of Samajwadi Party Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow on Sunday. “We welcome sitting MLA Jitendra Verma who quit BJP and joined Samajwadi Party today. He is our new district president in Agra. His inclusion will strengthen the prospects of the party in all rural seats of Agra district,” stated Wajid Nisar, SP city unit president. The SP was not able to open its account in 2017 assembly elections in Agra district and all 9 seats, including six rural, were won by the BJP. Jitendra Verma is from Nishad community. Nishads are in handsome number in Fatehabad and Bah assembly constituencies of Agra district. SP leaders believe that inclusion of Verma would strengthen them, mainly in rural seats of Agra. Madhusudan Sharma, the incumbent district president of Samajwadi Party, has filed nomination as Samajwadi Party candidate from Bah assembly constituency and had won the seat for the BSP in 2007 state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/denied-ticket-sitting-bjp-mla-quits-joins-samajwadi-party-101642961643943.html
23-01-2022||Patna||High Covid-19 vaccine coverage helps Patna recover faster amid surge||Patna’s high vaccination coverage has played a key role in reducing the number of hospitalisations of Covid-19 patients during the ongoing third wave of the pandemic as compared to the second wave last year, as only 2.6% of its 5,051 active Covid-19 cases on Saturday have required hospitalisation, while the remaining 97.4% are under home isolation, said Chandrashekhar Singh, district magistrate of Patna. In terms of hospital bed occupancy, barely 7% (173) of the 2,544 active beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals of Patna have been used up, he said. The state’s bed occupancy was barely 159 against 25,000 dedicated beds created for the management of Covid-19 cases, as per available figure last shared by Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar, on January 20. There are only five patients in the three dedicated Covid health centres of Patna that have among them 599 active beds, all of which are oxygen beds, Singh said. Of the 173 patients hospitalised in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, only seven required ventilator support and 47 others were in ICU, he added. The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) and some empanelled private hospitals make up the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Patna. These hospitals have among them 2,544 beds for management of Covid-19 patients, of which 1,495 are oxygen beds, 1,044 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 299 ventilators. Patna urban area had a recovery rate of 85% as against the state’s 96.07% on Saturday. The Covid-19 case recovery rate has improved ever since the new cases spiked to 2,566 on January 10, when Patna’s positivity rate had gone up to 28% a day before. Singh said the smaller number of hospitalisations was because of high vaccination coverage in the district. As many as 3,083 of Patna’s 5,051 active cases, have been traced to outstation travellers and migrant workers, 1,403 to contact tracing of those who came in contact with Covid-19 patients, 445 to healthcare providers, while 120 are those with severe acute respiratory infection. “Patna has achieved first dose vaccination coverage of 81.04% against its eligible target population of 49,17,869, including the 15-18 years age group adolescents. Its second dose coverage is 81.7% against those eligible for the second jab,” said Mansoon Mohanty, team lead, Patna district resource unit, Care India, which has been partnering the government of Bihar in its health initiatives. As many as 46,34,468 doses have been administered among the 18-44 years age group, followed by 15,10,019 in the 45-60 years age bracket. Those above 60 years of age made for 9,56,699 doses as on Sunday morning, said Mohanty. Adolescents in the 15-18 years age bracket account for 1,76,328 doses, he added. Patna, with 72,77,514 doses, leads among Bihar’s 38 districts in terms of administering Covid-19 vaccination doses, followed by East Champaran (55,92,128 doses), Muzaffarpur (48,98,473 doses), Gaya (4,6,21,983) and Madhubani (44,26,356).
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Emergence of the Thackeray scion||Mumbai Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at his first virtual appearance on January 1, following a spine surgery, said his son Aaditya had taken over almost all of his responsibilities concerning the developments in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This statement indicated the growing role of Aaditya Thackeray, a Maharashtra cabinet minister, in steering the party.In the last two weeks, Aaditya has been at the centre of key developments: from preparing for the party’s foray into Goa and Uttar Pradesh to planning the campaign to retain control of the BMC. Shiv Sena leaders, however, said it was a matter of time since Thackeray’s attention was divided between running the coalition government and addressing the issues of the state.Aaditya has been in active politics since 2010 when he was launched by his late grandfather and Sena supremo Bal Thackeray. He started heading Yuva Sena, the party’s youth wing, and was elevated Sena ‘neta’ in 2018. The first Thackeray to ever contest elections became a minister in December 2019. Political analysts said, unlike his father, Aaditya had an interest in politics from an early age and was groomed for it.On January 10, Aaditya chaired a virtual meeting of leaders, including chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, Vinayak Raut, Uday Samant, and Anil Desai, to decide on the strategy for the Goa Assembly polls. While Sanjay Raut has been driving the discussions for an alliance, it is Aaditya who is keen on getting a foothold in the bordering coastal state, party insiders said. With the Sena contesting in UP and Goa, Aaditya is expected to campaign in these states while Uddhav will address virtual rallies. Sanjay Raut confirmed that Aaditya will campaign in Goa.Arvind Sawant, former Union minister and Sena leader, said it is natural that Aaditya is shouldering greater responsibilities. “Uddhav ji is the Sena chief, but being the chief minister, he is occupied with the functioning of the government. So, somebody had to put in extra efforts to run the party and he [Aaditya] did. He conducted a meeting on the Goa elections, and he is working on the BMC [campaign] plan as well.” ‘Natural progression’ Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said running a coalition government would take much of Thackeray’s time. “There is a gap in communication; the connect that party leaders and workers had with the chief has reduced to some extent. Therefore, if Aaditya is taking charge of the party affairs, it is a natural progression.” A Sena leader said with Uddhav ji recovering after the surgery, Aaditya is expected to do the heavy lifting in the party under his father’s guidance. Aaditya also met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Mumbai and held discussions on the possibility of a non-Bharatiya Janata Party front in 2024. Uddhav was hospitalised when his Bengal counterpart was in the city.Recently, Aaditya was instrumental in a Nationalist Congress Party-Sena alliance to wrest control of the Mumbai District Central Cooperative Bank from the BJP. This was preceded by a closed-door meeting deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had had with Aaditya where Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide Milind Narvekar was also present. The Sena had three directors on the board while the NCP had eight against the BJP’s nine. Ironically, the Sena’s candidate for the joint chairman post lost the election.Connecting with Shiv Sainiks will be a major challenge for Aaditya as he has been in his father’s shadow, Jondhale said. “The Sena grew by taking up the local causes and addressing the day-to-day issues of the people. Today the character of the party has changed; the demography has altered. The party is now in governance mode which is conducive for Aaditya. The challenge, however, would be to connect with the common Shiv Sainik.” Following in father’s footstepsUddhav had in 1997 taken the reins of the functioning in the BMC and prepared the strategy for the civic body election. Similarly, Aaditya was involved in the planning for the corporation poll in 2017. This time, the Thackeray scion aims to win 150 of the 227 seats in Asia’s richest civic body with an annual budget of ₹39,000 crore (2021-22).Since the beginning of this month, the chief minister has virtually launched three projects where Aaditya was present. Thackeray kicked off 2022 by announcing a waiver of the property tax on residential units of up to 500 square feet located within the Mumbai corporation limits. He then participated in the Sena’s pet project, Coastal Road work, and later launched the BMC’s digital chatbot.While announcing the property tax waiver, Thackeray said, “One cannot forget our roots while handling the responsibility of the chief ministership.” He was referring to the civic body, which gave the Sena political power and played a major role in its growth.Thackeray added, “I remember the days when Shiv Sena Pramukh [Bal Thackeray] used to inspect road construction, nallah cleaning, and beautification work. I grew seeing him do that and I also went to see road construction which at that time was carried out after midnight... Today, almost all my stress and burden has been taken over by Aaditya.”With the BJP expected to throw all its might to take control of the civic body, the Sena is planning to reach the halfway mark from its current 97 members. According to Sena insiders, the focus is on the 23 seats which it lost by a margin of around 1,000-1,500 votes in 2017. Of the 23 seats, around 18 seats are in suburbs where Aaditya is the guardian minister.“The Yuva Sena has been given the responsibility of 40 electoral wards where young population is significant,” a Sena functionary, who did not wish to be named, said.BMC poll a leadership testSawant said Aaditya has become a “seasoned” player now. “He knows the city and its issues very well; he knows the capability of party workers. It is the right time to give the responsibility to someone from the Thackeray clan. Otherwise, nobody will respect him.” Anil Desai, party secretary and Rajya Sabha MP. said Aaditya has taken a keen interest in the party affairs, and elections. “Uddhav ji took the lead in the 1997 BMC election under Balasaheb’s supervision. Aaditya has been active since 2017; the Mumbai University senate election victory came under his leadership. He is the mainstay of the Sena and the Yuva Sena.” Political analysts said the BMC election will be the litmus test for Aaditya as the BJP is expected to campaign with the Prime Minister, Union ministers, and even a few chief ministers. “Aaditya will have to be ready to face the BJP’s might in full force,” Hemant Desai, another political analyst, said.
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Shiv Sena wasted 25 years in alliance with BJP: Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena wasted 25 years in its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said Uddhav Thackeray in a virtual address to party workers on Sunday, the 96th birth anniversary of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray. It was also Thackeray’s first address to his party ahead of the forthcoming statewide municipal elections. “I reiterate that we wasted 25 years (of the party) in the alliance (with the BJP),” he said. He attacked the BJP – with whom the Sena first came together in 1994 – saying it used its local partners for politics and “threw them out at their convenience.” He said BJP’s Hindutva is “nothing but a charade for power.” He termed BJP’s idea of Hindutva as “hollow.” “It is unfortunate that we nurtured them for 25 years... We did not leave Hindutva and will never do so. We left BJP and not Hindutva. BJP is not synonymous with Hindutva... We wanted power to promote Hindutva. We did not use Hindutva to get power.” Challenging the BJP to not use central agencies against Shiv Sena and political opponents in Maharashtra, Thackeray said. “[Union Home Minister] Amit Shah came to Pune and challenged us to contest alone. We have accepted that challenge in our Dussehra rally. But while fighting, you must not use your power. We too will not use our power as a ruling party in the state. If you have the courage, contest on the strength of your workers. Merely challenging us and putting ED (Enforcement Directorate) and other agencies is not courage.” Reacting to Thackeray’s attack on the BJP, party leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “Thackeray’s speech was full of hatred for the BJP and loaded with contradictory statements. If he thinks they rotted in the alliance with us for 25 years, why have they not been able to perform in the recent local body elections? If he says his face was used by us at the national level, why is his party not able to win a single seat in other states? It is nothing but the jealousy about us that he keeps targeting the BJP. He should first introspect if has any respect in the three-party alliance and why Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi did not pay tribute to Bal Thackeray. People of Maharashtra and even his own party workers understand and evaluate everything in politics.” Thackeray meanwhile told party leaders and workers to contest elections all the way from the gram panchayat level and district cooperative banks to Lok Sabha. Thackeray also directed party leaders to build cooperative institutions at the village level to build the party’s base just as the its alliance partners Congress and NCP have. Thackeray’s statements on elections came a few days after the results of Nagar Panchayat polls were declared, where Sena came fourth among all the state’s major political parties, including the BJP, NCP and Congress. The Sena chief remarked that party leaders and workers do not contest local polls with the same intensity as they fight Lok Sabha or Assembly polls. “We do not contest the smaller elections as other parties do,” he said. “I am responsible for this, but we should not let this happen again.” He said though the party came fourth in the recent elections, it won its biggest tally, “higher than when we were in an alliance with BJP.” To be sure, Shiv Sena is largely regarded as an urban party. Therefore, in a bid to build its rural presence, the Sena chief said they must focus on building institutions. “Our opponents or allies have built institutions at the village level. What are we doing in the cooperative sector? How many institutions have we founded,” he remarked. The Sena boss added that the party must build its presence in other states and create a “wave” to “capture” Delhi, which, he said, was Sena founder Bal Thackeray’s dream. Thackeray used the occasion to clarify about this health and his extended absence from key official meetings which came under criticism from the BJP. “The past few months were spent in recovery after my surgery. I am still undergoing physiotherapy. But soon, I will step out and tour Maharashtra. I will show the power of saffron to our opponents who are worried about my health. Like they say there is a caretaker government, they are a caretaker opposition, and they will self-destruct; we need not worry about them,” he said. Thackeray slammed the BJP stating that its Hindutva changed “as per the party’s convenience,” and that “the BJP killed democracy to gain power.” He said, “Our Hindutva does not change as per convenience. If you have the courage, then have one standard from Kashmir to Kanyakumari... What we did was in broad daylight, not before sunrise. We took oath at ShivTeerth in front of everybody. At many places, you topple governments, indulge in horsetrading to install your government. Do you consider this democracy?” Political observers said Thackeray may have successfully used the occasion to send out a strong message about his health and his capacity to govern the state and lead the party. Hemant Desai, a Mumbai based political analyst said, “Besides taking on the BJP strongly, Thackeray’s appearance on Sunday will help boosting his party’s morale after the concern over his health. Political corridors were abuzz with his alternatives, but he clarified that he will soon begin touring Maharashtra. I think the speech will encourage Shiv Sena’s rank and file.” Another political commentator Prakash Akolkar said, “Thackeray has dared the BJP on the eve of the local body elections, especially the corporation elections in Mumbai and Pune. By challenging the BJP to not use the central agencies, he has tried to send out a message that the ruling party at the Centre uses sneaky means to gain power. He also attacked the BJP saying it is their policy to use and throw the local partners. His public appearance after two months in a cheerful avatar will help in galvanising party workers.” 
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Dismissed constable, three aides arrested for extortion||Mumbai: A 52-year-old dismissed police constable and his three associates were arrested by the Mumbai crime branch on Saturday for allegedly extorting Rs. 1 lakh from a south Mumbai shopkeeper. The main accused, Chandrakant Madhukar Gaware, was dismissed from the force in 2020. The other three are Yogesh Lad, 43, Kundan Kadam, and Gyaneshwar Kunte, 51. According to the police, on January 20, two persons known to the shop owner in Pydhonie gave him ₹4.10 lakh for safekeeping. Around 6.30 p.m., the four accused approached the shopkeeper claiming themselves to be crime branch officers. Gaware was even carrying handcuffs. They threatened to arrest him saying that people kept their illegal money at his shop, said police inspector Srimant Shinde, crime branch unit 2. The accused then asked for a settlement and took Rs. 1 lakh from the shopkeeper. Later, the victim registered an FIR at Pydhonie police station. The crime branch unit 2 started a parallel investigation. CCTV footage showed the four had got into a car and headed towards Mohammad Ali Road, the officer said. The four were identified and the police arrested Gaware and Lad at the former’s residence in Nalasopara. Based on their interrogation, Kadam and Kunte were arrested in Borivali. The accused were later handed over to the Pydhonie police. Using the same modus operandi, Gaware, Lad and two others robbed gold worth Rs. 24 lakh from a jeweller in Borivali in August 2017. They were arrested. Following a departmental inquiry in 2020, Gaware was dismissed, Mr. Shinde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dismissed-constable-three-aides-arrested-for-extortion-101642961404133.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||IITs offer scholarships to attract more female students to engineering||Mumbai Lack of gender parity in classrooms of the premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) was the reason behind the introduction of supernumerary seats across the 23 IITs. While a majority of the institutes have managed to achieve the target of 20% female admissions by 2020-21 academic year, the institutes are still working towards increasing the intake of female candidates over the next few years.Be it conducting outreach programmes in schools around their institute, offering scholarships to admitted female students or inviting parents of female students for special interactive sessions, IITs are including new ways to achieve gender parity across their classes.“IIT Delhi has been taking proactive measures to attract more female students to the institute, including women-oriented scholarships that have been instituted in the recent past. The Initiative for Gender Equity and Sensitisation (IGES) under the institute aims to create a safe educational atmosphere for all. IGES also advocates a zero-tolerance policy against sexual harassment,” said a spokesperson for IIT Delhi. Most institutes, including IIT Delhi and Bombay, have also approved the setting up of new female-only hostels on campus to accommodate the growing female student population.In 2017, intake of girls in B Tech programmes at IITs was a mere 9.3%. In 2018, the IIT admissions council decided to introduce supernumerary seats for female students with the addition of 800 (14%) seats across 23 IITs in 2018 while the number stood at 946 (17%) female-only seats across IITs in 2019. The aim was to ensure that female enrolment reaches a target of at least 20% of the undergraduate class by 2020. In 2021, however, the Joint Admission Board (JAB) decided to allow individual IITs to decide the female intake, especially since the 20% target has been achieved. The new rule meant IITs can set their own target of female intake for the 2021-22 academic year, as long as enrolment in each IIT is at least 20%. Most IITs stuck to the 20% target once again this year as well, while some managed to surpass the target.IIT Bombay has 1,360 seats out of which 156 seats are for female candidates only. At IIT Delhi, the total intake was at 1,221 and female only seats stood at 249 (20%), while at IIT Madras, 20.27% of the seats in BTech and 22.59% seats in dual degree courses for female candidates.“Special sessions are arranged for interaction with parents of girl applicants at IIT Hyderabad. Female faculty members and Women cell conveners took initiative to explain the prospects and career profiles for various departments. We also plan to invite girls from schools in the region on International Women’s Day to visit IIT and interact with students and faculty to raise their interest to join BTech programs in IITs,” said a spokesperson for IIT Hyderabad, where the female intake ratio stands at 20.77% this year. IIT Mandi gives a full tuition fee waiver to all undergraduate female students. Female students are also provided with a stipend of Rs1000 per month, subject to academic performance, said Rahul Vaish, dean of Academic Affairs, IIT Mandi, where the female intake stands at 20.67% this year.Some IITs have also started paying special attention to married female candidates who apply for PhD courses. “Institute is increasing the female students’ leadership positions at several levels including various academic and non-academic clubs and activities to create an inclusive and intellectually competitive environment for the female students. For postgraduate studies, married female students are supported with a full-time day-care centre and married students hostel and preferences are given to the female students with children for availing these facilities,” said Prof Bithiah Jagannath, Associate Dean Academic (Student Affairs), IIT Guwahati.While most IITs have managed to achieve the target over the last few years, some newer IITs still need to match this target. Some of the newer IITs have less than 10% seats filled up by female students, and what makes it worse is their off-beat location attracts fewer female students to the campus. “I had cleared JEE in 2018, and during seat allotments I was placed in IIT Goa, which I didn’t accept because it was not the course of my choice and the IIT itself is far from city-life, which was a turn-off. I appeared for Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) once again in 2019 and managed to get a seat in 2019 in IIT Bombay, which I accepted. It is important to have a life beyond the campus in IITs and that can only be achieved by studying in institutes with city life around,” said a UG BTech student, on condition of anonymity.
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Hospitalisations, cases dip; schools set to reopen||Mumbai With the state ready to open schools from Monday, the state continued to witness a drop in hospitalisation and a fall in cases in urban areas. However, the state continued to report a daily caseload of over 40,000 at 40,805 on Sunday. Barring a few districts like Pune, Aurangabad and Ahmednagar, schools in most parts of the state are scheduled to reopen on Monday. The state government has sought to assuage the concerns voiced by the section of parents who fear the risk of infection. State environment Minister and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son Aaditya Thackeray stated that there was no compulsion to send their wards to schools. “It is on the parents to decide whether they want to send their wards to school or not. Those who feel it is risky, should not send their children. The schools are starting and it is now on both the school management and parents to decide on the future course of action,” he added. He said that schools have been closed for more than 700 days and the reopening is looked at as the beginning of the reopening activities after partial curbs were imposed in the first week of January.According to the weekly report presented by the state government, the number of hospital admissions has decreased to 20,552 on January 18 from 29,110 on January 10. The number of patients dependent on liquid oxygen outside the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) has decreased to 3,749 from 3,900 during the same period.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital lauded the step. “Parents should not be worried about sending their children to school. They should not panic as Covid is here to stay and we need to learn to live with the virus. Students have suffered a lot in the last two years as online education is a very poor alternative to physically attending school,” said Shaikh.Maharashtra reported no new case of Omicron variant on Sunday. The total number of Omicron cases reached 2,759. So far, 1,437 cases have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 44 fatalities, pushing the toll to 1,42,115. The positivity rate stood at 20.89 % as 40,805 cases were recorded of the total 1,95,256 tests. Mumbai logged in 2,550 new cases with 13 deaths, taking the total cases tally to 10,33,915.The active cases in the state stood at 2,93,305, in which Pune leads with 89,673 cases followed by Thane and Mumbai with 38,597 and 19,808 respectively. The toll stood at 1,42,115, with Pune leading with 19,923, followed by Mumbai with 16,535 and Thane with 11,669.
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gurdeep Singh Gosha slams Congress for ‘inflammatory speech’ by Navjot Singh Sidhu’s chief adviser||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gurdeep Singh Gosha hit out at Mohammad Mustafa, the chief adviser of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, for his alleged inflammatory speech at Malerkotla. Speaking during a felicitation ceremony organised by traders, Gosha said Navjot Sidhu should apologise to the people for the statements of his chief adviser. He went on to say that Mustafa’s statements prove that the Congress, especially Navjot Sidhu, is “working with Pakistan”.“It is very unfortunate and not tolerable at all. If people decide to do this, the central government should keep tabs on such people, check their phones and also keep an on their close associates. Strict action should be taken against these people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdeep-singh-gosha-slams-congress-for-inflammatory-speech-by-navjot-singh-sidhu-s-chief-adviser-101642961044000.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Nitin Raut seeks CM’s intervention for recovery of ₹9,138 cr from two departments||Mumbai: Amid the rising debt on the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL), state energy minister Nitin Raut has sought chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s intervention for the recovery of dues from government departments. Two departments - rural development and urban development - owe MSEDCL ₹ 9,138 crore against the electricity used for the water supply scheme and streetlights. The minister has also said power connection for the scheme will be disconnected if the bills are not paid. Raut, in his letter to the CM, highlighted the poor financial health of the company. He said in the event of MSEDCL disconnecting the electricity connection, not only will the government have to face the ire of the people, even his party Congress will be seen in a bad light. “The outstanding dues for the water supply scheme is ₹ 2,607 crore while it is ₹ 6,316 crore for the streetlights. Despite repeated meetings with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and officials from the two departments, the dues are mounting every month. Against the current month bills of ₹ 380 crore and ₹ 857 crore towards water supply and streetlights respectively, the departments have paid just ₹ 7 and ₹ 4 crore,” the letter said, adding bills were also scrutinised following complaints of inflated dues. MSEDCL supplies electricity to 28 million residential, agricultural, commercial and industrial consumers in the state. The pandemic, natural calamities, shortage of coal, and unpaid bills have led to a manifold rise in the dues in the last two years. The dues from customers amount to more than ₹ 50,000 crore, including ₹ 41, 175 crore from the agricultural pumps. “The debts have mounted on MSEDCL to ₹45,591 crore while it owes ₹13,486 crore to the power generation companies. Besides, the outstanding from the state government for the subsidies it offers to industries, including powerloom, textiles and units in D category areas, is ₹7,978 crore. Non-payment of power purchase bills has been leading to interest on the company,” Raut said. The minister has requested the CM to direct the two departments to clear their dues immediately. An official from the rural development department said the bills have not been paid on account of the shortfall in the budgetary allocation amid the economic crisis caused by Covid-19. “The outstanding of the electricity bills is an internal adjustment. The budgetary allocations are curtailed by 20% to 30%. In such a scenario, payments are prioritised and the dues to other departments are put on hold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nitin-raut-seeks-cm-s-intervention-for-recovery-of-9-138-cr-from-two-departments-101642960803937.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Police recover 77 cartons of illicit liquor in Ludhiana, 7 alleged smugglers flee||Police on Saturday evening recovered a cache of illicit liquor during a raid in Latala village, following which they booked seven persons for liquor smuggling.The accused, identified as Manpreet Singh, his mother Dashna Devi, Jaswinder Kaur, Gagandeep Singh, Jaspreet Singh, Ramandeep Singh and Jagdeep Singh of Latala village, managed to flee from the spot, leaving behind their vehicles and 77 cartons of illicit liquor. The police impounded three scooters, a motorcycle and a car.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gursewak Singh, the investigating officer, said the police along with the Excise Department, Dehlon Circle, conducted a raid following a tip-off. The ASI added that one of the accused is already facing trial in multiple other cases of liquor smuggling. A case under sections 61, 78 (2), 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been lodged against the accused at the Jodhan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-recover-77-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-in-ludhiana-7-alleged-smugglers-flee-101642960683974.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||Rain, thunderstorm to keep weather freezing in UP, forecasts IMD||Lucknow: Scattered rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms is expected to keep the weather freezing across Uttar Pradesh, according to the forecast issued by the Indian Meterological Department (IMD) on Sunday. The weather is expected to clear across the state from Tuesday. Lucknow recorded maximum day temperature of 17.5 degree Celsius which was five degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 11.2 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal on Sunday. The state capital is expected to record maximum temperature of 19 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 10 degrees Celsius, with possibility of cloudy sky on Monday. The state recorded average rainfall of 2mm on Sunday. Rain was reported from over 34 districts of UP. According to agriculture experts, the rain may cause damage to cereal and tuber crops. The damage may be severe if the rain continues in coming days. According to the IMD forecast, cold day conditions are very likely over Basti, Sitapur, Kanpur, Aligarh, Kasganj, Unnao, Agra, Etah, Firozabad, Jalaun and Jhansi on Sunday night and Monday. “Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning is very likely over Pratapgarh, Chandauli, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia , Deoria , Gorakhpur, Santkabirnagar, Basti, Kushinagar, Maharjganj, Gonda, Unnao and Lucknow on Sunday night and Monday,” reads the forecast. The IMD has also warned of heavy fog over Uttar Pradesh in coming days. “We are closely monitoring the weather conditions across Uttar Pradesh. District administrations have been intimated regarding the weather changes and have been advised to take appropriate action,” said JP Gupta, director of state MeT department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rain-thunderstorm-to-keep-weather-freezing-in-up-forecasts-imd-101642960624487.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Nihang Sikh strikes woman with sword||High drama was witnessed at Manji Sahib Gurudwara , Alamgir village, after a Nihang Sikh assaulted a woman with his sword on Sunday evening. The woman suffered minor injuries in the incidentThe woman went to the shrine to get baptised, however, the clerics asked her to return as she did not fulfill the conditions, on which she created ruckus. Meanwhile, Nihang Sikh hit the woman with a sword.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 4) Balwinder Singh said on being informed, the police reached the spot to investigate. Later, they came to a compromise and no one has filed a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nihang-sikh-strikes-woman-with-sword-101642960386793.html
23-01-2022||Pune||Tourist places in Pune to reopen from today||PUNE The Pune district collector has issued an order about the reopening of tourist destinations from Monday.The decision regarding the same was taken by Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar after a Covid-19 review meeting on Saturday. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh issued the order to the effect on Sunday.However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had not issued an official order regarding reopening gardens, swimming pools, open grounds, and public spaces in the corporation limits late till Sunday.While officials in Pune Cantonment and Khadki Cantonment boards stated that, the order of the PMC will be binding on the two cantonment boards while Dehu Cantonment Board will implement the order issued by the PCMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tourist-places-in-pune-to-reopen-from-today-101642960384002.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 22 days after wife’s death, man arrested for abetment||After 22 days of his wife’s death, resident of Manupur village, who was on run,was arrested by the Samrala police, following a tip off, on January 22. An FIR was lodged against the accused at Samrala police station on December 31, 2021, following the complaint of brother of his dead wife.Complainant, resident of Issru village, said his sister had married the accused six years ago and they had a four-year-old daughter. He alleged that the accused and his mother used to harass his sister for dowry.On December 4, 2021, his sister had consumed poison after which she was rushed to the hospital. After struggling for 27 days, she died.Assistant sub-inspector Pargat Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of Indian Penal Code was lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-22-days-after-wife-s-death-man-arrested-for-abetment-101642960323758.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Five-member gang arrested for snatchings||The Sahnewal police busted the gang of five members, accused of snatchings, on January 22. The police have recovered three mobile phones, three motorcycles and sharp-edged weapons from their possession.The accused Harpreet Singh of Dhandhari Kalan was bailed out just five days ago, who along with his accomplices – Karandeep Singh of Makkar Colony, Gurdeep Singh of Jaspal Bangar village, Jagjot Singh of Dhandhari Kalan and Pritpal Singh Bawa of Dhandhari Kalan – again indulged in snatching. Jagjot Singh had come out of jail on bail ten days ago.Assistant sub-inspector Harmesh Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused and his four aides, all in their mid 20s, were arrested from the cremation ground following a tip-off. They were hatching a conspiracy of robbery. They are drug addicts and rob to meet their need for drugs. The accused used to roam around the area and used to target women and labourers. ASI said the accused are already facing charges for snatchings and multiple FIRs are lodged against them. The police on Sunday produced the accused before the court , which remanded the accused one day in police custody for questioning. A case under Sections 399 (preparation to commit dacoity), 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoit), 379 (punishment for theft ) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Sahnewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-five-member-gang-arrested-for-snatchings-101642960266802.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana election officer visits training venues to motivate election staff||To gird up the loins for upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, the first training of election staff was held at 14 different locations in the city on Sunday. The staff was trained about the entire election process.District election officer-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma visited the training venues and also took a round of the halls where strong rooms for storing EVMs are being created.The first training of election staff for 57-Khanna constituency was held at AS Modren Senior Secondary School, Khanna; for 58-Samrala at Government Senior Secondary School (girls), Khanna Road, Samrala; for 59-Sahnewal at Malwa Central College Of Education for Women, Civil Lines; for 60-Ludhiana (east) at SCD Government College Ludhiana; for 61-Ludhiana (south) at the Examination Hall of Kundan Vidya Mandir, Civil Lines; for 62-Atam Nagar at Auditorium Hall, New Building, Guru Nanak Dev Polytechnic College; for 63-Ludhiana (central) at Auditorium of Arya College, Civil Lines; for 64-Ludhiana (west) at Khalsa College for Women Ghumar Mandi, Civil Lines; for 65-Ludhiana (north) at Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar; for 66-Gill at SRS Government Polytechnic College for Women, Rishi Nagar; for 67-Payal at Guru Nanak National College, Doraha; for 68-Dakha at Government Senior Secondary School, PAU; for 69-Raikot at Swami Ganga Giri Senior Secondary School, Raikot and for 70-Jagraon constituency, the training of election staff was held at Lala Lajpat Rai, DAV College, Jagraon.While visiting the training venues at Malwa Central College Of Education for Women, SCD Government College and Khalsa College for Women, DC Varinder said the officials assigned for election duty should feel proud that they have been tasked for such important work.He said the election staff was trained about their duties, handling of electronic voting machine (EVM), voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT), besides several other aspects related to the electioneering process.He urged the election staff to get vaccinated. As per the directions of Election Commission of India, the staff deputed on duty in upcoming elections can get the booster dose even if they have not completed nine months after second dose. Special vaccination camps for all election staff including teachers, government staff, bank employees, insurance sector and others, who have been deputed for election duty, were also organised at all training centres on Sunday.He informed that three more such trainings would be organised in the coming days and said that all staff deputed for election duty should focus on this important task, rather than finding a way to get exemption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-election-officer-visits-training-venues-to-motivate-election-staff-101642960264111.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||Goods train derailment in Vrindavan: Rail traffic restored after over 24 hours||Rail traffic on Agra-Delhi railway line remained affected for more than 24 hours after a Ghaziabad-bound goods train derailed near Vrindavan road station on Friday night. Public relations officer of Agra division of the North Central Railways (NCR), SK Srivastava said both up and down tracks were now open and train traffic had resumed on these lines between Agra and Delhi. “Both up and down routes besides the third track were damaged due to derailment of 15 bogies of a goods train coming from Rajasthan and going to Ghaziabad on Friday-Saturday midnight. The fourth track was, however, not affected but rail traffic was stopped because of derailment in Mathura Palwal section on Agra Delhi line” he said. Short distance trains were cancelled and long distance trains took diverted routes. Passengers on the Agra-Mathura-Delhi route remained affected all through the day on Saturday as bogies were badly damaged, he added. “The first train passed after midnight of Saturday from fourth track which was turned to down track from Delhi. Later at 2am on Sunday, the up track for Delhi was also restored. The down line track was restored at 14.35 hours on Sunday and work is on for restoring the third track,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/goods-train-derailment-in-vrindavan-rail-traffic-restored-after-over-24-hours-101642959964183.html
23-01-2022||Pune||‘Pune’s rising Covid cases to spill over rural areas in a fortnight; wave to ebb by Feb-end’||PUNE The Covid-19 infections in Pune is now on a steep rise, the number of cases being reported has touched to over 16,0000 daily and experts say that the district is likely to report over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases in the coming days.“The district’s third Covid-19 wave peak will finally begin to ebb by mid-February and by the end of February we will be able to resume most economic activities without much restrictions,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to the state.In Mumbai, meanwhile, by the third week of December last year, they had started witnessing a drastic surge in the number of new Covid-19 cases as the doubling rate fell down to one or two days. The rise was so steep that within two weeks, the cases had peaked to a new high and on January 7, Mumbai saw the highest daily new cases recorded, more than 20,000 cases and by January 9 the city reported its highest number of active cases.Dr Salunkhe, said, “Similar to Mumbai, Pune will also see the number of new Covid-19 cases peak at 20,000 daily. In the next fortnight, Pune’s cases will see a spill over in the 15 days in the rural areas and by February 10 we would see the peak in the number of new cases. However, by the end of the next month, we will be able to resume economic activities without much restrictions; however, it would still remain compulsory to follow all the necessary Covid appropriate behaviour.”Dr Salunkhe further added that as new Covid-19 cases increase the rate of hospitalisation is bound to rise. He further added, “The number of admissions on ventilators, ICU beds and also deaths. However, the number of deaths and hospitalisations would not be anywhere close to those reported during the second wave driven by the Delta variant.“Also, we have to be aware of the sub-variant being reported in the UK and also of the fact that Delta is also circulating along with Omicron and a new variant could also emerge. However, I am also sure that even if a new variant comes along, it may be more transmissible but not more virulent,” he said.In the second wave, Mumbai saw its highest number of active cases on April 11 at 91,100 which in the third wave peaked at 1,17,437 which was on January 9.Pune district reported its highest active cases on April 19 at 1,25,096 cases which is estimated that in the upcoming wave Pune may report 1,87,644 active cases out of this 65% would remain isolated at home, 35% would have to be admitted out of which 50% would be admitted in government hospitals. Based on this estimation, the district might fall short of over 700 ventilators and 3,800 oxygen beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-rising-covid-cases-to-spill-over-rural-areas-in-a-fortnight-wave-to-ebb-by-febend-101642959843671.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Maya, her brother, SC Mishra on BSP list of star campaigners||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Sunday announced its list of 30 star campaigners for the first phase assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. Anand Kumar, the brother BSP chief Mayawati who is the national vice president of the party, is among the star campaigners of the party along with Mayawati, party national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, sector in-charges of the party Munkad Ali, Shamsuddin Raini, former minister Nakul Dubey and other senior BSP leaders. Akash Anand, the BSP chief’s nephew who holds the post of the national coordinator in the party organisation, does not figure the list of the star campaigners submitted to the Election Commission of India by BSP national general secretary Mewalal Gautam.Akash was in the list of party’s star campaigners for the 2019 Lok Sabha election. He had then campaigned extensively for the party. When Mayawati was unwell during the campaign, he had addressed public meetings with alliance partner Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav in various districts.On her 66th birthday programme on January 15 Mayawati had said, “The BSP is preparing Akash Anand for bigger role in the party. He is young and gaining political maturity. The party has entrusted him with the task of spreading the base of the party in the states where assembly elections will be held later. At an appropriate time, Akash will get an opportunity to contest the election.” Mayawati had said she was against the promotion of the family in the party. “The leaders will get post in the organisation according to their performance and not on the basis of being relatives of senior leaders. I have no family but the people from suppressed community for whom the BSP is working since its launch call me ‘behanji’ (sister). A certain section of the media is trying to project as if I am promoting my family in the politics,” she had said. “Akash Anand along with Kapil Mishra, who is heading the party’s youth Prabuddh Varg wing and is son of the party national general secretary SC Mishra, is working to connect the youth with the BSP. The BSP is working to win the support of the youth by giving young leaders positions in the party organisation and raising the issues associated with the youth,” she said. Anand Kumar along with Akash Anand was present in Lucknow during the birthday celebrations of Mayawati.
23-01-2022||Lucknow||Covid surge: AKTU defers Feb exams to March||Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) has decided to postpone first and second year semester exams to March in view of surge in Covid cases. These exams were scheduled in February but now will be conducted in March, an official said.“I have given instructions to examination section to conduct first and second year exams in March now as Covid cases are quite high,” said newly appointed AKTU vice chancellor professor Pradeep Kumar Mishra.Controller of exams, AKTU, Anurag Tripathi said, “We are going to finalise everything related to exams by Monday and students will be properly informed through a circular. There are roughly 1.25 lakh students for whom the exam will now be held in March instead of February.”The students, however, want university to hold online exam instead of offline in February itself because they fear that postponement of exam will further delay the session or will reduce duration of next semester to just two months instead of usual five to six months.The university, however, has not decided whether to hold online or offline exam in March. The vice chancellor at time of assuming office earlier this month had told media persons that if Covid-19 cases remained high, the university will prefer to opt for online exam as holding offline exams especially at a time when Covid cases were on the rise across the state will put lives of students to risk.Prof Mishra said, “Students’ health and their safety is paramount. I’m not in favour of offline exams in Covid-19 times,” he said. The V-C is likely to meet governor Anandiben Patel on Monday. On Saturday, the state government had extended closure of all educational institutions till January 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-surge-aktu-defers-feb-exams-to-march-101642959063571.html
23-01-2022||Pune||Covid cases hitting new high but Punekars fearless||PUNE Naina Upadhyay and her friends sip juice at a roadside stall on Fergusson College road even as an ambulance passes by, siren blaring. Neither Upadhyay nor her friends pay so much as a second glance before returning to their conversation.However, their reaction is not unlike that of a majority of Punekars although it is incongruous with the current climate of daily Covid-19 cases hitting the 16,000 mark amidst a third wave, which is said to be steeper than both its predecessors.So why are citizens not as afraid of Covid-19 as they were before? Or why is the civic administration (seemingly) not as worried about the situation as it was before?A major reason, according to experts, is the mildness of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in the third wave coupled with high vaccine coverage due to which the people’s attitude towards the virus has changed drastically since the second wave. In April 2021 when Pune was grappling with the second wave, nearly 14.1% of the total active cases required oxygen. Currently, only 0.58% of the total active cases require oxygen. The fatalities too are only 0.1% as compared to more than 10% during the second wave. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “The severity of cases in the third wave is almost negligible. Hospitalisation has dropped to 5%. Oxygen bed requirement is less than 1% and ventilator requirement is as low as 0.5%.”People’s attitude towards the virus has changed due to lower hospitalisation rates and a lower death rate during the third wave. This in turn has been facilitated by vaccination. At the peak of the second wave in Maharashtra in April, only health workers and some frontline workers (which accounted for only 2% of the population) were fully vaccinated. Today, 72% of the population is fully vaccinated. Hundred per cent of adults in Pune have received their first dose while 80 to 85 per cent of adults have also taken their second dose, Dr Wavare said. As fear, which is the main motivator, is absent, the streets are far more crowded than they were during the second wave.Dr Bhooshan Shukla, child and adolescent psychiatrist, said that the city could use its past experience to tackle the third wave without panicking. “Due to the rising cases, people should be careful and vigilant and not panic as we have already overcome the first and second wave of Covid,” he said.Not only are many people not wearing masks and flouting Covid-19 norms, many restaurants too are not complying with the 50% capacity guideline.“I think it is the genetic code of India not to abide by or follow the rules made by the government. People don’t wear masks or abide by rules because they think rules are meant to be broken,” said Dr Shukla.There is also a general perception among people that they do not now need to follow rules as they are fully vaccinated. The absence of lockdowns, too, has downplayed the seriousness of coronavirus for many.“Many people have told me that they believe that the virus is gone. It’s a hoax,” said Roshan Patil, programme associate (schools). “People believe that no lockdown means that there is no virus,” he said.Yet another view is that getting infected is unavoidable despite taking all precautions. Pradyumna Kalagi, a post-graduate student, said, “No amount of precaution is enough. A relative of mine did not leave his home for weeks and followed all the precautionary measures but still tested positive for Covid-19.”Meanwhile, Dr Vijay Natarajan, CEO, Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre, said, “Vaccinating the population is the only way out.” Dr Natarajan is of the view that the entire population should be inoculated with the booster dose and that the third dose should be administered to the younger and working population rather than senior citizens as the former is more likely to be infected. “A lot of the government’s decisions are based on logistics instead of scientific reasoning and that should change. That applies to how the central and state governments are implementing Covid-19 restrictions,” he said. Dr Natarajan welcomed the decision to keep schools closed in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-cases-hitting-new-high-but-punekars-fearless-101642958763674.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: After Samajwadi Party, ally SBSP also names candidate for same Sandila seat||The day after Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav named Rita Singh, the daughter of freedom fighter the late Rani Ramkumar Bhargava, as the party candidate from Sandila assembly constituency in Hardoi for the UP polls, his alliance partner Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) on Sunday announced its own candidate for the same seat.In a press statement, the SBSP named its UP president Sunil Arkvanshi as the Samajwadi Party-SBSP candidate on the Sandila seat in Hardoi for the UP polls.When spoken to, Samajwadi Party state spokesperson, Rajendra Chaudhary said: “I am not aware of the seat declaration by the SBSP or if there is any confusion. Will be able to reply tomorrow.”However, SBSP national spokesperson Piyush Mishra said: “There cannot be any confusion. The SP had allotted the Sandila seat to the SBSP. In fact, Akhilesh ji even did a rally for us in this constituency on November 27.”On Saturday, Akhilesh Yadav had announced the induction of Rita Singh, the wife of former Samajwadi Party MLA from Sandila, and Supriya Aron, the former mayor of Bareilly, into the party. At the joining event, he had also announced that Supriya will be the Samajwadi Party candidate on the Bareilly Cantt seat while Rita Singh will the party candidate in Sandila.“Those who are joining today will also face the polls,” Akhilesh had remarked and then mentioned the seats for Supriya Aron and Rita Singh. A person aware of the matter in the SP said that after Akhilesh Yadav had made the announcement on Saturday, the party decided to field Rita Singh from one of the Lucknow seats.“Ritaji’s late husband was Sandila MLA (he won the seat on the SP ticket in 2012), but she has her roots and family in Lucknow. The party will field her on Lucknow Cantt or some other Lucknow seat.”Rita Singh, the wife of the late Raja Mahavir Singh who won the Sandila seat on the SP ticket in 2012, is from the famous Bhargava family of Lucknow. She is the daughter of the late Rani Ramkumar Bhargava, a freedom fighter and Congress leader. Rita Singh’s brother Luv Bhargava was earlier the state general secretary of the Samajwadi Party. Luv Bhargava had contested on the Lucknow East seat in the 1993 UP assembly polls as an SP candidate.
23-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: AAP candidate accuses BJP of violating poll code||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the BJP of flouting model code of conduct by carrying out campaigning through vehicles and by not removing hoarding of PM Narendra Modi. Alok Singh, AAP candidate from Lucknow east assembly seat, has alleged that BJP workers were carrying out campaigning by poll vehicles but he was being denied permission.“The BJP candidate is carrying out campaigning. Even election vehicles of the BJP are plying but I am not being allowed even to distribute pamphlets,” alleged Singh. I will lodge a complaint with the Election Commission in this regard, he added. “I requested the Election Commission to allow me to use one vehicle for campaigning. However, my request was turned down,” Singh claimed. On Sunday, AAP workers stopped BJP’s poll vehicle in Indira Nagar and tried to ascertain whether it has Election Commission’s permission or not. They also demanded removal of a hoarding of PM Narendra Modi in ‘A’ Block of Indira Nagar locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-aap-candidate-accuses-bjp-of-violating-poll-code-101642958703909.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 2,550 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, lowest in last 3 weeks||Mumbai on Sunday reported 2,550 Covid-19 cases, the lowest in the last three weeks or 23 days. The city also saw a drop in the daily positivity rate to 5.54 percent, the lowest in the last three weeks. Besides, the hospitalisation rate dropped to 10.76 percent, down from 21 percent two weeks ago.With the addition of fresh cases, Mumbai’s caseload mounted to 1,033,915 and the death toll climbed to 16,535 with 13 new deaths on Sunday.According to the state health department data, the city’s recovery rate is 96 percent with 994,889 recoveries, while the mortality rate is 1.59 percent. There are 19,808 active Covid-19 cases in the city.No case of Omicron variant was reported on Sunday and the tally remains at 1,099.Of the total 37,741 beds in the city, 4,011 are occupied.According to BMC data, 799,512 citizens are under home quarantine in the city and 24 buildings have been sealed in the city. There is no containment zone in Mumbai at present, BMC said.BMC officials said that the number of cases has gone down owing to less simple testing over the weekend. On Sunday, 45,993 samples were tested, which is less than the average of around 50,000 to 52,000 tests during the week.Despite a fall in cases and positivity rate, the BMC officials have warned of further spike if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed.Meanwhile, the BMC is expected to release the results of genomic sequencing next week. In the last report, released on December 31, 2021, 56 percent of the over 200 samples were detected with the Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-2-550-covid-19-cases-on-sunday-lowest-in-last-3-weeks-101642958225912.html
23-01-2022||Pune||First box of mangoes arrive at Market Yard, sold for ₹18K||PUNE Punekars welcomed the first box of their favourite summer fruit, mango, at Market Yard on Sunday. The first box of five dozen Devgad Alphonso mangoes arrived from Sindhudurg and were sold for ₹18,000. Usually, the delivery of mangoes starts from February, however, this year the mangoes arrived early.Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Pune chairman Madhukant Garad held a religious ceremony (pooja). The first box of the king of fruits arrived from Kumkeshwar village in Devgadh taluka, Sindhudurg district from Rambhau Sawant farmer’s farm land and was purchased by Raosaheb Kunjir, a trader.“Compared to last two years this year the production of mangoes is much better due to the good weather. We are going to deliver large number of mangoes in the coming months and from the end of February the regular mango season will begin in Maharashtra,” said Sawant.Bappu Bhosale, president of Market Yard traders and agents’ association said, “There has been major losses to mango farmers in the Konkan belt in the last two years due to Covid and other climatic conditions. But this year there has been a good production of mangoes and we are hoping to get a good season and do a profitable business this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-box-of-mangoes-arrive-at-market-yard-sold-for-rs-18k-101642958223647.html
23-01-2022||Patna||Low hospitalisation of Covid patients due to Patna’s high vaccine coverage: DM||PATNA: Patna’s high vaccination coverage has played a key role in reducing the number of hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients in the ongoing third wave of the pandemic as compared to the second wave last year, as only 2.6% of its 5,051 active Covid-19 cases on Saturday have required hospitalisation, while the remaining 97.4% are under home isolation, said Chandrashekhar Singh, district magistrate of Patna.“In terms of hospital bed occupancy, barely 7% (173) of the 2,544 active beds in dedicated Covid hospitals of Patna have been used up,” he said.The state’s bed occupancy was barely 159 against 25,000 dedicated beds created for the management of Covid-19 cases, as per the available figure last shared by Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director, state health society, Bihar, on January 20.There are only five patients in the three dedicated Covid health centres in Patna that among them have 599 active beds, all of which are oxygen beds, said Singh.Of the 173 patients hospitalised in dedicated Covid hospitals, only seven required ventilator support and 47 others were in ICU, he added.The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) and some empanelled private hospitals make for the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Patna. These hospitals have among them 2,544 beds for management of Covid-19 patients, of which 1,495 are oxygen beds, 1,044 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 299 ventilators.Patna urban area had a recovery rate of 85% as against the state’s 96.07% on Saturday. The Covid-19 case recovery rate has improved ever since the new cases spiked to 2,566 on January 10, when Patna’s positivity rate had gone up to 28% a day before.As many as 3,083 of the 5,051 active cases in Patna have been traced to outstation travellers and migrant workers, 1,403 detected via contact tracing, 445 healthcare providers were infected, while 120 are those with severe acute respiratory infection, as per government data. “Patna has achieved first dose vaccination coverage of 81.04% against its eligible target population of 49,17,869, including the 15-18 years age group adolescents. Its second dose coverage is 81.7% against those eligible for the second jab,” said Mansoon Mohanty, team lead, Patna district resource unit, Care India, which has been partnering with the government of Bihar in its health initiatives.As many as 46,34,468 doses have been administered among the 18-44 years age group, followed by 15,10,019 in the 45-60 years age bracket. Those above 60 years of age made for 9,56,699 doses as on Sunday morning, said Mohanty.Adolescents in the 15-18 years age bracket account for 1,76,328 doses, he added.Patna, with 72,77,514 doses, leads among Bihar’s 38 districts in terms of administering Covid-19 vaccination doses, followed by East Champaran (55,92,128 doses), Muzaffarpur (48,98,473 doses), Gaya (4,6,21,983) and Madhubani (44,26,356).
23-01-2022||Patna||Bihar to disburse ₹72-cr to clear backlog payment of old PRI representatives||PATNA: Bihar’s panchayati raj department is planning to ensure online monthly emolument payment to panchayati raj representatives directly from the department from the new fiscal to reduce procedural and auditing delays and has issued directives to officials to clear all backlog payments to old representatives within one month.Bihar panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary on Sunday said that a fund of ₹72.32-crore has been made available to the department for payment of fixed emolument to elected representatives in the third-tier panchayati raj system involving district board chairman, vice chairman, panchayat samiti pramukh/up-pramukh/members, panchayat Mukhia/up-mukhia/member and gram kachahari sarpanch/up-sarpanch/panch.“There is a backlog of 7-8 months and I have asked the officials to clear the payment of old representatives, who were in office till December 15, 2021 within a month through centralised fund management system (CFMS). Last year, we had disbursed ₹83-crore to the representatives. Now we have got the second installment. From the next fiscal, we will further strengthen the system,” he added.Choudhary said that there is usually a delay in payment due to fund allotment hold-ups, but it gets further delayed due to procedural issues at the level of deputy development commissioners and block development officers. “Now the effort is to streamline the system and hopefully the department will directly disburse emoluments through CFMS from the new fiscal,” he added.Of the ₹72.32 crore, ₹32 crore would go towards payment to mukhia/up- mukhia/ ward members. Bihar government gives fixed monthly emolument of ₹12,000 to district board chairman, ₹10,000 each to vice-chairman and pramukh and ₹5,000 to up-pramukh. The district board member, mukhia, and sarpanch get ₹2,500 each, up-mukhia ₹1,200 and panchayat samiti member gets ₹1,000. Ward members and panch get ₹500 each.“From the new fiscal the government wants to bring in a lot of changes to transform rural governance with greater accountability and for that efforts are on to develop a proper ecosystem for transparency so that the benefits reach the people in desired measure and quality of work is regularly monitored. People should get the facilities in the panchayats itself,” he said, adding the elected woman representatives would no more be allowed to participate in any meeting through their representatives, as it happened before.“The woman representatives would have to themselves participate in the meetings, as they are only authorised for that. We receive complaints of representatives (husband or family member) of woman elected representatives attending the meeting. The officials have been directed to ensure participation of woman representatives in the meetings,” he further added.Bihar has 8,387 panchayats and 38 district boards. The panchayat elections were completed in December 2021. The new representatives have already taken the oath.
23-01-2022||Patna||Bihar tourism minister’s son injures man||BETTIAH: Bihar tourism minister’s son allegedly hit a 28-year-old man with the butt of a gun, thereby injuring him, for trespassing in his father’s land at Hardiya Koritola village in Bettaiah in West Champaran district on Sunday, police said.Bettiah’s sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Parimal Mukul Pandey said an investigation into the matter is underway. “During the preliminary investigation, it has come to fore that the incident occurred when some boys were playing cricket in the minister’s orchard. A dispute erupted after they refused to vacate the spot, which turned into a clash, in which one person was injured and a few others, including the minister’s son Niraj Kumar and his brother Harendra Prasad, from the other group, also received injuries,” said the SDPO.According to the mother of the injured, identified as Janardan Kumar, the incident occurred when her son along with dozen of children was playing cricket near an orchard. “Four to five men, including the minister’s son arrived with guns and sticks on a vehicle and started thrashing them. My son received injuries after being hit by the minister’s son with the butt of a gun. My son is now admitted at government medical college and hospital (GMCH),” said the mother Rina Devi. Video images that emerged from the village showed villagers chasing the minister’s son and thrashing him. Tourism minister Narayan Prasad said that some people were encroaching his orchard in the village. “When they reached to stop them, they misbehaved with my brother (Harendra Prasad). On hearing this, my son rushed to the spot and he was attacked. Villagers also snatched our licensed arms and damaged the vehicle,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-tourism-minister-s-son-injures-man-101642957623515.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Kamala building fire: Electrical audit for buildings above 5 floors likely to become mandatory||Mumbai: The Mumbai Fire Brigade has said an annual electrical safety audit, on the lines of biannual fire audit, might become compulsory for buildings above 15 metres or of five floors. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and the fire brigade are in talks with the state government in this regard. The move comes in the backdrop of frequent fires in high-rises caused by defective electric wiring. On Saturday, a major fire at the 20-storey Kamala Building in Tardeo claimed six lives and left 24 injured. According to the fire brigade, they have jointly held a meeting with the state electrical inspector along with BMC officials. Hemant Parab, Chief Fire Officer, said the general opinion is residential societies should be asked to conduct an electrical audit. “The electrical inspector can make such an audit mandatory once a year. We will also give them inputs in formulating such a policy considering this will bring down the fire incidents in the city.” Parab added, “In many fire incidents, defective electric wires are either the cause, or contribute to spreading the blaze. Hence, we need to fix this issue for which we will require periodic electrical audits.”In October 2021, a major fire was reported at Avighna Park, a 60- storey building at Currey Road. One person was killed. The fire brigade had said that the primary cause of the blaze was short circuit. In case of Saturday’s incident, though the fire was on the 19th floor, wiring in the electric duct was damaged due to which power supply in the entire building was cut off. On the investigation, Parab said, “During any blaze, the fire and smoke spread to upper floors but in this case, the smoke and heat were vented rapidly to the lower floors. We are investigating what could be the cause for this and whether it was due to some layer or due to the weather.”Meanwhile, fire officials on Sunday said they will conduct an inquiry into the incident and submit a report in 15 days. The probe has not started yet considering the residents are in a state of panic. The inquiry will look into three aspects: cause of fire, reasons for the spread of the fire, and illegal addition or alteration in the building, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kamala-building-fire-electrical-audit-for-buildings-above-5-floors-likely-to-become-mandatory-101642957566954.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Govandi gang-rape: Two arrested, two minors detained||Mumbai: The Shivaji Nagar police arrested two persons and detained two minors on Sunday for allegedly gang-raping a 19-year-old girl. Ramzan Ali Qureshi, 19, and Sajid Malik, 19, were arrested in Uran while they were preparing to flee. The minors were hiding in the Deonar dumping ground. All the four were acquaintances of the victim, the police said. According to the police, the victim is a resident of Shivaji Nagar in Govandi and works for a catering company. When she was returning home around 4.30 a.m. on Saturday, the four intercepted her. One of them asked why she was out at that hour and on the pretext of questioning, he took her to a nearby vacant hut. The four then raped her. After they left, the girl called up the police control room. She was brought to the police station by Nirbhaya squad officers after a medical check-up. She kept changing her statement as she was in a state of shock. The police set up 10 teams to nab the culprits. “All the four have been charged with gang-rape under sections of the Indian Penal Code,” Arjun Rajane, senior police inspector of Shivaji Nagar police station, said. The minors were presented before the Juvenile Justice Board and sent to the Dongri children’s home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/govandi-gang-rape-two-arrested-two-minors-detained-101642957443516.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: BJP makes fresh campaign pitch with women politicians||Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur, who has been coining interesting slogans to target the main opposition Samajwadi Party, on Sunday made a fresh campaign pitch for the UP polls with women politicians who have joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from other parties. After standing at the busy Hazratganj crossing with five-member teams holding placards with slogans like women’s safety written on them, Anurag Thakur again took to the streets on a cold Sunday afternoon. This time, he was with a delegation of women leaders, three of whom have made news by their joining the BJP ahead of the UP polls. The delegation included Aparna Yadav, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav’s sister-in-law who recently joined the BJP in Delhi, Congress’ rebel lawmaker from Rae Bareli Aditi Singh who joined the BJP, and Priyanka Maurya, who till recently was on the posters of the Congress’ ‘Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon (I am a woman and can accept a challenge)’. Priyanka Maurya has also joined the BJP ahead of the UP polls.Holding placards with women safety slogans written on them, Anurag Thakur and the women politicians held door-to-door campaigns in Hazratganj and Lalbagh areas before arriving at the BJP office. Aditi Singh, named as the BJP candidate from Rae Bareli, is among the 26 women to have found a place in the list of 195 candidates that the party has declared in four tranches so far. Aditi has been fielded from the same Rae Bareli (Sadar) seat from where she won in the 2017 UP polls.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had launched a women centric poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh, declaring 40 per cent tickets to women candidates. The BJP is also up against a spirited Samajwadi Party (SP) and is seeking to target it on the issues of women’s safety. The participation of women voters has steadily increased in UP, from 47 per cent in the 60s to around 60 per cent in 2019, the reason why all parties are wooing women, say experts. There is a buzz about the Congress mulling fielding Priyanka Gandhi Vadra from Rae Bareli. Through Aditi, the BJP has targeted the Congress leader and her party’s pitch on ensuring women safety. Priyanka Maurya, too, has left the Congress after mocking the party’s campaign “Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon”. She has accused the party of denying her a ticket.In Aparna Yadav’s presence, Anurag Thakur hit out at the previous SP government for faring poorly on women security during its tenure.Aparna Yadav herself kept gesturing at her placard that read “bahu beti suraksha aur adhikar (safety and share to daughter and daughter-in-law).” “It is the BJP where both Mulayam Singh Yadav’s bahu Aparna Yadav or Swami Prasad Maurya’s daughter Sanghmitra Maurya feel safe,” Thakur has been stating.Swami Prasad Maurya, the OBC leader that BJP imported from the BSP ahead of the 2017 UP polls, has now walked out of the BJP and joined the SP. But his daughter Sanghmitra continues to be a BJP MP from Badaun. The BJP has rolled out Kamal clubs and has entered the campaign with slogans like “atmanirbhar naari hamara sankalp, ujjawal bhavishya yahi vikalp (committed to making women self-dependent, this is the only alternative to a brighter future). BJP leaders like Union home minister Amit Shah, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the party’s state chief Swatantra Dev have all been talking of women safety. 
23-01-2022||Delhi||JNU molestation case: Delhi Police nab accused from Munirka||The Delhi Police said on Sunday it has arrested a person for allegedly molesting a PhD scholar of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in an incident which took place on the university's campus on January 17. The accused, it said, is not a JNU student.Also Read | Delhi: JNU students protest after PhD student molested on campus“He also ran away with the scholar's mobile phone, it was recovered by the police. We tracked down the accused, Akshay, in Munirka. Over 60 personnel worked on the case,” Gaurav Sharma, DCP, southwest district, informed the media. We tracked the accused, Akshay in Munirka. Over 60 police personnel worked on the case: DCP southwest district Gaurav Sharma pic.twitter.com/0SBzKulsswGiving further details, Sharma said the man managed to enter the campus as previously, he used to go there for ticketing work. Identifying him as resident of Pargana, West Bengal, the officer said Akshay currently does mobile repairing work at Bhikaji Cama Place.“That evening, he consumed alcohol with the shop owner. After this, he went to JNU. At 11:45pm, when the scholar was jogging inside the campus, he allegedly molested her, and fled after she raised an alarm,” Sharma explained.Meanwhile, earlier today, Aishe Ghosh, the JNU student union (JNUSU) president, criticised the police for its failure to arrest make an arrest in the case. “It's been more than 100 hours and yet no arrest of the culprits involved in the JNU attempt to rape case. Has safety of women now become a myth within campus space? Why is an attempt to rape been normalised by the administration and police?” Ghosh tweeted. It's been more than 100 hours and yet no arrest of the culprits involved in the JNU attempt to rape case.Has safety of women now become a myth within campus space ?Why is an attempt to rape been normalised by the administration and police ?#DelhiPoliceActNowFollowing the incident, a case was registered at the Vasant Kunj north police station. On Saturday, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) issued a notice to the university registrar, seeking details of action taken on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-molestation-case-delhi-police-nab-accused-from-munirka-101642955839734.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||UP reports 19 deaths, 13830 new Covid cases||Uttar Pradesh recorded slight fall in new Covid cases with 13830 people testing positive on Sunday. On Saturday, 16740 had tested positive. The state also reported 19 Covid deaths on Saturday. According to health department data these deaths took place in Chandauli (3), Meerut and Mathura (2 each) and one death each in Kanpur, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Saharanpur, Moradabad, Rampur, Raebareli, Jalaun, Deoria, Siddharthnagar, Baghpat and Ballia. Number of active Covid cases was reported to be 93757 after recovery of 16521 patients. “A total 2, 32, 051 Covid samples were tested in UP in the past 24-hours. Till now 9, 79, 29, 039 samples have been tested,” Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health said in a press statement. Prasad also appealed to all to take Covid vaccine. UP has administered 24, 88, 95, 133 doses of the vaccine till now. More recoveries, lesser new cases in Lucknow State capital reported 2326 new covid cases as 2542 patients recovered during the past 24 hours. New cases were reported from Chinhut (377 new cases), Aliganj (388), Alambagh (307), Indiranagar (277), Sarojininagar (169), NK Road (235), Tudiyaganj (77), the health department data revealed. “Over 1200 men and over 1000 women tested positive in the district,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer. “Lucknow’s daily highest new Covid cases so far was 3643 on January 19 and since the daily case count has come down considerably with 2326 reported on Sunday. However, we all need to continue following Covid protocol,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. On Sunday 79 patients who were due for surgeries also tested positive. Lucknow has till now reported 276342 Covid cases, of this 256323 have recovered. At present there are 17362 active Covid cases, maximum among the state. Lucknow is the only district to have over 10K active Covid cases. Gautam Buddha Nagar has 6898 active cases and 5039 cases are there in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-reports-19-deaths-13830-new-covid-cases-101642956783537.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Money laundering: Punjab minister Rana Gurjeet urges Sonia to expel Sukhpal Khaira||Punjab minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Sunday urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to expel former Bholath legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira from the party for his alleged involvement in “drug money” laundering. The appeal comes days after Khaira along with three other Punjab MLAs wrote to Sonia, demanding Rana Gurjeet’s expulsion for alleged anti-party activities. In his letter, Rana Gurjeet said: “He (Khaira) is currently in jail... It is not a routine money laundering case of unaccounted wealth... The money in question has been made through drugs, which is unacceptable and indefensible”. Stating that the Congress has always taken a stand against drugs, the Kapurthala MLA said that party’s former president Rahul Gandhi had flagged the issue in 2015, while referring to the serious problem of drugs in Punjab. Claiming it will be difficult for Congress leaders and contestants to defend the indefensible, he said it was high time the party took a stand against giving the election ticket to anyone tainted by drug charges. “He (Khaira) is not winning anyways, and allotting the party ticket to him or any of his family members will not only send a wrong signal, but will also mean wasting a precious constituency during a crucial election,” said the Punjab minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-punjab-minister-rana-gurjeet-urges-sonia-to-expel-sukhpal-khaira-101642956423478.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Chandrashekhar Azad announces alliance of 35 smaller parties||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who also heads the Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram), announced an alliance of 35 smaller political parties for the UP polls. The new alliance has been named the Samajik Parivartan Morcha. Chandrashekhar Azad, who had announced he would contest the election from the Gorakhpur urban assembly seat against chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said the alliance will not field a candidate against Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav who would contest from Karhal in Mainpuri district.“The Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram), the political outfit of the Bhim Army, has formed a pre-poll alliance with 35 smaller political parties to contest the UP polls,” Chandrashekhar Azad said at a press conference at the party’s state unit office in Lucknow on Sunday.The alliance will field candidates on all the 403 assembly seats in the UP polls, he said. The announcement by Chandrashekhar Azad comes a day after All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday announced the launch of Bhagidari Parivartan Morcha of five political parties. Owaisi had said the alliance had kept its doors open for other smaller parties, including Bhim Army. Chandrashekar Azad said the Azad Samaj Party (Kanshi Ram) will not tie up with the big or established political parties, but will form an alliance with the smaller political parties who are fighting for the rights of the Dalits, OBCs (other backward classes), tribals and Muslims. The alliance will release its manifesto for the assembly elections soon, he said.Prominent OBC leaders who joined the alliance included Babu Ram Pal and Raj Kumar Saini. Chandrashekhar Azad said he will launch his election campaign for the Gorakhpur urban assembly seat within a week.Before that, he will hold a virtual meeting with the party workers in Gorakhpur and the work to establish committees at booth level has started, Chandrashekhar Azad said. 
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Shiv Sena ‘wasted’ 25 years in alliance with BJP, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday it is his belief that his party, the Shiv Sena, has “wasted” 25 years in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He also claimed that while the Shiv Sena has now made the decision to abandon the BJP, it will never abandon Hindutva, for the “BJP is not synonymous with Hindutva”.Addressing party leaders and workers on the occasion of Sena founder late Bal Thackeray's birth anniversary on Sunday, Uddhav Thackeray said, “I reiterate that 25 years of the party were wasted in an alliance [with the BJP].”“We are criticised over leaving Hindutva,” said the Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president. “We have left BJP, not Hindutva. BJP is not synonymous with Hindutva.”Claiming that Shiv Sena's Hindutva “does not change based on convenience”, Thackeray attacked the BJP's version of Hindutva politics, calling it opportunistic.“I believe that the BJP's opportunistic Hindutva is for power,” the PTI news agency quoted the Sena chief as saying. “Those who were criticising the Emergency period are right now behind an invisible emergency in the country. And if we want to end this, the Shiv Sena is needed.”Moreover, the Maharashtra chief minister also said in his virtual address that the past couple of months had gone in his operation and medical recovery but he will soon be returning to active political campaigning soon.“My physiotherapy is still on,” said Uddhav Thackeray. “Soon, I will step out and tour the state.”Notably, the Shiv Sena fell out with BJP after the 2019 Maharashtra polls and tied up with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-wasted-25-years-in-alliance-with-bjp-says-uddhav-thackeray-101642953998935.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Fishermen duo rescues teen boys stranded in sea in seach for clams||Two fishermen rescued two 15-year-old teenagers who were stranded in the sea while searching for clams off the Satpati coast on Saturday evening.The boys, Omkar Gharat and Rohan Bhaiskar, were stuck in 6 feet deep water when the fishermen, who were fishing on a raft, spotted them. The boys were rescued and rushed to a nearby clinic and were discharged later.A group of 6 boys from Navli in Palghar had entered the water near Satpati coast in search of clams, usually found under rocks in shallow waters of the coast. The group would regularly catch clams to sell them in the local market and earn money.While 4 of them stepped away after a sizeable catch, Gharat and Bhaiskar continued their search and while doing so, the high tide set in, causing a rise in the water level. As it was getting dark, one of the boys switched on the torch on his mobile and called for help, which caught the fishermen’s attention. Pritam Meher and Sandeep Padekar were fishing when they saw the flashlight and sensed trouble.Upon reaching close to the two boys, the fishers pulled them onto the raft using ropes. “The boys had swallowed seawater and muck. If we had reached the spot late, the two would have met a watery grave,” said Meher.After the incident came to light, the Satpati gram panchayat said that it will honour Padekar and Meher on Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fishermen-duo-rescues-teen-boys-stranded-in-sea-in-seach-for-clams-101642955523614.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Kamala building fire: One body remains unidentified, family seeks DNA test||Mumbai: On Sunday, doctors of BYL Nair Hospital conducted a post-mortem of a charred body, recovered from the Kamala building in Tardeo, where fire broke out on Saturday morning. The body still remains unidentified. However, the family of Kirit Kantharia, a 45-year-old resident of the building who has been missing since the tragic incident, has sought a DNA test before claiming the unidentified body. Kirit’s brother Yogesh will visit the BYL Nair Hospital on Monday to give his blood samples for the DNA procedure. “We have conducted the autopsy and kept a molar tooth and femur bone which will be sent to the forensic laboratory in Kalina along with the blood samples of the claimant,” said Dr Pawan Sable, head of the forensic department at the hospital.The friends and relatives of the Kantharia family examined the CCTV footage of the Kamala building and a neighbouring building to check if Kirit had stepped out anywhere before the fire. A relative said that he had some mental health issues. “We still have hopes,” said a relative Suketu Shah. “We don’t know if he went out somewhere before the fire. We just want to be sure before we claim the unidentified body. The DNA analysis will be helpful,” said Shah. On Saturday, the doctors could ascertain that the unidentified body was of a male. However, since the body was in a completely charred condition, none of the relatives could complete the identification process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kamala-building-fire-one-body-remains-unidentified-family-seeks-dna-test-101642954263422.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Canadian MP Brad Vis backs petition for direct flights to Amritsar||Canadian MP Brad Vis has sponsored a petition in the House of Commons to push for direct flights from Vancouver and Toronto to Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar, a long-pending demand of the Punjabi diaspora.Vis represents Mission-Matsqui-Fraser Canyon constituency of British Columbia in the Canadian parliament and is the shadow minister for Pacific Economic Development. Vis in a statement released on his social media channels said: “Many constituents in my riding and throughout all of British Columbia have family ties to Punjab, India. Despite the demand, direct flights from Vancouver and Abbotsford (both in BC) to Amritsar still do not exist. I am proud to support the FlyAmritsar Initiative’s House of Commons e-petition calling on the Government of Canada to explore options to create a direct flight to Amritsar.”The e-petition, which has garnered 6,500 signatures so far, was launched on Saturday by Mohit Dhanju, a resident of Surrey (British Columbia) and spokesperson of the FlyAmritsar Initiative — a civil society advocacy for connecting the Amritsar airport to destinations across the world. About the petitionThe petition urges the Federal government to leverage its ownership share in Air Canada for encouraging the company to explore direct flights from Vancouver and Toronto to Amritsar. It can be signed by citizens and residents of Canada by visiting the House of Commons website.“The House of Commons petition is a great tool for constituents to bring their issues to the notice of the Government of Canada. The petition can be signed by any Canadian citizen or resident of Canada irrespective of their age. The petition will be tabled in the Canadian Parliament when it is closed for signatures after February 11, 2022,” said Dhanju. ‘High demand for direct flights’While expressing gratitude to MP Brad Vis, FlyAmritsar Initiative’s global convener Sameep Singh Gumtala and North America convener Anantdeep Singh Dhillon urged Punjabis from across Canada to actively sign the petition.Dhillon said the petition highlights the fact that Canada has one of the largest number of immigrants from Punjab. “No airline currently provides direct flight services between Canada and Amritsar. The present travelling options are first flying to Delhi and then further travel to destinations in Punjab, either by road, rail or flying to Amritsar with a long layover at Delhi, thus adding 25-30 additional hours to an entire trip,” he said.Gumtala said numerous Canadian citizens, permanent residents, and other visa holders travel year-round from across Canada to Punjab for business, pleasure, and family reasons. “After complete Covid-19 lockdown in India during late March 2020, it was estimated that over 40,000 Canadian residents were stuck in Punjab. The huge demand for repatriation flights from Amritsar, instead of Delhi, made the Canadian government operate 25 such flights that brought back more than 7,500 Canadians,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/canadian-mp-brad-vis-backs-petition-for-direct-flights-to-amritsar-101642953004158.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: SSM to meet CEC to push for registration||To defend its case for registration as a political party before the Punjab assembly polls scheduled for February 20, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal-led Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) has decided to meet chief election commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra. “We have submitted our case (for registration of our party) with the Election Commission (EC) of India as per provisions of the Representation of the People Act. The shortcomings pointed out by the EC are very minor, which we will rectify. To request timely registration of our party before the polls and allotment of the symbol from the options submitted, we are meeting the CEC,” said Prem Singh Bhangu, who heads SSM’s parliamentary committee. Bhangu said the matter can be resolved at the level of Punjab chief electoral officer, who the SSM leaders, including Rajewal, are expected to meet on Monday, followed by the CEC a day after. The EC has raised objections over several columns of the registration form left blank, submission of income tax returns for three months instead of one year as mandated, and address proof of registered office not as per the norms. “We are a new party and contesting polls on all the seats. Our party has widespread following in the state and people look forward to our candidates as stakeholders in the upcoming polls. We would seek allotment of one symbol for all the candidates,” said Bhangu. The SSM has given three options for the party symbol to the EC: tractor, tractor-trolley and trolley. As per the fresh poll schedule announced by the EC last week, notification will take place on January 25 and the last date for filing nominations is February 1. The SSM was formed on December 25 last year, and comprises 19 farm organisations that were part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) that led the agitation against the now-repealed central farm laws.Eight more nominees announced, names of two withdrawnMeanwhile, the SSM on Sunday announced eight more candidates while withdrawing the names of two. Those fielded include Baba Chamkaur Singh (Bathinda Rural), Raj Kumar Mahal Khurd (Banga), Rashpal Singh Raju (Chabbewal), Chaudhary Khushi Ram (Phagwara), Jang Bahadur Singh (Garhshankar), Jaswant Singh Randhawa (Mukerian), Gora Singh (Bhadaur) and Kuldeep Singh Dalla (Jagraon). The two names withdrawn are that of Harvinder Singh Harpalpur (Rajpura) and Balraj Singh Thakur (Qadian). Bhangu said there was some “negativity” around the names of these two candidates, and their replacement will be announced soon. The SSM has decided to contest the elections in alliance with Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni-led Sanyukt Sangarsh Party (SSP). While the SSM plans to contest on 107 seats, the SSP will get the remaining 10 in the 117-strong Punjab legislative assembly. With the Sunday’s announcement, the SSM is left with nominating just nine more candidates.
23-01-2022||Pune||Fitness trainer and influencer, Nigerian national found in possession of cocaine||PUNE A social media fitness influencer and a Nigerian national have been remanded to five days in police custody after they were found in possession of cocaine, according to the Pune police. The arrested men have been identified as Chukwu Jekwu Reuben, 36, a resident of Nalasopara in Thane and a native of Makurdi in Nigeria and Mohammad Musavi, 38, a resident of Nana peth in Padamji Park, Pune, according to the police.“We found them lurking suspiciously together and questioned them. The cocaine was found in their possession. Initially we got one day police custody. But it was increased by five days on Sunday. We will know more from their whereabouts in Mumbai and Pune,” said senior police inspector Ashok Kadam of Lashkar police station of Pune. Assistant police inspector Sheetalkumar Gaikwad is investigating the case further. “They both had drugs on them. Musavi is a well known fitness trainer and a body builder. We needed more time to search their places as the Nigerian national was found to have been selling the narcotic,” said Police sub-inspector Nilesh Mahadik of Lashkar police station who is part of the investigating team. Musavi has a base of several thousand followers on social media platforms and has videos with some known Bollywood actors. A case under sections of 8(c) and 22(b) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 has been registered at Lashkar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fitness-trainer-and-influencer-nigerian-national-found-in-possession-of-cocaine-101642951683308.html
23-01-2022||Pune||PCMC commissioner’s photo used to make financial demands using messaging app||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have registered a case against a mobile number owner for misusing the picture of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) commissioner Rajesh Prabhakar Patil and asking corporators for money through e-commerce platform vouchers.A complaint in the matter was lodged by PCMC official Nilkant Dhondiram Poman, 54. The contact numbers that wrongfully used PCMC commissioner’s photo are now being investigated by the local police. “The accused contacted corporators and made demands. The corporators spoke with the commissioner regarding the demands. The PCMC officials realised what was happening and lodged a complaint through their IT cell,” said police inspector Dr Sanjay Tungar of Pimpri-Chinchwad police cyber crime cell.The accused person is suspected to have mimicked commissioner Patil while speaking with the targeted corporators. He used comissioner Patil’s image as WhatsApp display picture, according to officials.The accused made calls to three corproators including Ajit Gavhane, Ambarnath Kamble, and Lakshman Saste through WhatsApp calls. He also initiated chats with another person named Santosh Jadhav. He asked for gift cards of a widely used e-commerce platform in form of financial help.A case under Sections 419, 420, 468, 469 of the Indian Penal Code and Section s66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-commissioner-s-photo-used-to-make-financial-demands-using-messaging-app-101642950783324.html
23-01-2022||Pune||Aspirants for MHADA recruitment exam allotted exam centre in other districts||PUNE The aspirants who have applied for the recruitment examination of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) posts were shocked to find out that the exam centre allotted to them for the upcoming exams is in far away district, and not what they had applied for.Many students complained that they had given Pune district as an option of choice, but the exam centre allotted to them is in Kolhapur, Aurangabad and other districts. Aspirants are already furious with the authorities as the exam was earlier postponed last moment by the department to prevent the paper from a leak. Now, with the exam centres given far away from their residence, the students are unable to travel due to the ongoing MSRTC strike.“I stay in a village in Bhor Taluka, Pune district and as colleges are closed I have gone to my village for preparation of these recruitment exams. But I have been given a centre in Aurangabad district and I cannot afford to travel so far. I had already given my preference to appear for the exam in a Pune district centre,” said Ketan Jagdale an aspirant. The scheduled MHADA recruitment examination was to be held on December 12, 2021 and more than 2.75 lakh students were going to appear for it. There were 565 vacant posts in MHADA in various departments which include administration, accounts and survey departments. The application process for this recruitment had started in September 2021 for the posts of executive engineer, architect, sub-engineer, administrative officer, assistant legal advisor, junior engineer, junior architect assistant, assistants, clerks, surveyor and several other posts. Now, the MHADA recruitment exam is scheduled to be held from February 4 onwards. The recruitment exam for the post of clerk will be held on February 7 and 8. These exams are going to be held online in different schedules. While students are fearing to travel to other districts due to increasing Covid cases in the state and also the MSRTC bus strike issue. Another aspirant Smita Koli said, “We prepare for various state government recruitment exams in a hope to get a secure job, but from the last one year the state government is only playing with our emotions and dream to get government jobs. Earlier the exam was cancelled at the last movement and now we have been given exam centres which are too far in other districts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aspirants-for-mhada-recruitment-exam-allotted-exam-centre-in-other-districts-101642950248111.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Badal makes plea for Delhi bomb blast convict Bhullar’s release||Former Punjab chief minister Prakash Singh Badal, who is hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19, on Sunday sought the release of 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar, who is undergoing life imprisonment after the Supreme Court commuted his death sentence. In a 2.45-minute-long video, which was shot from the hospital bed, Badal, 94, thanked his well-wishers and prayed for communal harmony in Punjab.The Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch said that both the Centre and judiciary have approved the release of Bhullar, who has completed his jail term, but due to some “unknown reasons”, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was not signing the release papers.Badal said that when all requisite clearances have been made, then this matter should not be kept pending, as it is not in the interest of the state and country. The former CM said that it is an emotional issue, and he requests Kejriwal to personally look into it.Badal, who was admitted to Hero Dayanand Heart Institute in Ludhiana on Wednesday, was scheduled to be discharged on Saturday, but was kept for further observation for two days after he again developed fever.Earlier, multiple Sikh bodies, including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, have blamed Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government for the delay in Bhullar’s release. During his visit to the Golden Temple on Saturday, AAP’s Punjab CM candidate Bhagwant Mann had said that legal process in the case is going on and the Delhi government will take a decision on Bhullar’s release once it gets over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badal-makes-plea-for-delhi-bomb-blast-convict-bhullar-s-release-101642950182973.html
23-01-2022||Pune||New Pune airport terminal building to be operational from January 2023||At least 65 per work of the new Pune airport terminal building at Lohegaon is complete. While it is expected to complete by September this year, by January 2023, the building will be commissioned for operational use, as per airport officials.In a major infrastructure boost, parking space for 200 cars will come up in the airport premises along with other amenities.“The work of the new terminal building is in full swing and by September this year, the work will be completed. After that passenger amenities and other in-house work will be undertaken, so by January next year, the building will be commissioned for operational use,” said Santosh Doke, Pune airport director.The expansion work of the Pune International Airport at Lohegaon is carried out by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). There are various aspects of the expansion work that started in December 2018, mainly a new terminal building will be coming up at the existing airport premises.“To solve the parking issue of the passengers and relatives coming to drop or pick up, we have currently taken land on lease at the entrance of the airport. It has a capacity of 100 cars and also parking for two-wheelers. As the passenger footfall and daily flight operations is likley to increase this year, there is a need for better infrastructure and more passenger facilities to operate from the airport,” added Doke.Passengers are excited about the airport development plans. Kishore Mehta, a frequent passenger, said, “I often travel from Pune airport to various destinations for my business purpose and compared to other airports in the country it is quite small. Till the new airport is built for Pune, we need to improve the existing airport infrastructure and give world-class passenger amenities.”“It is good that AAI is taking all necessary steps in that direction and soon the flight operations will also increase from here,” he said.Highlights of Pune airport development project*The Pune airport expansion project includes the construction of a new terminal building at ₹400 crore, a multilevel car parking space for ₹120 crore and a new cargo complex at a cost of about ₹300 crore*The construction of the new terminal building is underway at the 40,000 square metre area towards the eastern side of the existing terminal building*While the size of the current terminal building is 22,300 square metres, once the new terminal building comes up the total size of the airport will be 64,300 square metres*The new terminal building will have five new aerobridges*Work of new integrated terminal building worth ₹358.89 crore was awarded to ITD Cementation India Ltd.*France based company ‘Egis’ has been appointed as consultant for the work of new terminal building||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-pune-airport-terminal-building-to-be-operational-from-january-2023-101642949703314.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid cases fall to 40,805; Mumbai sees 2550 fresh infections||Maharashtra witnessed a decline in its fresh Covid-19 infections, with as many as 40,805 people testing positive on Sunday, a state health department bulletin showed. This is 12 per cent lower than the number of people found positive a day ago, when the daily case count stood at 46,393.The state's daily toll, meanwhile, was recorded at 44, as against 48 on January 22, the bulletin further showed. Also, in the same period, as many as 27,377 patients were discharged. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 21 per cent as the latest fresh infections were from 195,256 samples tested for the viral illness.Overall, the western state has thus far seen 7,507,225 confirmed Covid-19 cases, including 7,067,955 recoveries, 293,305 active cases and 142,115 related deaths. A total of 73,369,912 samples have been tested till now, according to the bulletin.Meanwhile, the Omicron case count remained unchanged at 2759 as no new case was detected anywhere in Maharashtra. Of the total people found infected with Omicron in the state, as many as 1437 people were discharged following negative RT-PCR test, leaving the active case count at 1322.Mumbai, its capital, also saw a decline in its daily caseload, with 2550 people testing positive, down from 3568 on Saturday, data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed. There were 13 more fatalities in the city, up from 10 a day ago. The metropolis added 217 recoveries, while its overall active case count is at 19,808. Its total confirmed cases stand at 1,034,833 including 995,786 discharges and 16,535 deaths||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-fresh-covid-19-cases-fall-to-2550-daily-toll-rises-to-13-101642947999120.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Dust from Pakistan and Middle East settles over Mumbai after unseasonal rains||Mumbai A thick layer of haze settled over the city on Sunday, just a day after a western disturbance and cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan brought unseasonal rains to Mumbai, making it the city’s wettest January in at least a decade. Though citizens were quick to refer to it as a ‘dust storm’ on social media, experts and officials pointed out that Mumbai has not witnessed any stormy conditions, and attributed the haze to “dust raising winds” brought as a result of the same western disturbance which caused Saturday’s rains and a drop in Sunday’s temperature.Independent meteorologist Akshay Deoras said, “A prominent dust event is affecting parts of Maharashtra (including Mumbai-MMR), Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. This dust event has been triggered by a recent western disturbance, which is also causing the ongoing dip in Mumbai’s temperature.”Deoras said that western disturbances are present at high altitudes where aircraft fly, but they can induce a low pressure nearer to the Earth’s surface during their lifespan. “This western disturbance induced a low-pressure zone near Rajasthan and adjoining parts of Pakistan on the night of January 21. This caused an increase in the surface wind speed over Pakistan and adjoining eastern Iran, which started blowing the dust over these regions from the early morning hours of 22 January. Within a few hours, the dust was visible over the Gulf of Oman and the northern Arabian Sea, following which it entered Gujarat on the same day,” the meteorologist said. Winds from the northwest direction near the ground pushed the dust into Mumbai-MMR on January 23. Besides Mumbai-MMR, the dust has also spread across Nashik, Ahmadnagar, Pune, Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Buldhana, Akola and Aurangabad districts of Maharashtra on the afternoon of 23 January, Deoras added.Mumbai has seen multiple such dust events in the past, including a prominent one in March 2012. The source of dust is always the arid regions of the Middle East and Pakistan. However, such events over the Middle East are generally more frequent during the spring and summer seasons when factors such as high temperature, atmospheric instability, strong northwesterly winds and thunderstorms create ideal conditions for the triggering of dust storms. Dust storms observed in June and July are not able to impact Mumbai due to monsoon conditions.Meanwhile, the incident pushed the city’s air quality index (AQI) in the ‘poor’ zone. As per the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily AQI bulletin, Mumbai recorded an AQI of 247 on Sunday, up from a ‘satisfactory’ AQI of 99 on the day before. However, as per the SAFAR network of air quality monitors in Mumbai, the AQI on Sunday evening was recorded at an index value of 333, the highest in at least six months.Officials clarified that the haze comprised more inert, crustal materials than pollutants. “This haze consists of mainly sand because it originates from the middle-east where the conditions are sandier. It cannot be defined as smog, which comprises a more complex mixture of pollutants,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. Sachin Ghude, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune, warned that air quality and visibility will remain poor till at least the afternoon of January 24.Following Saturday’s unseasonal, isolated drizzles, Mumbai also witnessed a steep dip in temperature, with the daytime maximum plunging to 23.8 degrees Celsius (seven degrees below normal), down from 29.7 degrees Celsius (one degree below normal) the day prior. This is the lowest daytime temperature seen in January in at least a decade. Sunday’s minimum temperature reading stood at 21 degrees Celsius (four degrees above normal) but is expected to dip to around 14 degrees Celsius on Monday. January’s highest maximum as per historical records stands at 37.4 degrees Celsius (in 2006) while the lowest minimum stands at 7.4 degrees Celsius (in 1962).Mumbai also recorded 0.4 mm of rain in the eight hours ending 5:30 pm on Saturday. Overall, the city has recorded 4.5 mm of rain this month, marking this the wettest January in at least a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dust-from-pakistan-and-middle-east-settles-over-mumbai-after-unseasonal-rains-101642948865925.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects petition of man seeking custody of minor wife||Mumbai The Bombay high court recently rejected the petition of a man seeking custody of his wife who was detained and later handed over to the Child Welfare Committee as an ossification test had proved that she was a minor. The man said that he had married the girl based on her school leaving certificate which showed that she was born in 2002. However, the bench held that as the father of the girl had produced her birth certificate which showed that she was born in 2004 and the ossification test proved that she was 17-18 years of age so the petition was rejected.The division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice Anil Kilor. while hearing the habeas corpus petition of Chandrakant Vinjun, was informed by advocate Hare Krishna Mishra that his client was employed in Cooper Hospital as a ward boy for many years. A girl joined service in the hospital as a coolie and the duo became friends, fell in love and decided to get married. The couple got married as per Hindu Vedic rites and customs on May 17, 2021. Advocate Mishra submitted that on July 10, Sakhshi received a call from her family in which she was threatened after which a complaint was lodged in Juhu Police Station.On July 26, Vinjun received a call from Tulinj police station asking him to come along with his wife and documents related to the marriage. The couple reached there along with her school leaving certificate, mark sheet, Aadhaar and Pan card. The couple was told that the girl’s mother had lodged a complaint of kidnapping against Vinjun. Though Vinjun told the police that he had brought all documents to prove his wife’s age, the police told him that a medical test of his wife would be done. On July 31, the police told Vinjun that the CWC, Palghar had taken custody of his wife and some reports were awaited. Repeated requests to CWC to release his wife failed and hence he approached the HC. On its part, additional public prosecutor SD Shinde for the state informed the bench that after the father of the girl had submitted her birth certificate and an ossification test was conducted as the birth certificate stated her birth to be 2004 while the school leaving certificate said 2002.  The ossification test showed the age of the girl to be between 17-18 years. Hence as the girl was a minor her custody was taken over by the CWC.After hearing the submissions, the bench held that though the school leaving certificate was to be relied upon to ascertain the age, as the ossification test concluded that she was a minor hence the husband’s petition was not valid and maintainable. Therefore, his request to get the custody of his wife could not be allowed and was rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-petition-of-man-seeking-custody-of-minor-wife-101642948622899.html
23-01-2022||Pune||41-year-old in custody for assaulting a police officer to evade arrest||PUNE The Pune police on Saturday afternoon arrested a 41-year-old man or threatening police officials in order to help his co-accused in a violent crime to escape from police detention in Tulapur area of Pune The arrested man has been identified as Sampat Baban Shivle, 41, a resident of Tulapur in Haveli, Pune. Shivle had landed on police radar in a case registered under Section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt using dangerous weapon) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The police had gone to an open ground near a cricket ground in Bhatti Vasti area of Tulapur in the search for Shivle and his co-accused.Police sub-inspector Suraj Gore, who is investigating the case, found Shivle and detained him for questioning about his co-accused’s whereabouts. That is when Shivle started threatening him and telling him and other police staff who was with PSI Gore and attacked them. In the meanwhile, his co-accused escaped from police detention, said officials.“Sampat Shivle is in custody till January 25. We are looking for the other accused in this case. Fortunately, PSI Gore has not sustained any serious injury. They broke his glasses and he has sustained some minor injury,” said Police sub-inspector Avinash Bhosale of Lonikand police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504, 225 (resistance or obstruction to lawful apprehension of another person), 352, and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Lonikand police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/41yearold-in-custody-for-assaulting-a-police-officer-to-evade-arrest-101642948442819.html
23-01-2022||Pune||13,000 tonne of debris removed from Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary||PUNE One of the most popular biodiversity parks in Pune, the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary, is facing a sharp decline in bird species it is home to owing to the dumping of debris. So much so that nearly 9,600 tonne of debris has been removed from the sanctuary since the last meeting held with minister Aaditya Thackeray on January 12 to resolve the issue.The 22-acre Dr Salim Ali Biodiversity Park in the city, named after the ‘Birdman of India’, lies along the Mula-Mutha river and is a paradise both for bird watchers and nature lovers as it attracts 130 different species of birds. During the meeting, it was decided to lift the debris by the end of this month and initiate police patrolling of the area to restrict illegal activities and entry into the sanctuary. It was also decided to appoint security personnel to guard the area, install CCTV cameras for surveillance, and put up fencing around the green area.The work of removing the debris started on January 18 and as per information provided by the PMC, a total 9,600 tonne of debris was removed in four days. The debris mainly comprised construction and demolition waste, and plastic and fevicol waste which will be lifted soon.Dr Siddhartha Dhende , deputy mayor of Pune, said, “The work is carried out by the road and garden department of the PMC under the nagar road ward office.”Meghna Baphna, a volunteer with the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary action committee, said, “The work of lifting the debris is underway but the place has not yet been fenced and neither is there CCTV surveillance. They have not even appointed any security personnel to guard the place, which should be done on a priority basis.”However, MLA Sunil Tingre claimed, “Police patrolling to restrict illegal activities and entry has already started.”While Dr Dhende said, “The place is not guarded by security personnel as it is not enlisted as a sanctuary under the state or central government. Once the place is under the PMC jurisdiction, the work of fencing and CCTV surveillance will be carried out on priority.” Tingre added, “The work is expected to be completed by the end of this month as promised. The place is still not owned by the corporation for which a case has been filed in court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/9600-tonne-of-debris-removed-from-salim-ali-bird-sanctuary-101642947482996.html
23-01-2022||Pune||PMC to introduce online registration of pets||PUNE In a bid to encourage pet owners to get their pets registered, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to introduce an online facility to register pets and issue license certificates to pet owners. Under the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, it is mandatory for pet owners to obtain a license for their pets. The PMC is of the view that shifting the pet licensing process online will prompt pet owners to get their pets registered as they will not have to go through the hassle of visiting the ward office to obtain a license.Dr Sarika Punde, veterinary superintendent of PMC, said, “There are around 80,000 to 1 lakh pet dogs in the city, however only around 3,100 license certificates have been issued this year. Many pet owners do not even know that they are mandatorily required to obtain pet license certificates. Shifting the process online will spread more awareness and make the licensing process easier and quicker.” Also, if a complaint is lodged against a pet dog and the owner does not have a license, the PMC can register an offense against the pet owner.Earlier, pet owners were required to visit the respective ward office to get their pet license certificate issued. They were required to carry three passport-sized photographs of their pet; one for the license, one for the vaccination card and one to be retained by the civic health department. The owners were also required to submit a copy of the anti-rabies vaccination certificate of their pet, residential proof and property tax payment receipt to the ward office. The PMC would charge an advance registration fee of Rs500 (Rs50 for 10 years) for every dog. However, it was necessary to renew the registration every year in the ward office. A metal token for the licensed pet with the year of registration on it, and a card with rules to be followed while handling the pet written in Marathi were issued by the PMC.Now however, the entire process of documents’ verification and payment of fees will be carried out online to make issuing licenses hassle-free, according to Dr Punde. “PMC’s IT department is currently working to have the software system up and running. Within two to three months, the online system will be ready to register pets and issue pet license certificates,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-introduce-online-registration-of-pets-101642943825623.html
23-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi logs 9,197 new Covid-19 cases, about 20% dip from yesterday's tally||Delhi on Sunday recorded 9,197 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, a dip of almost 20 per cent from yesterday's daily case count. At the same time, the national capital also recorded 34 coronavirus-related deaths and 13,510 recoveries in the past 24 hours, stated the state health bulletin issued this evening.Yesterday, Delhi had recorded 11,486 fresh coronavirus infections, which marked a marginal rise in the daily tally after two straight days of drop. The single-day fatality toll has also dropped today, with the national capital having recorded 45 deaths on Saturday and 38 on Friday.The overall infection tally and the death toll of the national capital now stand at 17,91,711 and 25,620, respectively.Also Read | What Delhi's gradually rising Covid death toll says | 5 pointsThe Delhi government earlier said the fatalities are mostly in patients with comorbidities. A doctor at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences told PTI any patient who gets admitted after testing positive and with severe complications generally dies after a few days of treatment. Hence, the death tally is likely to peak later.The case positivity rate of Delhi, however, improved significantly as it further dipped to 13.32 per cent, the bulletin data showed. On Saturday, the positivity was 16.36 per cent, and the day before, it was 18.04 per cent.The number of patients admitted to hospitals due to coronavirus also dropped to 2,424 on Sunday, down from 2,504 on Saturday and 2,656 on Friday. In the past 24 hours, as many as 13,510 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection and were discharged from hospitals after being treated for the same.Barring the 2,342 patients who have confirmed Covid-19 infections and are currently hospitalised in Delhi, as many as 82 are suspected cases of the virus.Also Read | 85% in the 15-18 age group in Delhi’s govt schools have received Covid vaccine: GovtAs many as 69,022 RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen tests were carried out across the national capital on Sunday, down from 70,226 on Saturday but significantly more than the 59,629 tests on Friday and the 57,290 on Thursday.Delhi is currently under night curfew between 11pm and 5am along with weekend curfew. Schools, colleges, gyms, cinemas, and restaurants are also shut. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday decided to continue the night and weekend curfew till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-9-197-new-covid-19-cases-about-20-dip-from-yesterday-s-tally-101642941184875.html
23-01-2022||Pune||Dust storm triggered by western disturbance leaves Pune in haze||PUNE A thick layer of haze settled over Pune on Sunday, amid cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan turning the skies cloudy. Though citizens were quick to refer to it as a ‘dust storm’ on social media, experts and officials pointed out that Pune has not witnessed any stormy conditions, and attributed the haze to “dust raising winds”. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said, “There is currently haze over the city. The pollution levels are however normal though the moisture level has increased. There are partly cloudy conditions in the city. Since the moisture level has increased and the difference in day and night is less, there will be humidity. We have also forecast haze at isolated places in the city.”Independent meteorologist Akshay Deoras however said, “A prominent dust event is affecting parts of Maharashtra (including Mumbai-MMR), Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. This dust event has been triggered by a recent western disturbance, which is also causing the ongoing dip in Mumbai’s temperature.”The month of January this year has so far witnessed the minimum temperature in the city dropped till 11.1 degrees Celsius while the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast for the next week suggests that the temperature drop will not be below 9 degrees Celsius, when the past decade has recorded mercury reaching a further low.In the last decade, the minimum temperature has dropped as low as 5.3 degrees Celsius in January. However, day temperature has been reported to be on a cooler side maintaining a chill. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the highest maximum temperature reported in January was 34.4 degrees Celsius on January 31,2016. Mean maximum temperature for 22 days has been 28.7 degrees Celsius. According to the climatology of Pune city, the mean maximum temperature in January is expected to be around 30.3 degrees Celsius. This indicates that days are cooler by 1.6 degrees Celsius. The mean minimum temperature for 22 days in January this year is 13.3 degrees Celsius. According to the climatology data furnished by IMD, the mean minimum temperature is expected to be around 11.4 degrees Celsius. This also means that nights are warmer than normal by 1.9 degrees Celsius. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that by the end of January, the night temperature is expected to see a further low. “There are western disturbances (WD) that are affecting the weather in the Himalayas. It is expected that cooler winds may travel towards our state and a drop in temperature is seen. Around January 27 and January 28, the night temperature may drop as low as 9 degrees Celsius as per our forecast,” said Kashyapi. In other parts of Maharashtra, the weather is expected to remain dry as per the department. Pune on Sunday recorded a day temperature of 24.3 degrees Celsius which was 6.1 degree cooler than normal. And night temperature was 17.2 degrees Celsius which was 6.1 degree warmer than normal temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cooler-days-warmer-nights-to-continue-in-pune-101642939508173.html
23-01-2022||Pune||Your Space: Health staff shortage is the biggest test amid Covid spread||Many districts need health staff to contain Covid spread. With the majority of the 23,500 National Medical Commission (NMC) registered doctors stationed at medical colleges, many districts have to depend on these frontline staff to fight Covid spread. Our readers suggest steps to fill the demand-supply gap Depleting workforce in the healthcare sector is a big worry Across the country, Covid has once again made headlines. Now with the warning of an incoming third wave, the number of patients in Pune is increasing rapidly. The first two waves of s proved to be dangerous. Over the past two years, despite getting warnings from public health professionals, both central and state governments have failed to extend India’s healthcare capacities, like vital infrastructures, oxygen plants, ventilators, or its health workforce. Through recruitments under the National Health Mission (NHM), it has been seen that since June 2020, the Central government has claimed that they have hired 2,206 specialist doctors, 4,685 medical officers, and 25,593 nurses in public hospitals across the country. But it has come to light that these numbers have fallen short of the level the country needs. From the first wave of Covid, it has been seen that the number of medical professionals required for Covid patients is not sufficient enough. There must be some suggestions to reduce this increasing gap. National Medical Commission (NMC)should include more medical students, interns, nurses by increasing their supply through education and training. There should be a deployment of healthcare professionals into rural areas for a long period so they can assess and assist people. It is important for the entire medical staff; despite having different departments, to educate themselves about Covid safety majors. Siddhi Dharmadhikari Focus on how to keep the healthcare sector operational The whole country has become painfully aware of how crucial it is to have a proper healthcare system. Due to Coronavirus, Maharashtra has become one of the worst affected states. With the advent of the third wave, metropolitan cities like Mumbai and Pune are showing a rapid increase in the number of daily affected patients. Due to the shortages of essential protective wear, ventilators, Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and medical professionals, the first two waves of the pandemic proved to be the worst nightmare for the citizens. We have witnessed a huge demand-supply gap when it comes to the healthcare system. The number of patients and the demand for medical professionals are directly proportional to each other. But there is an acute shortage of doctors, nurses, assistants and paramedics to meet this demand. The lack of healthcare workers is not a new problem. A 2016 study report authorised by the World Health Organisation stated that the “lack of trained health professionals is a major constraint on the ability to achieve health delivery.” To deal with this huge demand-supply gap between Covid patients and medical professionals, the following suggestions can be taken into consideration: Doctors of other specialties should be trained in respiratory system related ailments so that they can perform the basic actions. Retired doctors and healthcare workers must be called in such a situation. Their experience will be beneficial. Final year students should not be deployed on the field instead freshers and juniors should be taught the basic practice needed to care for patients. All non-essential visits should be minimised and the maximum number of healthcare workers should be deployed for Covid-19 patients. Protective gears should be made available. Manisha Swain Allocate budget to hire more staff Health and education sector are two important pillars which need civic attention. The current situation is more vulnerable and so should be given more focus by hiring qualified staff. If we look across the globe, there is huge expenditure from the budget on its human resources. However, we are not even near to their expenditures. But time has come that our government should also think of spending more on its human resources. Barring few cities, other cities as well as rural areas need lot of attention in health sector. Qualified doctors and health staff is required, but given the present situation the need is urgent. The government should focus on how fast they can get it mobilised, because ultimately, it’s about saving own human power. Prof Rakesh Mittal Video consultation to reduce burden of patients Here are some ways to bridge this demand supply gap. Telephonic and video consultation: Telemedicine has emerged as a good solution for precaution, prevention and treatment and made a huge contribution to healthcare during the pandemic. There may be some challenges for treating patients but overall, this option can help the hospitals from getting overcrowded and doctors from being overburdened. For this to be successful, good internet connection is a must and that can be achieved by partnering with internet solution providers with statewide networks. Mobile Clinics:Minivans with facilities to test along with basic clinic infrastructure that can be manned by trained public health anganwadi or asha workers. For this to be successful, quality training must be imparted to the public health workers. Train and equip support groups, NGOs and organisations such as Rotary for delivering test kits, medicines, masks, and other medical needs. They can also be trained to take care of the non-urgent, asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms. These patients can stay at home and virtually communicate with doctors through phone calls or video calls. This can greatly reduce the infection to other patients and health care providers. It takes away the unwanted pressure on emergency rooms. Utilise vacant buildings such as school classrooms for consultation and treatment by setting up video call facilities and emergency supply of medicines. At-risk patients with co-morbid conditions who may need ICU should be monitored closely via daily teleconsultations to avoid in person visits to minimise their risks of exposure. If hospitalised, patients with similar needs should be placed in such a way that one doctor can monitor them. Create self-care short videos so patients can follow the steps to take care of their needs, complete quarantine and medications. Anuja Bali||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-health-staff-shortage-is-the-biggest-test-amid-covid-spread-101642934699410.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu's principal strategic advisor Mustafa booked for 'communal' remarks||Former Punjab DGP Mohammad Mustafa has been booked for allegedly making communal remarks at a public meeting in Malerkotla, police here said on Sunday.Mustafa is the principal strategic advisor to state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.The FIR came a day after a video showing him making the alleged remarks was circulated on social media. "An FIR has been lodged under IPC Section 153-A and Section 125 in The Representation of the People Act," Malerkotla Senior Superintendent of Police, Ravjot Kaur Grewal, told PTI over the phone.The charges spell that Mustafa was booked for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race and other identity markers to score gains in election.The FIR has been lodged on complaint of a police officer in Malerkotla. Mustafa is the husband of Punjab cabinet minister Razia Sultana who is the Congress candidate from Malerkotla assembly seat -- a Muslim-majority district in Punjab.The BJP had on Saturday accused the former Punjab IPS officer of making the controversial remarks against “Hindus” at a public meeting. Mustafa has denied the charge and said he never used the “Hindu” word.He had only targeted the Aam Aadmi Party workers after some of them allegedly chased and tried to manhandle him, he said.A video of Mustafa making the purported remarks was shared by BJP leaders Sambit Patra and Shazia Ilmi on their Twitter handles on Saturday. Mustafa said he had gone to an event of some Congress workers nearby and warned the AAP workers, who were also from the Muslim community.He said he used the word "fitno" (meaning mischief makers) for AAP workers belonging to the Muslim community and there was no question of warning Hindus."There was absolutely no Hindu-Muslim context to what happened in Malerkotla to which the quoted video clip relates. It was a verbal outburst unilaterally mischievously provoked by Jhaduwalas, all Muslims," Mustafa said in a tweet.In another tweet, he hit out at BJP, saying his “nationalist” credentials were superior than those from the party."Your intended branding will not work on Mustafa, as my nationalistic credentials are far superior to yours with a history of life long fight against enemies of India and destroyers of communal harmony in the state,” he wrote.Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha had also castigated Mustafa for his remarks and alleged that the Congress was trying to disturb the atmosphere in the state ahead of the state assembly polls.The purported video clip was played by the BJP at a press conference on Saturday."I swear by Allah that I will not allow them to hold any event. I am a 'kaumi fauji (soldier of community)' I am not an RSS agent who will hide in the house out of fear."If they again try to do such a thing, I swear by Allah I will thrash them in their homes," the video allegedly showed him saying at the meeting held on January 20.BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh had also taken strong exception to Mustafa's remarks and demanded that party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi clear their stand on the matter.Chugh accused Mustafa of trying to foment communal hatred in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-s-principal-strategic-advisor-mustafa-booked-for-communal-remarks-101642932680102.html
23-01-2022||Delhi||Seed flags for sustainable R-Day celebrations||The sight of plastic flags dumped on the streets, after Republic Day celebrations, has led to quite a few organisations and individuals take up concentrated efforts to mark the occasion with a sustainable approach. “Once the celebrations are over, we usually saw flags being dumped on the sides of the roads. With plantable flags, we want to manage waste, reduce plastic and encourage planting trees,” says Nayna Bansal from Back to Nature, which sells plantable flags across Delhi-NCR. “This Republic Day we aim to sell one thousand plantable flags. Our core focus is to educate kids in schools and even the underprivileged kids to use plantable flags instead of plastic flags. Post the Republic Day celebrations, all one has to do is sow the flag in a pot full of soil, and with some water, sunlight and care, within four weeks you’ll see seeds germinating.”The flags are created out of scrap paper and cotton collected from corporates and textile industries. “They are recycled, and embedded with seeds of tulsi, wildflowers, tomatoes, and marigold,” adds Bansal. Meanwhile, Manisha Kaushik, from Inner Wheel Club that promotes the use of seed-embedded cloth flags, adds, “We are empowering underprivileged men and women to make cloth flags instead of plastic flags. Thin seeds are put in the flags and dried. Once dry, it’s ready to be sold, and can easily be planted after being used as part of the celebrations. Our green chilly flags are very popular.” Bhavisha Buddhadeo, from a Noida-based NGO, Green Society India is working hard to create demand and spread awareness about eco-friendly flags among the children as well. “We are giving them out for office celebrations as people are becoming more and more conscious about avoiding single-use plastic flags. Flags with seed papers are much in demand at present. But due to the Covid-19 situation, schools are online and events are mostly less as compare to previous years.” For the Instagram page Plantables.store, the story of seed paper flags started way back in 2019. Garima Capoor Nanda from the store, says, “The apprehension around the idea of planting Indian flag was resolved by the fact that respectfully burying it in soil was not in violation of the Flag Code. In fact, it’s better than throwing plastic flags in garbage. We’ve been seeing a massive demand for such flags. Amid the pandemic restrictions, the dip in sales was expected, but the acceptance to shift to an eco-friendly alternative remains on a steady rise.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Concentrate on the present, while building the future||Bindiya chamkegi, choori khankegi, the Bollywood number was playing at a construction site near our home the other day. It took me back to the leisurely lockdown- just-lifted days when we used to sit and exchange conversations in the staffroom. Students were coming in numbers that could be counted on fingers, and, lectures used to be far and few in between. One day, the random talk steered towards the bindi. Four teachers, by coincidence had worn a bindi that day, which wasn’t a routine for them, so, they were garnering compliments; and discussions began on the evolution of this simple-yet-elegant beauty accessory. The evergreen red and circular Shilpa bindi was glorified. The charm of the bindi matching with one’s dress was emphasised. The grace a bindi lends to the face was highlighted. Some co-workers and colleagues in other institutions, with their pet bindi styles were remembered. And the scientific importance, whereby a newborn baby looks at, gets attracted to and concentrates on the bindi on its mother’s forehead was brought to the forefront. When I came out of the reverie of that casual day, I wondered how nicely, with the help of a stereo, the construction-site labourers created a melodious environment for themselves, sweating yet enjoying. We often do the same in our staffroom now. Classes are at their peak, students coming in full numbers, and there are all sorts of other office tasks as well. Thankfully, as teachers come and go from this staffroom, greeting each other with smiles, attending to various chores, sneaking in a moment of break, or settling down for lunch, there’s a lovely music inherent in the entire day. The music reverberates of gratitude, professionalism, genuineness, and a calm-cum-serene contentment. Thankfully, the soulful echo resounds everywhere in the institution. And, the quest for growth and learning, a must, abounds. I appreciate the fact that being a teacher, I have ample opportunity to pass on this art of combining satisfaction with need-to-progress to my students. It is necessary to work for the future, but, live in the present also we must. This amalgamation often stems from the mundane chit-chats that help us enjoy the present and build energy for bettering the future (like, in the staffroom). Also, this blend often comes during a routine lecture when a chord strikes with the content being taught – because once the basics are clear due to previous learning(s) (denoting contentment), suddenly there is a desire to know more (denoting both curiosity and a desire to better the future). So, when recently some alumni of the college who had progressed to a more reputed institution, for a higher-level degree, sought my guidance on certain complicated topics; I had to, but grab the opportunity. Also, this would help me make a difference and grow myself – because in any case these two processes go hand in hand. So, seeking all these processes, I have shown the students a green flag for my free lectures, and look forward to both their and my own development – for I will have to prepare those topics more efficiently before being able to teach them effectively. Coming back to the bindi, which, I once read somewhere, retains energy and concentration; I deeply wish for everyone to be able to concentrate on their present, while building the future; I truly hope that everyone’s energies get channelised towards assisting themselves and others. And, since the area between eyebrows where a bindi is placed is considered to be the seat of concealed wisdom, I desire for us to be able to act on this wisdom, while enjoying the tune and melody within, as well. reemaban@gmail.com The writer is a Jagadhri-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/concentrate-on-the-present-while-building-the-future-101642923717510.html
23-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 4 of family injured as cylinder blast triggers fire in house||Four members of a family sustained serious burn injuries after their house caught fire following a cylinder blast here, police said on Saturday.The incident took place on Friday night in Sheetla Colony here, they said.According to police, the injured include 40-year-old Sanju, a street vendor from Uttar Pradesh, his wife Laxmi (36), daughter Nikita (19), and son Nitin (12).The injured sustained around 60-70 per cent burn injuries and were taken to a nearby hospital from where they were referred to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, a police officer said, adding their condition remains critical.The incident occurred when Laxmi was preparing food in the kitchen of the rented accommodation, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-4-of-family-injured-as-cylinder-blast-triggers-fire-in-house-101642922144501.html
23-01-2022||Delhi||Haryana tableau at #RepublicDay: Sports stars to shine bright||Themed on the achievements of the sportspersons hailing from the state, the Haryana state tableau at the Republic Day this year, will have the presence of Olympians and Paralympians. Excited to be featured in the tableau, athletes are happily assembling to rehearse for their appearance, and photoshoots at Haryana Bhawan, Delhi. Some of the athletes in the Haryana tableau are defence kids, who share how it’s extra special to be part of the Republic Day celebrations. Paralympic discus thrower Yogesh Kathuniya says, “I remember when I was younger, I used to go see the jhankis with my father, who is a defence personnel. We even got VVIP passes the year Barack Obama (former US President) had come... Being a defence kid, I’m delighted to participate in the Republic Day parade, and be part of the tableau.” “Mere late father defence mein the, woh aaj bahut proud hote to see me in the Haryana jhanki,” feels Paralympian javelin thrower Sumit Antil, adding, “In the Tokyo Paralympics last year, out of a tally of 19 medals, six were won by five players from Haryana. Similarly, in the Tokyo Olympics 2020, out of the seven medal winners in the country, Haryana accounted for four. So, sports is certainly big in Haryana, and I’m glad the state is being recognised for that.”For Olympic medallist wrestler Bajrang Punia, representing Haryana at the Republic Day parade is a matter of great pride and a memory he will always cherish. “Main Haryana se belong karta hun aur mujhe Haryana jhanki mein shaamil hone ka mauka mila, yeh mere liye Indian hone ke naate kaafi garv ki baat hai. Bachpan mein TV pe parade dekhte the, ab usme khud shaamil ho rahe hai,” says Bajrang, sharing how his family is excited about seeing him on TV as part of the parade.And that is exactly the case with Olympian wrestler Deepak Punia, who is thrilled to be a part of the Haryana state tableau. But his true and ultimate happiness will always lie in winning medals for the nation. He shares, “Bahut achha lag raha hai ki bachpan se dekhte the Republic Day ki jhankiyon ko, aur ab waha khud jayenge state ko represent karne. Ghar pe sab TV pe dekhenge... Mera maqsad toh bas medal leke aana hai aur desh ke liye khelne ka hai. Parade mein shaamil hone ki bahut khushi hai, par medal jeetne ki khushi kuch alag hi hoti hai.”Many sportspersons are also looking forward to enjoying the Republic Day festivities. “The part of R-Day I loved seeing as a kid was when the airforce planes performed stunts. Everything that I had seen on TV, now I will get to see in reality at Rajpath. And I’m excited about it,” says Paralympic archer Harvinder Singh, adding, “And I just wish this Republic Day that India becomes Covid-free, as soon as possible.”Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/haryana-tableau-at-republicday-sports-stars-to-shine-bright-101642922161964.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai local train services to be hit on these routes due to mega block today. Details here||The Central Railway and Western Railway have announced a mega block on Mumbai local train network on Sunday. As a result, train services on the suburban line will be affected for five hours due to maintenance work on various sections of the local train network.The Central Railway has also notified about a 14-hour-long traffic and power block on the Main line between Thane and Diva section from midnight on January 22 till January 23.“These maintenance mega blocks are essential for infrastructure upkeep and safety. Passengers are requested to bear with the Railway Administration for the inconvenience caused,” the Central Railways stated in a release.Here's the list of train services to be affected due to Mumbai mega block today:Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus – Chunabhatti / Bandra Dn harbour line from 11.40 am to 4.40 pm, and Chunabhatti / Bandra- Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Up harbour line from 11.10 am to 4.10 pmThane – Diva: 14 hours infrastructure block On Down fast line for 5th & 6th line workCentral Railway is operating a 14-hour infrastructure block on Down and Up fast line between Thane and Diva stations, including 2 hours infrastructure block for cutting the connection of old redundant slow line and commissioning of crossovers in connection with Thane-Diva 5th and 6th lines.The block will be operated for 14 hours on Dn fast line from 1:20am on January 23 (Sat/Sun midnight) to 3:20pm on January 23.The block will also operate 2 hours on Up fast line from 12.30 pm to 2.30 pm on January 23 (Sunday). During the block period, trains will continue to run on Up and Dn slow lines between Diva-Thane, the railways announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-services-to-be-hit-on-these-routes-due-to-mega-block-today-details-here-101642903800710.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir politicians question home minister Amit Shah over restoration of statehood||J&K politicians questioned home minister Amit Shah for restoration of statehood once normalcy is restored and sought the definition of “normalcy”.Shah on Saturday, while virtually launching the district good governance index of J&K, said as soon as the situation becomes normal, statehood will be given back.“Delimitation has started and soon elections will be held. I’ve given assurance in the Lok Sabha that as soon as the situation becomes normal in Jammu and Kashmir, statehood will be given back to J&K.”However, mainstream politicians have criticised the statement of Shah on normalcy and good governance index in J&K. “After quite literally terrorising people of J&K into silence to create a false normalcy narrative, the GOIs admission that situation still isn’t normal is self-contradictory. Also proves that silence shouldn’t be misconstrued as normalcy,” PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet.Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone sought the definition of normalcy from the home minister. “But who will define normalcy. And in a federal structure, can we really use normalcy as an excuse to assume power. Irrespective of the definition of normalcy possibly coined by the Union government, every single stateless day is an affront to federalism and to the people of J & K,” Sajjad Lone said in a tweet.CPI general secretary and Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said that one of the principle fundamentals of good governance is participation and representation, a right which continues to be “denied” to the people of J&K. “Releasing such indexes is intended to help the government in optics wise. However, the ground reality of dilapidated roads, erratic power supply, inaccessibility of potable water combined with huge unemployment, social unrest is reflecting contrasting picture,” said Tarigami in a tweet.“Number of political prisoners detained on flimsy grounds under draconian laws in and outside J&K jails are ill. Families find it extremely difficult to meet them due to poverty and Covid restrictions. The administration continues to be insensitive,” he said.Earlier addressing the launch, Shah said, “I want to congratulate all residents of Jammu and Kashmir for the launch of the district good governance index. This is an important day not just for J&K but for entire India.”Shah said the beginning of this index in Jammu and Kashmir will slowly expand to all other states and a good governance competition will start in every district of the country. He said the index will benefit residents of Jammu and Kashmir in a big way as it will work towards improving the district machinery, make districts result-oriented and also improve their delivery mechanism.The district good governance index, which has been launched for 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday has been prepared by the department of administrative reforms and public grievances (DARPG) in partnership with the union territory’s administration and is a major reform in bench-marking good governance at the district level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-politicians-question-home-minister-amit-shah-over-restoration-of-statehood-101642888424932.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 militants killed in encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district||Two militants were killed in an encounter in Shopian district in south Kashmir after a gunfight that began on Saturday. Police said the killed militants were associated with the Lashkar and the TRF.Police said on specific information, a joint operation was launched by the police along with the army and the CRPF at Kilbal on Saturday.A police spokesman said that two militants were killed in the operation. “Two militants of the Lashkar and the TRF were killed in the operation. Incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the encounter spot.”Police said the identity of the militants is being ascertained and the search operation is still underway.So far 16 militants have been neutralised during the month of January out of which seven are foreign terrorists. The surge in militant killings has been attributed by police officers on the ground to better synergy, human intelligence, and targeting of the overground workers and ‘particular modules’. Last year, as per the J&K Police official figures, 171 militants were killed in encounters and search and cordon operations in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-south-kashmir-s-shopian-district-101642887884916.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir logs 6.5k Covid cases; highest active infections in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday reported the highest-ever daily Covid-19 spike witnessing 6,568 infections, again breaching all records since the pandemic began in 2020. Seven persons died due to the Covid-19 induced illness.The day’s surge is more than the monthly total cases of the past six months(In the past six months, July had recorded a highest of 5,800 overall cases during the month while October had seen 2,819 infections).For the past four days, the union territory has recorded above 5,700 cases daily. Before this week’s surge, the highest novel Coronavirus cases reported in the union territory were 5,443 and 50 deaths on May 7 when the second wave had peaked. The first wave had peaked in September 2020 reporting the highest surge of 1,698 cases and 10 deaths on September 12. The active cases in the union territory reached 39,113 with over 37,700 active cases added in January so far. On December 31, the union territory had just 1,337 active cases.The officials said 82,423 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking Saturday’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) to 7.96% - first time since May.The authorities have increased the testing rate this month as earlier they have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December.Of the total infections on Saturday, Kashmir valley saw over 71% of the infections with 4,693 cases and two deaths while 1,875 cases and five deaths were reported in the Jammu division.In Kashmir valley, the surge was in nine out of the 10 districts with Srinagar witnessing the highest 1,604 cases followed by 749 cases in Baramulla, 643 in Budgam, 418 in Bandipora, 333 in Kulgam and 320 in Kupwara.In Jammu division, the Jammu district reported 1,236 cases followed by 120 in Doda and 99 in Ramban.Srinagar is the district with the highest number of Covid active cases at 9,922 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 8,340 and 5,712 active cases, respectively.This month has witnessed a steep rise in cases with daily infections shooting up sharply from 169 on Jan 01 to 6,568 on Jan 22.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 2,330 with active positive cases reaching 39,113.However, of the 4,794 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 10.39 percent or 519 are occupied in J&K. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 34,423 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to cross 2.015 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,47,238 while the recovery rate has dropped to 88.81%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,90,949 and the death toll has reached 4,598.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,182 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 890 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-logs-6-5k-covid-cases-highest-active-infections-in-srinagar-101642887524395.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||District Good Governance Index: Jammu tops followed by Doda, Samba||In the composite ranking of first ever District Good Governance Index (DGGI) released Saturday by Home Minister, Amit Shah, the Jammu district has managed to top the list followed by districts of Doda, Samba, Pulwama and Srinagar in the UT.The DGGI is a framework document comprising of performance under ten governance sectors having 58 indicators with 116 data points. The criteria has been adopted after following a rigorous and robust process of data collection, screening and validation by each of the Districts.The governance sectors the performance of which was weighed under this index includes Agriculture and allied sector (11 indicators), Commerce and Industry (05), Human Resource Development (09), Public Health (09), Public Infrastructure and Utilities (06), Social Welfare and Development (06), Financial Inclusion (03), Judiciary and Public Safety (04), Environment (02) and Citizen Centric Governance (03).Under individual categories Kishtwar has been rated top in Agriculture sector, Jammu in two sectors of Commerce and Induatry and Citizen Centric Governance, Pulwama in HRD, Reasi in Public Health, Srinagar in Public Infrastructure, Ramban in Social Welfare, Ganderbal in Financial Inclusion, Doda in Judicial and Public Safety and Shopian in Environment.In the overall ranking Ganderbal stands at 6th place, Anantnag at 7th then by Baramulla district at 8th place followed by Kathua (9th), and Kupwara at 10th place.The last 10 district in the index includes Kishtwar ranked 11th followed by districts of Budgam, Udhampur, Reasi, Bandipora, Ramban, Kulgam, Shopian, Poonch and Rajouri being at the bottom of the index in the composite ranking.The booklet states DGGI as a tool to assess the status of governance and impact of various interventions taken up by the districts and UT administration. Further it says that the index would provide a framework to assess the performance of the districts in specific sectors and provide useful information to the districts enabling them to formulate and implement suitable strategies to improve ease-of-living and service delivery.The ranking of the districts, has been said, would bring about healthy competition amongst districts from which the citizens would be immensely benefitted.Pertinent to mention here that the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Government of India has been guiding and providing financial support for the exercise with technical support extended by CGG, Hyderabad. The J&K Institute of Management for Public Administration and Rural Development (IMPARD) with active collaboration of Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES) were the pivotal agencies in developing this index for the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/district-good-governance-index-jammu-tops-followed-by-doda-samba-101642887164885.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pakistani flag tied to balloon seized in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba||Ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, the police on Saturday seized a paper-made small Pakistani flag attached with a balloon, which probably had flown into the Indian side, in Samba district, said officials. Samba SSP Abhishek Mahajan said, “A balloon carrying small paper-made Pakistani flag was found by Yashpal Singh of Raghu Chack village on Saturday”. The village is located close to the Indo-Pak international border in the Ghagwal area of the border district. The officer said the flag had apparently flown to this side from across the border and was found stuck in barbed wire after the balloon punctured. “Some Pakistani mobile numbers were also found written on a paper attached with the flag. An investigation has been initiated,” he added. Security has been beefed up across the union territory to ensure peaceful celebrations of the Republic Day functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakistani-flag-tied-to-balloon-seized-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-samba-101642886924395.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Northern Command investiture ceremony: Reduction in terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir, says Lt Gen Joshi||Northern Army Commander Lt Gen YK Joshi on Saturday said, “The Operation Snow Leopard is still on” and that “troops are alert and ready to meet any contingency in Ladakh.” Addressing the audience at an investiture ceremony at Udhampur, Gen Joshi said, “The Operation Snow Leopard is still on. Our troops are on an alert and ready to meet any contingency in Ladakh.” “Disengagement of troops (in Ladakh) continues to be through talks,” he added. “Disengagement with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was completed from various areas in a peaceful manner and efforts are on through dialogue for disengagement from other areas,” he said. He said 2021 was a watershed year for the armed forces when they displayed boldness in standing up to the aggression on the LoC and the LAC. “There has been a reduction in terror-related incidents, stone-pelting activities and protests as a result of the efforts of the security forces and the people of J&K,” Gen Joshi said. He congratulated the local police, the CRPF, and other agencies for their role in counter-insurgency operations. He said, “The importance of both the union territories of J&K and Ladakh is well known and we have played our role as far as the security of this region is concerned with full dedication and devotion and are maintaining our complete dominance, whether it is Line of Control, Line of Actual Control (LAC), Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) and International Border (IB).” He said, “The people of Kashmir have rejected terrorism, separatism, and gun culture, and after many years, the number of terrorists has gone below 200 in the Valley which is a big achievement”. “The ceasefire along the LoC has provided relief to the border residents. But the attempts of infiltration of terrorists is going on, which are being foiled by our alert security personnel,” he said. He, however, noted that the infiltration attempts by Pakistan were still on. The Northern Army commander presented GOC-in-C’s Appreciation to 40 units and GOC-in-C’s Certificates of Appreciation to 26 units in a solemn Investiture ceremony in Udhampur.The GOC-in-C’s Appreciation was given to units for their performance in Operation Meghdoot, Operation Rakshak, Operation Northern Borders, and other operations. The GOC-in-C’s Certificates of Appreciation were given to units involved in Operation Snow Leopard, which was launched after China refused to move back and restore the status quo ante in eastern Ladakh. Gen Joshi commended all ranks of Northern Command for their dedication and devotion to duty in the highest traditions of the Army. He congratulated those units which were awarded appreciation certificates. He conveyed his gratitude to the brave men who made the supreme sacrifice on the borders and in the battle against internal security challenges. In the end, he urged all ranks to rededicate themselves to the cause of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/northern-command-investiture-ceremony-reduction-in-terror-incidents-in-jammu-and-kashmir-says-lt-gen-joshi-101642886564342.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Vande Bharat pilot Laxmi Joshi: To see people where they want to be is the best part||From waiting to see her in uniform before every flight, to making sure that their relatives and friends know all the details about the rescue missions she’s going on, Vande Bharat pilot Laxmi Joshi says her dad ensures all this and more. Joshi is one of the few pilots who flew to China as part of the Vande Bharat mission in May 2020, and says that her parents have been a constant support throughout this phase where she has been serving the nation and humanity. “I was asked by my airline if I wanted to volunteer with the Vande Bharat mission and I spoke to my parents about it. They were hesitant initially because of Covid situation then, but supported me in my decision. And I continue to fly such flights even today,” says the Mumbai-based pilot, adding, “My dad is amazing. He is so proud of me. If he is at home, he waits for me whenever I’m getting ready for a flight. And he makes sure he’s there to see me off with a kiss and reminding me to take care. Since the pandemic has hit, it feels every flight is my first flight.”And when the daughter is flying, the father ensures that the relatives are filled in with the details of her noble deeds, as part of her duty. “Whenever I’m on a flight, my father is on touch with our relatives through WhatsApp groups. He enquires beforehand which are the rescue flights I’m going for, and will say, ‘Laxmi, my daughter is going to rescue these people. It’s his love as a parent, but it’s also something that keeps me going,” says Joshi.“We are still flying Vande Bharat mission flights. I feel lucky to be part of the rescue mission. It’s a privilege,” says Joshi, adding “Every time after landing the flight when I see happy faces of people who have reached their destinations, I feel so satisfied. To see people where they want to be is the best part of my job. Presently we are flying to San Francisco, California, New York and Vancouver and bringing people who are stuck there. There were students who have already paid their college fee and we got special approvals to fly them back.”There are incidents aplenty when on board, but this one specific time, Joshi recalls, “I was flying from New York, and there was a little boy travelling on board with us. It was a long flight, during which he made a very good drawing of the Earth, the pilots and the aircraft going from one place to the other. It read, ‘Thank you so much for taking us safely’. That moved me beyond words!”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vande-bharat-pilot-laxmi-joshi-to-see-people-where-they-want-to-be-is-the-best-part-101642886084558.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Overnight rains, snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir; Gulmarg shivers at -6.5°C||Light snowfall and rains were experienced in Jammu and Kashmir during the night with the weather office predicting more widespread precipitation over the next two days.The Indian meteorological department’s centre in Srinagar on Saturday morning said that 16.2 mm rainfall was recorded in south Kashmir’s Qazigund while it was 21.4 mm in Jammu division’s Banihal till 8.30 in the morning.The ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir experienced 12 cm snowfall and the tourist resort of Pahalgam in the south witnessed 3.5 cm snowfall. The weather office on Friday evening said that a fresh active western disturbance will affect J&K and adjoining areas from Saturday.“Under the influence of this system, widespread rain and snow are likely to occur during January 22 and 23,” said Mukhtar Ahmad, deputy director of J&K’s meteorological centre.The weather system is expected to concentrate over the Jammu division, Pir Panjal range and South Kashmir.“Moderate rain in plains with snow over higher reaches (heavy rain and snow at isolated places) of Jammu division is expected during the above period. Light snow over plains and moderate snow over middle and higher reaches of Kashmir division is expected particularly over the north-western, northern and central parts of Kashmir,” he said.In south Kashmir, moderate snow over plains with heavy snowfall at isolated places over higher reaches is also expected. The precipitation may temporarily disrupt surface and air traffic.“Landslides may happen in vulnerable spots of the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway and other major hilly roads,” he said.The lowest night temperature on Saturday in Kashmir was recorded in northern ski resort of Gulmarg where mercury dropped to -6.5°C.The resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded -2.4°C.The mercury settled at 2.3°C in summer capital Srinagar during the night while it was 0.2°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu.It was -1.9°C in Kokernag, 0.4°C in Konibal and 1.4°C in Kupwara.The day temperatures on Friday at all the above stations did not cross 10.2°C with Gulmarg seeing lowest -3.0°C and Kupwara recording highest 10.2°C.Kashmir is under the grip of Chilai Kalan, the valley’s harshest over 40-day winter period, which started on December 21 and will be over by the end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/overnight-rains-snowfall-in-jammu-and-kashmir-gulmarg-shivers-at-65c-101642885964251.html
23-01-2022||Uttarakhand||Cong releases first list of 53 candidates for Uttarakhand polls||The Congress on Saturday released its first list of 53 candidates, including party’s state president Ganesh Godiyal and Leader of Opposition in the assembly Pritam Singh, for the Uttarakhand assembly elections. While Godiyal will contest from the Srinagar seat, Singh has been fielded from the Chakrata (ST) constituency.The names of former chief minister Harish Rawat and Harak Singh Rawat, who joined the party on Friday, do not figure in the first list.Yashpal Arya, a former Bharatiya Janata Party minister, who had recently joined the Congress, has been fielded from his Bajpur (SC) constituency.Sumit Hridayesh, the son of senior Congress leader Indira Hridayesh who died in June last year, has been fielded from Haldwani assembly seat.The Congress is seeking to wrest power back from the BJP in the hill state.Assembly elections in Uttarakhand will be held in a single-phase on February 14. The counting of votes for all 70 assembly constituencies will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/uttarakhand-assembly-election/cong-releases-first-list-of-53-candidates-for-uttarakhand-polls-101642884464084.html
23-01-2022||Delhi||Positive or negative: Self-test kits causing Covid confusion?||New DelhiAs Covid-19 cases continue to be high in the Capital, various self-testing rapid antigen kits for Covid detection have been flying off the shelves. Many are picking up these self-testing kits from local pharmacists, to test whether the virus has affected them or not, in order to save themselves from anxiety and the time required in receiving reports from a test lab. But, is a negative or positive test result the ultimate correct answer? Well, healthcare experts warn against reading the results of self tests at face value.The curious case of a false negativeTake the case of Anand Vihar-based Sanchit Sharma, who upon experiencing a mild headache and sore throat after a long day at work in a Noida-based MNC, stopped by a local pharmacy to buy an at home self test kit. To avoid “waiting time for RT PCR testing”, Sharma and his family tested at home using the instructions on the pack. The ‘negative’ was “the mood changer” according to him.Sharma adds: “In the morning, my sore throat worsened and I developed a minor fever. Considering the situation, I immediately got my RT PCR done and the day after result shown was positive. It felt like I hit an iceberg. How can an ICMR approved testing kit be so wrong in showing the result? Now if anyone asks me, I’d suggest people not to rely completely on home based testing kits. Although the accuracy level of these kits have some error margin, but still the expectations of the people out there is much more at the moment and one must know that these aren’t final and binding.” Pharmacists busy home delivering kitsNot only are the rapid antigen self-test kits flying off the shelves, but are also being ordered over home delivery as per many city-based pharmacies. Jai Bharat, who works in a Dwarka-based pharmacy, says, “Each day at least 20-30 people take home these tests. We’re also being asked to home deliver these kits. And we are regularly getting these kits supplied to us to cater to the high demand. There are different brands available and each costs between ₹250-300 per kit. But of course whenever anyone asks us whether their result is absolutely correct, we tell them we can’t take guarantee.” Kits are useful like first aidDelhi-based software engineer Suhaib Roomy, who had tested Covid positive recently, says he used the self-test kit to monitor the Covid status. “I was advised by my doctor to take a self test a couple of days after my symptoms subsided. I purchased a self test kit from a nearby chemist shop for ₹250. I had previously watched a video on YouTube on how to perform a self test. It was really easy and took me just two minutes to perform those steps. The result was shown in the strip within five minutes,” says Roomy. And Model Town-based accessory designer Akassh K Aggarwal says these testing kits did turn out to be a useful tool for him, adding: “It helped me diagnose my Covid positive status at home. I followed it up with an RT PCR lab test, and by the time the results came, my symptoms had gone from severe to mild.”The doctor’s advice Delhi-based Internal Medicine specialist Dr Shuchin Bajaj shares these kits are useful if used correctly. “We need to make sure to give out the right communication. First, you should know how to use them correctly. At home, some don’t know how to insert the probe correctly, or they’re taking the sample just from the outer part of the nose or tongue. Secondly, if the test shows a positive, then it’s a positive, but the rate of false negatives is quite high. It could be as high as 10-15%. If you are symptomatic, and it’s come out to be negative, please get it reconfirmed through an RT PCR test.” Adding that about 50% of his urban patients come to him having already self-tested at home, Dr Bajaj says it’s a cause of worry to not report the Covid positive status.“Underreporting could be because of false negatives or faulty user behaviour. Even if they’re turning out to be positive, people are not reporting it to the concerned authority. These cases are escaping statistics. For instance, in some cases those using a test require the image of the kit to be uploaded after use, and then the app reports directly to the ICMR. But, most people are just visually inspecting the kit, and don’t upload the image. It could be because people do not want to isolate themselves for 14 days, when they are getting better in 4-5 days since it’s a mild variant. It’s also because there’s a social stigma around being Covid positive. People who have tested positive must be treated with compassion instead of making it look like they’re at fault if they have the infection,” the doctor says.Take of the testing labs Dr Shivali Ahlawat, Head of National Reference Laboratory at Oncquest Laboratories Ltd, which is “testing around 3,500-4,000 RTPCR samples daily” explains: “Home tests had good accuracy in case of a positive result, but could be misleading in case of a negative result. If a person has Covid like symptoms, she or he should get an RT-PCR test even if the home test came negative.”Explaining the difference between the two, the expert says: “Rapid self-kit test detects protein fragments specific to the Coronavirus. While the rapid test can get you results very quickly, the results may not always be as accurate as the PCR. On the other hand, RT PCR testing is considered the most robust approach in SARS-CoV-2 detection. This test detects genetic material specific to the virus and can detect the virus within days of infection, even those with no symptoms. The test is generally done by a trained professional. Turnaround time is longer as compared to rapid test but results can come back in as little as 24 hours.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/positive-or-negative-self-test-kits-causing-covid-confusion-101642883986188.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Illegal sand mining: Citing audio clips as proof of CM’s patronage, SAD demands CBI probe||Alleging Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s involvement in a “multi-crore illegal mining racket” in his home constituency of Chamkaur Sahib, the Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe and also asked the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to take note of it. Addressing a press conference here, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia claimed to have busted the “racket” on the basis of a string operation on individuals carrying out the illegal sand mining in Channi’s home turf, including the forest land, in violation of the National Green Tribunal guidelines, allegedly in connivance with the chief minister. “Only an impartial probe can reveal the extent to which the CM and his family have plundered the state exchequer through the sand mafia,” he alleged. HT could not independently verify the veracity of the audio recordings of sting operation cited by Majithia in support of his allegations. Channi has been in the eye of a political storm since this past week after the recovery of ₹10 crore cash from his nephew Bhupinder Singh ‘Honey’ and others during the ED raids in an illegal sand mining case of 2018. Calling the ED operation a “political vendetta” by the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre, the chief minister has denied any link with his nephew’s activities. Contesting Channi’s denial, Majithia claimed that the audio recordings proved “close nexus” between chief minister and Honey. “They were partners in the illegal sand mining trade,” he alleged. Former Akali minister, who himself was booked in a drug case by the Channi government last month, said that in the secretly-taped audio recordings, Salapur village sarpanch Iqbal Singh, alleged to be CM’s aide, and his son Binder Singh revealed that the illegal sand mining operation was being run with the “chief minister’s blessings”. Majithia also played an audio clip in which one Iqbal Singh is purportedly saying that the chief minister (Channi) had told him to do mining fearlessly, even on forest land. He alleged that a forest guard who raised alarm was browbeaten into silence and that the mafia was also using boats and forklifts to mine from the riverbed. He added that one Rakesh Chaudhary of Jammu was the kingpin behind the sand mafia operating in the Chamkaur Sahib area. Majithia alleged that Honey had been provided black cat commandos and an escort vehicle allegedly on Channi’s orders. “Since the chief minister is also holding the charge of the mining and environment departments, this favour to his nephew is a case of conflict of interest,” he added. Reacting to the allegations, Congress spokesperson Alka Lamba, without naming anyone, termed it an attempt to tarnish Channi’s clean image. “Till a few days ago, he (Majithia) was hiding in a drugs case,” she said, adding that those who live in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-sand-mining-citing-audio-clips-as-proof-of-cm-s-patronage-sad-demands-cbi-probe-101642883144603.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mandi hooch tragedy: Kingpin held, two illegal factories busted||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Himachal Pradesh Police on Saturday cracked the Mandi hooch deaths case with the arrest of the key accused and busted two illicit liquor bottling plants at Hamirpur and Nalagarh.Director-general of police Sanjay Kundu said it was a major challenge for being first of its kind case in Himachal and required coordinated efforts of various teams of the SIT in carrying out raids, seizures and the arrest.“The case has been solved within 72 hours by the SIT,” said Kundu. The SIT was headed by the DIG, Central Range, Madhu Sudan.Five people had died after consuming toxic liquor in the Salapar area of Sundernagar in Mandi district on January 19 while two died the next day.After the tragedy unfolded, the police had registered a case of culpable homicide and criminal conspiracy and arrested four persons on January 20, who, the DGP said, were the foot-soldiers in the racket.The prime suspect in the case, Narender, alias Kalu from Maloh village of Sundernagar, was on the run since the incident. He landed in the police net on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday.“He revealed that the main supplier of the illicit liquor was Gaurav Manhas, alias Goru from Palampur, Kangra, who was arrested from a hotel in Zirkpur on Thursday,” said the DGP.During the interrogation, Manhas revealed that there was an illegal bottling unit in Hamirpur being run by two persons from UP, who carry out the mixing operations. Water for the above unit was procured from Hamirpur, empty bottles from a scrap dealer, bottle caps, boxes and cartons were procured from Parwanoo, spirit from a person named Sagar Saini in drums and the last procurement was 25 drums.He said “VRV Santra” stickers were made with the help of a graphic designer while bottling plant equipment was procured from Chandigarh and Jammu and Kashmir.“Nine teams of SIT carried out search and seizures at various places,” said Kundu. He said the Hamirpur team, which busted the illegal bottling plant, seized 6,000 bottles of liquor, empty bottles, cartons, plastic tanks, label strips, hologram stickers and other material. The premises named Rainbow Café was owned by Praveen Thakur, a local, who ran the illegal operation in collusion with Pushpender and Sunny from Bhawanigarh of Aligarh in UP.The DGP said the police recovered ₹25 lakh cash during a raid at the house of the kingpin in Palampur besides other documentary evidence.At the instance of Goru, another illegal bottling plant was raided by the Baddi police, the DGP said.The factory was apparently run by another illegal liquor production gang. A separate FIR under the Excise Act has been registered at the Nalagarh Police Station. It was also found that the kingpin had supplied 1,400 boxes of illicit liquor to distributers in Kangra, Una, Hamirpur, Mandi and Bilaspur.“Other people involved in this racket have been identified and are being interrogated. Among them are Sagar Saini from Ambala; AK Tripathi from Samba; Ajay Kohli from Baijnath of Kangra and Ajay Sharma and Prakash Chand from Parwanoo,” he said.The DGP said the deaths might have been caused by improper mixing of the ingredients at the Hamirpur plant, or impure spirit which may have contained methyl alcohol instead of ethyl alcohol.He said the role of excise officers may also come under the scanner in this case.
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress seeks judicial probe into Mandi hooch tragedy||The opposition Congress on Saturday demanded a judicial probe into the Mandi hooch tragedy in which seven people died after consuming spurious liquor earlier this week. Addressing a press conference, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) spokesperson Naresh Chauhan said that a sitting judge of the high court should conduct the inquiry into the case. Accusing the BJP government of trying to protect the accused in the case, Chauhan also questioned the slow pace of the probe. Chauhan alleged that the liquor mafia was flourishing under the patronage of the BJP leaders. After this tragic incident in the home district of the chief minister, the entire law and order situation in Himachal has been exposed, he said. Chauhan said that the pace at which illegal drug trade is spreading in the state was quite concerning. He claimed that the present government under the current regime had totally collapsed and the mafia was ruling the roosts and have no fear of law as they were being protected by the government. Chauhan demanded strict action against the culprits behind the hooch tragedy. He said that there is a need to keep a strict vigil on the borders so that smuggling of any kind of illegal drugs can be curbed. He said when the illegal liquor trade is going on unabated in the home district of the chief minister then the situation in other districts can be gauged easily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-seeks-judicial-probe-into-mandi-hooch-tragedy-101642883027049.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal government shielding liquor mafia: Mukesh Agnihotri||Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri alleged that the government was sheltering the liquor mafia. He claimed that instead of ascertaining the reality that led to the death of seven persons who consumed spurious liquor, the government was politicking over the issue. He said in spite of political affiliations to any party, the government should take strict action against the guilty. “Keeping in view the seriousness of the matter, action should be taken against the mafia, be it of any political party,” he said in a statement issued here on Saturday. He alleged that in four years, liquor shops have opened on streets, illegal liquor business has spread and door-to-door delivery of liquor has started. “This is the failure of the Jai Ram government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-government-shielding-liquor-mafia-mukesh-agnihotri-101642883025462.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal reels under intense cold as higher reaches get snow; Keylong freezes at -7.2°C||Himachal Pradesh reeled under bone-chilling cold as mercury plunged several notches in the hill state after fresh spell of snow in the higher and middle hills and rains in the plains on Saturday.Pangi valley in Chamba experienced upto 3 inches of snow Khara Pathar in Shimla got 2 inches of snow.Famous tourist resorts of Kufri and Fagu got 0.6 inche of snow. Khirki got 3 inches of snow while Chanshal peak got 2 inches of snow and Dodraw Kwar and Jot one inch of snow. Kupvi also got 0.6 inch of snow.The Shimla police issued an advisory to the people and tourists to avoid traveling in higher altitude areas.Gondla and Hansa in Lahaul-Spiti and Dalhousie in Chamba also got one inch of snow and Keylong and Kalpa 0.3 inch each.Saloni in Hamirpur was the wettest place in the state receiving 20mm of rains while tourist resort Manali got 10mm rains. Mandi recorded 9mm rainfall and Kasol and Jogindernagar 6mm each. Sundernagar, Baijnath and Kothi got 5mm rainfall and Banjar 4mm.The fresh spell of snow and rain has also brought down the day temperatures considerably in the state.Shimla MeT centre director Surender Paul said maximum temperatures dropped by 2 to 3 degrees during last 24 hrs. Average maximum temperatures were 4-5 degrees below normal in the state, he said. However, minimum temperatures were upto 2 degrees Celsius above normal. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest recording night temperature of minus 7.2 degrees C followed by Kalpa with a low of minus 3.4 degrees C. Kufri shivered at minus 2.1 degrees C and Dalhousie minus 1 degree C. Manali saw a low of minus 0.2-degree C.State capital Shimla recorded minimum temperature of 2.1 degrees, Dharamshala 5.2 degrees C and Palampur 5 degrees C.The director of State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said 147 roads including two national highways have been blocked for traffic due to snow. One national highway in Kinnaur is blocked due to landslide. Maximum 108 roads are blocked in Lahaul-Spiti and 24 in Mandi. As Many as 34 water supply schemes are also hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-reels-under-intense-cold-as-higher-reaches-get-snow-keylong-freezes-at-7-2-degreesc-101642883024221.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM Modi praises Chamba for coverage of common service centres||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday interacted with district magistrates of various inspirational districts of the country through virtual mode to take direct feedback about the progress and present status of the implementation of government schemes. He interacted with the officers and motivated them to achieve saturation of different schemes by various departments in the districts in mission mode, in convergence with all stakeholders.The Prime Minister also appreciated the achievement of the Chamba district of the state in increasing the coverage of common service centres to facilitate the people of the district.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also joined the meeting virtually from Shimla.The CM thanked the Prime Minister for appreciating the achievement of Chamba district in increasing the coverage of common service centre from about 67 % to over 97 %. He said the Aspirational District Programme was started by the Prime Minister in January 2018 for the country and Chamba district was also selected under this scheme. He said that a total of 112 aspirational districts have been identified by NITI Aayog based on composite indicators from health and nutrition, education, agriculture and water resources, financial inclusion and skill-development and basic infrastructure which have an impact on the human development index. He said that Aspirational District Programme essentially aims at localising sustainable development goals, leading to the progress of the nation.Jai Ram Thakur said that since the implementation of this programme, Chamba district has constantly performed well in different sectors. He said that the district has been ranked second in health and nutrition in March 2019, ranked among the best districts in basic infrastructure in November 2020 and overall second in October 2021 in the country. He said that on the basis of the above ranking, the district has been provided with an incentive worth ₹8 crore by the NITI Aayog in the form of projects. Projects worth ₹25.04 crore have been sanctioned under the CSR head for the district.Jal shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur, MPP and power minister Sukh Ram, additional chief secretaries Prabodh Saxena and JC Sharma were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-modi-praises-chamba-for-coverage-of-common-service-centres-101642882904131.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Majithia’s sand-mining allegations against me out of revenge: Channi||Reacting strongly to the allegations levelled against him by SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday dared him to come out with authentic proof that links him (CM) with the illegal sand mining. Channi said Majithia’s ‘slanderous and misleading’ campaign against him was to revenge the drugs case registered against him by his government. He also said the SAD leader was dancing to the tunes of the BJP.“I have never denied my relationship with my nephew Bhupinder Singh ‘Honey’ and being a relative, he might be present at family functions. It is not a crime if I get clicked with my relatives at my son’s marriage or some other event,” the CM said, while categorically denying any link in Honey’s activities and the money-laundering case he is facing.“Let me remind Majithia that he was investigated by the ED for his relations with drug peddlers, and a drug lord even named him for sheltering and facilitating smugglers. Majithia’s photos were with them; does that mean he did shelter them?”On the audio recordings of a sarpanch, Iqbal Singh and his son Binder, Channi said that if a person takes chief minister’s name for personal gains, it doesn’t mean that he (the CM) is associated with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/majithias-sand-mining-allegations-against-me-out-of-revenge-channi-101642882664825.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-DGP Mustafa threatens to ‘beat up’ AAP workers in Malerkotla, triggers row||A row has erupted after former Punjab DGP Mohd Mustafa, who is the husband of Congress candidate from Malerkotla, Razia Sultana, allegedly threatened to beat up Aam Aadmi Party workers. In a video circulating on social media, Mustafa, who is also the principal strategic adviser to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, can be heard saying, “My ‘jalsa’ was scheduled here but they (AAP) tried to create noise. If it happens again, I swear, I will not let them gather. I am not an RSS agent who hides in fear at home. I am not contesting for votes. I am fighting for the community. I want to tell the police and civil administration that if permission is given for such parallel events, I will create a situation which will be difficult to handle. My community, Sikh brothers, Dalits and good Hindus are with me. I will beat ‘broom people’ at their households with ‘jharu’ (broom).” “I stand by my stance that if it happens again, we will teach them a lesson,” said Mustafa over phone on Saturday. AAP candidate Jamil-ur-Rehman said he filed a complaint with the election commission against Mustafa. “He threatened to beat up AAP workers and candidate. We urged the election commission to take action against Mustafa and transfer of local SHOs,” said Rehman. Malerkotla SDM-cum-returning officer Jasbir Singh said he has issued notices for violation of model code to Congress and AAP. BJP demands FIR against ex-DGP Chandigarh: The Punjab BJP on Saturday announced to file a complaint with the Election Commission of India (ECI) over an alleged “communal” speech made by Mustafa at a rally in Malerkotla. “Look at how low these Congress leaders can go to garner votes. The video shows the statement was made to orchestrate riots. Coming from a person who had taken constitutional oath as an IPS officer is most shocking,” said party’s national spokesperson, Shazia Ilimi, adding that an FIR should be registered against Mustafa for his alleged attempt to disturb communal peace. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh also blamed the Punjab Congress for creating a serious threat to the national security and urged the ECI to order registration of a criminal case against Mustafa. “There was absolutely no Hindu-Muslim controversy. It was a verbal outburst mischievously provoked by jhaduwallahs (AAP workers). My nationalistic credentials are far superior to yours (BJP’s) with a history of life-long fight against enemies of India and destroyers of communal harmony,” Mustafa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ex-dgp-mustafa-threatens-to-beat-up-aap-workers-in-malerkotla-triggers-row-101642882184177.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Flats for Punjab, Haryana officials: Chandigarh admn may shelve project||The UT administration is considering shelving the ambitious project to come up with luxury flats for officials and MLAs of Punjab and Haryana at IT Park, as both governments are yet to fulfil their financial commitments to the project.“We want to proceed with the project, but Punjab and Haryana, who are major stakeholders in the project, are yet to deposit their share of funds. In this situation, we cannot move ahead with the project. A final decision will be taken in the upcoming meeting of the CHB board,” said a senior CHB official.CHB has already finalised the architectural plans for the project, which is to come up on 6.73 acres. The board plans to construct 10 towers with 28 flats, each having a base price of ₹2 crore. In September 2019, CHB had sought opinions of both governments regarding these flats for their officials. Additionally, PGIMER had also expressed willingness to buy the flats. All three agencies are expected to pay ₹66 crore each for their share of flats.CHB officials have given presentations on different aspects of the project to the Punjab and Haryana officials, who have repeatedly assured that the payment will be made. But even after repeated reminders, they haven’t released 25% payment.The project land is part of the 123 acres that CHB got back from Parsvnath Developers after a long-drawn legal battle. It was in October 2006 that CHB had decided to develop residential, commercial and other infrastructure with Parsvnath Developers at IT Park, but the project didn’t take off because of multiple reasons. Thereafter, CHB failed to sell 18 residential and commercial sites at an e-auction in 2018, primarily due to the high reserved prices. Thereafter, it decided to launch a general housing scheme on two of the plots.Of the 11 residential sites, the high-end flats for government officials are planned to come up on one. In two plots, CHB will construct 728 flats and offer it to public under a general housing scheme. The rest of the eight sites are likely to go under hammer in a month’s time. In these freehold plots ranging from 3.5 acre to 6 acres, multi-storey apartments will come up, to be constructed by private developers. CHB is also planning to auction off an 8.23-acre site, which is reserved for a hospital. The leasehold plot was earlier put up for auction with a reserved price of ₹344 crore in September 2017, but despite many extensions, there was no response from buyers.
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||SAD candidate Maheshinder Grewal requests EC to transfer 5 SHOs out of Ludhiana West||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate from Ludhiana west Maheshinder Singh Grewal has filed a complaint with the Election Commission of India, requesting the transfer of the station house officers (SHO) of five police stations in the constituency. The police stations include Sarabha Nagar, PAU, Haibowal, Division Number 5 and Division Number 8.Grewal said the SHOs of these police stations are being influenced by sitting Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu and his wife Mamta Ashu, who is a municipal councillor. Grewal said the presence of these officers in the constituency will prove to be a hindrance to free and fair conduct of elections.The SAD leader further said that during the recent police reshuffle, before the model code of conduct came into force, these SHO were shifted within the constituency. He requested the election commission to transfer the SHOs and bring in those officers who have not worked in the constituency for the past three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-candidate-maheshinder-grewal-requests-ec-to-transfer-5-shos-out-of-ludhiana-west-101642881284158.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra MP’s convoy attacked in Ambala, five booked||Naib Singh Saini, the BJP MP from Kurukshetra, was allegedly attacked by a group of men in Ambala’s Naraingarh on Friday night.Police said Saini was leaving from Kodva Khurd village after attending the wedding of party leader Pravesh Sharma’s son, when his convoy was blocked by a group of 8-10 men.Exempted assistant sub-inspector (EASI) Ishwar Dayal, who was on duty with Saini, said while the MP was returning to his residence in Mirzapur village around 7pm, a group of men holding black flags appeared before their vehicle at the entry gate of Kodva Khurd village.“They hurled abuses and threw stones at our vehicle. However, we managed to escape. Later, we identified five of them as Parmeshwar, Balwinder, Gurwinder Singh, Gurpreet and Navdeep,” Dayal said in his police statement.Based on the complaint, an FIR under Sections 148, 149, 332, 341, 353, 427, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against the five men at the Shahzadpur police station. No farmer or labour union has claimed responsibility for the said incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kurukshetra-mp-s-convoy-attacked-in-ambala-five-booked-101642881229221.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Forgery of Punjab DGP’s orders: Accused removed bad entries from Ludhiana cop’s annual report||Adverse entries in the annual confidential report (ACR) of an inspector were also removed by the accused while forging orders of the then Punjab director general of police (DGP). This was shared with a local court that took up the anticipatory bail plea of one of the key suspects, sub-inspector Harwinder Singh, in connection with the recent forgery of Punjab DGP’s orders. The said inspector, Daljit, is posted in Ludhiana and as per the complaint from the DGP office, through an order, dated January 8, the bad entries in his ACR were eliminated. The order later turned out to be fake. The forged order stated that the said inspector had got appreciation letters from two senior officials for his work and thus his bad entries be removed. Considering the submissions, the court dismissed Harwinder’s plea for anticipatory bail. The Chandigarh Police had registered a case on January 11, following a complaint by Vibhor Kumar, a staff officer with the Punjab DGP office, Sector 9, Chandigarh. He had complained to the UT Police that he had received four fake promotion orders under the forged signature of the then Punjab DGP, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya. These fake orders included two regarding promotions of Punjab Police personnel, one removing bad entries from some ACRs and another about recruitment of two constables. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 464 (false document in the name of a fictitious person), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, or to receive any money, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered in this regard. So far, police have arrested six people in the case, including Kulwinder Singh, personal assistant of the former DGP, inspector Satwant Singh Sidhu, posted in Mohali; a dismissed sub-inspector, Sarabjit Singh; Sandeep Kumar and Bahadur Singh, both working as superintendents in Punjab DGP’s office; and head constable Mani Katoch, whose name figures in the forged promotion list. All are currently in police remand. Readied orders in DGP office Investigations into the forgery of the four orders revealed that the accused prepared the orders in the DGP office itself. The police are yet to arrest assistant sub-inspector Harwinder Singh, sub-inspector Satinder Pal Singh and constable Sanjiv, who are among the beneficiaries of the forged orders, issued on January 4 and 8. “Accused Satinder Pal and Kulwinder used to sit together in DGP office and prepare the forged orders. A laptop containing these orders has been recovered,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (City), Chandigarh. 
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||U-19 World Cup: Chandigarh’s Rajangad breaks Shikhar’s record to become India’s highest scorer||Chandigarh all-rounder Rajangad Bawa had a superlative outing for India against Uganda on Saturday, scoring an unbeaten 162 runs off 108 balls in their Group-B game during the ongoing ICC Under-19 World Cup in Tarouba, Trinidad. The spectacular score made the 19-year-old India’s highest scorer in the U-19 World Cups held so far, surpassing current opener Shikhar Dhawan’s record of 155 runs against Bangladesh in 2004. During his sizzling knock and maiden youth century, Bawa hit 14 fours and eight sixes. Batting first, India scored a mammoth 405/5 in 50 overs, the second-highest total ever in the tournament, and wrapped up Uganda’s innings on 79 in 19.4 overs. Earlier, India’s opener Angkrish Raghuvanshi hit 144 runs off 120 balls. In the last game against Ireland, Bawa had scored 42 runs after scalping four wickets in the opening game against South Africa. Son of cricket coach Sukhwinder Bawa and grandson of hockey Olympian Tarlochan Singh, the teenaged left-handed batter and medium-pacer had said ahead of the tournament that he wanted to contribute for India both with the ball and bat. Bawa was part of the India team that won the Asia Cup in the UAE, where he had taken eight wickets, including four wickets against Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/u19-world-cup-chandigarh-s-rajangad-breaks-shikhar-s-record-to-become-india-s-highest-scorer-101642881226742.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula resident loses ₹1.9 lakh in credit card fraud||Online fraudsters withdrew ₹1.9 lakh from a Panchkula resident’s credit card, police said on Saturday. The victim, Ambuj Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 20, told the police that ₹99.430.80 and ₹90,955.80 were deducted from his credit card without his authorisation after he attended a call from an unknown number regarding his pending mobile phone bill. A case under Section 420 of the IPC was registered after verification.PGIMER waives OPD registration fee Amid the spike in Covid cases, the PGIMER administration has decided to waive registration charges for patients visiting the OPDs after taking appointments via tele-consultation. The institute had suspended walk-in OPDs on January 10 and has been attending to patients in person only after providing them prior appointment through tele-consultation. The decision was taken to prevent exposure of co-morbid patients to the infection. Medical superintendent Dr Vipin Kaushal said, “The waiver is for the time being, as queuing up to pay the fee creates hurdles. Patients can directly visit the doctor.” Nursery admissions: Draw of lots at 3 schools
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: HC dismisses bail plea of gangster Monty Shah||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the bail plea of gangster Monty Shah in a December 2019 case registered by the Chandigarh Police.Shah, 28, had approached the high court for bail in June 2020. The FIR pertains to alleged recovery of a country made pistol and live cartridges from him. He had told the court that he had been in custody for more than eight months since his arrest in May 2021 and the challan had been presented.Had jumped bail beforeDuring the hearing, it came to light that Shah was arrested on December 10, 2019, and was granted interim bail due to the Covid-19 situation. The interim bail was extended from time to time up to December, 11, 2020. But he did not surrender thereafter and was eventually arrested on May 15, 2021, in another case. An aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, Shah has many cases of extortion, attempt to murder, robbery and Arms Act registered against him in Chandigarh. Before his arrest in 2021, police had announced a reward of ₹50,000 for any information about his whereabouts.Opposing the bail, UT’s counsel had told the court that he had jumped the interim bail and was further involved in seven more cases, so there was every chance of him absconding again.The bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan dismissed the bail plea observing that Shah’s conduct was evident from the fact that he never surrendered after availing of interim bail and was arrested in another FIR. No reason has been put forth for not surrendering on December 12, 2020. The involvement of the petitioner in seven more cases was an indicator of his antecedents, the bench recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhhc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-gangster-monty-shah-101642881224153.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||2,718 liquor cases stored illegally seized in Patiala||The excise department in a joint operation with police recovered 2,718 cases of liquor stored in an unauthorised manner on the premises belonging to a Patiala-based liquor contractor and his relatives. The seizure was made during a raid on the premises of Manju Singla and his family members. Excise commissioner Rajat Aggarwal said the department has tightened the noose on those involved in smuggling and sale of liquor for which duty was not paid. “Of the 2,718 cases, 1,009 were of beer and 1,180 of India made foreign liquor (IMFL). At least 428 bottles were found without hologram,” added Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2718-liquor-cases-stored-illegally-seized-in-patiala-101642880385473.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Jinxed elections to premier golf club||The process to elect a managing committee for the Chandigarh Golf Club has been stalled yet again. The last democratically held elections are 2018 vintage, after which polls could not be held for a lack of contestants, and then due to the pandemic. In these circumstances, a select set of office-bearers continue to hold the office, unelected. After the double whammy of a two-year long pandemic, polls to the golf club were finally to be held on January 30, 2022, and a triangular contest was in the offing, when the jinx struck again and the elections were indefinitely postponed, citing the threat of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On the surface, the decision, which was announced 23 days before the polls, seems to be a well-meaning one. However, ironically, the very next day, the Election Commission of India, announced assembly polls in five Indian states. They also categorically said that campaigning may commence only after January 15, indicating that the third wave of the pandemic may subside by then. Undoubtedly, assembly and golf club elections are incomparable in scope, intent and impact, but it cannot be denied that they are two sides of the same coin, and thus certain facts cannot be ignored. Contestants could have campaigned virtually Firstly, golf club elections do not involve any campaigning worth its name and can easily take place through word of mouth, telephone calls, and social media posts – ensuring social distancing. Secondly, the golf club authorities assumed that the pandemic will continue to remain a threat in January-end, which is something that the Election Commission of India did not assume ab initio. Even if the authorities had taken the final call two days before the polls, there would not have been any administrative inconvenience as most formalities take place in-house. The premature announcement has led speculations about the vested interests of the decision-makers. No general body meeting called Thirdly, several members have off and on demanded that decisions of this magnitude, pertaining to the functioning of the club, be discussed in a general body meeting. However, no such procedure was followed, which speaks of the arbitrariness of the incumbent committee’s decision. Lastly, to obviate the gathering of unpermissible number of people on the day of the polls, voting could have taken place in slots or online. One must take into account that even in normal circumstances around 1,000 people turn up for voting, the number is sure to be lesser in these troubled times. Thus, a well-managed eight-hour window would have proven adequate for voting, considering the vast premises of the golf club. The order to postpone the polls, therefore, seems hurried, and there is more to it than meets the eye. In the words of a veteran member, “A smoke never emanates without fire, even though the fire may be concealed, like at Cu Chi Tunnels during the Vietnam War!”avnishrms59@gmail.com(The writer is a permanent member of the Chandigarh Golf Club. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-jinxed-elections-to-premier-golf-club-101642880324560.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest column | The good old days of Doordarshan||Gone are the days, when watching television together as a community was a unique and blissful experience. The limited sources of entertainment in those times explain the immense popularity of Doordarshan – the only national broadcaster in the early 80s. Before OTT platforms came into the picture, one would watch films together at cinema halls, popularly known as the talkies, and eagerly wait for the circus to come to town, especially on festive occasions. There used to be just one theatre in my native town, Ropar – Kalyan Talkies, which held us in a thrall, as opposed to the wide array of choices available to us now, thanks to the proliferation of the internet. Delving into my childhood memories takes me to my octogenarian grandfather’s house. After my Class 10 examination, my younger sister and I moved to our grandparents’ home in Ropar for further education as there were hardly any higher education institutions in Nangal where my father was posted. Bhapa ji, as we affectionately called him, had a penchant for novel gadgets and purchased a black and white television set back in the late 70s, when it was considered to be a luxury. He was among the few fortunate people in our sleepy town to own a television. Our ancestral house doubled as a cinema hall on weekends, especially Sunday evening, when diverse viewers, comprising mostly children and the elderly from nearby dwellings, thronged our home to watch Hindi feature films on Doordarshan. Known for her magnanimity and warmth, my grandmother would always roll out a dari in the open verandah for the children to squat, and set out chairs for the elderly so that they could watch the Ramayana in comfort. The Hindi news bulletin, which broadcast at 7:30pm, was like an interval, and my grandmother graciously served shikanji (lemonade) during the hot summers and hot tea in winter with home-made sweets such as ladoos, shakarpare and salted cookies (mathis) to go with it. On cloudy days when the signal was unclear, I was always given the unpleasant task to go to the rooftop to rotate the pipe affixed to the antenna. My sister signalled me from the ground to stop moving when the photographs became clear and the humming sound faded. It proved to be wonderful lesson in synchronisation.Chitrahaar, a weekly programme, featuring popular Hindi film songs was another star attraction on Doordarshan which was broadcast every Wednesday at 8pm in the good old days. I am also reminded of few striking instances when the power went off unexpectedly, playing spoilsport, and the spectators whose favourite programme had been interrupted would pray for the restoration of power – eyes closed and hands folded. Once my grandfather bought a screen with coloured patches to give the impression of a coloured TV, but it strained the eyes, and he immediately replaced it with a blue screen.The standout in those halcyon days was the unadulterated camaraderie and intense social bonding that took place as one enjoyed with their near and dear ones. Thus, fostering a sense of affection and amity. Nowadays, even close-knit family members do not have the time to sit together. Distressingly, this unsavoury development reflects a sense of growing individualism, which has distanced us from our loved ones. Kudos to the mesmerising national broadcaster, which acted as a unifying force, keeping our social fabric intact.opinder.lamba@gmail.com(The writer is additional director (press) to the Punjab chief minister)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-the-good-old-days-of-doordarshan-101642880144338.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Sorority bonding over K-dramas||The sorority bonding that one experiences when among a bevy of female friends and relatives one finds a kindred soul who is head over heals in love with K-Dramas is akin to finding an oasis in the middle of a desert or sighting land when you are lost in the high seas. It is no less than finding your one and only sibling, whom you had probably lost in the kumbh mela, or finding a misplaced favourite dress after a year. For Indians, the love for dramas or television series probably dates back to the mid-80s. Weekly series such as the Ramayana, Mahabharata, Buniyaad, Khandaan, and Nukkad were not mere shows but an integral part of the average Indian household. I vividly remember that once during a family gathering, my aunt quipped, “You may say whatever you want, but nobody is more beautiful than our Akshara.” My husband, who has a poor track record as far as TV series are concerned, looked at me quizzically and asked, “I didn’t know your aunt had a daughter named Akshara.” I had to explain it to him in muted tones that my aunt was not talking about her daughter but the heroine of a popular daily show! The Indian television industry has come a long way and is churning out soap operas and daily series of every variety and genre. However, ever since I started watching K-dramas, I confess, I have not been able to go back to the indigenous dramas. It all started when my younger daughter invited me to watch a Netflix series with her. After watching a couple of an English series, we moved on to Turkish, German and Spanish shows with English subtitles to help us cruise through. It was then that I struck gold with a romantic K-drama based on the love story between a ‘chaebol’ heir and his secretary. The information about the series read– romantic, ‘swoon worthy’ and ‘drool worthy’– terms which were cliché enough to put off a middle-aged woman like me. However, contrary to my expectations, the first scene had me hooked to it. The age factor was hurriedly swept aside as the die-hard romantic in me resurfaced, and not only rejoiced at the ‘sweet nothings’ of the love-sick young couple but also shared their numerous anxieties throughout the show. I have watched more than 50 K-dramas. What began as a mere source of entertainment has now become a source of exposure to another society– its culture, tradition, cuisine, music and vocabulary. In a manner similar to our own, parents there also fuss over their children’s education, career prospects and matrimonial aspects. Like Indians they, too, arrange memorial services for their departed ones. Food is an essential element of their culture and they cherish their cuisine, which is slowly making its way into the world food market. ‘Kimchi’ just like our desi ‘achaar’ is an essential element of their meals, is prepared in almost similar fashion and quantity, preserved over the year and distributed among family, friends and relatives. Thanks to ‘hallyu’– the Korean wave of entertainment– Oxford English Dictionary went on to add 26 Korean words to its existing lexis. The words include noona, oppa, hanbok, japchae . Also, the world learned a new language of love through ‘saranghae’ which means I love you popularised by the highly acclaimed series ‘Crash Landing on You’ and also through a number of good looking, chocolate faced ‘oppas’ like Hyun Bin, Park Seo-joon, Gong Yoo and Kim Seon-ho to name a few.There are critics out there who term these K-dramas not only ‘cringe-worthy’ but also unrealistic, clichéd and inaccurate. However, I feel that they are entertaining and instantly strike a chord with the viewers with their charming locales, technology and talent. What best describes Korean dramas is the fact that despite the dismal circumstances and everyday struggles of their characters, they continue to dole out messages of hope–hope that helps one survive in the darkest of times.sonrok15@gmail.comThe writer is an associate professor at SD College, Ambala Cantt||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-sorority-bonding-over-kdramas-101642879845421.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sanyukt Samaj Morcha announces 35 more candidates for Punjab polls, Lakha Sidhana fielded from Maur||The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) on Saturday announced 35 more candidates, including gangster-turned-activist Lakhwinder Singh Lakha Sidhana, for the Punjab assembly elections. Sidhana has been fielded from the Maur segment of Bathinda district. According to the list, Bhola Singh Brar will contest from Baghapurana, Harprit Singh Virk from Sultanpur Lodhi), Kulwant Singh Joshan from Kapurthala, Baljinder Singh from Fatehgarh Churian, Yudhveer Singh from Bhoa, Kulwant Singh from Dinanagar, Rajeev Kumar Lovely from Gill, Ram Lal Sandhu from Dasuya, Purschottam Heer from Adampur, Kulbir Singh Matta from Kotkapura, Ravinderpal Kaur from Faridkot, Daljit Singh Bains from Balachaur, Resham Singh from Attari, Surjit Singh Bhucho from Khemkaran, Zulafkar Ali from Malerkotla and Darshan Singh Babbi from Amloh. Besides, the list includes Amandeep Singh Dholewal (Bassi Pathana), Des Raj Jassal (Jalandhar North), Jaswinder Singh Sangha (Jalandhar Cantt), Gurnam Singh Daud (Jandiala Guru), Kamaljit Singh KJ (Hargobindpur), Satvir Singh (Amargarh), Paramdeep Singh Baidwan (Kharar), Amarjit Singh Ghagga (Shutrana), Major Singh Randhawa (Guru Harsahai), Jagtar Singh (Raikot), Shamsher Singh Shera (Anandpur Sahib), Malwinder Singh Guron (Sahnewal), Baldev Singh Aklia (Bhucho) and Sukwant Singh Tillu (Khanna). The party has fielded Varinder Khara from Ludhiana North, Shivam Arora from Ludhaina Central and Anil Kumar from Ludhiana South.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sanyukt-samaj-morcha-announces-35-more-candidates-for-punjab-polls-lakha-sidhana-fielded-from-maur-101642879843941.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||UP reports 16,740 new Covid cases, 16 deaths||Uttar Pradesh reported 16,740 new Covid-19 cases while 15,797 patients recovered on Saturday. On the day, 16 deaths were also reported.“The reason for the deaths may be different but they were Covid-19 positive people, hence, are considered Covid-19 deaths,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, during a press conference.The total number of recovered patients in the state crossed the 18-lakh mark and reached 18,13,785.There are 96,642 active Covid-19 cases under treatment in the state and 94,002 are in home isolation while several others who tested positive are in the process of allotment, said Prasad. “At present, between 98 to 99% of Covid-19 patients are in home isolation,” he said.“The test positivity rate was 6.99%. It has come down from over 7% being reported a few days earlier,” said Prasad.UP tested 2,37,109 samples in the past 24-hours and has tested 9,76,98,882 samples till now.Rampur and Jaunpur reported two Covid-19 deaths, while Lucknow, Gaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur, Shamli, Shahjahanpur, Varanasi, Lalitpur, Ambedkarnagar, Oraiyya, Mau reported a death each.According to the data from the state health department, two districts reported over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases: Lucknow 2,660 and Gautam Buddh Nagar 1,011. Ghaziabad reported 912 new cases, Meerut 771 and Muzaffarnagar 874.In Lucknow, over 1,400 cases were male and over 1,000 females, said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, district health education officer, Lucknow.“The total Covid-19 caseload in Lucknow has reached 2,73,973, and the number of active cases is 17,536. The recovery rate in Lucknow is 92.62%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.According to the data Chinhat reported 377 new Covid-19 cases, Aliganj 341, Alambagh 328, Indira Nagar 202, Sarojininagar 218, NK Road 111 and Tudiyaganj 110. In all, 107 new cases in Lucknow had a travel history, while 882 others were contacts of previous positive cases, and 511 tested positive for Covid-19 after having mild symptoms.Over 15 cr first dose recipients in LucknowThe number of first dose to beneficiaries in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 15-crore mark on Saturday. Till now a total 15,12,59,170 doses have been administered in the state. The number of total doses administered till now is 24,72,80,454.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-reports-16-740-new-covid-cases-16-deaths-101642879604210.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | Obit for grand old lady, Gulabo||At an estimated 35-40 years, Gulabo, one of the oldest sloth bears of India passed gently into the night. She was fortunate to have lived the last 16 years of her long life entirely on her own terms, punctual in her habits of basking in the sun, eating at regular intervals and keeping to herself. Her life was in two phases: the first one of suffering and exploitation, forced to perform tricks and dancing on her weak, aging limbs for the entertainment of mohalla crowds. “Her life as a ‘dancing bear’ was unkind in every way -- she was deprived of a nutritious diet and proper veterinary care, and as time passed, the neglect took a toll on her health. She developed arthritis and was suffering from complete blindness,” revealed a statement issued by the renowned NGO, Wildlife SOS. Gulabo’s life took a miraculous turn when she was rescued in 2006 by the NGO and rehabilitated at its centre located inside the Van Vihar National Park, Bhopal (MP). There, she received specialised treatment from vets. She passed away due to old age earlier this week, quietly in her sleep, surrounded by people who loved and cared for her. Along with Gulabo, the NGO has rescued 628 bears from the dancing trade. Geeta Seshamani, Co-Founder & Secretary of Wildlife SOS, told this writer: “As Gulabo leaves us with a certain heaviness in our hearts, we applaud her strength and perseverance. We find solace in knowing that she was able to live a peaceful life at Wildlife SOS, a place where she was cherished and treated with dignity.”There was something of sterling character that profiled Gulabo, much like a reclusive, dignified and doughty widow of an Army chief from ‘old school’ peerage. “Gulabo would come for food, dot at the appointed hour: 10 am (porridge), 1 pm (fruits) and 4 pm (broken wheat). Nothing could deter her from the food spot until she had her fill. She troubled no one and in turn wanted no one to mess with her lifestyle. She loved mangoes with a passion, especially Dasheri. She could sense mango season had set in with her sharp olfactory capabilities and would eat less porridge at 10 am so that she could relish more mangoes at 1 pm! But she could be very difficult when getting to weigh her or securing a blood sample. We would keep away from her when one of those cantankerous moods gripped her. Gulabo reminded me of a loner, self-possessed granny, firmly set in her ways,” Dr. Rajat Kulkarni, the vet who presided over her welfare in her twilight years, told this writer. A mother’s torment If she could cry like a distressed human mother, this Laughing dove would have to be dispossessed of her common English name. In our garden in Chandigarh’s Sector 19, dwells a pair of Laughing doves. For years, they have bred with mixed success, hatching chicks that sometimes perish on turning juveniles. This year, they met with a series of marauders at the nest stage.In July, when the breeding season was in full swing, the doves chose a niche spot deep in our hedge fronting the road. Their frenetic activity caught the attention of a Shikra and the raptor made a swoop on the dove as she emerged from the nest. A flurry of her feathers burst in the air as talons raked her. She survived the attack but shifted her nest. The spot was a totally exposed one, above the door on a narrow ledge over our domestic helper’s quarters. The House crows soon found out and that was the end of her two frail eggs.This week, the Small Indian mongoose that wanders around our garden, ferreted out the determined mother’s third try at nesting. The nest was well concealed in another part of the thick hedge but the cunning marauder scaled the foliage and came out with a single egg. The egg was relished and the mother dove just sat on the wire, looking down stoically at the pathetic remains of her egg, split open into two dry, empties. I am sure she is going to try again. But I entertain no prayer in favour of who should win the fourth round: mother or a marauder. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-obit-for-grand-old-lady-gulabo-101642879546661.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Candidates’ kids take charge to meet voters, lead digital campaign||From holding conventional public meetings to organising digital campaigning, the children of many of those in the poll fray in Punjab are leading from the front with a view to ensuring the electoral success of their parents. They are helping their parents not only cater to the aspirations of the electors but also make sense of an ever-changing political landscape in the times of digital media. Rubal Manoj Bansal, daughter of Manoj Bala Bansal, the Congress candidate from the Maur constituency, has roped in a New Delhi-based social media agency for electioneering of her mother. Rubal, a PhD scholar who has also studied management, says meeting people in the rural belt is a joyous experience. She has taken charge of her mother’s Facebook page and Twitter handle besides video and photo profiling online.“My first stint in campaigning was in 2017 for my mother, a former district president of the Congress’ Mansa unit. There has been a major shift in electioneering and even voters expect a digital presence of the candidates. I am heading a team of 10 professionals for designing virtual campaigning,” she said.Since state finance minister Manpreet Badal is locked in a close contest from the Bathinda Urban segment, his daughter Rhea Badal has jumped into campaigning. A graduate in culture and communications from New York University, Rhea started meeting people on Friday.On day 1, she was seen distributing pamphlets highlighting Manpreet’s development initiatives in Bathinda. Also, Rhea’s elder brother Arjun Badal and cousin Manpreet Johal will join her next week.Manpreet’s political bête noire and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate Sarup Chand Singla’s son Dinav Singla too has taken charge of digital canvassing.“Ours is a joint family and all we are engaged in campaigning. My wife Gurreet and I are planning the digital electioneering part. We have a team of professionals for campaigning on online platforms with a focus on visuals and live-feed sessions. We are working to launch an interactive programme with voters,” said Dinav.Aekom Kaur Warring, 14, the daughter of Congress candidate from the high-stake Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, has been accompanying her father in the poll campaign. On Thursday, Aekom, who studies in class 9, inaugurated her father’s election office at Gidderbaha from where he is seeking re-election for a third consecutive term.She has been active in her father’s poll campaign since she was 7. “I am seeking votes for the works undertaken by my father. People appreciate the unprecedented developmental activities in Gidderbaha. Our family is confident my father’s victory,” she tells journalists after an election meeting on Friday.Gurbaz Sidhu, an engineering graduate in renewable energy from the University of Illinois, is single-handedly canvassing digitally for his father and Akali candidate from Talwandi Sabo Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu, a three-time MLA.“Digital outreach is very important but we are focusing on physical meetings as well,” says Gurbaz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-candidates-kids-take-charge-to-meet-voters-lead-digital-campaign-101642879543984.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Delhi govt to take decision on Bhullar’s release once legal process gets over: Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann on Saturday said the legal process in the case of 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Davinder Singh Bhullar is going on and the Arvind Kejriwal-led government will take a decision on his release once it gets over.It has been alleged by Sikh bodies, including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), that Kejriwal is not giving clearance to the permanent release of Bhullar, who is undergoing life imprisonment after the Supreme Court commuted his death sentence.Talking to mediapersons outside the Golden Temple in Amritsar where he paid obeisance after being declared the AAP’s CM face, Mann said, “A decision will be taken as and when the process is over.”On a query about the AAP’s stand on giving Punjab river waters to other states, including Delhi, he said, “Punjab’s waters will remain in the state. Actually, Punjab does not have water. It has lost its groundwater level. The state’s Malwa region may turn into a desert in coming times.”The statement comes days after Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu asked Kejriwal to clear his stand on the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue.Earlier, when Mann was about to enter the shrine, some Sikh activists attempted to approach him to question him over the issue pertaining to the release of Bhullar. This sent the police into a tizzy as some activists in nihangs’ attire were able to get close to him, breaching his security cover. Also, members of the Sikh Students Federation (SSF) staged a demonstration at Ram Talai Chowk against Kejriwal and burnt his effigy, accusing him of creating hurdles in the way of Bhullar’s release. Later, Mann paid obeisance at the Durgiana Temple and Ram Tirath temple besides visiting Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar. “Besides seeking blessings of God for contesting the battle for Punjab, I came here to pray for brotherhood, harmony and peace in the state. We want to make Punjab a prosperous state again,” he added.
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai fire: 6 dead, 24 injured in Tardeo’s Kamala building blaze; BMC orders enquiry||Mumbai: A level three (major) blaze in a 20-storey building in Tardeo, Mumbai Central, early Saturday morning, left six persons dead and 24 persons injured, including eight who are in a critical condition, even as 13 fire tenders and seven water tankers of the Mumbai fire brigade took five hours to douse the fire that broke out and was contained to the 19th floor of Sachinam Heights (also called Kamala building), built as part of a redevelopment project eight years ago. Three of the deceased — Hitesh Mistry, his sister, Moushmi and mother Meena Mistry — were residents of flat 1904, which is suspected to be the flat where the fire broke out. It was completely gutted in the blaze. Among the others who lost their life in the tragic incident included 75-year-old Manjuben Kantharia, who was a resident of the 19th floor, and Purushottam Chopdekar, a resident of the 16th floor. One of the deceased is yet to be identified as the body was charred beyond recognition. The civic body has conducted a DNA test to ascertain the identity of the person. The city’s chief fire officer Hemant Parab said that the building’s fire safety system, including its sprinkler system and fire alarms, was not functioning and the fire department is investigating the cause of the fire.Municipal Commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday ordered an enquiry and directed the civic administration to submit its report within 15 days. This is the fourth such incident of such magnitude in a Mumbai high-rise in as many months, prompting the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to direct the chief electrical inspector to carry out an electrical audit of all high-rise buildings with a height of 15 m and above. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths and announced an ex-gratia amount of ₹2 lakh to the families of the deceased and ₹50,000 to those injured. Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, who visited the tragedy site on Saturday afternoon, accompanied by the Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, announced an ex-gratia amount of ₹5 lakh for the families of the deceased.Most of the 400 residents in the building were able to rush out soon after the fire broke out, even as thick smoke filled the passageways. The smoke was able to descend rapidly due to a duct that ran down the building and opened on to each floor. In many floors, the opening was not properly sealed. At least 30 people rescued by the fire department were rushed to different hospitals, including the nearest, Bhatia hospital, as well as other private hospitals including Wockhardt, Sir HN Reliance Foundation hospital and Masina hospital. The seriously injured were also brought to civic-run BYL Nair and Kasturba hospitals. While 17 people were discharged after treatment, at least eight persons are critically injured. The Kantharia family suspected that the unidentified deceased person could be their son, Kirit. Kamlakar Dalvi (64) had woken up to fill water, which is released by the municipal body between 7 and 8 am every day, when he first heard the screams. When he opened the door of his fourth floor flat, he saw the passageway filled with thick smoke emerging from the duct door. Rousing his family he rushed out along with other neighbours towards the ground floor.At 7.26 am, the Mumbai Fire Brigade’s control room received a frantic call: a massive fire had broken out on the 19th floor of a high-rise in Tardeo, located in the cramped lanes of Nana Chowk in Mumbai Central area. By 7.42 am, the blaze was declared a Level 3 fire and 13 fire engines as well as seven water tankers from 12 stations — the nearest a few minutes away — rushed to the spot.The firemen had to enter the building wearing breathing equipment in order to douse the fire. To start with, the fire blazed on the 19th floor of the 20-storey building. The skyline surrounding the building is a warren of wires and accessing the window of the flat where the fire blazed would have been difficult. The building itself was located inside a lane whose width was only enough for one fire engine to enter at a time.“The morning water comes between 7-8 am regularly and I was going to check the water valve when I saw smoke and heard screams from our neighbours as well. We alerted the remaining flats in our floor and managed to get out of the building. As the fire alarms were not working people didn’t get any warning sign and people had to literally rush out from their bed,” said Dalvi, who is also a member of the managing committee of the building.Fire system non-functionalCFO Hemant Parab said the building’s firefighting system was defunct. “The fire-fighting system inside the building was defunct. The sprinklers were not working and the extinguishers were outdated as well,” he said.According to Parab, the fire could have either originated inside a duct that ran through the length of the building or inside flat number 1904 which was gutted. The cause of the fire is under investigation, he said. However, the duct, which was filled with wiring and cables, aided in the spread of the fire. The duct opened onto each floor, but guidelines state that the shaft doors should be sealed or locked. Not all were and the duct became a conduit for the fire and the smoke to spread rapidly from the top floors down to the ones below. “All the electric cable lines that ran through the duct were burnt completely, therefore the corridors and staircases got covered with thick smoke and rescue operation became difficult for us,” Parab said.The MFB said that most of the deceased and injured were residents between the 20th and 16th floors of the building.The fire brigade will send a notice to the building (owners or occupiers/or the residents’ managing committee) under the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act 2006, for flouting fire safety rules. According to the provision of this act, it is the responsibility of owner or occupier to maintain the inbuilt fire fighting system in good working condition at all times and a certificate in Form B issued by Government Approved Licensed Agency needs to be submitted twice in the year, which is the fire safety audit report of the building. The fire brigade said that the building had not submitted its bi-annual fire safety audit reports.Kamala building was a redeveloped apartment complex that was readied in 2013, and many of its residents had lived in slums located on the same plot. They began moving into the building in 2016. The last fire drill conducted in the building was four years ago. The building has 135 flats with eight on each floor; the carpet area of the flats range from 225 to 315 square feet.Nanda Chavan, a resident of the fourth floor said the instructions imparted during the mock fire drill helped her maintain composure during Saturday’s incident.“We followed our training during the mock drills and refrained from using elevators and chose to use staircases instead,” Chavan, whose relatives lived in the 13th floor and are in a critical condition, said.“In the morning, we heard screams of residents living in Kamala building. We saw smoke coming out from the top floors and many of our residents started to throw water from their windows as well,” said Kamal Shah, a resident of the neighbouring Matru Mandir Society.Residents of Matru Mandir arranged for food and water, and the community hall of this building became a triage area for those evacuated, who were given basic medical aid. “I was washing the cars in my building when I saw flames coming out. I rushed out and switched off the valve of the gas line to prevent any further damage,” said Chandan Singh, a society caretaker.BMC to conduct audit Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday ordered an enquiry into the fire incident, and has directed the civic administration to submit the report in 15 days. The enquiry will be headed by the deputy municipal commissioner in-charge of zone 2, and the committee will consist of the assistant commissioner (ward officer) of the D ward, deputy chief engineer of the building proposals department, chief engineer of the mechanical and electrical department, and an officer from the Mumbai fire brigade. The enquiry will look into three aspects: cause of fire in consultation with Chief Fire Officer, reasons for the spread of the fire, illegal addition / alteration in the building beyond approved plans, if any. BMC also informed the office of chief electrical inspector to carry out the electrical audit of all the high rise buildings that have a height 15 m and above. Additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide met CFO to conduct periodical electrical audit of residential buildings to prevent incidents of fire due to short circuits, a BMC statement stated.Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis tweeted his condolence on Saturday morning and said, “ Shocked & anguished to know nearby hospitals refused admissions to injured, which resulted into more deaths.”This prompted a statement from Dr Satyadeo Malik, chief executive officer, Bhatia Hospital (which is closest to Kamala building) later in the evening in which he stated, “All the patients were immediately attended, and all required treatment was provided.”“Twenty patients from the Kamla building fire incident were brought at Bhatia Hospital Tardeo today. The Immediate and timely intervention from the RMOs of Bhatia Hospital helped to save lives. Five of them were treated in casualty and allowed to go home. One was brought dead. Two patients with serious burn injuries were transferred to Kasturba and Masina hospital. Twelve patients were admitted, six of them are critical and kept under constant observation in the ICU. The other 6 patients admitted in the ward are stable. The patients are being treated for excess smoke inhalation and breathing difficulty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-6-dead-24-injured-in-tardeo-s-kamala-building-blaze-bmc-orders-enquiry-101642879187024.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Yogi flags off LED raths, Anurag Thakur launches drive with placards||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) face in the 2022 UP polls, flagged off LED-screen fitted “raths” (motorised campaign vehicles) as Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur stood at the Hazratganj crossing in Lucknow, holding publicity placards with four others.The move signalled the BJP’s intent to come up with innovative campaigning models for the UP polls amid the election commission’s ban on physical rallies and road shows in view of Covid-19. The BJP has, along with virtual rallies, decided to use LED-screen fitted motorised campaign vehicles that would move in all the 403 assembly constituencies. During the launch of the innovative publicity drive, BJP cadres stood in batches of five holding placards. Anurag Thakur targeted Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav who earlier in the day had promised to create 22 lakh jobs in the IT sector. “During SP rule, IT meant income from terror and SP’s brand ambassadors were Mukhtar Ansari, Yunus Ansari, Ateeq Ahmad and Nahid Hasan. Back then, actual IT companies stayed out of UP whereas now, UP is emerging as an IT hub,” Anurag Thakur said. “Today, we have in line with EC directives launched a campaign with five-member teams holding placards on different themes. This would be done throughout the state,” Anurag Thakur said. The campaign raths, launched by Adityanath, left for their destinations while playing up the party’s theme song “UP phir maange bhajapa sarkar (UP again seeks a BJP government).” The raths have a couple of people on board are are carrying party’s campaign material to be distributed to the people. Along with the theme song, the raths would also play up other promotional songs.The LED screens would also play video clips of Prime Minister Narendra Modi washing the feet of sanitation workers in Kumbh, greeting masons who built the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor with a flower shower, Adityanath dining with Dalits in the countryside. This is part of the BJP’s attempt to continue the engagement with OBCs and Dalits, the mainstays of party’s spectacular wins in 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 UP polls. The song “bhool nahi jaana re (don’t forget)” will also be played up to remind the viewer about not getting complacent. 
23-01-2022||Other||Good if lotus blooms again in UP: Kinnar Akhara chief||Acharya Mahamandleshwar Laxmi Narayan Tripathi, head of the monastic order of transgender seers —Kinnar Akhada —has said that it will be good if the lotus blooms again in the UP assembly elections and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) returns to power in Uttar Pradesh.Talking to mediapersons during her visit to Sangam city for the annual Magh Mela-2022 where she was to attend an event of Kinnar Akhada, on Saturday, Tripathi welcomed the construction of grand Lord Ram temple in Ayodhya and the impressive sprucing up of the revered Kashi Vishwanath Dham. She said that people should opt for a government which focuses on development and strengthens infrastructure. She, however, questioned, “When a grand Lord Rama temple is being constructed in Ayodhya, why not a grand temple of Lord Krishna be constructed in Mathura?” She also encouraged people of the state to exercise their franchise in the coming state assembly polls under all circumstances, claiming that it will strengthen democracy.She also appealed to members of the transgender community to cast their vote in the state assembly elections. “When we vote for a healthy and vibrant democracy, it will surely bring overall development of the state benefiting all, including members of the third gender. One must realise the power of each and every vote and ensure that people come forward to strengthen democracy,” she added.State president of Kinnar Akhara, Swami Kaushalyanand Giri, aka Tina Mai, said that people should understand the power of their vote and every eligible voter must cast his or her vote in the state assembly polls. “We have been taking up voter awareness campaigns across the state,” she added.Mahamandleshwar Swami Kalyaninand Giri, aka Choti Guru, also appealed to citizens of the Sangam city to realise the power of their vote and choose a healthy government which would work for their development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/good-if-lotus-blooms-again-in-up-kinnar-akhara-chief-101642879064166.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||School principal’s body found in Haryana’s Hisar||The body of a private school principal was found near Gangwa in Hisar on Saturday. The victim was identified as Vomesh Mehtani, 55, of Patel Nagar in Hisar. Police spokesperson Vikas Kumar said there were no injury marks on principal’s body, and it was not immediately clear whether he died of suicide or for some other reason. “ His friends say he had been depressed after the school was shutdown after the onset of the third wave of the virus,” he said. Cop among three injured in LPG cylinder blast
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai fire: Regular electrical and fire safety audits must to prevent accidents: experts||Mumbai: Last October, a fire was reported from the 19th floor of the 60-storey One Avighna Park in Currey Road, claiming one life. A month later, two senior citizens were killed in a blaze at Kandivali’s Hansa Heritage. The Kamala Building fire in Tardeo on Saturday, where six people died, was an addition to the list of major fires in the city in the last three months. Data from the Mumbai fire brigade shows 70% of the fire incidents are caused by electrical short circuit. An officer said, “There are three aspects to fire safety. Why fires do occur in residential high-rises; how a blaze that has already broken out in a building can be controlled; and how we can prevent loss of lives.” According to the fire officer, regular audits and repairs to electrical wires in buildings are a must. “A functional firefighting system is the first buffer of safety for residents, and it prevents damage to property as well. In the absence of it, the fire brigade has to set up its own equipment, which consumes the precious first few minutes. This in turn leads to raging fires, and loss of life.” The officer said citizens must be aware of fire safety rules and owners or residents of a building should hold regular fire drills. “Fire exits should not be blocked at any cost.” Owners or occupiers of all buildings are required to conduct bi-annual fire safety audits to ensure the firefighting equipment are in working condition. The audit reports should be sent to the fire brigade. The Mumbai fire brigade has also been tasked with fire compliance responsibilities. After the fire at Kamala Mills, a separate unit was set up with 34 fire compliance officers to carry out surprise inspections at residential and commercial buildings. From November 18, 2021, to January 8, 2022, as many as 223 high-rises were inspected and notices were issued under the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act 2006. Recently, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation held a meeting of the chief fire officer, officials from its mechanical and electrical department, development plan department, and a representative of chief electrical inspector, Maharashtra. It was decided to conduct periodic electrical audit of all buildings to reduce the fire incidents caused by defective electric circuit. Vilas Nagalkar, a city-based architect, said, “It is crucial to have regular electrical and fire safety audits. There are also third-party agencies who can be hired for facility management in buildings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-regular-electrical-and-fire-safety-audits-must-to-prevent-accidents-experts-101642878884110.html
23-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s Sunday book market, mired in #WeekendCurfew||It’s the third Sunday in a row that the popular Sunday Book Bazaar, still remembered as the one from Daryaganj, will be missed by bibliophiles. An old haven for not just students but readers from all age groups, this weekly market has been the perfect place to scout or hoard anything from textbooks and novels to magazines and diaries or planners; that too at throwaway prices. But with the weekend curfew restrictions in the Capital, the 276 booksellers at this bazaar say they have no hopes of reviving their business. Irshad, a book seller who travels from Lakdi Market, near Welcome Metro Station, to set-up his stall at this bazaar shares, “Hum har hafte ₹2,000-2,500 kama lete the is bazaar se. Isse ghar ka kharcha nikal jata tha. Ab sab thapp hai. I hope ki jaldi normal ho jaye sab warna pata nahi ghar kaise chalayenge.” The weekly bazaar had got shifted from old Delhi’s pavements to Mahila Haat on Asaf Ali Road in 2019, and was running somehow until the pandemic hit. “For many months after the pandemic started in March-April 2020, the bazaar was only operational from 4pm to 8pm. During this time, we lost out on the morning influx of readers, jo subah subah aate the. Then, it had only been a month of normally functioning from 8am to 5pm, just when the weekend curfew made a blow to our businesses,” says Kamar Saeed, head of the Darya Ganj Patri Sunday Book Bazar Welfare Association. Pointing at the losses looming large for most of the sellers, Saeed informs that they are considering to appeal for financial help. “The book bazaar is the only dedicated book market in the area, and we’re proud to have contributed to the taleem (education) of students in Delhi. We only get a day in the week to earn and that with the ongoing weekend curfew, that avenue is also closed. It is necessary to have restrictions in place to curb the spread of Covid, but it’s unfortunate that this is affecting so many small vendors monetarily,” opines Saeed.Other book vendors chime in that with each passing weekend, it’s going to be a big challenge for them to sustain beyond a few weeks. “In case the Covid situation does not normalise soon, we are planning to write letters to the authorities to explain our plight. Madad ki guhaar lagayenge. It will be a big help if any section of the society could come forward to help us,” says Saeed. And Asharafi Lal Verma, the association’s vice president, adds: “More than 200 vendors live hand to mouth, week to week. They collect books for six days and then wait to sell them on Sunday. It’s not possible to shift the bazaar to any other day of the week or to sell the books online. We are planning to appeal to the authorities and general public to support us financially, via our website and via an NGO Seva Bharati, which recently distributed dry ration to us.” Those residents who are a regular at this market, too feel sad about the plight of vendors. “It’s here that I got all the exam related books, I needed, that too in fairly good condition and at just 30% of the printed price! I would not have been able to crack my exams if I had not got the books here at such a cheap deal,” says Prasu Jain, who recently cleared his exam and is now a statistics professional. And Meenu Rawat, a development practitioner with a non-profit organisation, who usually buys self- help and academic books from this market, adds: “This market excited and forced me to visit because of my love for books. It’s a heaven on the Earth for book lovers, and in my opinion it shouldn’t be closed else the condition of sellers will get worst. I know there’s a risk involved due to the pandemic, but if the buyers and the vendors both take safety precautions and if there is limited entry allowed, then we can keep enjoying the books here without the risk to public health.” Jain adds, “It should be made mandatory to produce vaccination certificate, for both the buyers as well as the sellers. But this part of Delhi’s culture, history and tradition of literature should not be allowed to wither away!” Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-sunday-book-market-mired-in-weekendcurfew-101642878837147.html
23-01-2022||Other||Newborn forces change of heart towards mother in Pratapgarh jail||A newborn always brings happiness to a household. Often, in case there is a rift in the family, the bundle of joy helps mend that rift. Much the same is the case of Kesh Kumari, lodged in the Pratapgarh district jail for murdering her three-year-old son, last year.She delivered a baby girl a fortnight ago and that child is forcing a change of heart among family members, who had totally shunned Kesh Kumari, as well as fellow prisoners.Her husband, mother-in-law and other family members and fellow jail inmates, all have had a change of heart owing to the birth of the little one and have begun helping Kesh Kumari raise the newborn. Prison authorities, too, have begun providing much-needed nutritious food to Kesh Kumari as per the jail manual.The details are as follows. Rakesh Verma, a resident of Baijnath village of Antu police station of the neighbouring district of Pratapgarh is a labourer. On March 29, 2021, his wife, Kesh Kumari, insisted on going to her maternal home on Holi but Rakesh refused. It is alleged that an upset and angry Kesh Kumari killed her only son Yug (3) with a knife and even tried to slash her own throat. However, her screams of pain resulted in her mother-in-law, Prabhavati, waking up and crying out for help. Soon Rakesh and his father, Ramsukh, rushed in to find Yug’s body lying in a pool of blood, jail officials said.It is also alleged that the family members buried the body to escape police investigation. On the evening of March 30, when someone informed the police, the body was taken out and a post-mortem examination was carried out. On the complaint of Ramsukh, the police registered a case of murder against Kesh Kumari and also arrested Rakesh and Prabhavati for conspiracy.The latter two got bail but Kesh Kumari, pregnant at the time of the incident, was sent to jail. Soon, family members distanced themselves from her, prison officials said. After the birth of the girl, Kesh Kumari’s husband and mother-in-law went to meet her for the first time after a long gap and had even brought Sonthoura, Achwani and Pissua (ethnic preparations given to a woman who has delivered a baby) among other things for her and the baby. Because of this, her condition too has started to improve, officials said. Even the jail administration made arrangements of a special nutritional diet as per the jail manual. Officials said that as the jail staff and female prisoners were also concerned about the newborn, the little girl has started getting extra care from everyone. A woman head warder, considered very strict by the prisoners, has started massaging the newborn after her duty hours. Women prisoners are helping in preparing ‘Uptaan’ (the paste of turmeric and gram flour) and have brought oil for the massage of the child. Jail superintendent, RP Chaudhary, said, “After the birth of the girl, Kesh Kumari is being treated and provided all help according to the jail manual and the guidelines of the Supreme Court for pregnant women in jails.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/newborn-forces-change-of-heart-towards-mother-in-pratapgarh-jail-101642878705226.html
23-01-2022||Other||Bulandshahr 2018 riot accused to fight UP polls||Noida: Yogesh Raj, who was briefly arrested for his alleged role in the 2018 mob violence in Bulandshahr that led to the killing of two people, including an on-duty police inspector, has filed his nomination to contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. The nomination has been filed under the name Yogesh Kumar, as an independent candidate from the Syana assembly constituency, where voting is scheduled for February 10, according to his election affidavit. In the affidavit, the Class 12-passout has mentioned his age as 26 and also declared that there are two criminal cases against him in which verdict is awaited, including the 2018 mob violence case. Police inspector Subodh Kumar Singh and local resident Sumit had died of bullet injuries after violence broke out in the Syana area of western UP’s Bulandshahr district in December 2018. The violence was triggered after cattle carcasses were found strewn outside Chingrawathi village. Yogesh was among the 80 people, of which 27 were named and rest ‘unknown’, who were booked by the police for their alleged role in the violence. He was the Bulandshahr unit convener of the Bajrang Dal at the time of the incident but is no longer its member, an office-bearer of the right-wing outfit had told PTI in May 2021 after he had won the local panchayat polls. Syana assembly constituency goes to polls on February 10 during the first phase of elections in the state. The election results will be out on March 10. BJP’s Devendra Singh Lodhi, the sitting MLA, will be once again contesting the polls from Syana. There are 13 candidates in the fray, with seven independent nominees, including Yogesh. Kumari Poonam (Congress), Satvir Singh (Aam Aadmi Party), Sunil Kumar (Bahujan Samaj Party), Dilnawaz Khan (Rashtriya Lok Dal) and Gyanesh Chauhan (Hindustan Utthan Party) are also filing their nominations. The scrutiny of nominations will take place on January 24, while the last date for withdrawal of candidature is January 27, according to the Election Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bulandshahr-2018-riot-accused-to-fight-up-polls-101642878703844.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||33% of Haryana govt students, 14% staffers yet to receive Covid vaccine||Thirty-three percent of eligible students enrolled in Haryana’s government-run schools are yet to receive the first dose of the Covid vaccine, while 86% of the school staff has been vaccinated. As per data provided by the school education department, till January 21, 4.4 lakh of 6.54 lakh students in the 15-18 age bracket had received the first dose of the vaccine. In Mahendergarh, 91% eligible students have received the first dose, the highest in the state, followed by Gurugram (87%), Rewari (84%), Karnal and Faridabad (76%), Palwal (75%), Jind, Yamunanagar, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri (74%), Jhajjar (72%), Bhiwani (71%), Ambala (69%), Panchkula (68%), Sirsa (64%), Sonepat (62%), Fatehabad (60%), Panipat (59%), Hisar (58%), Rohtak (44%) and Nuh (21%).As many as 76,363 government school employees have received both doses of the vaccine in the state, while 13,734 have received only the first shot. Haryana has 14,160 government schools with 1,04, 169 employees.Jhajjar district with 526 schools and 3,857 teachers reported 95% vaccination (single and double dose) among the school staff, followed by Karnal (94 %), Ambala (93%), Yamunanagar (92 %) , Faridabad, Rewari , Fatehabad and Gurugram with (91 %).Nuh district also performed poorly in vaccinating school staff, with only 61% employees vaccinated. The district has 834 schools and 4,675 employees, of which 1,013 have taken the first dose and 1,853 have been fully vaccinated. Twenty-one percent of the government staff are yet to receive the first dose in Rohtak, 19% in Hisar, 18% in Bhiwani, 17% in Sonepat and 16% in Jind.Nuh district immunisation officer Dr Basant Dubey said there is vaccine hesitancy among a sizeable section of Mewat residents, and that closure of schools had slowed down the process. “Our Asha workers, auxiliary nursing midwife (ANMs), and trained staff have been going to villages to persuade people,” he said, adding that parents’ illiteracy was another reason for the low rate of vaccination.On Rohtak’s poor performance in vaccinating children and teachers, civil surgeon Dr JS Punia said, “ We have decided to appoint teachers as nodal officers in their respective schools so that 100% vaccination can be achieved. The deputy commissioner has also taken a serious note of this issue and has sought a list of students and teachers who have missed the vaccination,” Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/33-of-haryana-govt-students-14-staffers-yet-to-receive-covid-vaccine-101642878583935.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||6 Haryana farmers submit forge documents, cheat bank of ₹73 lakh||Six Kaithal-based farmers have been booked for fraudulently taking loans worth ₹73 lakh under the Kisan Credit Card Scheme in 2017 and 2018. The accused, Kuldeep Singh and Surender Singh of Karora village, Pankaj Kumar, Manoj Kumar, Joginder Singh, Sehdev Singh and four others of Harsola village, had allegedly provided forged and fabricated revenue records of their agricultural land, and had also forged revenue officials’ signatures. The scam was unearthed when officials of the Kaithal branch of the Central Bank of India verified their documents after they failed to repay their loan. A case was registered on the complaint of Central Bank of India, Kaithal branch manager, Naresh Kumar Barwal under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 ( Forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 ( use fraudulent document or record) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.As per bank officials, the interest on the total pending amount due has climbed to ₹91 lakh. Kaithal city police station in-charge Devender Kumar said the cases have been handed over to the economic cell.
23-01-2022||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: New guidelines for 3rd dose to frontline workers on poll duty||LUCKNOW: The state government has revised the guidelines for the third dose of Covid vaccine to frontline workers engaged in poll duty. “The frontline workers engaged in poll duty can now get their third or precautionary dose of Covid-19 vaccine after a gap of 90 days,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Saturday. Prasad said, “As per the new guidelines the earlier 9-month gap remains revised and now frontline workers engaged in election duty can get their precautionary dose after a gap of three months instead of nine months.” Also, he said, people who get infected with Covid should give a gap of three month for their third dose, from the day of recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-new-guidelines-for-3rd-dose-to-frontline-workers-on-poll-duty-101642878284030.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||AIMIM announces launch of new front for UP assembly polls||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday announced the launch of a new front, Bhagidari Parivartan Morcha, consisting of parties with a support base among Muslims, other backward classes (OBCs) and Dalits for the 2022 UP assembly polls.The Morcha will field candidates on the 403 assembly seats.The front includes the Jan Adhikari Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, the Bharat Mukti Morcha led by Vaman Meshram, Janata Kranti Party led by Anil Singh Chauhan and Bhartiya Vanchit Samaj Party led by Ram Prasad Kashyap.The candidates of the parties in the Morcha have already filed nomination papers for the 58 assembly seats for which polling will be held in the first phase in western UP on February 10. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi announced if the Bhagidari Parivartan Morcha wins the assembly elections, it will have two chief ministers – a Dalit and an OBC leader, besides three deputy CMs, one of whom will be Muslim.Babu Singh Kushwaha, a former minister in the Bahujan Samaj Party government (2007-12), enjoys influence over the OBCs, particularly the Maurya, Kushwaha, Shakya and Saini communities in the Bundelkhand region and central UP.An influential Dalit leader, Vaman Meshram is the president of the All India Backward (SC, ST, OBC) and Minorities Community Employees Federation (BAMCEF). While Vaman Meshram has been made president of the new front, Babu Singh Kushwaha is its convenor. Talks are on with the Bhim Army, Peace Party and Rashtriya Ulema Council over joining the alliance. Last year, an alliance of the nine smaller political parties, the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, was launched. It had included AIMIM, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, Jan Adhikar Party, Rashtriya Uday Party of Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party of Premchanda Prajapati and the Janata Kranti Party. Later, SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar joined the Samajwadi Party alliance. Babu Singh Kushwaha said the followers of Bhimrao Ambedkar, as well as the socialist ideology, have come on a single platform to fight the assembly elections.“The Morcha will contest the assembly elections on the issue of representation in proportion to population, caste census, free power supply to weaker sections, restoration of old pension scheme for government employees, free education, loan waiver for marginal farmers and employment to the youths,” he said. 
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Experts sound caution after Ludhiana records 43 Covid deaths in 9 days||As many as 43 Covid deaths have been reported in Ludhiana in the last nine days, busting the myth that the third wave of the pandemic would be mild. While on Saturday, the district recorded seven Covid deaths, it saw 23 deaths over the last four days alone. Covid task force member, Dr Bishav Mohan said that there are three reasons for the spike in mortality rate. “Firstly, along with the new Omicron variant, the old and lethal Delta variant is also active in the state. Secondly, a large portion of our population is not fully vaccinated yet. Thirdly, majority of those infected were suffering from comorbidities, which is also adding to the mortality rate.”Dr Clarence J Samuel, head of the community medicine department of Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), said, “The deaths are rising and the number of infections is also peaking. During the previous two waves too, we saw a rise in deaths two weeks after the infection rates started rising. More importantly, in all Covid waves witnessed so far, the infections started rising after a gap of six months.”He added, “We have to keep in mind that the Delta variant has not vanished yet, so we cannot afford to let our guard down.”In the last week of December, CMCH had shared a projection which stated that by January 6, over 1,000 cases will be reported from across the state and the infection will reach its peak by the end of January.“While majority of the residents were vaccinated around six months ago, there are many who did not take the second dose. However, the number of hospitalisations and deaths are relatively less as compared to the second wave,” added Dr Samuel.939 new cases detected In a small respite, the daily count of Covid cases went below the 1,000-mark on Saturday, as 939 infections were detected on the day. Seven fatalities were also recorded on the day, which included an 83-year-old man from Rahon Road, an 82-year-old man from Model House, a 65-year-old man from Daba Road, a 63-year-old woman from Civil Lines, a 63- year-old man from Jagraon, a 57-year-old man from Dhanas village and a 40-year-old man from GTB Nagar. The district currently has 7,676 active cases, of which 7,440 patients are in home isolation while 215 are admitted at private hospitals and 21 at government hospitals. The cumulative count has increased to 1,03, 578 of which 93,732 persons have recovered.The district administration is organising a mega vaccination drive on Sunday at 258 venues across the district. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said that 28,58,021 persons (108.59 % of the targeted population) have received their first dose, while only 17,00,964 (64.63 %) have come forward for their second dose.He urged all persons whose second dose is pending, to come forward for vaccination.The DC reiterated that vaccination helps in boosting immunity and helps the body fight Covid if one gets infected. The deputy commissioner said all healthcare and frontline workers and those above the age of 60 years and having other ailments are eligible for a booster shot, if they have completed nine months from the date of administering the second dose. He also urged all government staff deputed on election duty to get vaccinated at the earliest. He said staff on election duty can get a booster dose after completion of 90 days from their second dose of vaccination. The DC further said that special vaccination camps for all election staff including teachers, government staff, bank employees, insurance sector etc who have been deputed for election duty, will be organised at all training centres on January 23, 2022. He said that both Covishield and Covaxin would be available at these camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/experts-sound-caution-after-ludhiana-records-43-covid-deaths-in-9-days-101642878105721.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||Keshav Prasad Maurya tweets reply to “UP mein ka ba”||PRAYAGRAJ: UP deputy chief minister and BJP candidate from Sirathu assembly seat of Kaushambi district Keshav Prasad Maurya on Saturday indirectly hit back at Bhojpuri singer Neha Singh Rathore through a tweet, albeit without directly referring to her or her song. In his tweet, Keshav Maurya said: UP mein e ba…Kisan ko chheh hajar ba, rashan do-do bar ba, mahilaon ko adhikar ba, sab gundan ko bukhar ba, dangai ki sampatti per bulldozer se prahar ba.” (This is there in UP: There is ₹6,000 for the farmers, two-time ration, right for the women, criminals in fever and bulldozer on properties of rioters). Through the tweet, Maurya seems to have pointed out that farmers in UP get income support of ₹6000 per annum under the PM Kisan Yojana, double ration is distributed to Antyodaya ration cardholders and eligible families, the rights of the women are protected, criminals are on back foot and rioters are being taken to task by the government targeting their assets. Maurya’s tweet is an apparent response to Bhojpuri singer Neha Singh Rathore’s latest number “UP Mein Ka Ba? (What is there in UP?)” which she had come out with after BJP MP Ravi Kishan’s song “UP Mein Sab Ba” (UP has everything) that chief minister Yogi Adityanath had released in Gorakhpur on January 15. Neha Singh Rathore, who is said to have brought out campaign songs during the Bihar assembly elections as well, through her song appeared to question chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his achievements, handling of Hathras incident and Covid-19. The song had also raised the issue of mowing down of farmers by a vehicle in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, 2021. Ashish Mishra, the son of union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, is the main accused in the case. Without naming the chief minister or anyone else, Neha Rathore is heard singing, “Baba ke darbar ba, khatm rozgar ba. Hathras ke nirnaya jo hat, ladki ke parivar ba, arrey ka ba, UP mein ka ba, corona se lakhan mar gai le, lashan se Ganga bhar gai le (No jobs have been left in Baba’s darbar. What decision was taken with regard to Hathras incident? Lakhs died of Covid-19 and their bodies floated in the Ganga. What is there in UP?)” ‘Mantri ke bitwa badi rangatdar ba, mantri ke bitwa badi rangatdar ba, kisanan ke chhati pe raundat motor car ba. E chowkidar bolo ke jimmedar ba, ka ba, UP mein ka ba,” (The minister’s son had lot of influence and he mowed farmers down under his car. Chowkidar! Who is responsible. What is there in UP?). “Ram raj ke jhanki ba, Kashi Mathura baaki ba (Kashi and Mathura are yet to be achieved in their trailer of Ram Rajya),” she also sang. “Mandir masjid, mandir masjid main thanal gai rar ba, arey ka ba, UP mein ka ba. (There has been a dispute of temple and mosque. What is there in UP?),”the song went. Neha Rathore had shared the song on her Twitter handle and YouTube channel on January 16, a day after Ravi Kishan had released his song.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/keshav-prasad-maurya-tweets-reply-to-up-mein-ka-ba-101642878103903.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Clubhouse: One of three arrested accused a serial stalker of women, say police||Mumbai One of the three accused arrested by the Mumbai cyber police in the Clubhouse app case is a serial stalker of women on social media. Many victims are now coming forward after the arrest of Jaishnav Kakkar, 21, a senior officer said. “Since we have already added online stalking charges, we would use these women witnesses to make a watertight case against the accused.”Kakkar, Akash Suyal, 19, and Yash Parashar, 22, were arrested in Haryana on Friday for making objectionable comments against women, especially Muslim women, on Clubhouse, an audio chat application. They were brought to Mumbai and produced before a holiday court at Bandra on Saturday. Appearing for Suyal, advocate Shyam Rishi, opposed the police remand plea and said invoking sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act in the case was wrong. “They (the accused) were merely members of a chatroom, which is like a WhatsApp group.” He said the investigators had already seized their mobile phones and hence, there was no need for their police custody. “Our judicial system should treat them as victims and send them to correction homes.” The court, however, remanded the three in police custody till January 24. The cyber police are checking if there was anyone else instigating the young minds or if there was anyone supporting them financially or by any other means. DCP Rashmi Karandikar said, “As there were nearly 300 members in the chatrooms, we are trying to find out who else expressed their thoughts in vulgar and objectionable manners to defame women.” Rahul Kapoor, who was arrested by the Delhi police Special Cell on Saturday, was also under the Mumbai police’s scanner. He used fake name Bismillah-Ul Bilal Khan on Clubhouse.“Since he did not use vulgar language, he was not the immediate focus. We rather went after the moderator of both the chatrooms and those who were behind promoting their content on Instagram and other platforms,” a Mumbai police officer said. Two chatrooms were created on Clubhouse where participants were making derogatory statements about women and talking about auctioning their body parts.Suyal, who has passed class 12, was allegedly the moderator and main speaker of the two chatrooms. Kakkar is a BCom student, while Parashar is a student of law. Kakkar was using ‘@jaishnav’, while Parashar was using ‘Sherisingh ka papa’, ‘biker gang 5’ and pardhan@haryana_aala’ for promoting the chatroom talks. A crime branch official said two videos of the Clubhouse chatrooms were published by a Twitter user, ‘Jaimine’, and an Instagram account, ‘lotus watch’, on January 16 and 19, respectively. The moderator was using an ID, Kira XD, which was also used by Suyal. An FIR was filed by a woman with the cyber police on January 19. The complainant got to know about Clubhouse after she was alerted by a friend of her. “The complainant said her and her friend’s images were used in other Clubhouse chatrooms on October 27 and November 27, last year. Members used filthy, vulgar, and derogatory language and also auctioned private parts of the women,” a cyber police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/clubhouse-one-of-three-arrested-accused-a-serial-stalker-of-women-say-police-101642878047490.html
23-01-2022||Other||Charging electric vehicles: Pioneering tech from IIT-BHU set to slash EV prices||Researchers from the department of electrical engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology-Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) have developed a new technology for an on-board charger for vehicles, which costs about half the current on-board charger technology. This will reduce the cost of two and four-wheeler electric vehicles.Giving information about the new technology, Dr Rajeev Kumar Singh, associate professor and chief project investigator of the department of electrical engineering, said electric vehicles (EVs) are the best alternative to conventional IC engines but the lack of high-power, off-board charging infrastructure forces automakers to incorporate onboard chargers into the vehicle itself. The vehicle owner can charge the vehicles through the outlet. However, this facility makes EVs very expensive.He said that with the new technology developed at the institute, the cost of on-board charger can be reduced by about 50%. This will significantly reduce the cost of the vehicle. The technology will be completely indigenous and will have a significant impact on driving electric vehicles on Indian roads in a big way. Lab scale development has already been done at IIT (BHU) and upgrade and commercialisation is in progress.He further added that the country’s leading electric vehicle manufacturer has also shown interest in this new technology and is ready to develop a full-fledged commercial product that can be applied to existing electric vehicles. Experts from IIT Guwahati and IIT Bhubaneswar have also collaborated for this technology development.The on-board charger, its functioningA specific connector will be provided with the vehicle for its charging. Using the connector, the charger will be connected to an ordinary household three-pin power source. Prof Singh said that the electric vehicle may be charged easily at home.EVs to be accessible to general publicDr Singh said that this research is financially supported by the ministry of electronics and information technology, government of India. This innovative technology of the institute will also contribute to the e-mobility mission of the government. With the help of this new technology, the access of the general public to EVs will be possible. He explained that the EV contributes to sustainable development as it improves community health by eliminating tailpipe emissions, reducing reliance on fossil fuels, and with the integration of renewable energy into existing electricity networks, lower electricity rates can be reduced.Centre on EV tech to be set up at instituteDirector, IIT-BHU, Prof Pramod Kumar Jain, said that the developed technology will help in production of cheap electric vehicles which will be beneficial for the common man. The techno-commercial, social, economic and environmental impact of the technology will also be positive. He said that a few projects on developing autonomous vehicle, connected vehicles are already underway at IIT (BHU) Varanasi. One such project is Averera project that has already won the first prize globally in the Shell Eco Marathon last year.He further said that the IIT (BHU), Varanasi, is planning to set up an interdisciplinary Centre on EV technology to carry out design, fabrication, and testing of battery management systems, commercialise research, provide solutions to R&D problems and develop human resources in this area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charging-electric-vehicles-pioneering-tech-from-iit-bhu-set-to-slash-ev-prices-101642878043950.html
23-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid surge continues as Mumbai cases drop||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported 40,000-plus cases for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday clocking 46,393 fresh infections taking the state’s count to 7,466,420. Mumbai, on the other hand, recorded a drop in cases for the fourth consecutive day, with 3568 infections over the weekend, the first sub-5000 day since December 31 (5428 cases). The city’s overall case tally stood at 1,031,365 with 16522 deaths, giving a case fatality rate of 1.6. The city’s test positivity rate (TPR) on Saturday was 7.15%, with 49,895 tests conducted in the past 24 hours. On Friday, Maharashtra had recorded 48,270 cases, the highest single-day spike in the ongoing third wave, fuelled by the highly-transmissible Omicron variant. The highest one-day tally in the second wave was 68,631 cases on April 18. It also saw 48 casualties and the total number of fatalities stood at 142,071. With only 30,795 recoveries on Saturday, active cases in the state rose to 279,930, from Friday’s active cases tally of 264,388 cases. On Thursday, active cases in the state stood 258,569. In the last 48 hours, active cases in the state have risen 8.26%. In the same time, active cases in Mumbai have fallen almost 20% from 21,838 to 17,497. Genome sequencing results announced on Saturday put the daily Omicron cases at 416. Of these, 321 were reported from Mumbai, 62 from Nagpur, 13 from Pune, 12 from Wardha, six from Amravati, and one each Nashik and Bhandara. The state’s tally of Omicron cases reached 2759. So far, 1,225 patients have been discharged following negative RT-PCR tests, a state health department release said. State health officials said the state’s surge is likely to continue and will reach a peak by the first week of February. The daily spikes from January 19 – 43,697, 46,197, 48,270 and 46,393 – bear this out. While Mumbai cases are dropping, other major districts have been reporting high surges. On Saturday, Pune recorded 11,471 cases, the highest in the state, while Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded 4,825 cases. Nagpur reported 3,960 cases, Nashik 2,371 cases, Satara 1,466 cases, Aurangabad 1,334 cases, Ahmednagar 1,287 cases and Navi Mumbai 1,047 cases. “The Omicron wave continues in other districts, but this was expected,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. “Our approach is to focus on four parameters — deaths, hospitalisation, oxygen and ventilators. We have to focus on symptomatic management of patients and identify people at risk, who are vulnerable to get severe disease and death. According to our projection, the peak is likely to hit the state by February first week. However, overall hospitalisation is significantly low.” In the last 24 hours, the state tested 223,370 samples with a positivity rate of 20.76%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.2%, the health department statement said. The state also vaccinated 358,618 doses on Saturday and has administered a total 146,036,688 doses till date, according to the data available on CoWin portal. (With inputs from Pratip Acharya) 
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||After residents’ protest, trains start stopping at Mustafabad railway station||A week after residents of Mustafabad in Yamunanagar blocked the Ambala-Saharanpur railway line, demanding that trains halt at the station, their demand was finally accepted on Friday. Railways had discontinued its operations when the pandemic had hit the nation in March 2020, and while the train service was resumed a year later, trains did not stop at Mustafabad, invoking residents’ ire. In an order, railways approved stoppage of Express Special (Saharanpur-Una-Saharanpur) at Mustafabad railway station for a period of six months on an ‘experimental basis’. The train will halt at the Una station at 7.24am and will start on the return journey to Saharanpur at 6.17pm. “On Friday evening, locals gathered at the station to welcome the train and distributed sweets,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) district president Sanju Gundian said. The farmer union had actively taken up the issue and organised a rally on January 14. The protestors blocked the track at Uncha Chandana village for hours, only to lift the blockade after an assurance from the officials of the Ambala railway division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-residents-protest-trains-start-stopping-at-mustafabad-railway-station-101642877864413.html
23-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Class 10 student assaulted over online post, 20 booked||Police on Friday booked 20 persons for allegedly assaulting a class 10 student after he shared a video clip showing two of the suspects beaten up by a group of men on social media. Police said the victim shared the clip on different social media platforms and made fun of the suspects following which they threatened him to remove the post but he refused. According to police, Mohit Khan (18), a resident of Sakatpur in Badshahpur area, had uploaded an assault video on social media on Tuesday. After repeated threats by the suspects, he did not take it down following which they intercepted his way on Thursday and brutally assaulted him, police said. Khan said two of the suspects often uploaded their pictures exercising in a gym and shared videos showing their muscles. “Someone sent me a video where two of them were seen being beaten up and they were pleading the group of men to leave them. They often teased and threatened the village boys so I shared the clip on my social media accounts to make fun of them,” he said. Khan further said that suspects within an hour called him and asked him to take it down but he refused. “Within an hour, one of the suspects called me and asked me my location which I shared. Within 15 minutes, the suspects, along with 20-30 young men, reached the location and intercepted my way. I was along with my two friends at that time,” he said. Mohit studies in Nuh and lives with his grandparents and uncle. He had visited his parents on Tuesday for four days, said police. The suspects assaulted him for over half an hour, police said, adding that one of them also recorded a video and threatened him to upload on social media to take revenge and asked him to plead and seek forgiveness. Mustafa Khan (40), Mohit’s father who runs a welding shop in Badshahpur, said that he received a call from one of his friends on Thursday afternoon that his son has suffered injuries and was bleeding profusely. “I went to the spot and took Mohit to a hospital. My son has suffered multiple injuries and fractures. The suspects assaulted him with iron rods, sticks, and bricks, and were carrying weapons,” he said. Dinkar, station house officer of Badshahpur police station, said that the victim is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 56. “We have registered a case against the suspects. They have been identified and we are conducting raids to arrest them,” he said, adding that they have recovered the video of the incident. A case under sections 148 (riots), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and sections of Arms Act was registered at Badshahpur police station on Friday. 
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: No alliance on cards with LIP, says BJP||Amid rumours that the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) may enter into an alliance with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during the upcoming Punjab assembly elections, leaders of the saffron party denied any such plans.BJP’s Punjab general secretary Jeevan Gupta on Saturday said, “These are all rumours. There is no alliance taking place between BJP and LIP.”Whispers had set off in political circles after the BJP announced its candidates for Gill and Ludhiana central constituencies, in the first list of 34 candidates released on Friday. It was being stated that the LIP had demanded these two seats, among other segments in the state, for seat-sharing. LIP president MLA Simarjit Bains had even announced Gagandeep Singh (Sunny Kainth) as LIP candidate from Gill constituency during a rally. Bains himself has been representing Atam Nagar constituency, while his elder brother Balwinder Bains has been representing Ludhiana South for the last 10 years. The LIP chief remained unavailable for comments despite several attempts to contact him. LIP contested the last assembly elections in alliance with Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), but off broke ties with it in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-no-alliance-on-cards-with-lip-says-bjp-101642877687074.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||IMD forecast: Cold wave, rain and lightning across UP for next 48 hours||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of cold wave, rain with lightning and hailstorm across Uttar Pradesh till Monday morning (January 24). Most districts, including Lucknow, experienced intermittent rain showers as the state recorded another day of severe cold on Saturday. The average rainfall recorded in Uttar Pradesh was around 6 mm. The terai districts, including Lakhimpur Kheri, Pilibhit, Bahraich recorded more rains as compared to districts. Lucknow experienced rain showers intermittently and the skies remained cloudy for most part of the day. The maximum day temperature dropped to 14.8 degrees Celsius, eight degrees below normal while the minimum temperature was recorded at 9.3 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal on Saturday. The state capital is expected to record maximum temperature of 14 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 8 degrees Celsius with a possibility of rains showers and clouded sky on Sunday. According to IMD forecast, heavy rainfall is expected over Saharanpur, Bijnor, Rampur, Bareilly, Pilibhit and adjoining areas on Sunday. Cold conditions will prevail in Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Deoria, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Siddharth Nagar, Kushinagar, Basti, Sitapur, Kanpur, Aligarh, Kasganj, Unnao, Agra, Jalaun and Jhansi till Sunday. “Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning is likely over Pratapgarh, Chandauli, Varanasi, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Etah, Firozabad, Deoria, Gorakhpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Basti, Kushinagar, Maharjganj, Gonda, Unnao and Lucknow on Sunday,” the IMD predicted. “We are closely monitoring the weather conditions across Uttar Pradesh. District administration have been intimated regarding the weather changes and have been advised to take appropriate action,” said JP Gupta, director of state MeT department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/imd-forecast-cold-wave-rain-and-lightning-across-up-for-next-48-hours-101642877685682.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Soak in the ‘India India Feeling’||What does India feel like? For England-based debut author, Vikas Dhawan, the answer lies in the rich memories of his childhood – the horse-driven tongas, impromptu parties during power cuts, gully cricket matches, and kites lazily soaring in the skies. In his book, India India Feeling, the author, who grew up in Punjab and Chandigarh, tries to encapsulate his love for India, taking the readers on a light-hearted exploration of the country he grew up in. Dedicated to his Panchkula-based parents and his son Ruhaan, Dhawan seemlessly links the olden days to the future. The memoir, which is infused with wit and humour, has an old-world charm to it. “I hope the readers are able to relive their own memories, and find comfort in them, especially in these troubling times.” A former civil servant in the United Kingdom, Vikas Dhawan, who has lived abroad for 20 years, says over the years he missed his family, friends,and the comfort of living in India. “I have written about how entire families used to travel on a scooter, a single household in a locality owning a telephone or a TV set, my schooldays, Doordarshan, advertisements popular in my youth.” One memory which stands out the most for Dhawan is receiving a postcard from author and columnist Khushwant Singh, in response to a collection of his articles, which he had sent Singh. The memoir, which was written over three years, talks liberally of Chandigarh, with references to Sector 17, Tagore Theatre, traffic police in Chandigarh, newspapers in the Tricity, Timber Trail at Parwanoo, Kasauli, Shimla, Jaspal Bhatti, astrologer P Khurrana and his son Ayushmann Khurrana, among others things quintessentially Chandigarh .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soak-in-the-india-india-feeling-101642877385749.html
23-01-2022||Other||Covid positivity rate among children low during third wave: Govt data||Bengaluru: Even though children were feared to be the most affected during the third wave of Covid-19, the positivity rate among children (0-18) has been less than that of the second wave, showed data from the Karnataka Covid war room. According to the data, the ratio of positivity among children was 7.0% on January 22 . On December 21 and November 21 last year, the positivity rates were 0.22% and 0.23%, respectively. In comparison, positivity rate on May 21 (during the peak of the second wave) was 24.61%. The state’s positivity rate among adults on January 22 was 15.13%. On December 21 and November 21, the figures were 0.51% and 0.39%, respectively. Karnataka health department said that since it was opined that the third wave could predominantly affect children, the department has been mandated to conduct at least 2% of the tests on children. “Out of total tests conducted between December 1 and January 20, 29% of the tests are conducted on children. We are also conducting random RAT tests in schools, colleges, restaurants once every 15 days,” read a statement. On Saturday, Karnataka recorded 60 million Covid-19 tests, said state health and family welfare minister Dr K Sudhakar, adding that now the state has about 268 testing facilities, including 99 government and 169 private labs. Karnataka has tested 60,114,815 samples so far, including 11,412,162 Rapid Antigen Test and 48,702,653 RT-PCR tests. While 14,196,065 samples were tested in 2020, as many as 42,391,357 samples were tested in 2021 and so far 3,527,393 tests have been conducted in 2022, he said. “Testing plays a vital role in this battle against the pandemic. Karnataka has always been aggressive in testing and tracking and it has been one of our cornerstones in this right against Covid. Karnataka has now achieved another milestone by crossing 6 crore tests,” Sudhakar said. “We have set up 3,678 (3,102 government and 666 private) swab collection centres -- one each for every 20,000 population. We have labs in government hospitals, medical colleges and also private hospitals. Initially, we had only 10-12 government labs with Covid testing facility, which has now increased to 57. With 108 NA Extractors and 139 RT-PCR machines, we have the capacity to test 120,800 samples per day in government facilities,” read a statement from the minister’s office. Meanwhile, minister for primary and secondary education BC Nagesh clarified that, unlike last year, there will not be any promotions and grace marks on the account of Covid-19 this year. The minister said the situation was different during the previous academic year, as students and schools were facing problems with technology. “Most of the schools in the state have completed 70% of the curriculum. In order to assist the students, 30% curriculum had been pruned down this year. Experts expect the coronavirus pandemic to substantially reduce by the last week of February or the first week of March. SSLC exams will be held from March last week to April 11. Depending on the situation prevailing then, a suitable decision will be taken,” said the minister. 
23-01-2022||Other||Karnataka CM to call all-party meeting over water disputes||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said he would call an all-party meeting in the first week of February to discuss interstate water disputes. Talking about the Hogenakkal phase 2 project proposed by the Tamil Nadu government, Bommai said that the government will fight the project politically and legally. “Whether it be Hogenakkal or the interlinking of rivers, as a government we had faced such questions in the past. We have opposed the interlinking of rivers in the Supreme Court. We will fight it politically and legally,” Bommai told reporters. Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin had said on Thursday that a detailed project report would be prepared for the second phase of the Hogenakkal integrated drinking water project at an estimated cost of ₹4,600 crore. The project is aimed at supplying water to Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts in Tamil Nadu. Alleging that the details of the project have not been furnished before the tribunal and the Supreme Court, Karnataka water resources minister Govind Karjol said Tamil Nadu cannot take up the project unilaterally. “I will convene an all-party meeting in the first week of February in which which law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy, water resources minister Govind Karjol and the floor leaders of various parties in the legislative assembly and legislative council will participate,” Bommai told reporters after a virtual meeting with legal experts fighting the water dispute-related cases in various courts. The chief minister in the meeting was briefed about the legal battle fought so far, the status of the court cases, the legal position to be taken in the interest of the state and to materialise various water projects. Speaking to media persons, Bommai said senior counsels in Delhi representing Karnrataka in interstate water disputes, the AG (advocate general) and irrigation technical experts took part in the conference. “The Bachawat and Brijesh Mishra Tribunals have delivered their award on Krishna river waters; the notification is awaited. Though the Mahadayi Tribunal has delivered its award, the issue has been taken to the Supreme Court. All the three riparian states have filed their claims on water allocation before the court,” he said. “In the past too, we have risen above political differences when it came to issues pertaining to the state’s land and water. Since the cases are at the crucial stages, I have convened the meeting in the first week of February where we will discuss with the leaders of the opposition parties and legal experts how to proceed further with these disputes and what should be our stand,” Bommai said. The chief minister said he along with Govind Karjol had a detailed discussion with the legal experts, who represented the state in various courts, through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-cm-to-call-all-party-meeting-over-water-disputes-101642877203827.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||NR to start computerised parcel management system from 9 stations||In a move to upgrade its parcel system, Northern Railways (NR) is set to introduce a much efficient computerised parcel management system (CPMS) at its nine prime stations including Lucknow and Ayodhya. NR officials said the facility would be of great help to both consignee and consignor with the help of which they can track the consignment. “The work on the CPMS has been already started. The team of experts has started working on the website where all the information regarding loading and unloading of the consignment would be available. Initially, the facility would be available at nine stations including Lucknow and Ayodhya,” said Rekha Sharma, senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Lucknow Division, NR. Other than Lucknow and Ayodhya, the CPMS services facility would start from Shahganj, Varanasi, Raebareli, Pratapgarh, Prayag Ghat, Jaunpur and Sultanpur. “Once the system is in place, the entire details of the parcel would be made available on the website. Also, the information would be shared with the consignor through SMS and other mode of communications in order to keep them updated and informed,” She added. Officials said the system is also expected to minimise the parcel related queries and complaints related to over carrying of parcel that is quite common. Presently, there are around 110 parcel compartments with the division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nr-to-start-computerised-parcel-management-system-from-9-stations-101642877027190.html
23-01-2022||Other||Kerala HC directs Dileep, 4 aides to appear for probe; restrains arrest till Jan 27||The Kerala High Court on Saturday restrained the crime branch from arresting Malayalam actor Dileep and four others till January 27 in the case related to an alleged conspiracy to kill a police officer. The cop in question, Baiju Paulose, was investigating the role of Dileep and his aides in a female actor’s abduction and sexual assault, which took place in 2017. The court also directed all the accused to appear before the crime branch for investigation. In the interim order, the single bench of justice P Gopinath allowed the crime branch to question the accused persons till January 25 (Tuesday) and warned them that their bail will be cancelled if they tried to influence the witnesses in the case. Though the prosecution insisted for custodial interrogation, the court said the final decision will be taken on January 27. The actor, who is seventh accused in the case, and others had moved the court after a fresh case was registered against them following the disclosure of film director Balachandra Kumar. Last month, Kumar had claimed that Dileep was in possession of the woman actor’s assault video and had tried to influence case witnesses. He also claimed to have met the main accused, Pulsar Suni, at Dileep’s residence in 2016. After Kumar’s revelations the Kerala government had approached the Supreme Court to extend the trial for six more months. During the Saturday proceedings, the court observed that the charges against accused were difficult to stand the test of law if they were merely based on the director’s statement . The court also directed the prosecution to file a detailed report on questioning, before Thursday. The defence lawyer argued that the conspiracy charge was foisted on the accused, without any proof, as the investigation team’s arguments in the main case were so weak. The prosecution insisted that the accused may try to influence the witnesses. At this point, the court observed that “conspiracy and inducements were two different things and a mere statement that someone would be killed cannot be taken as an inducement. “Two weeks back, the crime branch had registered a fresh case against Dileep, his brother Anoop, a relative Suraj, and two others Appu and Babu for allegedly conspiring to eliminate Paulose. The conversation allegedly took place in November 2017 at the actor’s house in Aluva in Ernakulam district, crime branch said in its first information report(FIR). They were charged under Sections 116 (abetment of offence), 118 (concealing design to commit an offence), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A leading woman actor was waylaid, kidnapped and sexually assaulted by a criminal gang in Kochi while she was returning home after a shooting assignment . Six months after the incident, Dileep was arrested in the case. Prosecution alleged that the attack was planned at the behest of Dileep to settle an old score with the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-directs-dileep-4-aides-to-appear-for-probe-restrains-arrest-till-jan-27-101642876903746.html
23-01-2022||Pune||Congress opposes NCP MP Amol Kolhe’s role as Nathuram Godse in film||PUNE: Even as the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) leadership stand with its MP and actor Amol Kolhe, alliance partner Congress has threatened to oppose Kolhe’s role of Nathuram Godse in a movie on social platforms and hold protest marches. Kolhe plays the role of Godse in “Who Killed Gandhi” film with its OTT release scheduled on January 30. The Congress has issued a press statement seeking a ban of the film and criticised Kolhe for accepting the role. Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “Though Kolhe has clarified that he played the role in 2017 before joining the NCP, it is unacceptable. He is a good artist and touched everyone’s heart by portraying the character of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Sambhaji Maharaj. Now, the image is shattered by taking the role of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin.” Shinde said, “As per Gandhiji’s principle, instead of making a difference between being professional and politician, he should publicly accept the blunder and make efforts to ban the movie.” Meanwhile, Congress leaders on condition of anonymity said that it is a good opportunity for the party to distance itself from the NCP and prepare for the upcoming municipal elections on its own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/congress-opposes-ncp-mp-amol-kolhe-s-role-as-nathuram-godse-in-film-101642876423986.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 105mm, Ludhiana records highest-ever rain for month of January||With continuous rains lashing the city, Ludhiana is seeing its wettest January so far, breaking all past records, officials of the meteorological department of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) said on Saturday. Ludhiana has recorded 105mm rainfall this month, of which 100mm was recorded in the first eight days of January. Besides continuous rain, Ludhiana is also seeing strong winds, blowing at a speed of 26km per hour. According to the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology of PAU, Ludhiana recorded around 5mm rainfall on Saturday. Head of the meteorology department, Prabhjyot Kaur said that with 105mm, Ludhiana has recorded the highest ever rainfall seen for this month. As per the records maintained by the department, the last highest rainfall recorded for the month of January was in 1992 at 83.6mm, followed by 75.6mm in 1983, 75mm in 1981 and 67.8mm in 2004.Kaur said the weather conditions are expected to remain the same till January 23 and thereafter, clear skies are expected. On Saturday, the maximum temperature recorded in the city was as 14.4 °C while the minimum temperature was 9.6 °C. The cool breeze accompanied by rainfall has brought down the maximum temperature by two degrees from the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-105mm-ludhiana-records-highest-ever-rain-for-month-of-january-101642876309877.html
23-01-2022||Pune||SEC may conduct civic elections as per schedule, says Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday hinted that the proposed municipal elections for Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Pimpri-Chinchwad and other cities will be held as per schedule. “With five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Goa, holding assembly polls as the country sees a rise in Covid cases, the state election commission (SEC) that conducts municipal elections may also hold polls at the appropriate time. As SEC is an autonomous body, we will not interfere in its decision.” Following rise in Covid cases across Maharashtra, opposition parties have alleged that the state government may delay civic polls as maximum seats are with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). They allege that delay in conducting polls will allow the state government to appoint administrator for municipal corporations. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) resubmitted the ward structure delimitation plan to SEC this week after the latter raised doubts to the earlier plan forwarded by PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sec-may-conduct-civic-elections-as-per-schedule-says-pawar-101642876254533.html
23-01-2022||Noida||As ECI extends restrictions on campaign, aspirants in Noida focus on social media||The election campaign in Noida has shifted to Zoom calls and door-to-door meetings as the Election Commission of India extended on Saturday extended its ban on political rallies and roadshows in the five election-bound states, including Uttar Pradesh, till January 31 as the country continues to grapple with another wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. India recorded over 337,000 fresh cases of Covid on Friday. The Commission has, however, decided to relax some of the guidelines for candidates who will be contesting in the first phase on February 10 and second phase to be held on February 14. Now, candidates in Uttar Pradesh, which will vote in the first phase, will be allowed physical meetings in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 persons or 50% of the capacity of the ground, but only from January 28 to February 8. UP will vote in seven phases from February 10 to March 7. Gautam Budh Nagar goes to polls in the first phase on February 10. Party supporters HT spoke to said unlike the rest of the state where social media campaigning may not practical in the large rural belts of the state, in urban Noida it could be used to far reaching effect. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate and sitting MLA Pankaj Singh, who was infected with Covid and isolating at home, is reaching out to the electorate mostly through Zoom calls, he said. Saturday was the last day of his home isolation. “We have to follow the norms and ensure that we don’t put others at risk. So, Zoom calls have been very helpful, and we have had a good turnout of people on the calls. It is easier to interact in person, but we take all questions and I even take questions from people during the online interactions,” Singh said. Congress’ Pankhuri Pathak, however, has preferred door-to-door campaigns. “We are sending out posters and messages to our voters on social media. However, I am also going door-to-door and meeting people individually. It is important to have a personal connect with our voters, which the current leaders have failed to establish,” Pathak said. She added that the party is also running a vigorous campaign on its Facebook, Twitter and Instagram handles. Samajwadi Party’s (SP) Sunil Choudhary has also been banking on both online and offline campaigns. According to him, meeting voters personally is important since it reassures the voters that their leader is approachable. “We are not holding rallies but I do meet small groups of people offline, apart from running a social media campaign. The ruling leaders did not understand people’s issues and did not meet them over the past five years. People cannot trust leaders who are not approachable. This is why we are establishing connection with voters both online and offline,” said Chaudhary. Online campaigning has encouraged independent candidates too, as they feel they have an equal opportunity to campaign and put forward their views. According to Yeshu Singh, a student in Gautam Budh Nagar, who has filed his nomination as an independent, it is better that most of the campaigning has shifted online. “We don’t have resources like political parties but and social media campaigning is proving to be a leveller. It gives people like us an equal chance to relate with the voters without having to hold big rallies or road shows,” said Singh. He said that he is contesting as a “youth candidate” from Noida with a focus on sustainable development and environmental issues. Political experts also feel that social media campaigning will help improve political participation, especially from the youth. “The fact that nominations, and especially rallies, are being conducted online also attracts more people since this provides those individuals who do not have a very strong financial background an opportunity to fight an election, and allows them to pose a challenge to the centuries-old money-power nexus,” said Dr Shalini Saxena, associate professor (political science), Amity Institute of Social Sciences, Amity University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-eci-extends-restrictions-on-campaign-aspirants-in-noida-focus-on-social-media-101642876253215.html
23-01-2022||Other||Woman kills father-in-law in Faridabad, flees with her friend||A 34-year-old woman, along with her male friend, allegedly shot dead her father-in-law in Faridabad’s Ballabgarh while he was sleeping on Thursday night over a property dispute, police said, adding that she fled with her friend after the murder leaving her two minor children behind. The deceased was identified as Bharat Singh Bhati, a resident of New Friends Colony in Ballabgarh. It seems that the woman, identified as Geeta, mixed some sedatives in Bhati’s dinner before the murder, police said, adding that the other suspect is yet to be identified.Police said Geeta’s husband works at a private company and had left for work around 8pm on that night. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspect had at several occasions threatened Bhati to transfer property to her and her children. “But Bhati was not willing to divide the property, following which she hatched a plan along with her friend,” he said. Jashoda Bhati, wife of the deceased who filed a complaint, said she was fast asleep when her husband was murdered. “It was around 6.30am when my neighbours started knocking at the main gate that I woke up. It has never happened that I slept past 5am. As I got up, I saw blood dripping from my husband’s neck and raised an alarm,” she said. Jashoda said that she had lost her younger son last year and on Thursday it was his death anniversary and relatives had come to attend prayers. “We had dinner cooked by Geeta, my elder daughter-in-law, around 9.30pm and within minutes we slept. I don’t know what she mixed in our food that I gained consciousness only after the morning commotion,” she said. The DCP said the prime suspect’s 15-year-old daughter and 12-year-old son saw her taking out a countrymade pistol from her almirah before the murder. “The daughter told her grandmother that her mother had hatched the plan with an uncle who often used to visit them when her father was away at work. She said that the uncle came at night and her mother packed a bag and fled with him after the murder. The minor also said that her mother had threatened to kill them if they revealed it to anyone,” he said. A family member and two neighbours allegedly saw an associate of Geeta entering the house on the night of the incident, said police, adding that there were five members present in the house at the time of murder. Police said the suspect had withdrawn ₹50,000 from her bank account to buy the weapon and for the last two months was planning to kill Bhati. “Both the children had heard several conversations between their mother and the co-suspect where they discussed plans to murder Bhati and to flee to other state to start a fresh life. We have taken the call detail records of the suspect,” said Kadiyan. Police said the suspect might have mixed sleeping pills in the victim’s food before the murder. “We have also sent viscera samples to the forensic science laboratory,” said Kadiyan. A case was registered against Geeta under sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention), and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison etc with intent to commit an offence) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of The Arms Act at Ballabgarh City police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-kills-father-in-law-in-faridabad-flees-with-her-friend-101642876251851.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali couple held for abetting suicide attempt||A Mohali couple was arrested on Saturdayon abetment charges, a day after a 33-year-old man was left critically injured as he shot himself in the temple with his licensed pistol in the woman’s car at the Phase-5 market in the city. The couple, who resides in Phase 4, was booked on the complaint of the man’s father, even as the woman has claimed that he had been harassing her and sat in her car at gunpoint. According to the police, the woman gives private coaching in Mohali while her husband is a businessman. The man, who is battling for his life at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, works as a private security officer and resides in Janta Nagar, Kharar. “Acting on his father’s complaint, the couple has been arrested. They were produced in court on Saturday, and sent to two-day police custody,” said Shivdeep Brar, station house officer, police station, Phase 1. A case has been registered under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code.She called my son to meet: Complainant The father told police that his son and the woman had become friends on a social media platform and had been regularly talking on the phone. He said when he and his son visited the couple’s house in Phase 4 over their harassment complaint, they were even assaulted. “The couple had also damaged my son’s mobile phone. The matter was reported to the police, but later we entered a compromise, and it was decided that my son and the woman would not meet each other,” he said. The father told police that his son’s colleague had claimed that he had left the office to meet the woman on Friday. “Before leaving, he had informed his colleague that the woman had called him to meet in Phase 5, Mohali,” he said, while alleging that the woman had forced his son to shoot himself. He made me sit in car at gunpoint: Woman The woman has told police that she knew the man for the past five months and lately he had been harassing her. She and her husband had even filed a police complaint regarding this, but a compromise was reached, she claimed.According to her statement, when she reached the rear parking lot of the Phase 5 market to visit a salon on Friday, the man was already present there. He allegedly threatened her at gunpoint to get back inside her car. After sitting next to her in the car, he suddenly shot himself in the temple after threatening to shoot her, she told police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-couple-held-for-abetting-suicide-attempt-101642876007623.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana dairy farmer loses 3 buffaloes to burglars||The Sadar police of Raikot on January 21 lodged an FIR against unidentified accused, who stole three buffaloes of a dairy farmer in Boparai Khurd village, Raikot. Dairy farmer Ranjit Singh said he has four buffaloes and sells milk for earning. On intervening nights of January 18 and January 19, a thud woke him up, after which he checked cattle shed and found three buffaloes missing. The accused had barged in the house after breaking open the main door.Assistant sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 457 (house-breaking by night) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the unidentified.The police suspect involvement of cattle smugglers in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dairy-farmer-loses-3-buffaloes-to-burglars-101642874692319.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Shops being constructed on govt land, engineers’ body alleges encroachment||Lambasting the municipal corporation (MC) for its alleged failure in stopping encroachments on government lands, Council of Engineers submitted a complaint with the principal secretary of local bodies department regarding the alleged encroachments over a covered drain in Chaura Bazar. The engineers’ body said eight shops are being constructed at the site by the encroachers with alleged connivance of the MC building branch officials as no action is being taken even when the shops are being constructed in broad daylight. A copy of the complaint has also been forwarded to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, zonal commissioner Jasdev Sekhon, among other MC officials.President of engineer’s body Kapil Arora said, “It is also in contempt of Punjab and Haryana High Court orders issued in 2008, wherein the court ordered the MC to remove encroachments from government land. We will file a contempt petition in the court, if officials fail to act on complaints submitted.” MC zonal commissioner Sekhon said the matter is related to building a branch and he will take up the matter with senior town planner (STP) Surinder Bindra on January 24. It has to be checked whether this is encroachment or the MC has allotted the land for construction of shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-shops-being-constructed-on-govt-land-engineers-body-alleges-encroachment-101642874690971.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana central jail inmate held with 2 mobile phones, intoxicant pills||The staff at central jail nabbed an inmate and recovered two mobile phones and intoxicant pills from his possession. Complainant Suraj Mal, assistant superintendent at central jail, said the jail staff during a surprise check on January 18 night, found two mobile phones and 45 intoxicant tablets from accused Amandeep Singh of Aali Nangal village, Gurdaspur.Assistant sub-inspector Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 21, 61, 85 of NDPS Act; Sections 42, 45 and 52-A (1) of Prison Act has been lodged against the accused. The police will bring him on production warrant for questioning the source of contraband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-central-jail-inmate-held-with-2-mobile-phones-intoxicant-pills-101642874689371.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Carjacking in Ludhianaduring night curfew hours||Three bike-borne men allegedly executed a carjacking near municipal corporation’s Zone D office in Sarabha Nagar, during night curfew hours on Friday. The victim Naman Garg, 20, of Bharat Nagar, said that he along with his friend Kush Verma, 20, of Cemetery Road, were waiting for a food delivery boy at the said location when the crime took place.He said that they had gone out for dinner, and on finding all eateries closed, they had decided to order using a food delivery app. As they were waiting, three bike-borne men turned up there are brandished sharp-edged weapons at them and forced them to get off the vehicle. “The victims did not resist and decided to hand over the keys of the car to the carjackers, who drove away the vehicle,” said sub-inspector Neeraj Chaudhary, station house officer (SHO), at Division number 5 police station.The victims said the miscreants did not demand cash or mobile phones from them. After the miscreants left, they informed their parents and then made a complaint to the police. On being asked how the youngsters were roaming around in the city when a night curfew was imposed in the city, the SHO said the victims claimed that they assumed that the restaurants are allowed to operate till 11:30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/carjacking-in-ludhiana-muggers-leave-police-red-faced-again-101642874688034.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | ‘Extortion visits’ and ’snatching’ on rise, industrialists meet ADCP||Raising concern over security of industrialist and labourers in the industrial areas, a delegation of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (Fico) met additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Balwinder Singh Randhawa on Saturday.The major issues highlighted were visits by different groups for extortion at the industrial units, rising incidents of snatching from workers, especially on pay days, among others. The members also demanded setting up of police halt points at different points in industrial areas.President of Fico Gurmeet Singh Kular said in the past few months, incidents wherein anti-social groups visit the industrial units for extortion have increased. This poses threat to the industrialists as well as the workers.“Police should immediately take action against the same and also the vigil should be increased at the industrial areas especially on pay days of the every month i.e. 7th to 10th and 22nd to 25th of every month. We have also demanded that CCTV cameras installed in the Focal point area should be repaired and connected with the police control room,” said Kular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-extortion-visits-and-snatching-on-rise-industrialists-meet-adcp-101642874686775.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Two days on, cook arrested for stealing cash from employer’s house||Two days after the Nepalese cook decamped with cash from his employer’s house in Urban Estate Phase -1 of Dugri, the police have arrested the accused and recovered ₹78,000 cash from his possession.Complainant Kawaljit Singh said the accused, Amar, had been stealing cash from their almirah for the past two-and-a-half-years since he was employed. Till date he had stolen ₹15 lakh from the house.Kawaljit said they used to save ‘Dasvandh’ (one tenth part of the income that they donate according to the sikh values) for the years. The accused used to steal some money every month. They calculated the loss to around ₹15 lakh on January 20, when he fled from the house after breaking open the locks of the almirah. He added that at the time of the incident, his elderly mother was present at home, while he was at his factory and his wife had gone to the market. His mother had seen him opening the almirah.Inspector Rajan Pal, station house officer at Dugri police station, said the police arrested the accused when he was trying to escape from the city. The police are trying to recover more cash from his possession.The SHO also added that the family did not get police verification of the help before employing him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-days-on-cook-arrested-for-stealing-cash-from-employer-s-house-101642874685396.html
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: AAP’s Delhi minister assures quality health services in Ludhiana if voted to power||At a time when candidates are involved in rigorous campaigning ahead of elections, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Delhi minister of health and industries Satyendra Jain campaigned for AAP candidates in the industrial hub of the state on Saturday.During his visit to Ludhiana north, where AAP has announced Madan Lal Bagga as its candidate, Jain conducted a meeting with industrialists and assured them of trade friendly environment and quality health services in the city, if AAP is voted to power in the state.Jain said more civil hospitals with free of cost services will be established in the city and AAP will improve the deteriorating condition of the existing lone civil hospital in the city. He further said they will also establish mohalla clinics at ward and block level in the state. Also, AAP will work to end corruption in the society. Jain also campaigned and conducted meetings with residents in Ludhiana south and other constituencies .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-aap-delhi-minister-assures-quality-health-services-in-ludhiana-if-voted-to-power-101642874684038.html
23-01-2022||Delhi||Unease of doing business: Traders say curbs throwing future in doubt||Businesses in the Capital are bleeding money as they rack up fixed costs in the face of curbs and curfews, while people are thronging malls and markets in neighbouring NCR cities over the weekend, traders’ representatives said on Saturday, issuing fresh appeals to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to roll back curbs keeping in mind their livelihood, the drop in cases, high vaccination rates, and low hospitalisation numbers, in the third wave of Covid infections.A Delhi government-led exercise to gather the vaccination details of workers employed in at least a dozen of the city’s large markets, such as those at Sarojini Nagar and Lajpat Nagar, separately found that 100% of the staff have taken both their shots of coronavirus vaccines.“When there was a need for such restrictions, all traders and market associations welcomed the weekend lockdowns and odd-even restrictions for shops. Even this time, when the third wave began, we did not say no and implemented all DDMA orders. But I must say that we are stretching the restrictions too far now because the positivity rate is declining, and most people are vaccinated,” said Ashwani Marwah, general secretary, Traders Association Lajpat Nagar (TALN).“Even European countries, which were badly hit by the third wave, lifted restrictions in a timely manner,” he added.There is a weekend curfew in the city since January 4 and restaurants and bars have been closed for dine-in service since January 11. None of these restrictions are in place in neighbouring Noida and Gurugram.On Friday, DDMA allowed private offices to reopen with 50% on-site staff from next week but maintained the weekend and night curfews, notwithstanding a request from the city’s elected government that sought these curbs to be rolled back.On Saturday, however, senior government officials involved in Covid-19 management indicated that DDMA was likely to begin relaxations next week. “This was anyway going to be the last week where status quo was to be maintained on the restrictions, unless cases start spiralling again. Next week, there is going to be a DDMA meeting to review the city’s Covid-19 situation and relaxing some of the curbs will be the main talking point vis-a-vis the downward trend in daily cases, positivity rate and hospitalisations,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity.The city recorded 11,486 new cases on Saturday, up 7% from Friday, driven by a significant 18% jump in testing. The test positivity rate fell from 18.04% to 16.36%. At its peak on January 13, the city recorded over 30% test positivity. But even then, hospitalisation numbers remained low, indicating no significant burden on health infrastructure by the milder Omicron variant which has driven the current wave.Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said the association has sent a letter to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal demanding relaxation in the Covid-19 restrictions in Delhi. Baijal is the chairperson of the DDMA and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.“CAIT has stated that the odd-even system has caused more trouble to the consumers. It leads to more crowding because 50% of the shops remain shut, while the number of customers remain the same. The odd-even rule and the weekly lockdown should be removed, and emphasis should be put on strict implementation of Covid protocols. CAIT has suggested that the working hours of markets should be changed from 10am to 5pm, while hotels and restaurants should be allowed to open with 50% capacity as given to private offices. Considering the requirements and obligations of weddings happening in Delhi, at least 100 persons should be allowed to attend instead of 20,” he said.This week, CAIT conducted an online survey in which it claimed that 96% of the traders said markets should be open on weekdays, while 97% insisted on strict adherence to Covid-19 safety rules. The survey also showed that businesses of 86% of the traders dropped to almost 40% of their regular earnings in the last 20 days due to Covid-19.Data from the state health department showed that, as on Saturday, at least 12 of the biggest or most popular markets and malls in Delhi are “fully vaccinated” -- an initiative which other states and UTs are now replicating. These fully vaccinated markets include those at Lajpat Nagar, Janpath, Sarojini Nagar, Madhu Vihar and Laxmi Nagar, and the malls DLF Avenue, Select CityWalk, V3S. These have been given official “fully vaccinated” certification by the Delhi government.A V3S mall executive said some people are going to Noida or Gurugram to purchase items or to eat out because the existing curbs give them a “lockdown-like” impression in the Capital. “Adjoining states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh do not have weekend curfew. They also do not have the odd-even rule. We are losing business to adjoining states because of all this,” said this person, asking not to be named.“There are so many shops on rent that pay over ₹1 lakh per month. How will traders pay rent and continue the work? The government should relax the norms,” said Anil Taneja, president of Nehru Place Market Welfare Association, said, their business has been badly hit.Paramjit Singh, vice president, Sadar Bazar Traders Association, said traders are not able to recover losses they faced in last two years. “The curbs must be relaxed because we are getting no concession in house tax, electricity/water bills, trade license fees for our shops. The government can also calculate on pro rata basis because ideally each shop is operating only for about 10 days a month under the existing rules,” he said.A demand for rolling back curbs also came from the BJP, the ruling party at the Centre, which appoints the LG. “Apart from traders, thousands of people who work in trading establishments are facing salary cuts while daily wage labourers are totally losing their income. I request you (Anil Baijal) to immediately convene a meeting of DDMA to review the restrictions and orderly withdrawal of the odd-even system for markets along with the lifting of the weekend curfew,” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said in his letter to Baijal.
23-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s Central Vista Avenue gets a new look in time for Republic Day||The redevelopment work of Central Vista Avenue in New Delhi has been completed for the Republic Day celebrations, said officials at the ministry of housing and urban affairs. From paved walkways along the Rajpath, where the parade will be held, to pathways in the lawns and redeveloped canals, the work has been completed in less than a year, they added. For the Republic Day parade, the Central Public Works Department has made special arrangements, such as construction of temporary bridges over the canals, in addition to the 16 permanent bridges constructed as part of the redevelopment project. New benches have been installed for the public. Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri took to Twitter to thank the workers for their effort “Central Vista Avenue is ready as a result of the dedication & toil of more than 4000 workers from different parts of the country. A big shoutout & thank you to all of them,” Puri tweeted.Spread over 85.3 hectares, the area has been redeveloped to provide better civic amenities and make it accessible to the public. Parts of the area, especially beyond the canals, were inaccessible and underutilised, official said, requesting anonymity.The green cover in the area has increased, said a ministry official, as there are 4,087 trees in the redeveloped avenue as against 3,890 trees earlier.As part of the redevelopment project, the lawns have been redeveloped and 16,500 metres of paths have been developed to provide smooth pedestrian movement. The paths have been developed along the canals, which have been redeveloped on both sides. A green buffer has been provided along the canals. New benches have been installed at different locations. To maintain the lawns, officials said, micro-irrigation and storm water services have been introduced.While the construction in the area where the parade will be held is over, CPWD officials said that work on the pedestrian underpasses and amenity blocks will be completed later. A ministry official said that work on the construction of step gardens near the India Gate will be completed after January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-central-vista-avenue-gets-a-new-look-in-time-for-republic-day-101642873783724.html
23-01-2022||Lucknow||Ensure max participation in PM’s Jan 30 “Mann Ki Baat”: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda has directed party workers to make arrangements till booth level to ensure that people may listen to PM Narendra Modi’s monthly radio programme “Mann Ki Baat” on January 30.Nadda arrived in Bijnor on Saturday to review organisational preparations with constituencies’ incharges and party candidates of 15 assembly constituencies of Muzaffarnagar and Bijnor districts. He asked a gathering of party leaders to make preparations till booth level to ensure maximum participation of people in PM’s “Mann Ki Baat” programme.The BJP chief also suggested them how to mobilise party’s “Panna Pramukhs”. He insisted on mobilising the organisation at every level to ensure victory of party candidates in the election. It was a closed-door meeting and media was kept away from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-max-participation-in-pm-s-jan-30-mann-ki-baat-nadda-101642873544033.html
23-01-2022||Delhi||Less than 1/5th in hospitals needed oxygen during 5th Covid wave in Delhi: Study||The need to give medical oxygen support to people admitted with Covid-19 during the current wave of the outbreak is less than a third of what was recorded in the last two waves, and almost all of the people who were in intensive care were first brought in with other critical illnesses, according to a new analysis by a private hospital network.The analysis, carried out by Max Healthcare, is consistent with death audits carried out by the government earlier in the month: most of the people with Covid-19 in critical condition or those who died were suffering from more serious illnesses at the time of their admission. The government audit also said that a majority of the dead were unvaccinated.“At least 80% of the patients that died were people either above the age of 70 or they had multiple comorbidities, cases such as cancer, kidney along with lifestyle disease like hypertension and diabetes,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director of Max Healthcare.The findings are based on 1,378 hospital patients in Max Hospitals’ network since the last week of Decembertill January 20– roughly a period of four weeks. In itself, this number alone was a third of the 12,444 hospitalisations recorded in the three months of the peak of the second wave, beginning in late March, 2021 and ending in early June.While the share of people in intensive care units (ICU) was higher overall – 45.9% -- compared to previous waves (34% during the second wave), Budhiraja explained this was due to two factors: “First, the 45% is of a far smaller number, some 1,300 odd, and second, many of the patients that were admitted to Covid ICU were already admitted with prior health conditions.”Budhiraja added that of the 82, people whose cause of death was primarily Covid-related complication were roughly five or six in number.In terms of the proportion of admitted patients requiring oxygen support, the share has been around 23% this time compared to close to 74% during the Delta variant-triggered wave.Budhiraja added that at the peak of the second wave, when the city was recorded new cases in the range of 27,000-28,000 infections a day, the peak occupancy rate in all of Max facilities combined was nearly 2,000. “This time, however, the peak was only around 435,” he added. “This could be because Omicron as a variant is milder but also because the vaccination status of people has improved now. During the second wave, the vaccination drive had just started and many people in Delhi were yet to be vaccinated,” he said. A Delhi health department representative said these trends further reinforce what has been seen in other hospitals. “We have stressed that the Covid deaths that we are reporting during this wave largely comprise either unvaccinated people or vulnerable people including senior citizens or those with severe comorbidities. Most of the patients are recovering at home with relatively milder symptoms,” said a senior health official. These trends are relevant to the debate around Delhi’s current level of curbs. The city’s elected government and the business community have asked the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), an agency led by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, which decides on public health measures in the Capital, to roll back the weekend curfew and allow all shops to open instead of only alternate establishments on any given weekday.The demands stems from three clear signs: the number of new cases are now far lower than the peak recorded more than a week ago, more than 82% of the city’s overall hospital bed capacity has remained vacant in all this while, and the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2, which is causing the current outbreak, itself is less likely to lead to severe disease – especially since a large part of the population is already vaccinated.Budhiraja added that those at greater risk could be clearly identified: these were people with any serious comorbid illness like kidney disease or cancer, and people above the age of 70. An expert said this has implications on who should be shielded more and the targeting of booster doses. “This variant is highly transmissible and tends to infect a person within hours of contact with an infected person. While the infection period is shorter this time, the vulnerable sections are still are risk and the governments should strictly promote the use of masks and Covid appropriate behaviour in public places to protect this vulnerable section,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.The Union government has allowed people above the age of with comorbid health conditions to take a third dose of a coronavirus vaccine, the so-called precaution dose. Studies have shown that third doses greatly reduce the risk of hospitalisation in all populations, and lead to even lower odds of death.
23-01-2022||Delhi||Man murders wife, attempts suicide in Delhi’s Saket after quarrel||A 57-year-old man allegedly killed his wife in their Saket home on Friday evening, and then tried to take his own life by slashing his neck with a kitchen knife, after an argument between the two, police officers familiar with the investigation said.The two were alone at home when the incident took place around 6pm, police said, and the exact motive and circumstances of the crime were still be ascertained. However, police were told by the couple’s family members that they often fought over whether or not they should sell the house they lived in.The man may have been suffering from depression since he lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic two years ago, said an officer with direct knowledge of the case. “The injured husband is getting treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital. His statement could not be obtained so far as he was not fit for the statement. The exact motive behind the crime can be ascertained only when his statement is recorded. Prime facie, the inspection of the crime scene does not suggest the role of any outsider for robbery or any other motive,” said the officer, asking not to be named.Police said the dead woman was identified as Shashi Lata Pandey, 57, a homemaker. Her husband, Chander Mohan Pandey, who worked in the front office of a hotel in Connaught Place, was unemployed for the past two years. The name of the hotel has been withheld pending further investigation, police said.A second officer said the couple lived with their son, Shivam, on the first floor of a four-storey building in Saket’s G block. The son, 23, works with a private company in Gurugram, and was in office at the time of the incident. Their daughter moved out of the house after her wedding in November last year, the officer added.“During the inquiry, Shivam told us that there were some issues between his parents over the house. His father wanted to sell it, but his mother wanted to stay there. Shivam also told us that his father was undergoing some depression since he lost his job,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker, adding that police were informed about the crime through a call made at 7.09pm on Friday to the police control room.The first person to reach the spot was the injured man’s nephew, Kapil Pandey, who lives on the ground floor of the building, Jaiker said. Kapil was informed about a quarrel between the couple by his aunt (Chander Mohan Pandey’s sister), who lives in Indirapuram. She had called her brother when she heard that he and his wife were in the middle of an intense quarrel. She immediately contacted Kapil, and asked him to rush to the flat to check on them, police said.“Kapil told us that when he went up, his uncle (Pandey) opened the door. His clothes were soaked in blood, and there was a deep cut wound on the left side of his neck. His uncle asked him to call the police, and said, “Sab khatam ho gaya (everything is over).” Kapil called the ambulance services of a nearby private hospital. The ambulance doctor declared the woman dead,” said Jaiker. A team from Saket police station found the woman’s body lying on the floor in the bedroom. There was blood scattered inside the flat, and a bloodstained kitchen knife was found on the LCD panel in the drawing room. “There were no visible injury marks on the woman’s body. Prime facie, it appears that she was either strangled or smothered with a pillow. The exact cause of her death will be ascertained with the autopsy report that is awaited,” said the second officer.No police complaint on any domestic dispute was filed by the woman against her husband, Jaiker said.The couple’s neighbours said they did not hear any quarrel at the flat on Friday evening. An elderly woman who lives in an adjacent apartment said: “I learnt about the incident from our family members. We don’t know what exactly happened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-murders-wife-attempts-suicide-in-delhi-s-saket-after-quarrel-101642872824002.html
23-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi rain hits January high, pushes maximum temperature to season’s low||Delhi equalled its record for the third-wettest January on record ever, after a rainy Saturday, when showers continued late into the evening, and a biting cold gripped the city, as the maximum temperature dipped to the season’s lowest. Delhi has so far received 69.8mm of rain this month, the same as it did in all of January 1995, and behind only 1989 (when the city got 79.3mm of rain in the month) and 1953 (73.7mm).Delhi received 5.5mm total rain till 8.30pm on Saturday, IMD said.The city also witnessed a severe cold day on Saturday as the maximum temperature at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base observatory, dropped to 14.7 degrees Celsius -- the lowest this season -- seven degrees below normal. The IMD classifies it as a severe cold day when the maximum temperature is 6.5 degrees or lower than normal. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 11.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal.Weather officials attributed the rain to a western disturbance and an induced cyclonic circulation. IMD has forecast widespread light or moderate rainfall accompanied with isolated thunderstorms over Delhi and its neighbouring states till Sunday. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds with speed of 30-50 Km/h would occur over and adjoining areas of few places of Delhi-NCR,” the weather office said in a statement on Saturday evening.Meanwhile, light showers and stronger winds helped improve the air quality in the city. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 316 in the ‘very poor’ range on Saturday, compared to 365 on Friday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin. The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), on Saturday said the air quality will improve Sunday on account of widespread rains leading to dispersal of particulate matter. It said the AQI may enter the poor zone (AQI between 201-300).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-rain-hits-january-high-pushes-maximum-temperature-to-season-s-low-101642872343733.html
