24-01-2022||Lucknow||Third phase of Ram temple construction starts in Ayodhya||The third phase of Ram temple construction work in Ayodhya got under way on Monday with the laying of the plinth amid Vedic rituals. In the first and second phases of the construction work, temple’s foundation and raft were laid. Champat Rai, general secretary of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, gave this information. After the completion of plinth work, construction of the temple’s main structure would start, he added. Each plinth will be six-and-a-half-metre high. Around 17000 plinths will be laid in the third phase of construction work. On the occasion, several members of the Trust, including Mahant Dhinendra Das, Dr Anil Mishra and Vimlendra Mohan Pratap Mishra were present. Plinth or the granite stone is the lowest part of a building and it works as a base for any structure. It is in the form of a rectangular block or slab. In the foundation work, 47 layers of roller compacted cement (RCC) of one feet width have been laid. The foundation work began from 14-metre below the surface at the sanctum sanctorum of the temple in April 2021. The foundation is 107 feet above sea level and “gitti” (crushed stone) of Banda, coarse sand, fly ash and asbestos have been used.A raft is used when the soil is weak. It helps distribute the weight of the building over entire area of the building. This also helps reduce stress on the soil. Larsen and Toubro is carrying out construction work of the Ram temple. The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as project management consultant and is assisting the Larsen and Toubro in the construction work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/third-phase-of-ram-temple-construction-starts-in-ayodhya-101643048890866.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Pune district records 7,718 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours||Pune: Pune district on Monday reported 7,718 fresh cases of Covid-19. Till date, Omicron cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits are 1,030, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) 121 and 63 in Pune rural, as per the state health authorities. No Covid death was reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. PMC has so far reported 627,327 Covid cases and 9,327 deaths till Monday. PCMC has reported 2,743 cases so far and 3,534 deaths due to the infection. Pune rural has reported 404,831 total cases so far and 7,062 deaths. In Pune district, there are 1,352,924 Covid cases. Of this, 1,239,225 patients have recovered. There has been 20,273 deaths in the district. And at present, 93,426 are active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 21,941 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra taking the total to 7,089,936 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.09%. Across Maharashtra, 28,286 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Monday and 36 Covid deaths were reported on Monday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.88%. The state health department stated of 73,511,861 laboratory samples, 7,535,511 have been tested positive till Monday. That is 10.25% of patients till Monday. Currently, 1,435,141 people are in home quarantine and 3,402 in institutional quarantine. Tracking the virus Pune district figures Covid-19 cases: 1,352,924 Recovered Patients: 1,239,225 Deaths: 20,273 Active cases: 93,426 New cases: 7,718 New deaths: 0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-records-7-718-fresh-covid-cases-in-24-hours-101643048831353.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Educationists oppose amendment in Maharashtra Public Universities Act||Pune: A special discuss programme was organised at Vidyapeeth Vikas Manch on Monday to oppose the state government’s decision amend the ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act’ and introduce a new post of ‘pro-chancellor’ which will be the state’s higher and technical education minister. Former vice-chancellors, SPPU senate members and senior educationists who attended the meet decided to challenge the decision in court. “There is no need to create such a post and allow rights to be reserved with the state government. Vice-chancellors are the authority for academic and administrative decisions in the university and the amendment if comes into force will make them toothless,” said Prof RS Mali, former vice-chancellor of the then Pune university (Savitribai Phule Pune University). As per the amendment, the pro-chancellor would be having various powers like chairing the university senate meeting — high-level body that takes policy decision — and to preside over the university’s convocation ceremony in the absence of chancellor who is the governor of the state. The state government has also altered the selection process of vice-chancellor in the state. The state government will shortlist five nominees by a selection panel and two of them will be sent to governor for final consideration. Prof Vidyasagar Pandit, former vice-chancellor of Nanded University, said, “Affordable quality education is needed for students coming from rural and below poverty line backgrounds. If the autonomy powers of the universities are reduced then quality of education will also suffer. And more political interference will increase in university functioning.” Prof Murlidhar Chandekar, vice-chancellor of Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University, said, “Creating a new post above the vice-chancellors and giving it powers in policy making decisions is unacceptable. Moreover, why it is that only the state higher education minister will only by on that post. Academic agenda should not change into political agenda while running state universities and we should oppose it together.” Educationists, senate members and owners of institutes present agreed to move the court, if need be, to oppose the state government’s plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/educationists-oppose-amendment-in-maharashtra-public-universities-act-101643048650905.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||2014 hate speech case: Swami Prasad Maurya fails to appear before MP-MLA court||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Swami Prasad Maurya, who is now a Samajwadi Party leader, failed to appear before the MP-MLA court in Sultanpur district on Monday in connection with a 2014 hate speech case. Maurya had to appear before the court of Yogesh Yadav, special judge, MP-MLA court, Sultanpur. The court fixed February 4 as the next date of hearing in the case. However, court did not pass any order against Maurya due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On January 12 earlier this month, the Sultanpur court had issued an arrest warrant against Maurya who had quit the Uttar Pradesh cabinet on January 11. The case relates to a speech made by Maurya in Lucknow on September 21, 2014, wherein he allegedly made objectionable remarks against Hindu gods. Back then, he was with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and was the leader of opposition in the state assembly. Maurya had given the statement at a gathering at the Karpuri Thakur Bhagidari Sammelan. “Goddesses Gauri or Lord Ganesha should not be worshipped during weddings. It is a conspiracy by the upper caste dominated caste system to mislead Dalits,” Maurya, an influential OBC leader, had allegedly said. Hearing a petition filed by advocate Anil Tewari, the court of additional chief judicial magistrate (Sultanpur) on November 20, 2014, had held the then BSP leader prima facie responsible for hurting religious sentiments.On December 1, 2015, an arrest warrant was issued against Maurya and the court had fixed January 16, 2016 as the next date of hearing. However, Maurya got a stay order from the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court against the arrest warrant. Hearing of the case is still going on in the MP-MLA court in Sultanpur district.
24-01-2022||Lucknow||Battle for Muslim votes likely to intensify in western UP||LUCKNOW The fight for Muslim votes in western Uttar Pradesh is likely to intensify after the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, on Monday announced to field Maulana Umair Madani from the Deoband assembly seat in Saharanpur district. “Maulana Umair Madani comes from a prominent Madani family of Deoband. His father Maulana Masood Madani was a former minister in the Uttarakhand government, his uncle Maulana Mahmood Madani is president of Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind and his grandfather Arshad Madani is principal of Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband,” said Shaukat Ali, president, AIMIM UP unit. The Samajwadi Party announced to field Kartikey Rana from Deoband while the Bahujan Samaj Party fielded Chaudhary Rajendra Singh. The Bharatiya Janata Party fielded sitting MLA, Brijesh Singh Rawat from the seat. In the 2017 polls, Rawat had defeated BSP candidate Majid Ali by a margin of 29,400 votes. The Muslim vote is decisive in deciding the fate of candidates in Saharanpur and adjoining districts. The SP, BSP and AIMIM are vying for Muslim votes to ensure victory of their candidates in the Muslim majority - Rohilkhand region. “The entry of the Madani family member in the assembly fray has made the contest interesting in the western UP region,” said Asif Khan a political observer. AIMIM has announced to field Mushir Tareen from the Sambhal Assembly seat, Shakeel Ashrafi from Asmoli Assembly seat, Lalita Kumar from Nagina seat, Mohiuddeen from Barhapur seat, Khalid Zama from Bilari seat, Maulana Laeeque from Nanpara seat and Haji Kumail Ashraf Khan from Kursi Assembly seat. On Saturday, Asaduddin Owaisi had announced the launch of a new front, Bhagidari Parivartan Morcha, comprising parties with a support base among Muslims, other backward classes (OBCs) and Dalits for the 2022 UP Assembly elections. The front includes the Jan Adhikari Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, the Bharat Mukti Morcha led by Vaman Meshram, Janata Kranti Party led by Anil Singh Chauhan and Bharatiya Vanchit Samaj Party led by Ram Prasad Kashyap. 
24-01-2022||Pune||68% Covid deaths at govt hospitals were unvaccinated, 32% single or double vaccinated||Pune: Around 32 per cent Covid-infected persons died between December 1 and January 17 this year at government-run hospitals in Maharashtra were vaccinated with single or double dose, according to report by the Medical Education and Drug Department (MEDD) The report, based on 151 fatalities recorded at hospitals attached to state-run medical colleges, claimed that 68 per cent Covid fatalities are that of unvaccinated patients. Of these 151 deaths, 102 patients were unvaccinated whereas 49 had received either one dose or both. According to the Co-WIN dashboard, 7,022,464 beneficiaries have received both the vaccination doses in Pune district till Monday. And 100,921 precaution doses have been administered in the district so far. City-based doctors and experts noted that the trend is obvious and it emphasises that vaccination is important for protection against Covid. Dr Kapil Zirpe, member, Pune Covid-19 task force and head of the neurotrauma unit at Ruby Hall Clinic, said that due to vaccination, there has not been any admission in our hospital so far that requires oxygen. “Basically, it is evident that due to vaccination, patients can avoid moderate to severe Covid disease. In private hospitals, we have seen patients coming to us with double vaccines and even booster doses. But the symptoms are mild or the patient is completely asymptomatic. We have hardly seen any admission for Omicron cases. But we are managing comorbidities of the patients,” said Dr Zirpe. He said there are two purposes of the vaccine. “First is to avoid infection and second is to guarantee that the disease progression will not happen. This is exactly what we are seeing in our patients,” said Dr Zirpe. As of Monday, there 2,529 hospital isolation in Pune district against 91,113 home isolations, according to the data furnished by the district health department. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India, said Covid patients are reporting fever, sore throat, long lasting cough, dysphagia, fever and fatigue sometimes, but admission is not needed. “There is only 3.8 per cent hospitalisation and oxygen level needed is very low. However, associated ailments are needed to be diagnosed like dengue, swine flu like symptoms. It is true that unvaccinated people have around 70 to 75 per cent chances of complications. So, completing the vaccination schedule is important,” said Dr Patil. Covid surge Pune district reports highest positivity rate in the state Weekly positivity rate Pune district: 42.8 Nashik: 40.6 Wardha: 36.9 Akola: 35.3 Nagpur: 35.2 Gadchiroli: 33.8 Maharashtra: 23.9 Source: District health department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/68-covid-deaths-at-govt-hospitals-were-unvaccinated-32-single-or-double-vaccinated-101643048352705.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||No issues with BJP, will jointly win over 300 seats: Anupriya Patel||A day after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) declared its first candidate in Uttar Pradesh from Swar Tanda assembly seat, party chief and Union minister Anupriya Patel said the remaining candidates too would be announced soon.She denied that there were any misgivings with BJP on the number of seats and said her party along with the Nishad party, another BJP ally, was sure that the BJP alliance would get more than 300 seats in UP assembly polls.Anupriya is a Lok Sabha MP from Mirzapur. Her husband Ashish is an MLC in Uttar Pradesh. On Sunday, Apna Dal (Sonelal) had fielded Haider Ali Khan, 32, from Swar Tanda seat of Rampur district from where the Samajwadi Party has now announced the candidature of SP veteran Azam Khan’s son Abdullah Azam.Patel, who was in Lucknow on a short visit, said her party would soon declare candidates on remaining seats. “These things do take time as the composition of each seat is different and there is a different political aspect in each seat,’ she added. In 2017 UP polls, the Apna Dal, in alliance with the BJP, had won 9 seats, two more than the Congress. “Together we will win more than 300 seats in UP,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-issues-with-bjp-will-jointly-win-over-300-seats-anupriya-patel-101643048230814.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||UP IAS Association silent on Centre’s move to amend deputation rules||The Uttar Pradesh Indian Administrative Service Association (UP IAS Association) has maintained a studied silence on the Centre’s move to amend the service rules with regard to the deputation of officers of the IAS cadre and other all India services, including those working with the Indian Police Service.The UP IAS Association’s silence now is in contrast to the organisation, in the past, having been vocal on issues concerning the IAS cadre.The silence of UP IAS Association on the issue of the proposed amendment to Rule 6 providing for deputation of the IAS officers to the Centre may be an outcome of state government’s apparent support to the move. “The Uttar Pradesh IAS Association has not taken up the issue of proposed amendment to the IAS cadre rules. The state government is also favouring the move,” said a senior IAS officer.Amid the UP IAS Association’s silence, IAS officers (both serving and retired) are voicing their concern on the issue though opinions are divided.“The Union government will be able to take away key officers of the opposition ruled states at any point of time if the centre is given a free hand. A middle path should instead be followed by making consent of the officer concerned mandatory for going on deputation to the Centre. As principal secretary/additional chief secretary to chief minister and chief secretary of the state usually do not apply for deputation to the Centre, the Union government will not be able to remove them without the consent of the officers. Many states are not sending appropriate number of IAS officers to the Centre and are not giving good postings to them in the state too. This should be taken into account,” said a senior IAS officer of the UP cadre.“The Centre’s new found love for All India Services is baffling. Not very long ago they were being ridiculed and called names in Parliament. The positions hitherto being occupied by the IAS were being handed over to others. No wonder the states smell a rat in the amendment to the rules,” said Anil Swaroop in a post on Twitter on Monday.“There is no reason for the Centre to go for this amendment. A provision is already in the service rules that provide for the Centre’s opinion to prevail in case of difference between the Centre and the states. There is no need for the Centre to indulge in a game of political one-upmanship on the issue,” said VS Pandey, former secretary to the Union government.Former UP chief secretary Alok Ranjan said, “Willingness of an officer to go on deputation should be considered before taking a call on the issue. The states on their part should also ensure that appropriate number of officers go on deputation to the Centre. This is not happening now in many states. The deputation should be in consultation between the state government and the centre and not by force,” he said.A senior officer, on the other hand, said the Union government should have authority to call its officers as All India service officers are appointed by the Centre.The chief ministers of West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan have strongly opposed the move and voiced their concern in separate letters sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him not to go for the amendment.It remains to be seen whether the Centre will take various opinions into account before going for amendment to rule 6 that reads: “Deputation of cadre officers- 6(1) A cadre officer may, with the concurrence of the state governments concerned and the Central Government be deputed for service under the Central Government, be deputed for service under the Central Government or another State Government or under a company, association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, which is wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the Central Government or by another State Government.”It further reads, “Provided that in case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the Central Government or State Governments concerned shall give effect to the decision of the Central Government.”
24-01-2022||Pune||Katraj zoo preparing to welcome zebra, giraffe||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Rajiv Gandhi zoo at Katraj is preparing to welcome a zebra and a giraffe, and has put forward a proposal for erecting a duct for the zebra.The head of the garden department of the PMC, Ashok Ghorpade, said, “We got a nod from the central zoo authority to house a zebra and a giraffe in Katraj zoo. We are keeping the infrastructure ready to welcome the animals. We have even kept aside a budgetary provision of Rs1.5 crore to import them from other countries into the Katraj zoo.”The central zoo authority has already given its nod to the PMC’s proposal to import a zebra into the Katraj zoo. As the zebra is likely to arrive soon, the garden department has now put a proposal before the standing committee to erect a duct for the zebra at a cost of Rs1.35 crore. The tendering process has been completed with five bidders having participated in it.Rajiv Gandhi zoo director Rajkumar Jadhav said, “We had submitted the proposal to keep a zebra in the zoo and erect a duct for it. The proposal got an in-principle nod and we are keeping the infrastructure ready for it.”In addition to a duct for the zebra, the zoo has demanded a separate duct for its four chausinghas (four-horned antelopes). “We are erecting a duct for the chausinghas for citizens to be able to see them,” Jadhav said.“We need to keep the infrastructue ready before the animals (zebra and giraffe) arrive at the zoo. It will be ready in the next few days,” said Ghorpade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katraj-zoo-preparing-to-welcome-zebra-giraffe-101643048110793.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Missing retired banker from Ludhiana traced to Jammu||Missing for the past three days, a 65-year-old retired banker was traced from Jammu on Monday. According to the police, due to mental depression, he boarded a train and reached Jammu without informing his family members.Surjit Singh, 65, of Model Town Extension had gone missing on January 21. The family lodged an FIR under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused suspecting that he had been kept in a secret place.Satdeep Singh, son of Surjit Singh, said his mother Jatinder Kaur was admitted to a private hospital. His father had gone to see her in the hospital, from where he had gone missing. When he did not reach home, the family initiated a search for him but to no avail, following which they lodged a missing complaint with Division number 5 police.Sub-inspector Jaspal Singh, who is investigating the case, said the family and police had circulated pictures of Surjit Singh on social media. However on Monday, Surjit Singh himself contacted the family and shared his whereabouts. Surjit Singh said he will return on his own by January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-retired-banker-from-ludhiana-traced-to-jammu-101643048050783.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Police scanning records of illicit liquor suppliers in Prayagraj||Ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Prayagraj police are keeping tabs on liquor mafias with a special focus on trans-Ganga areas of the district where dozens of people had died due to the consumption of alleged illicit liquor over a year ago. Although police have taken stern action against some of the accused involved in supply and sale of illicit liquor at countrymade liquor shops, it is believed that many other gangs may be active in the illegal business and may try to earn more profits in the poll season through supply of illicit liquor.Deaths due to illicit liquor in trans-Ganga areas had occurred ahead panchayat elections. Dozens of people had died after they consumed the alleged illicit liquor in Nawabganj, Handia and Phulpur. In Phulpur incident, police had attached properties of the accused while in other incidents some suppliers were arrested. However, questioning from them revealed that illicit liquor was being smuggled from neighbouring Pratapgarh district. To stop recurrence of such incidents and sale of illicit liquor, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj, Ajay Kumar has constituted ten teams with seven members, including a sub inspector and six constables, in each team. These teams are working in different areas of the district to identify and trace illegal liquor manufacturers, suppliers and smugglers. The teams will also scan records of last ten years to identify those involved in illicit liquor trade. Once identified, they will be detained and questioned if their activities are found suspicious.The police will also take help of those who were earlier associated with liquor mafias but have now left the illegal trade to identify new liquor suppliers who have no police records. SSP Ajay Kumar said the police were keeping a close watch on those suspected to be involved in illicit liquor supply. “Reports are being reviewed on a regular basis and soon massive crackdown will be launched to end the menace,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-police-scanning-records-of-illicit-liquor-suppliers-in-prayagraj-101643047991947.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||Crack in Shastri bridge pillar panel, traffic hit in Prayagraj||There was a massive traffic jam on Shastri Bridge after a road built on pillar number 14 of the bridge developed a crack when a roller bearing of the pillar fell into the river on Monday. Due to this, at least a five-inch gap between two panels was visible causing traffic chaos since morning till late in the evening.The traffic on Prayagraj-Varanasi lane was restricted and vehicles were allowed to pass from another lane. However, it caused massive traffic jam on the bridge till Andawa Crossing. Soon after the crack became visible, police informed PWD officials of it following which PWD engineer Yashwant Singh and his team reached the spot.The team took out the roller bearing from the river and started efforts for its reinstallation. Singh said the roller bearing will be installed temporarily but traffic needed to be stopped for at least two days for repair of the gap in the pillar and installation of roller bearing again. The engineer further said the bridge was constructed to bear load of 40 to 50 tonnes of weight. However, now heavy vehicles loaded with 90 to 100 tonnes of stones, sand and other materials caused the roller bearing to slip from its place.Construction of 2.32-kilometre long Shastri bridge on GT Road was started in 1966-67 by a private company but it left the work after seven years. The rest of the work was completed by Bridge Corporation of India and bridge was opened for public use in 1980. However, the old bridge is now in a dilapidated condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/crack-in-shastri-bridge-pillar-panel-traffic-hit-in-prayagraj-101643047812162.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP hi-tech media centre to monitor poll preparations in Purvanchal region||In view of the assembly polls, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s media centre was being built in a hotel in Cantonment area of Varanasi, said Kashi region BJP spokesperson Navratan Rathi. He said the party’s media centre would be equipped with a studio, TV, Wi-Fi and computer facilities.As per Rathi, BJP Kashi region president Mahesh Chand Srivastava on Monday visited the media centre site with party’s national spokesperson KK Sharma and held a meeting with Kashi region BJP media cell office bearers, including co-media in-charge Santosh Solapurkar, Shailendra Mishra and Ganpati Yadav.Srivastava said the media centre will monitor the election related preparations of 71 assemblies under Kashi region as well as other assemblies of Purvanchal region. He suggested that a studio should also be made at the media centre so that debates on electronic media could be facilitated.BJP national spokesperson KK Sharma said the media in-charges of all the 16 organisational districts of Kashi region will be connected with the media centre and necessary guidelines will also be issued to them from time to time. UP co-media in-charge Dharmendra Singh said public welfare schemes and achievements of the central and state governments would be displayed at the media centre through big hoardings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-hi-tech-media-centre-to-monitor-poll-preparations-in-purvanchal-region-101643047572373.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||Now Prayagraj’s Naini jail inmates to get ‘Special Sunday Thali’||In a move aimed at improving the quality of food served to prisoners, the Naini central jail administration is introducing “Sunday Special Thali” wherein the jail inmates will be served yummy dishes as a weekend treat. As part of the initiative, instead of the usual pulses, rice, roti and drab seasonal veggies that they get in meals during the week, the inmates would now be served “puri sabzi”, “kadhi” and even vegetables like cauliflower and broccoli on Sundays. The move follows director general of prisons, UP, Anand Kumar’s efforts to improve the standard and quality of food being served in prisons across the state. He even tweeted and shared videos of “paneer” being made in Fatehgarh jail on January 16. Earlier, he had tweeted pictures of a variety of vegetables being grown in prisons farms (January 14, 2022 and December 16, 2021) and special meals being cooked and served on festivals like “Makar Sankranti” (January 14) as part of the effort. Naini central jail has the capacity of housing 2,026 inmates but presently it has over 4,300 inmates locked up. The jail has witnessed prisoners raising the issue of poor living standards and food quality on several occasions in the past. “Continuous efforts are being made to improve the standard of living and food of the inmates in the prison. In this sequence, now an initiative has been taken to provide special Thali every Sunday,” said PN Pandey, senior jail superintendent of Naini jail.He said till now special dishes were prepared only special occasions like the Independence Day and the Republic Day besides festivals like Holi and Diwali. “Special food has also been served on other festivals,” he added. Officials shared that though no specific orders for special food to be served on Sundays has as such been issued but orders to improve the quality of food so as to ensure nutritious and balanced diet in accordance with the UP Jail Manual had been issued.
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Five of wedding party injured as speeding truck crashes into bus in Ludhiana||Five members of a wedding party were injured after a speeding truck hit their bus on the National Highway near Doraha on late Sunday night. There were at least 35 passengers in the bus, but most were waiting outside the bus at the time.The condition of one of the injured persons is said to be critical. Police have arrested the truck driver, identified as Pawan Kumar of Jhunjhunu of Rajasthan. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of bus driver Balwinder Singh of Mangali Khas village of Meharban in Ludhiana. He said that the groom’s family had hired the bus on Sunday to take the guests to Chhanna Kapuri village of Patiala. On their way back to Ludhiana, he stopped the bus near Kashmir Palace in Doraha as a guest wanted to answer the nature’s call. As the driver was waiting for the passenger board the bus, a speeding truck, coming from Khanna side, rammed into it. He added that the impact of the collision was so strong that the bus jumped the divider and crashed into an electricity pole on the other side before falling into a pit. The truck too rolled into the pit.The driver added that most guests had de-boarded the bus when the mishap took place, otherwise the situation could have been worse. The rescue operation was initiated by passersby. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hardam Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (rash or negligent act endangering human life), 338 and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused truck driver. Police have also seized the vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-of-wedding-party-injured-as-speeding-truck-crashes-into-bus-in-ludhiana-101643047151576.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana | Bhiwani residents demand that government schools be reopened||Even as the third wave of the virus sweeps through the state, residents of three Bhiwani villages have demanded that the district administration reopen government schools. The residents of Kaluwas, Nathuwas and Ninan villages said that the students were struggling with online education and they are ready to give their consent to send their wards to school in writing. A resident of Nathuwas village, Kulvir Singh, said, “All residents of our village are healthy and we want the government to open government school. While most children, villagers, and teachers are vaccinated, most parents, teachers and students are ill equipped for online teaching, adding that under the new system all students were getting high marks, which was unfair to brilliant students. “Almost everyone has received 90% marks in the board exams in the last two years and this is not good for the education system. The board exams are just one-and-a-half months away and if the schools do not reopen now, how will the students perform well in the exams,” Kulbir Singh said.Sanjay Kumar of Kaluwas village said politicians have been flouting norms by conducting rallies and road shows, but educational institutions were closed.“ All these faulty policies are framed to keep the rural children away from education. We have submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner and urged him to re-open the schools,” he said.Despite repeated attempts, Bhiwani deputy commissioner Rippudaman Singh could not be reached for a comment. Earlier, Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said the state government is yet to take any decision on reopening of schools.“The educational institutes in the state will remain closed till January 26 and online education will continue till further orders. We were planning to open schools at 33% capacity on different days, but no decision has been taken so far,” the education minister added.Haryana health ,inister Anil Vij had earlier said children in the age group of 15-18 years who are not vaccinated against Covid will not be allowed to enter schools, when they reopen. Over 15 lakh children in Haryana between 15-18 years of age are eligible to get the Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-bhiwani-residents-demand-that-government-schools-be-reopened-101643046851308.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||KNS Kang of AAP pays tribute to martyr Sarabha at his ancestral house in Ludhiana||Soldiering on with the election campaign, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Dakha candidate KNS Kang, among other leaders, paid tribute to martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha by visiting his ancestral house in Sarabha village on Monday.AAP’s Lok Sabha in-charge Amandeep Mohie and district president (rural) Harbhupinder Singh Dharour accompanied Kang and also paid tribute to BR Ambedkar at his statue installed in Mullanpur.Kang said only AAP can fulfill the dreams of martyr and work for the betterment of the state as only they have been raising concern over health and education and want to improve the existing infrastructure.Kang said, “Students in Delhi schools are also being educated about the teachings of BR Ambedkar, so that they can tread on path shown by him and work for the welfare of the state and country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kns-kang-of-aap-pays-tribute-to-martyr-sarabha-at-his-ancestral-house-in-ludhiana-101643046790661.html
24-01-2022||Pune||PMC builds retaining wall at the accident spot in Ambegaon Budruk||Pune: After two months of the tragic accident that claimed the life of a 12-year-old boy who lost control of his bicycle because of the road’s steep slope and hit a barricade and fell into a nullah, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started constructing a retaining wall at the accident spot near Dattanagar chowk road that leads to Ambegaon Budruk. The incident happened on November 3, 2021 when the boy died of serious head injuries caused due to the fall. The deceased was identified as Yug Jignesh Vadsola of Astonia Royale residential housing society in Ambegaon Budruk. Yug and his friend were returning home after cycling when he lost control of his cycle and fell in the nullah at around 6 am. Residents have raised concern over the steep slope on the road at the mishap spot and reported incidents of two-wheelers hitting the barricade on the small bridge over the nullah after losing control of their vehicles. “We have started work of barricading the spot with cement wall on the side of the nullah where the accident took place. The wall will prevent residents from falling into the nullah even as the road’s steep slope issue cannot be immediately addressed,” a PMC senior engineer said on condition of anonymity. Locals are demanding more safety measures than a retaining wall. Kiran Jadhav, resident said, “Constructing the retaining wall is not enough, there should be more speed breakers, signage boards and rumblers on this road to check speed of vehicles. There are several accidents happening on this slope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-builds-retaining-wall-at-the-accident-spot-in-ambegaon-budruk-101643046670999.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Firms struggling to recruit as most students in Pune secure high marks||PUNE: Since last year, Amol Pol and his information technology firm have been struggling to recruit students from engineering colleges. The reason is that a majority of engineering students applying for job opportunities have scored above 90%. This trend of scoring high marks in semester examinations is in turn due to examinations being conducted online over the past two years by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and other private universities in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. As most engineering students have scored above 90% and even average students have scored good marks, companies are now conducting special examinations to hire students through campus interviews.Pol said, “We had job openings in our company for various posts and when we got the applications, 28 out of the 30-odd students who had applied had above 90% marks. Earlier, this number was less with hardly a few of the students being able to score such good marks. So we took a separate examination to recruit people.”Since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020, all semester examinations held by SPPU and other universities have been online. In addition to being online, the examinations have been conducted in the multiple-choice question (MCQ) format leading to many students scoring high marks. Earlier, many students were found cheating during these online exams but later, the exams were made stricter using the proctored method so that students would not cheat.Parag Kalkar, SPPU dean, faculty of commerce and management studies, said, “In the last two years, it has been noticed that most students are scoring above 90% marks across streams, especially in engineering courses. So while hiring students, companies are facing difficulties in shortlisting candidates. This is impacting genuinely bright students as everyone is scoring high marks. Also, students are given 150 hours of work to be done every week, and they are ready to work for less as they are given the ‘work from home’ option.”Satish Mistry, a student, said, “I have completed my Bachelor’s in computer science last year and as we have got a stamp of ‘Covid passed’ and exams were conducted online, there are a large number of students with high marks. When I apply for any job opening, there is strict scrutiny and separate exams are held by the recruiting companies. Getting jobs has become more difficult as compared to pre-Covid times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/firms-struggling-to-recruit-as-most-students-in-pune-secure-high-marks-101643046430855.html
24-01-2022||Bhopal||Dalit groom’s house attacked after he rides a horse to his wedding; 10 arrested||BHOPAL: A Dalit groom rode the horse to his wedding under police protection in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday but a group of so-called upper caste men in the village eventually got back at him. His house was attacked and a car was vandalised by the group, police said.On Monday, authorities in Sagar district, 150km from state capital Bhopal, said 10 people have been arrested after the groom, Dilip Ahirwar, filed a first information report (FIR) under the Dalit atrocities law. The FIR accuses a group of 20 people led by Dharmendra Lodhi for the attack and humiliated meted out to the family.Additional superintendent of police Vikram Singh Kushwaha said the main accused, Dharmendra Lodhi, and nine others have been arrested and additional police personnel deployed in the district’s Ganiyari village.Kushwaha said the groom approached the police to seek protection for riding the horse to his wedding less than a kilometre from his house after musclemen in the village objected. The police intervened, and Dilip Ahirwar rode the horse.“But in the night Dharmendra Lodhi and 19 others attacked Ahirwar’s house. They vandalized a car and also hurled abuses on the family members of Ahirwar,” said the police officer.Dilip’s family member, Pramod, filed a complaint with the police on charges of rioting and the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Banda police station in-charge Manas Dwivedi said, “Police force has been deployed in the village for security. The accused Dharmendra Lodhi and others have been arrested. Some suspects are being questioned.” 
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||95 intoxicant pills recovered from Ludhiana central jail inmate||Ninety-five intoxicant pills were recovered from the possession of an inmate at the Ludhiana central jail during a surprise check on Sunday night.The accused has been identified as Chamkaur Singh of Jassowal village of Sudhae.A case under Sections 21, 61, 85 of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Sections 42 and 45 of the Prisons Act has been registered against the accused at the Division Number 7 police station, on the statement of assistant superintendent of the jail, Sukhdev Singh.Sub-inspector Jagpal Singh, the investigating officer, said police will bring the inmate on production warrant to find out where he got the contraband from. Earlier on the intervening night of January 18 and 19, the jail staff had recovered two mobile phones and 45 intoxicant pills from a jail inmate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/95-intoxicant-pills-recovered-from-ludhiana-central-jail-inmate-101643046190634.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula industrial plot allotment scam: HC puts Bhupinder Hooda, 17 others on notice over ED’s bail cancellation plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday put former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 17 others on notice in a bail cancellation plea from the enforcement directorate (ED) pertaining to the alleged illegal allotment of HUDA industrial plots in Panchkula in 2012-13. The ED had moved the high court on January 5 and the matter was taken up by the bench of justice Lisa Gill who sought responses from all respondents by April 5, said senior counsel for ED Arvind Moudgil.The case involves allotment of 14 industrial plots worth ₹30.34 crore to Hooda’s “acquaintances” in 2013, when he was the Haryana CM. The ED had initiated investigation in 2015 after an FIR was lodged by the Haryana vigilance bureau. The FIR was subsequently transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 2016. ED had filed its chargesheet in the case in February, 2021. The Supreme Court had in August 2021 stayed the trial in this case. Before the SC, it was argued that since the CBI has not filed a sheet in the case and no trial has begun for the predicate offence, the trial under PMLA cannot proceed.Hooda and others had got bail on different dates from the trial court with Hooda securing the same on March 15, 2021.Others include the then chief administrator HUDA, DPS Nagpal, the then chief controller of finance, HUDA, SC Kansal, 14 of the allottees and some other officers.The ED had argued that Hooda was ex-officio chairman of HUDA being the chief minister of Haryana. “He has been found to be actively involved in the criminal activities related to the scheduled offence. The whole conspiracy was made out by the then chairman playing a vital role in it,” the plea claimed adding that the accused persons were involved with each other and in collusion with each other, misused the government machinery and its power to gain undue benefits. “The investigations point out to a clear-cut nexus and bring out the exact relationship between the then HUDA chairman and the allottees,” it says, claiming that 12 of the 14 allottees have been found to be “acquainted” with Hooda.ED has further claimed that as the accused are influential persons, there is a strong likelihood of witness tampering. Hence, the bail granted should be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-industrial-plot-allotment-scam-hc-puts-bhupinder-hooda-17-others-on-notice-over-ed-s-bail-cancellation-plea-101643046012435.html
24-01-2022||Pune||PMC clinic remains unused since last two years: activist||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation-owned Rohan Kale clinic is yet to function since last two years and civic activist Vivek Velankar blames PMC for its apathy towards medical infrastructure. Velankar said, “PMC received ready possession of the building measuring 17,000 square feet at the amenity space located in Hadapsar. The estate department took possession of the building and handed it to the health department because of the Covid situation. However, the health department failed to start the clinic.” Velankar has written to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar seeking opening of the civic clinic. “While PMC is forcing private hospitals and agencies to provide their premises for Covid cases, its own property remains neglected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-clinic-remains-unused-since-last-two-years-activist-101643046010949.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||3 Haryana districts show negative Covid growth rate||Even as coronavirus cases continued to increase in Haryana, the three worst-affected districts in the state – Gurugram, Faridabad and Ambala – have shown negative growth. As per health department data, the state recorded 61,921 infections between January 17 and January 23 against the 52,747 infections logged in the previous week (January 10-16), indicating a continued rise in infections. However, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ambala, which showed an infection growth rate of 128%, 210% and 188%, respectively, between January 10 and January 16 are showing a negative growth rate, thus indicating a decline in infection rate, as per health department statistics. State nodal officer for Covid, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said the infection has already started showing a downward trend in Gurugram, Ambala and Faridabad. “The Covid growth rate has stabilised in Rohtak, and Panchkula, and other districts will soon follow suit. Every district will have a different peak period depending on when the surge started, and the decline will be commensurate with the peak,’’ he said. Dr Chaudhary said health-care providers and doctors need to lay emphasis on patients who are hospitalised and those in intensive care. “If the number of hospitalised patients and those in ICU is not increasing, it will be reassuring,’’ he said, adding that patients who come to the emergency with some other complaint, and incidentally test positive for the virus need special attention. As on January 24, the state had more than 51,864 active cases, with six districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Ambala, Karnal and Sonepat – being the most affected districts. Around 2.93 lakh people got themselves tested last week. Data shows that the average daily positivity rate of the state since January 9 was 18.17%. The average daily positivity rate of Panchkula was the highest at 27.31% in the last fortnight, followed by Faridabad (26.02%), Gurugram (25.90%), Sonepat (25.09%) Kurukshetra (19.64%) and Ambala (19.11%). Palwal with an average daily positivity rate of 2%, followed by Mahendergarh (6.40%), Bhiwani (8.08%), Charkhi Dadri (8.69%) and Nuh (9.65%) ranked the lowest in the last fortnight. 
24-01-2022||Pune||HCMTR funds to be diverted for land acquisition for bridge in Pune||PUNE: As the budgetary provision for the high capacity mass transit route (HCMTR) hasn’t been utilised in this financial year, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to divert it for land acquisition for the Harris bridge connecting Khadki cantonment. The corporation plans to divert a total Rs40.46 crore for the purpose.The PMC had made the budgetary provision for HCMTR in the financial year 2020-21 but as the project could not be kick-started for the last many years, plans are afoot to divert these funds. Deputy mayor Sunita Wadekar put the proposal before the standing committee and requested that Rs40.46 crore be diverted for land acquisition for the Harris bridge. A land parcel of 900 square metre has to be acquired for the bridge project. The standing committee will take a call on this proposal in the coming meeting.Meanwhile, the HCMTR project, which was proposed nearly 20 years ago, has become a much delayed project. Every year, the PMC makes budgetary provision for it only to end up diverting the funds for other works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hcmtr-funds-to-be-diverted-for-land-acquisition-for-bridge-in-pune-101643045650727.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Action against booze parties at public places, five arrested||Taking stern action against drinking in open, that too during curfew hours, the police arrested five people in two separate cases on Monday. Police also arrested two eatery owners for operating till late night and for serving liquor to customers.In the first case, the police arrested – Sandeep Singh of Guru Angad Dev Nagar, Vinay Jain, Vivek Jain and Danish Jain of Jagdish Nagar of Dugri – near railway station. The accused were drinking, sitting in Hyundai Creta car, during curfew hours. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 68,1,14 of Excise Act and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused.In another case, Moti Nagar police arrested Milan Rajput of Link Road for drinking in open in his car in Moti Nagar after 10pm. ASI Raj Kumar said a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, Sections 68,1,14 of Excise Act has been registered against the accused.Koomkalan police arrested a meat shop owner, Sukhpal Singh of Boothgarh Jattan village, for late night operations and serving liquor to his customers. In another case, they arrested Dinesh Kumar of Heera village for opening his dhaba at Chandigarh Road during curfew hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-action-against-booze-parties-at-public-places-five-arrested-101643045532161.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||100-ft Tricolour to be installed at Karnal’s Miran Ghati||A 100-feet tall Tricolour will be installed at the historical Miran Ghati Chowk in Karnal, which will be unfurled by Haryana home minister Anil Vij on January 26, Republic Day.Karnal deputy commissioner-cum-CEO of Karnal Smart City Limited Nishant Kumar Yadav said the home minister will hoist the national flag (30ft by 20ft) as a symbol of unity after attending a district-level programme on Republic Day. A Rajasthan-based private agency was hired to execute the project. The flag will be visible from a long-distance, even to commuters on National Highway-44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/100ft-tricolour-to-be-installed-at-karnal-s-miran-ghati-101643045530644.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly elections: SBSP workers urge party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar to contest from Shivpur||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) workers have urged their party president Om Prakash Rajbhar to contest the UP assembly elections from the Shivpur constituency in Varanasi. In 2017, the seat was won by the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Anil Rajbhar, who is now a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government.Although the BJP is yet to announce its candidate for the Shivpur seat, there is speculation that the party may retain Anil Rajbhar.SBSP state vice-president Shashi Pratap Singh said, “SBSP workers, including me, have written a letter, urging our party president Om Prakash Rajbhar to contest from the Shivpur assembly constituency here. We are confident that the SBSP chief will respond positively keeping in view the sentiments of party workers.”Singh said that he also spoke to SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar on the phone and apprised him of the sentiments of the SBSP workers. Singh claimed that as an ally of the Samajwadi Party, the SBSP will get at least two seats —Shivpur and Ajgara (reserved) — to contest in Varanasi.Asked whether SBSP chief may consider any other seat, Singh said it may be Zahoorabad, which he represents in the Vidhan Sabha at present. Zahoorabad assembly constituency is in Ghazipur district of eastern UP. Rajbhar voters play a decisive role in this constituency.The SBSP was in alliance with the BJP in 2017 and won four assembly seats.SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar had won the Zahoorabad seat in 2017 and was made a cabinet minister in the Yogi Adityanath government. After the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Om Prakash Rajbhar was sacked from the Uttar Pradesh cabinet following his constant public criticism of the government on various issues.Rajbhar intensified his attack on the government thereafter. About three months ago, he formed an alliance with the main opposition Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh and vowed to make SP chief Akhilesh Yadav the chief minister again. Akhilesh Yadav was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister from 2012 to 2017.Shashi Pratap Singh may also contest the assembly polls, those aware of the issue in the party said.When asked, Singh said, “I am an SBSP worker. As a dedicated worker, I am working for the expansion of the party. As for the rest, whatever will be the party’s instruction, I will follow that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-elections-sbsp-workers-urge-party-chief-om-prakash-rajbhar-to-contest-from-shivpur-101643045350843.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||22K fire calls reported in Mumbai in 5 years: Data||In the last five years, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) received 22,764 fire-related calls, the data has revealed. Of the total calls, the maximum were related to minor fire incidents. Interestingly, over the last two years since the Covid-19 pandemic, the fire incidents have gone down in Mumbai, as per the data. Fire officials have attributed the dip to pandemic and lockdown restrictions.In 2017, MFB received a total of 4,454 fire calls which went up to 4,959 in 2018 and 5,324 in 2019. However, the fire calls dropped to 4,512 in 2020 and in 2021, the fire calls went further down to 3,515.According to the officials, the number of fire calls went down in 2020 and 2021 partly because of the lockdown. “In 2020 and 2021, several commercial units were shut and many of our fire calls are also due to standalone fires in vehicles. However, due to lockdown, vehicles remained unused, which in turn resulted in fire calls going down. However, increased awareness owing to several fire incidents in notable areas in the last couple of years has also resulted in fire calls going down,” a senior MFB official said.According to the data, in 2020 and 2021, the number of fire calls during Diwali went down in comparison to 2018 and 2019. Around Diwali in 2021, MFB got 142 calls between November 1 and 4, while it received 155 calls during the same period in 2020. Around 2019 Diwali, it got a total of 173 calls of which 47 calls were related to firecrackers, followed by 246 calls around Diwali in 2018 of which 50 calls were related to crackers.Meanwhile, the death toll in Tardeo fire incident went up to seven on Monday. 38-year-old Manish Singh was declared dead at Nair Hospital on Monday at 7 am. Overall, seven patients out of the 16 admitted in various hospitals are in critical condition. While seven patients have been discharged, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’a disaster management cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/22k-fire-calls-reported-in-mumbai-in-5-years-data-101643045295046.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Gardens in Pune reopen only for morning, pools for sportspersons||PUNE: The Pune municipal commissioner on Monday issued a circular allowing public places like gardens to reopen between 6 am and 9 am from January 24 onwards. While there is no time restriction for open grounds, swimming tanks will reopen only for international, national and state level players. The civic chief gave the instructions after guardian minister Ajit Pawar directed authorities to reopen public places for residents as the latter were seeking the facility for the fully vaccinated. A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) garden department official on condition of anonymity said, “The gardens will remain closed for evening hours as few walkers turn up during that time and it is occupied mostly by children. As the kids are yet to be inoculated and reported rise in Covid cases, authorities have decided to keep gardens closed in the evening.” “The order for swimming tanks is specific. It is reopened only for trainers and players participating in international, national and state-level contests to carry out practice by strictly adhering to Covid protocol,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gardens-in-pune-reopen-only-for-morning-pools-for-sportspersons-101643044991117.html
24-01-2022||Bangalore||At 46,426, fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka dip; 32 deaths||Registering a dip in cases, Karnataka on Monday logged 46,426 new cases of Covid-19, and 32 fatalities, taking the tally to 35,64,108 and the death toll to 38,614. The state had recorded 50,210 fresh infections on Sunday. There were 41,703 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 31,62,977, a health department bulletin said. Of the new cases today, 21,569 were from Bengaluru Urban that saw 27,008 people being discharged and 9 virus-related deaths. The total number of active cases across the state is now at 3,62,487. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 32.95 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.06 per cent. Of the 32 deaths, nine are from Bengaluru Urban, three each from Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru and Udupi, two each from Haveri and Kalaburagi, followed by others. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru recorded the second highest with 4,105 new cases, Tumakuru 2,960, Hassan 1,908 and Mandya 1,837. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 16,07,226 cases, followed by Mysuru 2,07,135 and Tumakuru 1,43,552. According to the bulletin, Bengaluru Urban tops the list among discharges with 13,64,333, followed by Mysuru 1,85,834 and Tumakuru 1,27,269. Cumulatively, a total of 6,06,95,857 samples have been tested, of which 1,40,884 were on Monday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/at-46-426-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-dip-32-deaths-101643044577428.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||At 502, city records its worst-ever air quality||MUMBAI The city’s air quality index (AQI) on Monday morning plunged to an unprecedented 502 – indicating ‘Severe +’ air quality – as per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research’s (SAFAR) network of nine monitors in the city. This is the worst AQI recorded since the launch of this monitoring system in Mumbai in 2015, confirmed Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR, who also described the pollution level as unprecedented. The corresponding 24-hour average AQI according to the Central Pollution Control Board was 381.Beig attributed the pollution spike to a recent western disturbance which passed over the region, bringing unseasonal rains to parts of the city on Saturday, followed by a large dust plume which rode in on prevailing westerly winds during the early hours on Sunday. Experts said that this dust originated from Pakistan and the Middle East. Western disturbances are storm systems that form in the Middle East and travel eastward, bringing sporadic and sudden winter rain to the northern parts of India, with their influence sometimes extending along the western coast and in central India.“The western disturbance induced a low-pressure zone near Rajasthan and adjoining parts of Pakistan on the night of January 21,” Beig said. “This caused an increase in the surface wind speed over Pakistan and adjoining eastern Iran, which started blowing the dust over these regions from the early morning hours of January 22. Within a few hours, the dust was visible over the Gulf of Oman and northern Arabian Sea, following which it entered Gujarat on the same day, and Maharashtra the following day,” added Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist at the University of Reading, UK.Beig described this event as “unprecedented” for Mumbai. “On Monday morning, the city’s air quality index touched ‘severe’ classification for the first time on record. This number, of 502, is an average of hourly AQI data over 24 hours, so on Monday morning it indicated that there was a high amount of dust in the air during the night and the previous day. During the day on Monday however, clearer skies and strong winds marginally improved air quality,” Beig explained.Despite the improvement, however, Mumbai continued to record ‘severe’ air on Monday evening, with SAFAR showing an AQI of 453. Data from individual monitors, however, accessible through the CPCB’s website, show uniform improvements across the city with PM2.5 and PM10 levels dropping consistently starting around 7am Monday. The CPCB’s daily air quality bulletin, released at 4pm each day, showed Mumbai as having ‘very poor’ air on Monday.The discrepancy between the SAFAR and CPCB numbers, experts explained, is due to the number of air quality monitors used by each. While SAFAR relies on data from nine monitoring stations in Mumbai, CPCB uses data from 17, spread over a larger geographic area, producing a lower geographic and diurnal average.Beig added that Mumbai had last witnessed such a high levels of air pollution owing to similar dust event in late 2016, but was unable to pinpoint the exact AQI value at the time. An AQI of 100 to 199 is considered ‘moderate’, while 50 to 99 is considered ‘satisfactory’ and below 50 is considered ‘good’. AQI in excess of 200 is considered ‘poor’, above 300 ‘very poor’, above 400 ‘severe’ and above 500 is considered ‘severe+’.On Sunday evening, immediately after the dust plume entered the Konkan and north Madhya Maharashtra regions, SAFAR recorded an AQI of 333, which climbed to 502 by the next morning. “Since AQIs, at both state level and in the CPCB’s daily air quality index bulletin are presented as an average of the past 24 hours, the previous day’s conditions are actually better reflected in the following day’s average,” explained Sachin Panwar, an independent air quality expert certified by the Quality Council of India. “There must have been an accumulation of dust during the night, owing to lower temperatures and slower wind speeds, and this likely pushed the AQI numbers past the 500-mark in the morning. For a coastal city like Mumbai, it is surprising to see such a high AQI,” he added.Other experts were also surprised. “I have never seen uniformly high pollution load across so many of the city’s air quality monitors before,” said Ronak Sutaria, founder of Respirer Living Sciences. “The nature of the pollution, however, is very different from a city like Delhi, which records such high AQIs more routinely. There, the sources of pollution tend to be local, whereas the event witnessed in Mumbai is clearly a regional event in that the pollutants were transported in a very large quantity from outside the region over a short period of time.”Mumbai had also witnessed a similar dust event in March 2012. The source of dust has always been the arid regions of the Middle East and Pakistan, experts said. However, such events over the Middle East are generally more frequent during spring and summer season when factors such as high temperature, atmospheric instability, strong northwesterly winds and thunderstorms create ideal conditions for the triggering of dust storms. Dust storms observed in June and July are not able to impact Mumbai due to the monsoon conditions. LOW TEMPERATURES CONTINUE As a result of the western disturbance and accompanying unseasonal rains, Mumbai continued to experience cooler than usual temperatures on Monday. The day’s daytime maximum settled six degrees below normal at 24.8 degrees Celsius (up from 23.8 degrees Celsius the day prior, which marked the lowest in January in at least a decade) while the minimum settled two notches below normal at 15 degrees Celsius, down from 21 degrees Celsius on Sunday. January’s highest maximum as per historical records stands at 37.4 degrees Celsius (in 2006) while the lowest minimum stands at 7.4 degrees Celsius (in 1962). With temperatures expected to rise from Tuesday, warmer conditions will further aid in the dispersal of accumulated dust. HEALTH IMPACT Chest physician Dr Prashant Chhajed from Santacruz based Lung Care and Sleep Centre said that nearly 20% of his daily consultations over the past few days have been people complaining of runny nose, burning of eyes, sneezing and cough triggered by the condition of the air. “Some patients mistake these as Covid-19 symptoms and end doing RT-PCR tests,” said Dr Chhajed. “Patients who already have underlying conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorders (COPD) are highly sensitive. We make sure that their existing treatment is on track and enhance the level of treatment temporarily if needed. In patients with no such underlying conditions, we give symptomatic treatment and advise them not to step out early in the morning to avoid inhaling the smog particles,” he said. City-based physician Dr Hemant Gupta said that the high concentration of smog mainly impacts early morning walkers, senior citizens, and those with already existing lung ailments. “When such people inhale these particles, respiratory allergies are triggered or aggravated,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-502-city-records-its-worst-ever-air-quality-101643043373941.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra ACB sees notable dip in corruption cases amid Covid-19 pandemic||Mumbai Maharashtra has seen a significant drop in corruption cases amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has seen a 14 drop with 773 cases registered in 2021, down from 891 cases in 2019. In 2020, ACB had registered 663 cases, a 26 percent dip from the 2019 figures and 14.23 percent less than cases logged in 2021.In the recently released statistics for the year 2021, the agency stated that of the 773 cases registered in 2021, 764 were trap cases, 7 were disproportionate assets cases and two other cases. In the same period in 2020, the agency had registered 630 trap cases, 12 disproportionate assets cases and 21 other types of corruption cases. Before the pandemic, in 2019, the agency had registered 866 trap cases, 20 disproportionate asset cases, and five other corruption cases.ACB officials attributed the dip in fresh cases to Covid-19 pandemic-triggered lockdowns and closures of non-essential establishments.“Fewer people came out of their homes in the city and the state due to the several lockdowns and restrictions imposed during the year, leading to registration of less number of cases,” said retired IPS officer and former DGP of Maharashtra, Praveen Dixit, who has also worked as DGP of ACB.ACB sources said that in 2017, the agency had registered 925 cases and 936 cases in 2018.“We had even appealed to people and advertised that they can register their complaint on the app of Maharashtra ACB and we will approach them so they don’t have to leave their houses,” said an ACB official.“Though fewer cases were registered in 2020 and 2021, the number increased as soon as the Covid-19 situation improved in 2022. Despite the third wave, the agency has already registered 33 trap cases till January 20,” the ACB official added.The statistics revealed that Mumbai is the eighth corrupt city in Maharashtra. In 2021, the financial capital of India logged 46 corruption cases and the Mumbai Unit arrested 66 persons in total in relation to the cases.Pune topped the list in 2021 with 165 cases and 235 arrests, followed by Aurangabad where 130 cases were registered and 184 arrests were made. In Nashik region ACB registered 129 cases and made 173 arrests, whereas its Thane unit registered 88 cases and made 135 arrests, Amravati and Nagpur units registered 72 cases each with 103 and 94 arrests respectively, and the Nanded unit registered 62 cases and arrested 86 people.“All the other regions from Nashik, Aurangabad, Thane each division has more than four to five districts under it. Mumbai only had two districts Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban which is the reason the cases are less in Mumbai,” said Laxmi Gautam, Additional Commissioner of Police, ACB, Mumbai, who heads the Mumbai Region, adding that Nashik ACB unit has five districts under -- Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar.However, former DGP Dixit believes the reason for fewer cases in Mumbai is the “busy life of citizens and corrupt bodies like the BMC where the process is two way so neither the complainant nor the government official is unhappy and nobody wants to report about it”.“When we launched the Maharashtra ACB app, the main aim was that the complainants did not require to come to the ACB office at Worli and can lodge their grievance online. Due to their busy lifestyle, Mumbai residents avoid approaching ACB officials and instead prefer paying bribe and carrying out the work. At times the process is two way, as people are also keen to get the work done by paying a little amount. We even carried out several seminars in schools and colleges to reach maximum people,” said Dixit, who has served as the DGP of ACB Maharashtra.RTI activist and convener of The Young Whistleblowers Foundation, Jeetendra Ghadge, believes that there needs to be a change in the attitude of the ACB officials, especially in the city.“Out of more than 5,000 complaints of financial misconduct, only one First Information Report (FIR) was registered by the Mumbai Region and 200 inquires ordered. The ACB’s concentration is only on small fishes and the bigger sharks or Class I official’s are sitting merrily. They only arrest people in traps but don’t want to inquire or question people on anonymous letters or suo motto action if they find somebody is having more wealth than his income,” said Ghadge.“Lot of political interference’s and no powers for independent decision making are killing the performance of the agency. While the figures of ACB might show a rosy picture the reality is something else,” Ghadge added.However, Gautam said that the Mumbai ACB unit registered a lot of high-profile cases in 2021. “The agency registered a case against Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Mumbai Monorail, Dr D L N Murthy for demanding bribe. Recently, the agency arrested another Class I officer Anil Jadhav who was posted with Maharashtra State Skill Development Society (MSSDS) after he was caught accepting a bribe. It even arrested a female inspector from Azad Maidan Traffic Division, Sheetal Malte for demanding a bribe from a transporter. 30 percent of the cases that Mumbai Unit did was of Class One officers,” he said.The statistics of the ACB in 2021 showed that the revenue department topped in corruption with 178 cases, followed by the police department 173 cases, followed by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company’s 51 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-acb-sees-notable-dip-in-corruption-cases-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101643041758071.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Allow kin of Covid victims to claim ex-gratia physically: HC||Mumbai Chiding the state government for making the process of submitting claims for ₹50,000 compensation for families of Covid victims technology-based, the Bombay high court (HC) directed the state to permit individuals to submit documents physically or by post.While hearing a PIL filed by NGO Prameya Welfare Foundation, the bench said “getting compensation is their right” and the authorities could not deal with their claims in a “technical manner.”The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik was hearing the petition. Advocates Sumedha Rao and Rumana Bagdadi for the NGO, which represents 56 applicants, informed the bench that it was seeking reliefs as applicants were unable to apply through the web portal specifically set-up for processing such claims.The advocates further submitted that as per a Supreme Court (SC) decision, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) had formulated guidelines for the state to disburse the ex-gratia compensation of ₹50,000 to dependents of Covid victims through the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Certification of eligible victims is to be decided as per guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and the Indian Centre for Medical Research (ICMR).Referring to the work undertaken by the NGO, advocate Rao said that claim forms were distributed in several chawls and slum areas following which nearly 56 people, who are economically backwards, had filed claims before the Collector’s office, much before the Maharashtra government had initiated an online portal for claims and payments. She added that due to technical glitches in uploading forms on the online portal, claims should be granted based on the forms submitted physically.Advocate Kejali Mastakar for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed the bench that it had received nearly 34,159 applications for ex-gratia compensation, out of which the civic authority had approved 16,818 applications.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department said, “The number of applications is more than the Covid deaths on Mumbai’s list as some applications are duplicate. Multiple family members have applied for the same death. In other cases, some applications are also there as the patient is not a resident of Mumbai, but was treated in the city.” According to the BMC, there are 16,958 approved applications,8,052 multiple/duplicate applications, 9,474 outside Mumbai residents’ applications, remaining applications are under process of approval.Government pleader (GP) for the state government informed the bench that the online portal was intended to ensure that the amount was directly paid to the beneficiary account and hence the NGO should assist them in submitting the claim forms. After hearing the submissions, the bench chided the state and said, “The spirit of SC order is that the administration must reach families of persons who have died of Covid. Keep this in mind, Why should you be so technical (while deciding claims)?” The bench then observed that the online portal was for the convenience of the state but getting compensation was a right of the citizens and they could not be deprived just because the claims were filed through the physical mode.Thereafter, the GP sought time to take instructions from concerned officials which the bench accepted and posted a further hearing of the PIL to January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-kin-of-covid-victims-to-claim-ex-gratia-physically-hc-101643041751937.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP to form next govt with 300-plus seats: Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday targeted the opposition, reiterating that the BJP would form the next government with 300-plus seats in Uttar Pradesh. “The combined tally of SP, BSP, Congress and independents would not cross 100 seats in the UP polls,” said Adityanath in a press statement to media in New Delhi. He added: “Dreams of those indulging in loot and pushing the state into riots have been shattered by the BJP government in the state. The BJP has worked with zero tolerance towards crime and corruption.” He said the BJP government was sensitive towards villages, poor, farmers, youth and women. “People had no expectations from the Samajwadi Party that indulged in humiliating Baba Saheb Ambedkar and changed names of institutions set up in the name of late Kanshi Ram. The SP had sided with criminals and rioters and those responsible for the exodus of Hindus in Kairana,” added Adityanath. He said the Lakhimpur Kheri violence was unfortunate and the state government acted effectively with regard to it. On SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav, who joined the BJP recently, he said she was in touch with the BJP for four years. Adityanath said she had positive thinking about the BJP government’s work and had contributed for the construction of Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-to-form-next-govt-with-300-plus-seats-yogi-101643041750454.html
24-01-2022||Patna||Bihar minister’s son among 7 booked after Bettiah clash||Seven people, including Bihar tourism minister’s son Niraj Kumar and brother Harendra Prasad, have been booked in connection with the violence in which a 28-year-old man sustained injuries when two groups clashed at Hardiya Koritala village at the outskirts of Bettiah in West Champaran district on Sunday, police said on Monday.Ugra Nath Jha, station house officer of Mufassil police station, said that the mother of the injured, identified as Janardan Kumar, stated in her first information report (FIR) that at first, it appeared that Janardan suffered bullet injuries, but later it was found out that the minister’s son hit him with the butt of a gun when he along with other children were playing cricket near an orchard.According to police, the seven have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, besides the Arms Act.Dismissing the allegations levelled against him, the minister’s son said that Janardan sustained injuries after a brick, which was allegedly thrown at him, missed the target and hit the 28-year-old. “Some villagers were trying to encroach upon our land at Hardiya Koritola village. They misbehaved with my uncle when he objected. On hearing this, when I reached there, they attacked us and even snatched my licensed gun,” said Niraj.Meanwhile, a complaint was also lodged by Harendra Prasad. “Further investigation into the matter is underway,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-minister-s-son-among-7-booked-after-bettiah-clash-101643041093400.html
24-01-2022||Patna||Magistrate, family held captive after road accident, 10 cops injured in rescue bid||Over a dozen policemen were injured in mob violence at a village in East Champaran district, where they had gone to rescue a judicial officer and his family held captive after their vehicle allegedly crushed a 30-year-old motorcyclist to death, police said. According to police, trouble erupted when the motorcyclist, identified as Nathu Das (30), a resident of Chhangraha Brita Toli, died after being run over by the official vehicle of Bettiah’s additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) KK Sahi, who was on his way to Bettiah from Motihari along with his family members. “Police had to resort to mild lathi-charge and arrest 10 people after a team which went to rescue the ACJM and his family held captive by the villagers also came under attack,” said Dr Kumar Ashish, superintendent of police (SP), East Champaran. During the clash, over a dozen of policemen also sustained injuries.Sources, quoting eye witnesses, said that as the news of the motorcyclist’s death spread, enraged villagers disrupted the vehicular movement near Chhangraha village on Bettiah-Motihari main road, putting up the blockades. “Demanding compensation beyond the government rule, they also held ACJM and his family members captive,” said an eye-witness. When a police team arrived at the site, the crowd went berserk and started pelting stones at police after the ACJM and his family members were rescued. “Other miscreants are being identified,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/magistrate-family-held-captive-after-road-accident-10-cops-injured-in-rescue-bid-101643041092137.html
24-01-2022||Patna||JD(U) dares Bihar BJP chief to back special status demand||The Janata Dal (United) on Monday dared ally Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Sanjay Jaiswal to spearhead the campaign for getting the special status to Bihar, saying chief ministers of many backward states are united on the demand. JD(U)’s national general secretary KC Tyagi said CMs of states like Assam, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal had been campaigning for the special status to their respective states, apart from Bihar. “For Jaiswal’s knowledge, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar had held a meeting with Odisha CM Navin Patnaik and West Bengal CM Manata Benerjee in Bhubaneshwar on the issue of special status in February 2020 and asked for special attention from the centre towards the backward states,” Tyagi said. Responding to JD(U) national president Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh’s bid to revive the abandoned demand for special status to Bihar, Jaiswal had said he would support and join JD(U)’s campaign if its chief managed to bring the CMs of other backward states on the issue. Tyagi said the special status for Bihar was not JD(U)’s demand only. “It’s a matter of the state’s pride and identity. Leaders cutting across the party lines had unanimously passed resolutions in the state legislature for the special status. The party believes that the nation cannot prosper unless Bihar is developed. The special status is an undeniable necessity for Bihar to stand together with the developed states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, etc,” said Tyagi, adding that the special package would not help much. The BJP chief’s assurance to back the special status demand for Bihar was, however, ridiculed by the opposition leaders. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha said BJP and JD(U) were playing a fixed match over the issue. “If Jaiswal, who is also an MP from West Champaran, is really concerned for development of Bihar, he should have reminded PM Narendra Modi about his commitment to the people of Bihar during 2014 Lok Sabha elections,” said Jha. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLA and chief spokesman Bhai Birendra said. “Why hasn’t a single Central minister from Bihar ever talked about the demand for special status? It’s because of BJP’s dithering approach that the Bihar CM’s bid to hold all-party meet on the caste census is pending.”
24-01-2022||Patna||No anticipatory bail for MU V-C in graft case||PATNA A special vigilance court in Patna on Monday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Magadh University vice chancellor Dr Rajendra Prasad, who faces serious corruption charges and whose official residence in Bodh Gaya and ancestral house in Gorakhpur (UP) were searched two months ago. Anandi Singh, who appeared for the state government in the court, said, “The court had granted him interim relief earlier and said no coercive action be taken till the disposal of his bail application, which has now been rejected.”Prasad has been on medical leave since raids were conducted at his houses two months ago. He had appeared before the special vigilance unit (SVU) last week for the first time, but reportedly did not give satisfactory replies to the questions put to him. He is accused of corruption in the purchase of OMR sheets, answer books and books for libraries. During the searches, ₹90 lakh in cash, foreign currency worth ₹7.5 lakh and jewellery worth ₹15 lakh were seized from his premises, as per SVU officials. Several files related to guards’ recruitment were also recovered from his residence, which actually should have been in his Bodh Gaya office, sleuths said. Four Magadh University officials — Prasad’s personal assistant, university proctor, registrar and library in-charge — have already been arrested in the case.This is the first time that premises of a serving vice chancellor were raided in Bihar.
24-01-2022||Patna||5 held for Patna jewellery shop loot||The police on Monday claimed to have solved the case of robbery at a jewellery shop in the state capital on January 21 with the arrest of five persons and said looted gold and cash have been recovered from them.Addressing a press conference, Patna senior superintendent of police (SSP) M S Dhillon said, “The case loot at S S Jewellery shop in Bakerganj area has been solved in 48 hours with the arrest of five persons. We have recovered 6.5 kilograms of looted gold worth ₹3.25 crore and ₹4.32 lakh in cash.” “Soon after the incident, the police obtained the CCTV footage of the incident in which they were seen carrying on the loot operation at gunpoint. While they were escaping, one of them was caught on the spot and the police recovered one looted bag of gold, a loaded pistol and a motorcycle from his possession,” he said.Dhillon said that during interrogation, the arrested person, Rajesh Ram alias Sadhu of Dhangaon from Jehanabad, spilled the names of his accomplices, identified as Sonu, Raju, Akash and Nitesh.“They were also involved in theft of vehicles in Patna. The police also recovered a stolen luxury vehicle,” he said.The loot incident, on January 21, has triggered outrage among local traders who had taken to streets in protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/5-held-for-patna-jewellery-shop-loot-101643041031661.html
24-01-2022||Ranchi||Women banking correspondents widen financial inclusion in rural Jharkhand||“It’s is difficult to believe that life could actually change so much in just two-three years. But that is how my experience has been since I took over this work in 2018 after becoming a member of the women self-help group (SHG) in 2015,” says Poonam Surin, who works as banking correspondent sakhi (BCS) in the tribal-dominated Tethaitangar block of Simdega district in Jharkhand.Surin, a graduate, says she was a homemaker till she joined the SHG, giving tuitions to children in her Gargarbahar village and earning around ₹1000-1500 every month. “On an average, I now earn around ₹10,000 per month. And there is scope to increase it further as my income is linked to the number of banking transactions done through me. We get a commission of 0.5% of each transaction value,” says Surin. In November 2021, Surin did 795 banking transactions worth ₹31.95 lakh. There are others who have travelled far, doing monthly transactions of over ₹1 crore. In the same month, Anita Kumari of Jayshree Mahila Kalyan Samuh in Chitarpur of Ramgarh district did transactions worth ₹1.2 crore. Similarly, Gudiya Kushwaha of Vikash Mahila Mandal in Bela in Hazaribag district logged transactions worth ₹1.09 crore.Besides gender empowerment, SHG women like Surin are transforming banking in the rural areas, taking it to the doorsteps of the needy, especially the elderly and the divyang (handicapped), widening financial inclusion of rural populace like never before.These BCS are part of SHGs (Sakhi Mandals) formed under the Deendayal Antayodaya Yojana (DAY) under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) of the central government. In Jharkhand, the programme is run by Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS), which works under the state’s rural development department. As per official estimates, the BC Sakhis are making 2.75 lakh transactions worth ₹120 crore every month.“Currently, we have 4,691 women working as banking agents. Some of them are working in the same panchayats if they are big in geographical spread and demography. Out of them, 1,491 are working as BCS after proper training. The target is to have at least one BCS in all of the 4,370 gram panchayats in the state,” said Dheeraj Horo, state programme manager (financial inclusion), JSLPS.These banking correspondents provide basic financial services such as customer identification, collection of information/applications, individual account opening, cash withdrawal, deposit, transfer, Aadhar seeding, pension services, scholarships to school children, wage payment under MGNREGA and fund withdrawal under PMAY etc.“While the concept of banking correspondent is to take banking into rural pockets, associating women with it has far-reaching consequences. It has the potential of a silent social revolution wherein women become self-reliant. It also promotes them as role models among the local populace,” said Manish Ranjan, rural development secretary, Jharkhand.JSLPS officials said women working as BC Sakhi also help SHGs in understanding the banking system and make credit linkages better. “If members from a SHG become banking agents, it boosts the confidence of other members of the SHG as most of them are illiterates. As per the state-level banking committee (SLBC) data, the credit linkage to women SHGs was only ₹27 crore in 2013. In 2021, it rose to ₹3,234 crore. It shows how confidence of SHGs has increased in seeking bank loans,” said Horo. During Covid-19 and curbs, officials said, banking correspondents played a key role, providing banking services closer to people’s homes, taking all precautions as per the set protocols. “Besides banking services, these BCS and SHGs also helped in cooking and distribution of food during the lockdown period,” said Ranjan.However, technical glitch, especially poor internet connectivity, is one of the major hindrances in functioning of the banking correspondents, besides safety issues for moving around with money for their job.BCS Gudiya Kushwaha of Vikash Mahila Mandal in Bela in Hazaribag district, who logged transactions worth ₹1.09 crore, said poor internet connectivity forces them to restrict their functioning from their kiosk, which operates like a mini bank. “We still try to reach out to the needy, especially the elderly and disabled. We try to organize a weekly visit to the villages to cater to the needs of the SHGs and their loan-related settlements. Even if the customers are required to visit our permanent centres, it is much more convenient for them. For example, people from our panchayat were required to visit the block headquarter Chouparan to avail of banking services, which is around six kilometres from here. But now they are required not beyond one to one-and-a-half kilometres,” said Kushwaha.Ranjan, while conceding that internet connectivity was a concern, said his department has issued an order making it mandatory for the BCS to make regular visits to the villages. “It is especially required when the customers are senior citizens or divyangs,” said Ranjan.
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai fire: HC to hear PIL on compliance of safety norms on Feb 7||Mumbai In light of the fire in a South Mumbai high rise on Sunday which left seven people dead, the Bombay high court on Monday granted an urgent hearing to public interest litigation seeking directions to the state government and the civic authorities to ensure that fire safety norms were scrupulously complied with in residential, commercial and public structures. The court has posted the PIL for hearing on February 7.On Monday, advocate Aditya Pratap representing petitioner Abha Singh, mentioned the PIL for urgent hearing before the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik.The bench was informed that while the state government had prepared the Draft Special Regulations for Building Vulnerable to Manmade Disasters through a notification on February 27, 2009, and the deputy director had processed the suggestions and objections thereafter, a final notification has not been issued.The bench was told that till 2018, when the PIL was filed, and thereafter, there have been many manmade disasters and a large number of people lost their lives, including those in the fire in the high-rise on Sunday. The bench was told that all these could have been avoided, had the court issued directions to the authorities to process the same. The court accepted the petitioner’s request for an urgent hearing. The PIL is expected to come up for hearing on February 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-hc-to-hear-pil-on-compliance-of-safety-norms-on-feb-7-101643040490586.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Ranjitsinh Disale’s study leave approved post minister’s intervention||Mumbai The Solapur district administration has approved the study leave application of Ranjitsinh Disale, a teacher who won the prestigious Global Teacher Prize 2020, to pursue a scholarship in the United States. The move comes after school education minister Varsha Gaikwad directed authorities to approve the leave on January 22. “My study leave application has been accepted by Dilip Swami sir, Solapur chief executive officer (CEO). I express my gratitude to the school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, minister of state Bacchu Kadu and the entire administration,” Disale tweeted on Sunday evening.He had applied for six months’ leave on December 14 but it wasn’t approved by the senior officials until January 22. The last day to submit the approval for Fulbright DAI is January 25.After the matter came to light, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad directed Solapur CEO to approve his leave application on Saturday.A teacher at a Zilla Parshad school in Solapur’s Paritewadi, Disale is the first teacher from India to win the prestigious $1-million Global Teacher Prize for innovation in teaching.He was among the 12,000 educators from 140 countries, who were nominated for the prize, which was set up to recognise teachers making outstanding contributions to the profession as well as to shine a spotlight on the important role teachers play in society.In 2015, the Maharashtra government had adopted Disale’s idea and made QR codes available in Balbharti textbooks. Subsequently in 2018, the then Union Human Resource Development minister Prakash Javadekar had announced that all National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) textbooks will have embedded QR codes.Post the win, Disale appeared in Kaun Banega Crorepati’s (KBC) Karamveer episode in December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ranjitsinh-disale-s-study-leave-approved-post-minister-s-intervention-101643039830922.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai logs 1,857 fresh Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 3-week low of 5.41%||Mumbai on Monday reported 1,857 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, a number that is around 27 per cent less than yesterday's daily tally. At the same time, the city also recorded 11 new cases, which is once again a drop from the 13 fatalities logged a day ago, showed the daily health bulletin issued on Monday by the municipal corporation of Greater Mumbai.Yesterday's daily coronavirus infection tally of 2,550 cases was the lowest for India's financial capital in around three weeks. With today's numbers, the cumulative infection toll in Mumbai has reached 1,036,690 while the death count has hit 16,546. The city also saw a drop in the daily positivity rate to 5.41 per cent, the lowest in the last three weeks. Besides, the hospitalisation rate has also dropped to 10.2 per cent, down from the 21 per cent two weeks ago. This means that only 3,855 of the total 37,742 hospital beds in the city are currently occupied by coronavirus disease-affected patients.On that note, it is worth mentioning that around 503 Covid-19 patients had recovered and been discharged from their respective hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the overall hospitalisation toll in the city to 996,289.According to the state health department data, the city’s recovery rate is 96 per cent, while the mortality rate is 1.59 per cent. There are 21,142 active Covid-19 cases in the city.According to BMC data, 27 buildings have been sealed in the city. There is no containment zone in Mumbai at present, BMC said.BMC officials said that the number of cases has gone down owing to less simple testing over the weekend. On Monday, 34,301 samples were tested, which is less than the average of around 50,000 to 52,000 tests during the week.Despite a fall in cases and positivity rate, the BMC officials have warned of further spike if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-logs-1-857-fresh-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-at-3-week-low-of-541-101643037507018.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Pune air quality drops to ‘Very poor’ as dust shrouds city||PUNE Pune’s air quality on Monday was worse as the city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) soared to 400 and remained in the ‘red’ category of ‘Very poor’, data showed. In some parts of the city like Pashan and Lohegaon, the air quality was severe which means that pollutants were alarmingly high. Dust settled across Pune city on Sunday, causing the air quality to deteriorate on Monday. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) forecast said that the air quality may remain the same till January 27. Dr B S Murthy, director of SAFAR and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said that the dust is settled in Pune city but the air quality will improve only after January 27. “The situation is improving and the dust is settling now. The air quality will improve post January 26. Pune, usually has air quality between ‘Satisfactory’ to ‘Moderate’. As the dust settles, it’s effect will also not be seen,” said Murthy.On Monday, Pune city also reported night temperature at 10.4 degrees Celsius. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD) night temperature on Sunday was 17.2 degrees Celsius. The city witnessed a drastic drop in minimum temperature which is also a factor that contributed to the rise in pollution levels.Speaking about it, Murthy added that local conditions impact air quality. “Drop in temperature can increase the dispersion of pollution particles which deteriorates the air quality,” he said.According to SAFAR officials, dust storms in the gulf region along with high winds have taken to higher levels of the atmosphere. This has impacted Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra.“Dust storms are a regular phenomenon in pre-monsoon months like April and May when the gulf region is experiencing heat. However, it is very rare in winter,” said Murthy. “AQI of Pune indicates ‘Very poor’ air quality today and is likely to improve but remain within ‘Very poor’ for the next two days. Air quality is likely to improve gradually from January 27 onwards as the influence of dust storms subsides and local ventilation of pollutants increases,” said SAFAR officials.Scientists further added that the dust storm has degraded air quality in Gujarat and Maharashtra from January 23, noon onwards. AQI of Mumbai has degraded significantly to ‘Severe’ and likely to improve to ‘lower end of severe’ as upper level winds are expected to blow from northeast that minimises dust intrusion for the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-air-quality-drops-to-very-poor-as-dust-shrouds-city-101643038456009.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Congress urges PM and Thackeray to ban ‘Why I killed Gandhi’ movie||Mumbai: The Indian National Congress (INC) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking a ban on the movie -‘Why I Killed Gandhi’- that glorifies Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse. Nana Patole, president of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC), also attacked the Narendra Modi-led government for diluting the Mahatma’s legacy.“Any glorification of a despicable and inhuman act is against Indian culture, and hence, the Congress party is demanding that the film should not be screened in any cinema house in Maharashtra or on any OTT platform, and we request that this must be accepted,” said Patole in his letter to Thackeray on Monday.“An assassin is being converted into a hero. The country’s identity is the principle of ahimsa (non-violence) as espoused by Mahatma Gandhi and Gautama Buddha. The people of this country will not tolerate an attempt to glorify a killer,” Patole, who was accompanied by activist Firoze Mithiborwala and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Vidya Chavan, told the media.NCP Lok Sabha MP and actor Amol Kolhe has played the lead role in Godse’s biopic, which is scheduled to release on January30. This led to criticism from his party colleagues and Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad, though NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has said that Kolhe’s role should be seen as that of an actor. On being asked about Kolhe’s role in the movie, Patole said “they were against the ideology and not the actors.”Patole also attacked the merger and putting out of the icon Amar Jawan Jyoti at the India Gate in Delhi with the newer flame at the National War Memorial. Patole also decried attempts to dilute the legacy of Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, by dropping Gandhi’s favourite hymn ‘Abide With Me’ from the Beating Retreat ceremony. On January 30, Congress leaders and activists will hold a fast as part of their protest at Gandhi’s statue near Mantralaya in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-urges-pm-and-thackeray-to-ban-why-i-killed-gandhi-movie-101643037790460.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Two from Bengaluru held for posing as central govt officials, duping multiple women||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested two men from Bengaluru in separate cases of matrimonial fraud. The two were remanded to police custody by a court in Pune on Monday.The two forged government identification and posed as central government officials to lure women into establishing physical relations with them. The two then deployed similar modus operandi of taking money from the women and turning incommunicado, according to police.The two men have been identified as Nishant Rameshchand Nandvana alias Adhitansh Shivprasad Agnihotri, 33, a resident of Marathalli in Bengaluru and a native of Kishanganj in Rajasthan and Vishal Harshad Sharma alias Ashwin Shukla, 33, also a resident of Marathalli and a native of Kota in Rajasthan.The court of Judicial magistrate first class SV Nimse remanded the two to police custody till January 28.Agnihotri is under arrest for sexual harassment and cheating of ₹13 lakh of a 32-year-old woman from Pimpri-Chinchwad between July and December of 2021. Agnihotri has also recorded illicit videos of the complainant in the case against him. Sharma is under arrest for sexual assault and cheating of ₹8 lakh of a 30-year-old woman from Pune between July and October 2021, said officials.“They were both brought to court. They had made fake government identification and used it to make fake Aadhaar, PAN card and bank account. In one case, the man was found in possession of a Skoda car which had a forged registration number. They are suspected of having duped multiple such women in Bengaluru as well. Therefore, the court has granted police custody for five days,” said assistant public prosecutor VC Murlikar.While Agnihotri is booked under Sections 354, 420, 467, 468, and 471 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sharma has been booked under Sections 376, 420, 467, 468, and 471 of IPC; both registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-from-bengaluru-held-for-posing-as-central-govt-officials-duping-multiple-women-101643036890213.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Prasanna Travels founder Rayakaka Patwardhan passed away||PUNE Keshav Waman Patwardhan, popularly known as Rayakaka Patwardhan, the founder of Prasanna Travels passed away on Monday due to old age. He was 91. He is survived by his wife, two sons and their families. He founded Prasanna Travels in 1964.His elder son Dr Bhushan Patwardhan is the ex-vice chairman of University Grants Commission (UGC) and was also the advisor to Ayush Ministry. Currently he is active in the education sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/prasanna-travels-founder-rayakaka-patwardhan-passed-away-101643035089778.html
24-01-2022||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt forms Special Purpose Vehicle for management of assets||The Madhya Pradesh government has formed a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to properly manage the assets of the state and PSUs, an official said on Monday. The MP State Asset Management Company (MPSAC) will provide efficient management systems to the government for good management of unutilised assets and to enhance their structure and efficiency, the official said. The SPV would coordinate with the state government to hold these assets which would be monetised to fetch value to the exchequer. The MPSAC will be focusing on the existing participative model for good management of unutilised assets, the official said. The decision to create the SPV was taken by the Madhya Pradesh cabinet in a meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan recently, he said. The SPV would be registered as a company under the Companies Act with an initial authorised capital of ₹1,000 crore. The initial paid-up capital would be ₹10 crore. The board of directors of the SPV includes the chief minister, state chief secretary, secretaries of government departments and managing director of Madhya Pradesh Rajya Praisampati Prabandh Company, who will be the member secretary. For proper management of government and public undertakings' assets, the SPV would be able to take the services of subject experts, consultants and appoint transaction advisors having expertise in asset management, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-forms-special-purpose-vehicle-for-management-of-assets-101643034456653.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pakistan repatriates 20 Indian fishermen held captive in Karachi||Pakistan on Monday repatriated 20 Indian fishermen, who were held captive at Karachi’s Landhi Jail, via the Attari-Wagah border near Amritsar. Pakistani Rangers handed them over to the Border Security Force officials at the zero line around 6pm. After the health department conducted their Covid-19 tests, immigration-related formalities were conducted at the integrated check post, Attari. “All repatriated fishermen belong to Gujarat. They were arrested when they inadvertently crossed over to Pakistan while fishing in the Arabian Sea,” said Punjab Police protocol officer Arun Pal, who is posted at the Attari border. Pakistan-based Edhi Foundation funded the travel expenses of the fishermen, who were released from jail on humanitarian grounds on Sunday. Sources said each fisherman has also been given ₹5,000 as a goodwill gesture by the foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakistan-repatriates-20-indian-fishermen-held-captive-in-karachi-101643034429856.html
24-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengali actor Bonny Sengupta quits BJP, says party failed to keep promises||Kolkata, Jan 24 (PTI) Bengali actor Bonny Sengupta, who had joined the BJP ahead of the assembly polls last year, on Monday said he is quitting the saffron party, as it has failed to keep promises regarding development of the state and the film industry.Sengupta had been maintaining distance from the party after it failed to come to power in the state, despite a high-pitched campaign."This is to inform that my association with the Bharatiya Janata Party hs come 2 an end with effect frm today.The party has failed to keep commitments as promised & also I dnt see any form of development,they had promised for the state of West Bengal or for Bengali film industry (sic)," he tweeted.Sengupta later told reporters that BJP leaders were not in touch with him since the assembly poll results on May 2, 2021.The West Bengal BJP unit made light of the development, asserting that it would hardly impact the party.“It is his decision, so what can we say? And regarding our promises, we did not come to power in West Bengal. Therefore, we don't have the executive power to do anything for the development of the Bengali film industry," BJP state spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said.Bengali actors Srabanti Chatterjee and Tanusree Chakraborty had also recently quit the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengali-actor-bonny-sengupta-quits-bjp-says-party-failed-to-keep-promises-101643034103537.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Watch: Man gets dragged by moving train in Maharashtra, RPF men come to rescue||Personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) have saved the life of a passenger who fell down on a platform while trying to board a moving train in Maharashtra.The incident that occurred at the Vasai Railway Station was captured in a close-circuit camera.In the clip, shared by news agency ANI, the passenger was seen trying to get inside a moving train with a bag around his back and then falling on the platform. He is then seen getting dragged for a short distance by the train. The man later leaves the gate of the train that he was holding onto after which RPF personnel rushed to the spot and dragged him to safety by pulling his legs. The passenger then stands up to his feet and adjusts his outfit.
24-01-2022||Pune||No water supply to parts of Pune on January 27||PUNE As Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned electrical and construction work at Warje and Khadakwasla, many areas in the city will not get water supply on Thursday (January 27), said Aniruddha Pawaskar, head, PMC water department.Areas that will not get water supply include - Bhusari Colony, Bavdhan, Bhugaon road, Sus road, Baner, Balewadi, Pashan, Warje highway, Ramnagar, Karve nagar, Erandwana, Kothrud, Deccan Gymkhana, Happy Colony, Kalas, Dhanori, Viman nagar, Lohegaon, Shivajinagar, Bhosale nagar, Ghole road, Senapati Bapat road, Bopodi, Khadki, Model Colony, Sangamwadi and Bhandarkar road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-to-parts-of-pune-on-january-27-101643033650590.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Man wanted in 22 cases in Haryana found in Pune||PUNE The Pune police have arrested a man wanted in over 22 cases in Haryana and Delhi including one in which he stole gold worth ₹45 lakh and escaped police custody.The man has been identified as Jafar Alikhan Irani, 30, a resident of Irani Vasti in Shivajinagar, according to the police.Along with 22 cases in Haryana, Delhi, the man is also wanted in a case in Ludhiana, Punjab, and Ahmednagar, Maharashtra, according to the police. His police records also showed that he is currently on bail in a case registered at Kondhwa police station of Pune in 2021, said officials.“He posed as a customs official and stole 1 kg 10 gram gold worth ₹45 lakh in Haryana. He was arrested in that case but he escaped police custody. He has been in the most wanted list in Haryana ever since,” said Police sub-inspector Bhairavnath Shelke of Shivajinagar police station.The police received information about his presence in Irani vasti area. “While taking him into custody, the residents of Irani vasti and his family members resisted the police and created a ruckus to help him escape. However, he was caught while trying to flee and brought to Shivajinagar police station,” read a statement from officials of Shivajinagar police station.The police have handed him over to officials of Shrigonda police station in Ahmednagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-wanted-in-22-cases-in-haryana-found-in-pune-101643033289616.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Sonu Sood kicks off campaign for his sister in Moga||Actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood has started campaigning for his sister Malvika Sood Sachar, who is contesting the Punjab assembly elections from Moga on the Congress ticket.On Monday, the two visited Mangewala, Darapur and Khakhrana villages. Addressing a gathering, Sonu Sood highlighted works carried out by his sister for the welfare of underprivileged. He promised that if Malvika wins the election, her first priority will be to upgrade the local civil hospital besides making Moga the most developed assembly segment in Punjab.“Voting for me means to vote for every person of Moga constituency. Therefore, vote for yourself,” said Malvika, who was honoured by Mangewala residents by being weighed in laddoos.The 38-year-old computer engineer, who is known for philanthropic works in her home town Moga, said that she will reach out to every needy person in the assembly segment to help them.Malvika had joined the Congress two weeks back, and was given the ticket while overlooking the sitting party legislator’s claim. Since then, various Congress councillors, sarpanches and local leaders have pledged their support to her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-sonu-sood-kicks-off-campaign-for-his-sister-in-moga-101643032629834.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||At 5,760, Covid-19 cases see major dip in Delhi, positivity rate falls to 11.79%||Delhi on Monday saw a sharp dip in its daily Covid-19 tally as 5,760 fresh infections were logged in the last 24 hours, taking the total number active cases in the national capital to 45,140, according to the health department bulletin on Monday. As many as 9,197 Covid-19 cases were reported a day ago.Further, 30 people succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, down from the previous day's toll of 34. The cumulative fatalities due to the Covid-19 infection in the capital now stands at 25,650.In what may appear to be a silver lining as the city battles with the third wave of the pandemic, driven by the Omicron variant, the positivity rate has dropped to 11.79 per cent, the data showed.Also read | Should Delhi end weekend, night curfew? Govt skeds meeting to decide on ThursdayThe number of daily cases in Delhi has been declining after touching a record single-day high of 28,867 on January 13.The fewer cases reported on Monday could also be due to fewer tests conducted a day ago. According to the health bulletin, as many as 48,844 samples were tested for Covid-19 the previous day as compared to 69,022 on Saturday.As many as 14,836 people recuperated from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 17,26,681.Also read | Delhi: DDMA releases ₹100 crore more for aid to Covid victims’ kinMeanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has called a meeting on January 27 to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the capital. The meeting will be attended by various experts, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other top officials.During the meeting, the authority is also expected to take a final call on lifting weekend and night curfews along with other restrictions on markets in Delhi amid the improving Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-5-760-covid-19-cases-see-major-dip-in-delhi-positivity-rate-falls-to-1179-101643030449308.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Avalanche on Manali-Leh highway as cold tightens grip in Himachal||Amid inclement weather, an avalanche occurred at Mooling on the Manali-Leh national highway on Monday, disrupting traffic on the route. Also read: Power supply hit in Himachal due to heavy snowfall“We have advised all stakeholders to exercise caution for the next few days, along with informing the disaster control room before travelling,” said Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma. The high-altitude regions of Himachal Pradesh have been experiencing intermittent snow spells since Sunday. Himachal Pradesh reeled under intense cold after the fresh spell of snow and rain with the mercury plunging several notches. Khadrala got 71.1cm of snowfall on Sunday night, Shilaroo 29.1cm, Kalpa 25cm, Gondla 20cm, Sangla 19cm and Kufri 14cm. The capital town of Shimla got 15cm of snow and the tourist resort of Manali received 10cm of snow. Naina Devi in Bilaspur was the wettest place, recording 52.2mm of rainfall followed by Sangrah with 52mm and Dharamshala with 40.2mm of rainfall. Bilaspur experienced 40mm of rainfall and Kangra 34mm. Maximum temperature below normal Shimla meteorological centre director Surender Paul said the minimum temperatures were normal since Sunday, but the maximum temperatures were 3-4 degrees below normal. The average maximum temperature was 7-8 degrees below normal, he said. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest place at minus 9 degrees Celsius, followed by Kufri at minus 3 degrees C. Dalhousie shivered at minus 2 degrees, while Shimla and Manali witnessed a low of 0 degree. Palampur saw a low of 3.5 degrees Celsius and Dharamshala 2.2 degrees. 
24-01-2022||Delhi||Should Delhi end weekend, night curfew? Govt skeds meeting to decide on Thursday||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is likely to decide on Thursday whether weekend and night curfew and the restrictions on markets in Delhi should be lifted in the wake of an improvement in the Covid-19 situation.The DDMA has called a meeting at 12:30pm on January 27 to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation with experts, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and others including top officials and take a final decision. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairman of the DDMA, will chair the meeting.The decision to schedule the review meeting comes a day after the number of daily infections in the national Capital dropped below the 10,000-mark for the first time in 19 days to 9,127, and the daily test positivity rate fell to 13.3%.On Friday, the DDMA issued a fresh order allowing private offices to reopen with 50% on-site staff but ordered that the weekend and night curfews will continue in the Capital, notwithstanding a request from the city’s elected government that sought these curbs to be rolled back in light of a fall in the number of cases.A DDMA official said the decision to continue the restrictions was taken because the positivity rate was still over 21% as on Thursday.Traders from across the Capital have demanded lifting of the curbs and appealed to DDMA that it is wrong to restrict people from moving out to earn for their survival.BJP leader and leader of opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said he will meet lieutenant Govnoer Anil Baijal with all BJP MLAs on Tuesday to demand the withdrawal of odd-even restrictions on the markets and weekend curfew.“We will apprise the LG of the problems being faced by the people due to the restrictions and request him to withdraw the restrictions,” Bidhuri said in a statement.Confederation of All India Traders general secretary Praveen Khandelwal has also written a letter to the LG seeking reconsideration of the DDMA’s Friday decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/should-delhi-end-weekend-night-curfew-govt-skeds-meeting-to-decide-on-thursday-101643028969826.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tryst with unwanted visitor who’s overstayed welcome||My husband and I stepped into the New Year with a bang, and alas a sneeze. After all, we are only human and so for how long could we protect ourselves from a particularly unrelenting, obdurate and seemingly immortal visitor, who doesn’t belong to any sex, has no visible form, is weightless, odourless and colourless and doesn’t respect the word, no! It put its foot in our door, squeezed past barricades of double masks and sanitisers and in a vulnerable moment, taking advantage of the tiniest slip and momentary falling of guard, planted itself firmly in our household. An invisible but lethal presence that slyly floated from room to room, nostril to throat and then akin to a parasite, sat pretty and multiplied spitefully. Initially, I took the insidious entry and subsequent attack on the chin! Two years of playing hide and seek and it had eventually succeeded in seeking us out. In spite of all our evasive tactics and deployments, it had managed to cast us in its deadly embrace. It was unthinkable. I rued and blamed myself for the oversight or casual attitude that may have led to us getting infected. Soon hysteria and panic loomed easily within view. Worst case scenarios played out in my head as I searched for the Paracetamols, oximeters and nasal steamers. I was constantly noting down oxygen saturation levels and temperatures, throwing out old thermometers and buying new ones, marching up and down the rooms when I realised that my anxiety and fretting was having a ripple effect on the rest of the family. Taking in deep breaths, I resolved to calm down, and tried to remember and repeat the mantra of acceptance and faith, the key and solution to any unavoidable situation in life. But as Day 5 approached and still we were in the throes of cough and fever, frustration and resentment reared its head and I recalled the stoic words attributed to American philosopher and author, Benjamin Franklin who famously said, “Fish and visitors stink in three days”, a truism that undisputedly applied to our unwanted lodger who had clearly overstayed his welcome. My patience and goodwill were by now being stretched and tested to its limits. Of course, with medication and time, we managed to exorcise ourselves of the undesirable and unsolicited pestilence but realised that it has left behind a small cache of its belongings as a memento. A lingering backache, fatigue, some weakness and bouts of depression, too. I am left wondering what it will take to pack it up and send back to the owner! Rumour has it that the much-maligned intruder and rogue will only be beaten once it has paid us all a little visit. So, buckle up, the trip may be a little choppy but it will be short, I hope and pray. pallavisingh358@gmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tryst-with-unwanted-visitor-who-s-overstayed-welcome-101643028129623.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Freeze Shiromani Akali Dal symbol, EC urged||Socialist Party (India) vice-president Balwant Singh Khera, who has challenged the Shiromani Akali Dal’s recognition as a political party in court, has written to the Election Commission of India, to freeze its symbol of scale so as to render it ineligible to contest the February 20 assembly elections on the same, till the completion of the trial pending in a Hoshiarpur court. Also read: Punjab drugs case: HC dismisses Majithia’s anticipatory bail pleaKhera has filed a forgery case against the SAD’s top leadership, alleging that they obtained recognition from the ECI by submitting a forged declaration in which they claimed the party was secular, whereas they already have a separate constitution submitted with the Gurdwara Commission in which they claim they are a Panthic party. Alleging that the SAD office-bearers had committed offences under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Representation of Peoples Act, Khera demanded that party’s election symbol be frozen. He mentioned that the trial court has issued summons to SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal, incumbent president Sukhbir Singh Badal and general secretary Daljeet Singh Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-freeze-shiromani-akali-dal-symbol-ec-urged-101643026929646.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Husband pushes wife down the lift duct from the fourth floor in Kondhwa||PUNE The Pune police have arrested a man for attempted murder of his wife by pushing her down the lift duct from the fourth floor of a building during an argument in Kondhwa Budrukh area of Pune late on Saturday night.The injured woman has been identified as Shaila Dahire, 25, while the man has been identified as Nitin Dahire, 32, both residing in Kakade vasti in Kondhwa-Budrukh area of Pune, said officials.The incident happened at around 10 pm on Saturday night when the two were arguing. The two were having an argument about some light fittings over which the man wanted his wife to argue with the construction supervisor of the building they were living in. However, it enraged him that she had not seek help from the supervisor during a conversation she had with him eight days before, according to the police.“The man owns the land, on which the six-floor building is built, jointly with 3-4 brothers. The other family members and the husband had been in a fight with the construction supervisor over light-fittings but the injured woman had not participated in the event. Among other things, he started arguing with her about it and pushed her down the lift duct asking her to go back to her parents’ house. There was cardboard and sand on the ground floor which cushioned the fall, but has still caused grievous injury,” said police sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure who registered the case.The woman has suffered a fracture in her spine and sustained other injuries, according to the police.A case under Section 307 (attempted murder), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/husband-pushes-wife-down-the-lift-duct-from-the-fourth-floor-in-kondhwa-101643025790228.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab drugs case: HC dismisses Majithia’s anticipatory bail plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia in the drugs case registered against him in Mohali on December 20. Also read: NDA seals Punjab seat-sharing. BJP to contest 65 seats, Captain’s party eyes 37Majithia will now be approaching the Supreme Court for interim protection from arrest in the case. Earlier in the day, the high court bench of justice Lisa Gill heard arguments from both sides and the order was reserved for the pronouncement at 4pm. Though the detailed order is awaited, the pronouncement was made at 4pm. The high court had on two occasions given interim protection from arrest to Majithia on his plea. On January 10 and 18, it asked him to cooperate in the probe and also imposed some other conditions. On the last date of hearing on January 18, Punjab Police complained before the high court that Majithia did not cooperate in the probe, even though he joined the investigation on multiple occasions. The state government had roped in former Union minister and Supreme Court lawyer P Chidambaram, while apex court lawyer Mukul Rohtagi with senior advocate RS Cheema represented Majithia. On January 10, the high court acted on his anticipatory bail plea and asked him to join the probe on January 12. It directed the police not to arrest him. After remaining underground for 20 days, Majithia surfaced a day after the high court gave him interim protection. He was booked under Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on December 20. On December 24, a Mohali court dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. In his plea, Majithia termed the FIR an “election stunt” and alleged that the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government had changed three Punjab Police chiefs in three months to get this FIR registered. The plea also accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards Majithia. Punjab Police, in its response, had said that the government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels during the Akali regime in the state. Majithia was a key minister in the Akali government and it was during the SAD’s term that the cartel was unearthed, the police submitted. The SIT also said incriminating material had come on record against Majithia.
24-01-2022||Pune||BMCC wins Purushottam Karandak after 14 years||PUNE Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC) has won the prestigious 56th Purushottam Karandak 2022 for their one-act play - Manjamma Puranam. This win comes after 14 years.The college had earlier won the trophy for 2 shoor directed by Alok Rajwade in 2009. The Purushottam Karandak, is an annual inter-collegiate Marathi one -act play competition where students from across Maharashtra representing their respective college participate. The competition is known for giving a platform to amateur actors, some of whom have become professional actors, directors and playwrights.“This year 50 colleges participated and 49 presented their plays following all the Covid norms. We held the Karandak after a gap of one year, but nothing could dampen the spirit and the energy of the college students participating,” said trustee Mangesh Shinde, Maharashtriya Kalopasak, who organises this competition.“We were expecting the students to look at a play on Covid, which no one did, instead presented some very interesting plays like, Manjamma Puranam (BMCC),Trip (Pemraj Sarda College, Ahmednagar) Bhag Dhanno Bhag – (Modern College), Complete Void (Abasaheb Garware College), Panipuri (Ganeshkhind Engineering College),Varat (IMCC), Safar ( Kaveri Mahavidyalaya), Art (Vasantdada Patil Institute of Technology), and Every Night in My Dreams (Kashibai Navale College of Engineering). There were nine finalists whose performance were judged by Chinmay Sumeet, Shailesh Deshmukh and Nitin Dhanduke,” he added. The preliminary round of the Purushottam Karandak was held from January 3 to 17, 2022. Although this Karandak has been held since 1963, it was not held in 2021 due to Covid, said organisers.Manjamma Puranam, the winning play is written and directed by Shantanu Joshi and Yogesh Sapre. “We all were discussing what to perform for Purushottam Karandak, that is when we came across Padmashree B Manjamma Jogati’s interview. She was the only transgender woman to win Padmashree this year. Her life story was appealing and intimidating. Also, we found some relevance with mythology. Performing it along with live music was a real task but also it did add a great layer to the play,” said Sakshi Deshpande, SY BCom student and part of the team. The Covid restrictions added many obstacles to the actors but they overcame them all to practice for the play with precautions. “We tried our best to not let these restrictions come in the way and had to practice the play with less than 20 people at a time,” she added.“Purushottam Karandak has always been a prestigious competition for the drama groups in colleges in Pune. Great actors, directors and writers have grown under this competition and all this legacy and goodwill makes it a respected competition. This competition helps us concentrate mainly on direction, writing and acting. It is really a challenge to form a play with 16 people in the team,” said Yogesh Sapre.The Purushottam Karandak award function will take place on January 29 at 6pm, followed by the performance of the winning play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bmcc-wins-purushottam-karandak-after-14-years-101643023872303.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Sidhu complains to EC against AAP’s phone survey||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday submitted a complaint to the Election Commission against the Aam Aadmi Party’s ‘Janata Chunegi Apna CM’ phone survey to name its chief ministerial candidate, calling it “fake propaganda”. Also read: NDA seals Punjab seat-sharing deal: BJP to contest 65 seats, Captain’s party eyes 37The PPCC chief complained that prima facie the AAP’s survey seems to be fake as the data with respect to 21.59 lakh phone calls, voice messages and WhatsApp messages within just four days is not mathematically logical. “At the initial stage, this data pertaining to call logs is assumed to be fake,” Sidhu has written to the chief election commissioner, demanding the registration of a case against the AAP through its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal if his charge is found to be true. Sidhu released his complaint to the media at a press conference in Chandigarh. Kejriwal had on January 18 named the AAP’s Punjab unit president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann as the chief ministerial face of the party in the state following its phone survey. “The party received 21.59 lakh responses from people during the drive to pick the CM face. Of them, 93.3% respondents took Bhagwant Mann’s name,” Kejriwal had said while announcing his name at an event in Mohali. In his complaint, Sidhu said the AAP was claiming that they have received 7 lakh WhatsApp messages, 2.5 lakh voice messages and 8 lakh voice calls, but this does not make sense at all. “Usually, such calls take at least 15 seconds, then only 5,760 calls can be attended in one day and that shall add up to 23,040 calls in four days,” he wrote, asking the Election Commission to direct the AAP to shut this campaign and issue a public retraction. The Congress leader also requested the poll panel to direct the party to provide all call and message logs for verification. Terming it a “deceptive drive”, he said that the AAP had tried to fool people through this campaign.
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Amid pandemic, lesser cases of corruption registered in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a 14% drop in the number of cases Maharashtra’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) registered last year. In 2020, the agency registered 663 cases, 26% less than those in 2019.According to ACB statistics, the agency registered 773 cases in 2021, out of which 764 were trap cases. As many as seven cases related to disproportionate assets. In 2020, the agency registered 630 trap cases, 12 disproportionate assets, and 21 other corruption cases.In 2019, a year before the pandemic, the agency registered 866 trap cases, 20 disproportionate assets, and five other corruption cases.ACB officials said the cases went down in 2020 and 2021 due to the pandemic that triggered lockdowns and closures of non-essential establishments.An ACB official said the cases increased as the Covid-19 situation improved and that the agency registered 33 trap cases till January 20 alone.In 2021, 46 corruption cases were registered in Mumbai and the city ranked eighth in the state in terms of such cases. ACB’s Mumbai unit arrested 66 accused persons in these cases.Pune topped the list in 2021 with 165 cases and 235 arrests, followed by Aurangabad with 130 cases and 184 arrests.In 2021, a bulk of 178 corruption cases related to the revenue department, followed by the police department (173) and the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (51).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-pandemic-lesser-cases-of-corruption-registered-in-maharashtra-101643023268486.html
24-01-2022||Punjab||NDA seals Punjab seat-sharing deal: BJP to contest 65 seats, Captain's party eyes 37||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Monday announced its seat-sharing formula for the upcoming Punjab assembly election.According to the division, the BJP is set to contest the Punjab polls on 65 seats, while the Punjab Lok Congress, led by former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, will field candidates on 37 constituencies.The Sikh-centric Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) (SAD-S), led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, will contest on the remaining 15 seats.Leaders of BJP-Led alliance in Punjab jointly address a press conference at party headquarters in New Delhi. https://t.co/tDmvcwgizOWhile announcing the seat-sharing division in a press conference ahead of the Punjab polls, BJP president JP Nadda said the ‘grand’ NDA alliance not only sees the election as a change of regime but also as a means to secure the future generations in the state and provide the state a modicum of stability.“We are all concerned about Punjab, it needs special attention since security is a very important issue here,” said the BJP chief. “The NDA will bring an end to the ‘mafia regime’ in the state once we (the alliance) come to power. Our motto is to bring Punjab back on track.”As an example, Nadda said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the 1984 riots. "Today, all the accused are in jail,” he said.Union home minister Amit Shah, who was also present at the meeting, later tweeted saying, “The NDA, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is committed to restoring the glory of Punjab and the welfare of farmers, poor and the deprived.”Along with BJP President Shri @JPNadda Ji, met our NDA allies of Punjab, @capt_amarinder Ji and Sardar Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa Ji.NDA under the leadership of PM @NarendraModi Ji is committed to restoring the glory of Punjab and the welfare of farmers, poor and deprived. pic.twitter.com/WGNfwaDqwZIn the 2017 Punjab elections, Congress won 77 out of the 117 total seats. This landslide victory pushed the erstwhile ruling alliance between the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the BJP to third place with only 18 seats. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came in second, winning 20 seats and forming the official opposition in Punjab.However, a number of political developments in the state from then till now, including the widespread farmers' protests over three contentious agricultural laws, have resulted in shifting alliances and a reshuffle of key players ahead of the crucial polls this year.Singh had resigned as the chief minister of Punjab in 2018 owing to differences with other members of the Congress and was succeeded by Charanjit Singh Channi. The former Army captain later formed a new political party, the Punjab Lok Congress, and said he would contest the forthcoming polls as part of the NDA in alliance with the BJP.All 117 seats in the Punjab legislative assembly will go up for elections next month, with the polls to be held in a single phase on February 20. The votes will be counted on March 10, with the results being declared on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/punjab-assembly-election/nda-seals-punjab-seat-sharing-deal-bjp-to-contest-65-seats-captain-s-party-eyes-37-101643019031492.html
24-01-2022||Patna||UP Polls: JD(U) leader seeks explanation from colleague over BJP alliance flop||PATNA: A top leader of Bihar’s ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD (U) sought an explanation on Monday from his party colleague and Union minister RCP Singh over the failure in having an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the February-March assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.“We are not blaming anybody. But he [R C P Singh] will be able to give a better reply and explain why there was no alliance. RCP was assigned the task to hold talks with the BJP. He was convinced of an alliance,” said JD (U) national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh.RCP Singh was inducted into the Union council of ministers last year even as there were other claimants for the induction from the JD (U).Rajiv Ranjan Singh said RCP Singh should be able to speak about the honesty of the BJP’s assurance as they were sure about the alliance. “RCP Singh said the BJP has asked for a list [of seats]. We gave a list of 30 seats which was handed over to [Union minister] Dharmendra Pradhan. We waited for over a month for any further communication.” He added when BJP chief JP Nadda announced the alliance partners, JD (U)’s name was missing.Rajiv Ranjan Singh said RCP Singh should make an honest assessment of the BJP’s offer as they banked on him. He ruled out any threat to the government in Bihar, which includes BJP, as JD-U has contested in several states independently.There was no immediate response from RCP Singh.
24-01-2022||Pune||Monday Musings: Undetected kidnapping case and Pune Police||Last week, when four-year-old Svarnav Chavan, son of a doctor couple, Satish and Prachi Chavan, returned safely after spending almost nine days in abduction, there was a sense of relief among many in the city. Those not just included the parents and family members of the kid, but many who had prayed every day for his release. The police too heaved a sigh of relief even as the family was hit by another tragedy the next day when the maternal aunt of four-year-old was killed in the accident near Ahmednagar while on the way to meet him.After the boy went missing, social media platforms were flooded with posts praying for his safe return. The return of the boy was as dramatic as his kidnapping. The entire episode and the alleged kidnapper still being at large, however, has posed several questions that police needs to answer. First and foremost, the police need to nab the kidnapper who is eluding arrest 12 days after the incident.As reported in Hindustan Times, one of the clues probe officials were looking at is to gather footage through the network of over 400 CCTV cameras installed by the civic body under the Smart City mission across the city.However, most CCTVs are non-operational as a result of which police officials could gather footage only from a few ones, where the alleged kidnapper is seen riding the two-wheeler with the child and another when the suspect dropped the child off at Punavle.His lack of arrest so far also points to missing ground contacts of police, whose reliance on electronic evidence including CCTV cameras has increased excessively.In the past, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad police have failed to detect some major crimes which included unresolved murder cases. The investigation into the murder of 23-year-old techie Antara Das has not reached anywhere even after five years. Das was returning home from work on the evening of December 23, 2016, when an unidentified person stabbed her to death near her office at Talawade. The person arrested by police in the case was later discharged as police could not gather substantial evidence against him.Das isn’t the only victim whose murder is yet to be brought to justice. Another techie Darshana Tongare (24), was hacked to death while she was returning to her residence in Bavdhan from work in 2010. Despite interrogating several suspects, the Pune police and Crime investigation department (CID) failed to make any breakthrough in the case.Two years before that Pune was startled to witness another gruesome crime. Suresh Alurkar, a prominent name for music lovers in Pune for his vast collection and knowledge regarding music and the shop he owned, was found dead with his throat slit. On December 14, 2008, Alurkar’s neighbour in Swapnanagari society found his body with limps tied in his flat on Karve road. In January 2010, the Deccan Gymkhana police filed a temporary closure report in the court after probing into all possibilities including family dispute, business rivalry, disputes about copyrights of the music records and even disputes over property deals. Over 310 criminals on police records were interrogated over 1,000 call records were analysed for generating leads they all turned out to be dead ends.According to yearly crime reports compiled by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) from 2016 onwards, about 750,000 complaints on an average registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had to be disposed of due to lack of evidence.For multiple reasons, the police force is burdened with the job they are not supposed to be doing. Most of their energy is spent bringing order to the people. The policing in India, as mentioned by columnist Aakar Patel in his article that appeared in Mint Lounge a few years ago, is less about law than about order. This is how it has always been in a nation whose population tends to anarchy, even when under self-rule. In a country of 1.3 billion people, the order is something that is often missing and has to be forced using a mandate.This is exactly why police here are trained primarily for controlling the crowd rather than scientific investigation, a reflection of this is often seen in lower conviction rates or cases remaining undetected. Policing, as Patel argued, is carried out through “bandobast” when people are supposed to behave on their own. It’s also possibly because human behaviour, in reality, is not as rational.Yogesh Joshi can be reached at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com
24-01-2022||Delhi||Revamped CGHS website launched, beneficiaries can seek expert advice directly||A revamped CGHS website and mobile app aimed at providing easy access to healthcare services and tele-consultation facility for over 40 lakh beneficiaries was launched by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday.With the newly provided feature of tele-consultation, Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) beneficiaries can seek expert advice directly, he stated. The minister said the launch of the revamped CGHS website linked with a mobile app is an important and timely step towards catering to India's increasing digital penetration."The website has several updated features which shall hugely benefit more than 40 lakh beneficiaries (both in-service and retired personnel) with real-time information from the convenience of their homes," Mandaviya stated.He said the facility will enable healthcare services being delivered without venturing out, and is a timely innovative step during the Covid-19 pandemic.It is an important and timely step powered by India's increasing digital penetration, he added. The minister said the basket of services is enlarged with the revamped website. With these improved facilities, CGHS aims to further increase its outreach to beneficiaries with ease of providing various facilities.The new CGHS website and its extension as a mobile application called “MyCGHS”, with various beneficiary friendly features, have been designed for ease of service delivery for the beneficiaries within the safe confines of his home especially during the pandemic, the health ministry said in a statement.The website has been developed in accordance with Guidelines for Indian Government Websites (GIGW). These standards and guidelines make the website 3U compliant (Usable, User-Centric and Universally Accessible).As mandated by the GIGW, the site has been made bilingual (Hindi and English) with provision to make it multi-lingual in future.The website interface is intuitive and with ease of accessing desired information. Extensive search facility has been provided to access the website content.User-friendly features have been added for visually impaired persons like audio play of the text and option to increase the font size.There is a direct link to the eSanjeevani Teleconsultation facility through the CGHS website, the statement said.The website provides link to the online grievance portal developed for CGHS beneficiaries with provision for the grievance to be sent directly to the officer concerned with both SMS and email alert for timely redressal of complaints.The website also has link to beneficiary login for accessing various online facilities  such as tracking of medical claims, grievances, status of CGHS card, downloading of CGHS card, accessing thehistory of medicines, online appointment system and various other facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/revamped-cghs-website-launched-beneficiaries-can-seek-expert-advice-directly-101643019154164.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi court slaps sedition charge against Sharjeel Imam for ‘inflammatory speeches'||A Delhi court on Monday framed charges against activist Sharjeel Imam for allegedly making inflammatory speeches at Aligarh Muslim University and in Delhi’s Jamia area against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).The alleged inflammatory speeches for which Imam was arrested were made in Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019, and in Aligarh Muslim University on January 16, 2020. He has been in judicial custody since January 28, 2020.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat framed the charges. A detailed copy of the order is expected to be made available later in the day.Imam has been charged of sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharjeel-imam-charged-with-sedition-for-inflammatory-speeches-101643015143831.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||In Punjab, family members pitch in for contestants in upcoming assembly polls||Fifteen-year-old Aekom Warring may be too young for politics but not for canvassing and is busy making a connect with voters in her father Amarinder Singh Raja Warring's Gidderbaha Assembly constituency in Punjab.With folded hands, Aekom Warring goes from house-to-house greeting voters and asking them to elect her father for the development work carried out by him in the last 10 years.Amarinder Warring is eyeing a third term in a row from Gidderbaha Assembly seat in Punjab's Muktsar district. He was earlier elected from this seat in 2012 and 2017.Family members of several other contestants in the fray for the February 20 Punjab Assembly polls are going door-to-door to garner support for the coming elections.With a ban on big gatherings and rallies by the Election Commission of India in view of COVID-19, family members of candidates are meeting voters personally to ensure they vote for their contestants.Aekom Warring exudes confidence that voters of Gidderbaha will vote for her father for the “unprecedented” development works carried out during the last 10 years and make him victorious again.“My father did what he promised to the people of the area,” she says while adding that she is getting a very good response from the people.An elderly man in a village even praises Amarinder Warring for ensuring water to his fields when the teenager visits his house.A few days back Aekom Warring inaugurated the poll office of her father in Gidderbaha.        Amarinder Warring became the transport minister when Charanjit Singh Channi took over the chief minister last September.Simrat Kaur Khangura, wife of Congress candidate Dalvir Singh Goldy, is also touring her husband's assembly constituency to garner support.Goldy, who is a sitting MLA, will again contest from Dhuri assembly segment. He will take on Aam Aadmi Party's chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann in a high-stake electoral contest.A post graduate in English, Khangura, 39, says she is visiting each and every house of the constituency and is getting a very good response from the voters.Starting her campaigning at 7:30 am, Khangura returns home in the evening only.“It is not that for the first time or second time I am visiting people. I frequently go to them and I get a warm welcome,” she saysOn how she views AAP leader Bhagwant Mann as a contestant against her husband, Khangura says she does not see him anywhere.She claims Mann, a two-time MP from Sangrur Lok Sabha seat, visited Dhuri constituency only twice in 2014 and 2019 during the Lok Sabha polls.“Bhagwant Mann has not been seen in this constituency,” Khangura told PTI.The AAP leader does not have anything to say for what he did for this area, she adds.She says her husband Goldy has done a lot of development work including setting up several sports grounds, smart schools and upgrading some schools in Dhuri Assembly constituency.Dhuri is one of the assembly constituencies which fall under Sangrur Parliamentary constituency.Punjab goes to polls on February 20 and is set for a multi-cornered contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-family-members-pitch-in-for-contestants-in-upcoming-assembly-polls-101643013405359.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Sena took BJP from bottom to top in Maharashtra, says Raut; Fadnavis hits back with ‘number 4’ party jibe||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday doubled up the party's attack on former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying that it took the saffron camp from “bottom to the top” in Maharashtra.In reference to Shiv Sena supremo and Maharashtra chief minister's recent "wasted 25 years with the BJP" jibe, Raut told news agency ANI that following the Babri Masjid incident in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya, there was a “Shiv Sena wave in northern India". “If we had fought polls at that time, there would have been our (Shiv Sena's) PM in [the] country but we left it for them,” he added.The Shiv Sena leader further stated that the saffron party only “used Hindutva” for power.
24-01-2022||Jaipur||Night temps dip by few degrees in parts of Rajasthan||Night temperatures dipped by a few degrees in parts of Rajasthan, and Chittorgarh was the coldest place in the state at 3.3 degrees Celsius, a meteorological report issued on Monday said.Karauli recorded a minimum of 3.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday night, it said.Sikar and Bhilwara recorded minimums of 4 degrees Celsius while night temperatures were 4.4 degrees Celsius in Fatehpur and Anta, 4.6 degrees Celsius in Dabok, 5.6 degrees Celsius in Nagaur, 6.1 degrees Celsius in Vanasthali, 6.2 degrees Celsius in Ajmer, 7.1 degrees Celsius in Jaipur and 7.7 degrees Celsius in Pilani, according to the report.The weather remained mainly dry during the last 24 hours.The metrological department has predicted cold wave conditions and fog at several places in the state during the next 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/night-temps-dip-by-few-degrees-in-parts-of-rajasthan-101643012820921.html
24-01-2022||City||Noida twin tower case: Supertech says advance payment made for planned razing||Real estate group Supertech on Sunday said it has signed a pact with Mumbai-based Edifice Engineering, and an advance payment has been made to it for demolition of illegal twin towers in Noida, in compliance with the Supreme Court order.The details of the agreement have been shared with the New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA) about the planned razing of the 40-storey superstructures that had come up in violation of building bye-laws in Sector 93A of the city, it said."In compliance of the Supreme court order, Supertech has signed an agreement with Edifice Engineering for the execution of demolition of twin tower and made an advance payment to it for mobilisation of men, materials and machines to site as per this agreement," a Supertech spokesperson said.Also, a copy of the said demolition agreement executed and duly signed by and between Supertech and Edifice Engineering has been submitted to the Noida Authority, the spokesperson added.The letter of intent for the job was awarded to Edifice Engineering last week.The company official said no-objection certificates (NOCs), related to the environment, logistics, storage and use of explosives for the demolition work, are awaited.The apex court had on August 31 ordered the demolition of the twin towers 'Apex and Ceyane' under the supervision of officials of the local Noida Authority.Meanwhile, the Supertech spokesperson said the company is also complying with another Supreme Court order on refunding buyers who had made bookings in the twin towers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-twin-tower-case-supertech-says-advance-payment-made-for-planned-razing-101643012419762.html
24-01-2022||Patna||Bihar minister’s son, brother booked after clash leaves man injured||BETTIAH: Bihar tourism minister Narayan Prasad’s son, Niraj Kumar, and brother, Harendra Prasad, were among seven people booked on Sunday after a clash between two groups near Bettiah left a 28-year-old man injured, police said on Monday.In her First Information Report, Rina Devi, the mother of the man Janardan Kumar, alleged her son was injured after the minister’s son hit him with the butt of his firearm while the latter was playing cricket.The man sustained injuries when Niraj Kumar allegedly assaulted him, said Ugra Nath Jha, a local police officer.Police have lodged the case against the seven including under the Arms Act.Niraj Kumar denied the allegations and added Janardan Kumar was injured when a brick was thrown by another group at him. He added the brick missed the target and hit the 28-year-old. “Some villagers are trying to encroach our land at Hardiya Koritola village. They misbehaved with my uncle when he objected to construction material on our land. They snatched my licensed arms.”Police have received a counter-complaint from Harendra Prasad. “Further investigation into the matter is underway,” said Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-minister-s-son-brother-booked-after-clash-leaves-man-injured-101643012587708.html
24-01-2022||Kolkata||Republic Day 2022: After Centre's rejection, Bengal takes out dress rehearsal of Netaji tableau on Kolkata's Red Road||The West Bengal government's Republic Day tableau, which was rejected by the Centre, was on Monday seen carrying out a full dress rehearsal in Kolkata. A petition has also been filed in the Calcutta high court demanding the inclusion of the state's Netaji tableau at the January 26 parade in Delhi. The hearing is expected today.The tableau features a statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to honour his role in the Indian freedom struggle.Due to the limited time and space owing to Covid-19 protocols, the Centre has selected only 12 states and union territories, and nine ministries, for the Republic Day parade this year. Chief ministers of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala voiced against the decision after their tableaux were not selected for the parade.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee attacked the Modi government for citing no reason for summarily rejecting the tableau."We will roll out the tableau during the Republic Day parade on Red Road here (in Kolkata). You (People) will see how vibrant and creative it is, summing up the spirit of Netaji’s valour and our 75th Independence. The Centre cannot absolve itself of the injustice done to Bengal by rejecting its tableau," she had said during a speech in Kolkata.Banerjee slammed the Centre for building Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's statue in Delhi at a time when it rejected West Bengal's tableau, depicting the role of the freedom fighter. She said it highlights the indifferent attitude of the Centre towards the state.Notably, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh gave a written reply to Banerjee informing her, in fewer words, that the Central Public Works Department's float for the occasion was already featuring the same as a homage to Netaji on his 125th birth anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/republic-day-2022-after-centre-s-rejection-bengal-takes-out-dress-rehearsal-of-netaji-tableau-on-kolkata-s-red-road-101643006991616.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Power supply hit in Himachal due to heavy snowfall||Several far-flung areas of Himachal Pradesh are facing a power cut with 1,355 transformers affected by the heavy snowfall over the weekend. Also read: Severe cold, fog grips north India; roads closed in Himachal due to snowfallThe Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited, the only power distribution company in the state, said in a report on Monday that 3,020 transformers were affected after the recent spell of snowfall. Most of them were shut due to fault in the transmission lines, while in some instances wires were snapped due to fallen trees. Of the total affected transformers, supply to 1,965 had been restored, but 1,355 transformers are yet to be repaired. “Our employees have not been able to reach these sites as roads to certain locations are blocked due to snow and landslides,” the board’s spokesperson, Anurag Prashar, said. The board has a total of 34,855 distribution transformers across the state. Prashar said that the maximum 960 transformers were affected in the board’s south zone, which includes 12 divisions across Shimla, Rohru, Rampur, Nahan and Solan circles. As many as 413 transformers have been affected in the Chopal division alone. In the north zone, which has Kangra, Dalhousie and Una circles, 367 transformers have been hit. The maximum 265 transformers are to be restored in Chamba division and 86 in Dalhousie division. The central zone has Mandi, Kullu, Bilaspur and Hamirpur circles. Here, 28 distribution transformers are to be restored. Twenty-three of these transformers fall in Kullu circle alone. 
24-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Traffic Police releases advisory for Republic Day: Parade route and roads to avoid||Republic Day will be held on 26th January, 2022. The Parade will start at 10.20am, it will move from Vijay Chowk and proceed for Red Fort Grounds.There would be elaborate traffic arrangements and restrictions in place for smooth conduct of the Parade along the route.Also Read | Delhi Police issues guidelines for people attending Republic Day paradeROUTE OF THE PARADE/TABLEAUX:(A) Parade Route:Vijay Chowk-Rajpath-Amar Jawan Jyoti-India Gate-R/A Princess Palace-T/L Tilak Marg-Turn right on “C” Hexagon-Turn left and enter National Stadium from Gate No. 1.(B) Tableaux Route:Vijay Chowk-Rajpath-Amar JawanJyoti-India Gate-R/A Princess Palace-T/L Tilak Marg-Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg-Netaji Subhash Marg-Red Fort.TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONSIn order to facilitate smooth passage of the Parade, movement of traffic on certain roads leading to the route of the Parade will be restricted as under:-(1). No traffic on Rajpath from Vijay Chowk to India Gate from 06.00 PMon 25.01.2022 till Parade is over.(2). No cross traffic on Rajpath from 11.00 PM on 25.01.2022 at Rafi Marg, Janpath, Man Singh Road till Parade is over.(3). ‘C’-Hexagon-India Gate will be closed for traffic from 02.00 AM on 26.01.2022 till Parade crosses Tilak Marg.(4). From 04.00AM on 26.01.2022 Traffic on Tilak Marg, BSZ Marg and Subhash Marg will not be allowed on both directions. Cross traffic will only be allowed depending upon the movement of the Parade.Road users are requested to plan their journey in advance accordingly and avoid the route of Parade, from 0200 hours to 1230 hours, for their own convenience.SUGGESTED ROUTESHowever, if the journey is unavoidable, the road users are advised to take following routes:NORTH-SOUTH CORRIDOR>Ring Road-Ashram Chowk-Sarai Kale Khan-IP Flyover-Rajghat-Ring Road> From Madarsa-Lodhi Road ‘T’ point-Aurobindo Marg-AIIMS Chowk-Ring Road-Dhaula Kuan-Vande Matram Marg-Shankar Road-Park Street or Mandir Marg.EAST-WEST CORRIDOR> Ring Road-Bhairon Road-Mathura Road-Subramaniam Bharti Marg-Rajesh Pilot Marg-Prithvi Raj Road-Safdarjung Road-Kamal Ataturk Marg-Panchsheel Marg-SimonBoliver Marg-Upper Ridge Road/Vande MatramMarg. OR> Ring road-ISBT-Chandgi Ram Akhara-Mall Road-Azad Pur-Ring Road.> Ring Road-Bhairon Road-Mathura Road-Lodhi Road-Aurobindo Marg-Safdarjung Road-Teen Murti Marg-Mother Teresa Crescent-Park Street-Shankar Road-Vande Matram Marg.FOR NEW DELHI RAILWAY STATION> From South Delhi: Dhaula Kuan-Vande Matram Marg-Panchkuian Road-Outer Circle Connaught Place-Chelmsford Road for Paharganj side or Minto Road-Bhavbhuti Marg for Ajmeri Gate side.> From East Delhi: Boulevard Road via ISBT Bridge-Rani Jhansi Flyover-R/A Jhandewalan-D.B. Gupta Road-Sheela Cinema Road-Paharganj Bridge and reach New Delhi Rly Station.FOR OLD DELHI RAILWAY STATION> From South Delhi: Ring Road-Ashram Chowk-Sarai Kale Khan-Ring Road-Rajghat-Ring Road-Chowk Yamuna Bazar-S.P. Mukherjee Marg-Chhatta Rail-Kauria Bridge and reach Old Delhi Rly. Station.Though there will be no restriction for people from North Delhi going to wards New Delhi Railway Station or Old Delhi Railway Station yet it is advised that they plan their journey in advance and take sufficient extra time to reach their destination to avoid possible delay.Also Read | Over 27,000 cops deployed ahead of R-Day, says Delhi CPBUS TERMINATING POINTSMovement of the City Bus Services will be curtailed at the following points:• Park Street/UdyanMarg• Aram Bagh Road (PaharGanj)• R/A Kamla Market• Delhi Sachivalaya (IG Stadium)• Pragati Maidan (Bhairon Road)• Hanuman Mandir (Yamuna Bazar)• Mori Gate• ISBT Kashmiri Gate• ISBT Sarai Kale Khan• Tis Hazari CourtINTER STATE BUSES1. Buses from Ghaziabad bound for Shivaji Stadium shall take NH-24, Ring Road and terminate at Bhairon Road.2. Buses coming from NH-24 shall take right turn on Road No. 56 and terminate at ISBT Anand Vihar.3. Buses coming from Ghaziabad side will be diverted at Mohan Nagar towards Bhopra Chungi for Wazirabad Bridge.4. All Inter State buses coming from Dhaula Kuan side shall terminate at Dhaula Kuan.METRO SERVICESMetro Rail Service shall remain available for commuters at all Metro Stations during the Republic Day Parade on 26'Jan., 2022. However, Boarding/De-boarding at the below mentioned station will not be permitted as per schedule given:HTVs/LGVsNo HTV/LGV will be allowed to enter Delhi from borders from 2200 hrs on 25.01.2022 till the Parade is over.No HTV/LGV will be allowed to ply between I.S.B.T. Sarai Kale Khan and I.S.B.T. Kashmiri Gate on Ring Road from 0730 hrs to 1330 hrs on 26.01.2022.TSR/TAXISNo TSR and Taxi will be allowed to enter or ply after 0700 hours on 26.01.2022 in the Area bound by:MOTHER TERESA CRESCENT — BABA KHARAK SINGH MARG —ASHOKA ROAD UPTO R/A PATEL CHOWK — SANSAD MARG UPTOTOLSTOY MARG — TOLSTOY MARG UPTO KASTURBA GANDHIMARG — KASTURBA GANDHI MARG UPTO FEROZESHAH ROAD —FEROZESHAH ROAD UPTO R/A MANDI HOUSE — BHAGWAN DASSROAD — MATHURA ROAD — SUBRAMANIAM BHARTI MARG —HUMAYUN ROAD -— A.P.3J ABDUL KALAM MARG — KAMAL ATATURKMARG— KAUTILYA MARG AND SARDAR PATEL ROAD (EXCLUDING).Instructions to General PublicIn case any unidentified object or suspicious person is seen, information must be conveyed to the nearest policeman on duty.Flying of sub conventional aerial platforms like para- gliders, para motors, hang gliders, UAVs, UASs, microlight aircrafts, remotely piloted aircrafts, hot air balloons, small size powered aircrafts, quadcopters or para jumping from aircraft etc. are prohibited over the jurisdiction of national Capital Territory of Delhi from 20.01.2022 upto 15.02.2022 (both are inclusive)General public and motorists are advised to keep patience, observe traffic rules & road discipline and follow directions of traffic personnel deployed at all intersections and remain updated through Traffic Police Facebook page, Twitter handler and Traffic Police Helpline. People are requested to plan their journey in advance and keep sufficient time in hand to avoid inconvenience.Meanwhile, Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said on Sunday that over 27,000 personnel have been deployed in the national capital for security arrangements ahead of Republic Day, and added that anti-terror measures in the city have been intensified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-police-releases-advisory-for-republic-day-parade-route-and-roads-to-avoid-101643008447190.html
24-01-2022||Pune||Pune BJP chief calls Nana Patole 'stray dog' on remark against PM Modi||Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) President of Pune Jagdish Mulik has passed a controversial remark against Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole calling him a "stray dog", days after the latter's objectional remark on Prime Minister Narendra Modi."Nana Patole is a stray dog. It is often said that a barking dog should be ignored, but if the dog barks, there is no alternative but to bark. Nana, activists will teach you the right lesson," the Pune BJP chief tweeted.Patole landed himself in a controversy after a viral news clip showed him saying that he could beat PM Modi and abuse him.He, however, later issued a clarification and said that he was referring to a local goon who shares his surname with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.In the viral news clip, Patole can be heard speaking in Marathi to a group of villagers in Bhandara district. He said, "I have been in politics for the past 30 years. Being a politician, I never favoured anybody. I helped each and everyone who came to me. That's why I can hit Modi and abuse him."However, it is not clear when this video was filmed.After this video went viral on social media, several BJP leaders lashed out at the Congress party and Patole, questioning their respect and honour for the post of Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-bjp-chief-calls-nana-patole-stray-dog-on-remark-against-pm-modi-101643008755054.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Kejriwal rolls out AAP’s poll campaign, cites party’s Delhi scorecard||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched his party’s campaign “Ek Mauka AAP Ko” ahead of the elections including in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, focussing on the party’s achievements in Delhi.The campaign seeks to highlight the “good experiences” of the people of Delhi in terms of development in key sectors such as education, healthcare, power, and water supply under the AAP rule. It focusses on reaching out via social media and other platforms to people in the poll-bound states and convincing them to vote for the AAP if they want similar development in their states.Kejriwal urged the people of Delhi to make videos capturing development under his government with an appeal to those in the poll-bound states to vote for AAP. He also asked them to share the videos via social media with the people they know in the election-bound states. Kejriwal asked AAP volunteers to amplify such video messages on social media.“In the last seven years, the AAP government has done a lot of remarkable work in Delhi. People from United Nations came to visit Mohalla Clinics and the US president’s wife came to see Delhi’s schools. We are providing 24-hour free electricity to people. It was possible only because people of Delhi gave us the opportunity,” Kejriwal said.“Do you want that this good work should be replicated in other parts of the country? People of these (poll-bound) states should also get free 24-hour electricity, good roads, better schools, and better healthcare facilities.”Kejriwal said if they get an opportunity in other states, they will be able to repeat the good work there too. “Like others, we do not have crores of rupees. Our real wealth is you. If you spare some time, the people of other states will listen and our good work will spread.”After the polls, Kejriwal plans to host a dinner for around 50 Delhi residents, whose videos generate maximum views as part of the campaign.
24-01-2022||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh records 11,253 new Covid cases, 8 more deaths||The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh reached 8,94,159 on Sunday after the detection of 11,253 cases, while the toll increased to 10,570 with eight deaths reported in the last 24 hours, a health department official said. The positivity rate was 13.4 per cent for the second consecutive day, he pointed out. The recovery count stood at 8,16,453 after 5,497 people were discharged from hospitals during the day, leaving the state with an active tally of 67,136, he said. Indore and Bhopal, the two worst coronavirus-hit cities of Madhya Pradesh, registered 3,372 and 1,910 cases, respectively, during the past 24 hours, he said. With 83,365 samples examined on Sunday, the number of tests in MP went up to 2,53,14,005, the official added. A government release said 10,86,29,916 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far in the state, including 20,749 on Sunday. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 8,94,159, new cases 11,253, death toll 10570, recoveries 8,16,453, active cases 67,136, number of tests so far 2,53,14,005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-records-11-253-new-covid-cases-8-more-deaths-101643005209279.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Police issues guidelines for people attending Republic Day parade||The Delhi Police on Monday issued guidelines for people who will be attending the Republic Day parade in the national capital on January 26 (Wednesday).Taking to Twitter, the police said that people attending the parade at Rajpath will have to follow all Covid-19 related protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Children below the age of 15 are not allowed."It is necessary to have both doses of anti-coronavirus vaccine. Visitors are requested to bring their vaccination certificate," the Delhi Police said in its tweet posted in Hindi.Parking space is limited and people have been urged to use a carpool or taxi to arrive at the venue. The police also said that there will be provision for depositing remote-controlled car lock keys in each parking area.People have been asked to cooperate with security checks and also present identification proof (Aadhaar card, driving license, voter ID Card etc) apart from the entry pass.The following security measures have been put in place in Delhi on Republic Day.Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said on Sunday that more than 27,000 personnel of the force have been deployed for security duty and anti-terror measures intensified in view of Republic Day celebrations,.The police is also getting assistance from 65 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), Asthana said.Some of the anti-terror measures which have been intensified comprise checking of vehicles, hotels, lodges and Dharamshalas, blockades at several locations and verification of tenants, servants and labourers.The Delhi Police is also putting out facts and important details to ensure that no anti-social elements run misinformation campaigns, the police commissioner said.A traffic advisory has also been issued stating restrictions on routes so that people do not face any inconvenience, he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-issues-guidelines-for-people-attending-republic-day-parade-101643001650297.html
24-01-2022||Kolkata||Covid-19: Bengal to launch neighbourhood schools to counter impact of shutdowns||KOLKATA: West Bengal’s education minister Bratya Basu will on Monday launch open-air “Paray Shikshalay” or neighbourhood schools for pre-primary and primary students even as educational institutions remain closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Officials said around eight million students will benefit from the project.Schools were shut for the first time in March 2020 due to the pandemic before they were reopened in February 2021 for classes 9 to 12. They were closed later due to the West Bengal assembly elections and the second wave of Covid-19 thereafter in summer of 2021. Schools for class 9 to 12 students resumed in November 2021 and were shut again on January 3 due to the latest surge in Covid-19 cases.“Even though the government could reopen schools for students from class 9-12 for some time in between, students studying up to class eight never went to schools after March 2020. Classes are being held online. Students have remained totally cut off from school education. This has severely affected them. Community schools could address this problem to some extent,” said an official.Supriyo Bhattacharya, state secretary of United Guardians’ Forum, said neighbourhood schools cannot be the alternative for conventional schools. He said they are meant for government school students and asked what about those in private schools.A public interest litigation was filed in the Calcutta high court last week seeking reopening of schools and colleges. The government is considering reopening higher secondary schools, colleges, and universities as the Covid-19 cases have dropped. The daily count of Covid-19 cases in the state crossed the 24,000-mark this month. On Sunday, 6980 cases were detected, taking the number of active cases to 1,3474. At least 36 people also died of the disease on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-to-launch-open-air-neighborhood-schools-for-pre-primary-primary-students-101643004787826.html
24-01-2022||Dehradun||Uttarakhand extends Covid restrictions till Jan 31. Details here||The Uttarakhand government has extended the Covid-19 restrictions in the state till January 31. According to an official order, all educational Anganwadi Centres and educational institutions up to class 12 will remain closed and students will have to attend online classes.Night curfew across the state will be in place every day from 10pm till 6am. Shops are allowed to open from 6am till 10pm, the order further said.“Gymnasiums, shopping malls, cinema halls, spas, salons, theatres, auditoriums etc can open with 50% of their capacity in adherence with Covid-19 protocol,” the official order said.Restaurants, hotels, dhabas and other eateries can allow dine-in services with 50% capacity and takeaways and home delivery will continue, it added.Only 50 people will be allowed to take part in marriages and funerals.All swimming pools and water parks in Uttarakhand will remain closed till January 31. However, stadiums, playgrounds and other such establishments can remain open with 50% capacity, the order also said.As elections are nearing in Uttarakhand, the state government has banned physical rallies and demonstrations till the end of January as per the Election Commission order, to prevent overcrowding which might lead to a huge surge in infections.The fresh Covid-19 restrictions come at a time when the hill state is recording a high number of infections, fuelled by the Omicron variant. Till now, Uttarakhand has recorded 400,401 cases including 31,310 active cases, 361,611 recoveries and 7,480 deaths.Authorities have administered a total of 15,379,135 vaccines to eligible beneficiaries. Of these, more than eight million have received the first dose and 6,843,212 have received the second dose as well. Nearly 376,000 children between the ages of 15-18 have been inoculated and the precautionary dose has been administered to 142,380 beneficiaries which include health and frontline workers, people with comorbidities (suffering from many diseases) and those above the age of 60.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-extends-covid-restrictions-till-jan-31-details-here-101642997650348.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in ‘poor’ zone; Capital’s temperature expected to dip||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality was in the “poor” category on Monday morning as the mercury was likely to plunge to 7 degrees Celsius. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) was 241 at 7 am. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 202.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Sunday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said the AQI improved significantly to “moderate” due to wet deposition of particulate matter by rain. “Rain is likely to continue... leading to further improvement of AQI to lower end of ‘moderate’ or ‘satisfactory’. A dust storm originated from Gulf region headed towards Gujarat coast and parts of Maharashtra, however it is unlikely to affect the air quality of Delhi due to prevailing influence of western disturbance and associated intermittent drizzle/rain.”A maximum temperature of 16 degrees Celsius was expected on Monday. On Sunday, the maximum temperature was 14.9 degrees Celsius and the minimum 10.5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-poor-category-as-temp-expected-to-dip-101642993506927.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Probe begins in Mumbai building fire, 8 still critical||A four-member committee formed to probe the deadly fire that broke out in a 20-storey residential building in south Mumbai on Saturday began its inquiry on Sunday as eight of the injured remained in critical condition, officials familiar with the matter said. Six people were killed in and 24 others wounded in the fire.The blaze erupted around 7.30am on Saturday at Sachinam Heights, a ground-plus-20-storey building located opposite Bhatia Hospital at Gowalia Tank in south Mumbai’s Tardeo area when many of the residents were still asleep. Deputy commissioner of police Sourabh Tripathi said primary information has indicated that the fire started on the 15th floor and spread upward to the 19th floor which was affected the most.A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said the fire was extinguished nearly five hours later at 12.20 pm with the help of 15 fire-tending vehicles. The incident raised questions about the state of the fire-fighting equipment installed in the high-rise, he said.According to a BMC statement on Sunday, the probe committee will be headed by deputy municipal commissioner-level officer and a report has to be submitted within 15 days.The enquiry will look into three aspects: cause of fire in consultation with chief fire officer, reasons for the spread of the fire, illegal addition /alteration in the building beyond approved plans, if any, said an official familiar with the developments in the Mumbai Fire Brigade.The civic body has also started deliberations with the state government to formulate a policy on making periodic electrical audits mandatory, said an official familiar with the matter.The Maharashtra government has also assured of investigation into the fire incident.“The fire incident that occurred at the Kamala building in Mumbai’s Tardeo area will be investigated. Our guardian minister of Mumbai Suburban Aaditya Thackeray and Mumbai City guardian minister Aslam Shaikh will look into it,” Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said in a statement.Officials of the Mumbai Fire Brigade said they have jointly conducted a meeting with the state electrical inspector, along with BMC officials, to conduct periodic electrical safety audits of the buildings to help reduce the incidents of fires due to defective electric circuit“The general opinion is that residential societies should be asked to conduct electrical audits on the lines of fire audit currently conducted every six months. The electrical inspector can make an electrical audit mandatory once in a year or whatever period is decided, and later the compliance report with us. We will also give them inputs in formulating such a policy considering this will bring down the fire incidents in the city,” said Hemant Parab, Chief Fire Officer of the Mumbai Fire Brigade.“In many of the fire incidents we have seen that electric wires that are defected are either the cause of the fire or contribute towards the spreading of fire. Hence, we need to fix this issue for which we will require periodic electrical audits,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/probe-begins-in-mumbai-building-fire-8-still-critical-101642975339005.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid snuffs out six more lives in Chandigarh tricity||Covid-19 pandemic’s deadly march continued in the tricity on Sunday as six more people lost the battle to the virus.Fatalities were reported from across the tricity, including three in Mohali, two in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula, which had last recorded a casualty on January 16.Since the third-wave peak of eight deaths on January 16, the tricity has been recording four or more fatalities every day.A total of 61 people have succumbed to the virus this month so far, compared to seven in December – a 771% spike.Mohali has logged 34 deaths in January, followed by Chandigarh with 23 and Panchkula four.Among the latest victims of the contagion in Mohali were two men, aged 51 and 70, from Kharar, who were admitted at Max Hospital, Mohali, and Eden Hospital, Chandigarh, respectively.The third patient, a 47-year-old man from Sector 66, died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.Those who succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh were a 91-year old man from Khuda Alisher and a 69-year-old woman from Sector 45. Both were unvaccinated, and the woman was also suffering from hypertension, renal disease and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. In Panchkula, an 83-year-old woman from Sector 7 lost her life to the virus. She was also suffering from various disorders.With this, Mohali’s virus toll till date reached 1,108, Chandigarh’s 1,102 and Panchkula’s 385.Slight dip in tricity’s daily casesTricity recorded further dip in Covid-19 cases on Sunday, as 2,507 people tested positive, down from 2,940 the day before.Mohali led the daily tally with 1,084 infections, compared to 1,245 on Saturday. Chandigarh’s cases also dipped from 1,149 to 808. But Panchkula saw its 24-hour case count increasing from 546 to 616.Tricity’s active caseload also decreased from 19,836 to 18,669 between Saturday and Sunday. The active cases had stayed over 20,000 January 18 to 21.Now, Mohali has 8,112 positive patients, Chandigarh 8,064 and Panchkula 2,493.High positivity rate still a cause of concernPanchkula’s positivity rate continues to remain a cause of concern as it jumped from 30% to 38% in the past 24 hours, indicating two out of every five samples tested had returned positive results. In Mohali, 28% people tested positive out of the total tested, a slight increase from 27% on Saturday. Only Chandigarh’s positivity rate decreased from 20% to 14%, in some relief for health authorities.At 87,654, Mohali has reported the highest Covid cases till date, followed by Chandigarh with 85,692, while Panchkula’s caseload stands at 40,446.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-snuffs-out-six-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-101642974915737.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid shadow: Chandigarh airport’s footfall drops by 40% in two weeks||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the region, the Chandigarh International Airport has recorded a 40% drop in its footfall in the past two weeks.With the number of daily fliers declining, various airlines have curtailed their operations. Out of the total of 38 flights at the airport, 10 have not operated for a week.According to Rakesh Dembla, chief executive officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, while the airport had a daily footfall of around 10,000 till January 10, it had now dipped to around 6,000.“Some airlines have reduced their flights due to the current situation. Last year, we had incurred a loss of nearly ₹40 crore on various accounts due to the pandemic and lockdown,” he said.Vaneet Sharma, director, Sheetal Travels, Sector 17, said, “Currently, most people are travelling only for work. Families that had planned winter vacations have either cancelled or deferred their trips due to the third wave and restrictions.”Amid the drop in demand, even the last-minute fares of popular domestic sectors had gone down by 10-15%, he added.The airport’s main source of earnings is the aeronautical revenue, wherein it charges ₹800 per passenger from the airlines. For instance, a Delhi-bound flight with 80% occupancy fetches the airport around ₹65,000. The other sources of income are retail shops, office spaces, vehicle parking and advertisements.Only Sharjah flight passengers being testedAt present, the Mohali health authorities are testing only international passengers for Covid-19 at the airport. While the Dubai flight has not resumed yet, the Sharjah flight is operating twice a week.“We are testing only international passengers, twice a week. Domestic passengers are tested randomly,” said Harmandeep Kaur, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali.No visitor pass till January 30In view of Republic Day, the airport authorities will not be providing visitor passes till January 30. Dembla said the passes will not be issued due to security reasons, as directed by higher authorities.
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 62.8mm rain in 24 hours makes January wettest of all time||With 62.8mm rain between Saturday night and Sunday, Chandigarh recorded its wettest January of all time, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).As per IMD records for Chandigarh, maintained since 1953, following the showers in the past 24 hours, the city had recorded 181.5mm rain in January, with a week still left. Before this, at 166.6 mm, the highest rainfall in January was recorded in 1983. Till January 23, 22.9mm is considered normal rainfall for January, making the 181.5mm rain so far this month eight times higher than the average. The 62.8mm recorded in this 24-hour period is also the highest in January since the 59.2mm showers on January 7, 2017.Higher rain than any monsoon month last yearInterestingly, showers in January 2022 have exceeded the rain received in any of the monsoon months in 2021, when 129.9mm rain was recorded in June, 128.6mm in July and 168.3mm in August. September 2021, which was the wettest month of the year, had slightly more rain at 176.8mm, although, with a week still left, January may cross this mark too.Speaking on the excess rain in January this year, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “Rainfall in January is dependent on western disturbances (WDs). While January usually sees two to three WDs in the entire month, this year, two to three very strong WDs have already affected the city, along with an equal number of feeble systems, which brought trace rainfall (less than 0.1mm).” He added that earlier this month, two strong WDs, which arrived in quick succession, were also fed moisture from the Arabian Sea as well as the Bay of Bengal due to formation of low-pressure areas. “The confluence of moisture-laden winds from Arabian Sea with WDs also contributed to the above normal rain seen on Sunday,” Singh said.Light rain expected todayWith system having mostly passed the region, only light rain is expected on Monday morning, after which the rain will stop for now. “Thereon, we expect moderate to dense fog in the city for the next few days, especially in the morning, which can lead to the maximum temperature dropping below normal and leading to cold day conditions. With the cloud cover clearing up, the minimum temperature may also dip by 4 to 6 degrees. Meanwhile, another WD is likely to affect the region around January 30, but it’s too early to say whether it will lead to any rainfall,” the IMD director said.Tree causes damage in Sector 20Along with the heavy rain on Sunday, winds up to 25km per hours were also blowing in the city. Due to the winds and rain, a tree fell down near the Dhobighat in Sector 20 around 9.20am on Sunday. This damaged a shed, along with the boundary wall of the dhobighat, but the workers escaped injury.Meanwhile, city’s maximum temperature plunged from 16°C on Saturday to 12°C on Sunday, 8.3 degrees below normal. On the other hand, the minimum temperature went up from 9.8°C to 10.7°C, 5.1 notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh628mm-rain-in-24-hours-makes-january-wettest-of-all-time-101642974912693.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Boulders block Shimla-Kalka railway line||The Ambala railway division on Sunday suspended train operations on the Shimla-Kalka heritage rail line due to falling of boulders after rain and snowfall in several areas, officials said. The trains cancelled on Sunday included Shimla-Kalka motor rail (72452), Shimla-Kalka Shivalik Deluxe (52452), Shimla-Kalka NG Express (52454) and Shimla-Kalka Him Darshan (52460). Both up and down departures of all these trains, along with Express Special (04543/44) and Himalayan Queen (52455/56), will remain cancelled on Monday as well.In a statement, railway officials said the engineering department had immediately taken up repair work to ensure the safety of passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/boulders-block-shimla-kalka-railway-line-101642974908818.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man booked for concealing criminal record in passport application||An immigration fraud and human trafficking accused, who is carrying a cash reward of ₹1 lakh on his head, has been booked by the Chandigarh Police for concealing his criminal record in his passport application.According to a complaint by the regional passport officer, Chandigarh, Himansh Verma, a resident of Sector 8, was booked for an immigration and human trafficking racket in Jalandhar in November 2021.He was also an accused in a multi-crore bank scam and his house in Sector 8 had been attached by the Enforcement Directorate. His involvement in other frauds is also being investigated.However, while applying for his passport, he did not disclose the details of the police cases against him. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Passport Act has been registered against him at the Sector 3 police station. In the immigration fraud being probed by the Jalandhar police commissionerate, Verma, the managing director of Navrattan Group of Companies, with offices in Mumbai, Chandigarh and other cities, is facing charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy, along with his accomplices, suspected to be high-profile singers and embassy officials of many countries.According to Jalandhar police, Verma set up the Navrattan Group of Companies as a front for his illegal business of sending people abroad. He would lure people by telling them they could reach USA through Mexico. He also sent hundreds of people to Hungary with a promise to send them to USA through Mexico. Many of these people have reportedly been missing and are suspected to have been victims of human trafficking.When Jalandhar police had brought Verma to his house in Sector 8 on October 15, 2021, he had escaped from custody after pushing a constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-booked-for-concealing-criminal-record-in-passport-application-101642974907667.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Republic Day rehearsal today: Avoid these roads in Chandigarh||In view of the rehearsal for the Republic Day function to be held in Sector 17, commuters have been advised to avoid the following road stretches between 8am and 8.45am on Monday. These include the road from Punjab Raj Bhawan towards Sector 5-6/7-8 Chowk, straight to Sector 4/5-8/9 Chowk, straight to Sector 3/4-9/10 Chowk, right turn towards Sector 1/3/4 Chowk and left turn towards Bougainvillea Garden and War Memorial, Sector 3. The road stretch from Bougainvillea Garden towards Sector 1/3/4 Chowk, right turn towards Matka Chowk, straight to Sector 16/17 light point, left turn towards Lyon’s light point and right turn towards Parade Ground, Sector 17, must also be avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/republic-day-rehearsal-today-avoid-these-roads-in-chandigarh-101642974906354.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Unhappy with Dera Bassi candidate, 60 local leaders resign in protest||Two days after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) declared Sanjeev Khanna as its candidate from the Dera Bassi constituency for the Punjab assembly elections, over 60 local leaders on Sunday resigned to protest against his candidature. The leaders, who had sought that Mukesh Gandhi, a veteran BJP leader, be picked for the Dera Bassi ticket, have handed over their resignations to district BJP president Sushil Rana. They include mandal presidents, state executive members, district executive members, and members of the Kisan BJP cell, BC morcha, SC morcha, kisan morcha, yuva morcha, minority morcha and Uttarakhand cell morcha.A realtor based in Dera Bassi, Sanjeev Khanna, 57, has been a state executive committee member of BJP’s Punjab unit since December 2020, apart from being an RSS activist.Shiv Kumar Tony, mandal president, Dera Bassi, who was among those who resigned, said the BJP leadership totally ignored the local leaders before declaring the candidate. “Mukesh Gandhi, who was a deserving candidate, has been left out and the ticket has been given in exchange for money,” he alleged.Rajeev Sharma, general secretary, BJP, Mohali, who also resigned, said their requests to the high command were completely ignored. “More than 60 local leaders have resigned. We will remain with the BJP, but will not support the candidate,” he said.Gandhi, a strong contender for the Dera Bassi ticket, said he had been neglected despite being with the BJP since 1985: “I will hold a meeting with my supporters to decide the next course of action.” Meanwhile, party’s pick Khanna said the resentment among some leaders will be sorted out and the BJP will win the seat with a thumping majority.Khanna has been fielded against Shiromani Akali Dal’s two-time MLA NK Sharma and Aam Aadmi Party’s Kuljeet Singh Randhawa.Congress has not nominated its candidate yet, though Deepinder Singh Dhillon, who finished second in the 2017 elections, and Amit Bawa Saini are the frontrunners.The Dera Bassi assembly constituency has always remained a stronghold of the SAD under former minister late Captain Kanwaljit Singh, with the party triumphing consistently for the past three decades.NK Sharma won the elections in 2012 and 2017, beating Congress’ Deepinder Singh Dhillon on both occasions.But in the civic body elections held in February last year, the Congress routed out the SAD from all three civic bodies in the constituency – Dera Bassi, Lalru, and Zirakpur.
24-01-2022||Delhi||Over 27k cops deployed ahead of R-Day: Delhi CP||Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Sunday said that over 27,000 personnel have been deployed in the national capital for security arrangements ahead of Republic Day, and added that anti-terror measures in the city have been intensified.“Since the last two months, we have intensified our anti-terror measures. These measures have been taken on 26 parameters very intensively. It is also because Delhi has always been a target for terrorists or anti-social elements. This year also we have been very alert,” Asthana said at a press conference on Sunday.The commissioner said 27,723 Delhi Police personnel from various ranks and branches has been deployed for security arrangements. He added that 65 companies of central armed police forces will assist the city police in handling any situation.The commissioner said preparations for the Republic Day had started soon after Independence Day last year, and over the last two months, the Delhi Police has intensified anti-terror measures in coordination with other security agencies. He added that besides the internal meetings, interstate coordination meetings were also held to ensure there was no lapse in security.“In the last 15 days, vehicle checking and blockades at different exit points in parts of the city have been intensified, so that if there is any movement, we can easily check and verify it,” Asthana said.The commissioner said the police have been “proactively” creating awareness among public through its social media handles about the dos’ and don’ts and to stay alert about any unattended bag or other objects.“This has had an impact because we are getting a lot of calls daily at our police control rooms. We are receiving such inputs from the public and then we cross-check them,” Asthana said.He also added that a detailed advisory about traffic diversions and arrangements has already been issued.Anti-terror measures were intensified in the city after an improvised explosive device, containing RDX and ammonium nitrate, was found at Ghazipur flower market on January 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-27k-cops-deployed-ahead-of-r-day-delhi-cp-101642973378930.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest column | Clearing the air on Chandigarh Golf Club elections||For well over half a century, the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) has had a proud tradition of being a democratically-run institution, committed to its core function: promotion of the sport of golf.Successive managing committees, elected over the years by its 1,800 members, have steadfastly upheld the club’s constitution in letter and spirit, and consistently raised the bar in management standards, making it one of the country’s finest golf institutions that has groomed generations of eminent international and national golf prodigies. The annual election cycle, which is the integral part of the club’s annual general meeting (AGM), however, was disrupted by the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020 and a new management committee was elected in January 2021.Since the Covid situation was under control in December last, the incumbent governing council lost no time in setting the ball rolling on holding the next AGM-cum-election on January 30, 2022.Unfortunately and unexpectedly, the third wave surged early this month, resulting in the UT administration bringing in restrictions again, leading to deferment of the club polls.Of late, a few members have approached me expressing disappointment and apprehension in the rumours, falsehoods and gossip being spread regarding the AGM-cum-election, which can potentially bring disrepute and disharmony to the club. That makes it extremely important to clear the air about the current factual position. Rulebook followed to a teeElection is only one part of the agenda of the club’s AGM as specified in Rules 47 (b), 51 (a) and 70 (a) (iv) of the club’s Rules and Regulations.In accordance with Rules 72 and 4, notice for the AGM-cum-election, to be held on January 30, 2022, was issued on December 26, last year.Brig JS Phoolka was appointed as the returning officer and the AGM-cum-election process was set in motion. As per Rule 46, the election process was to be supervised by a five-member standing committee, appointed at the last AGM under the chairmanship of Lt-Gen Depinder Singh (retd) and including senior members Virender Sharma (past vice-president), RS Mann (retired IAS officer and past president), Rajiv Atma Ram (senior advocate) and BC Gupta (retired IAS officer).As per Rule 78, the minimum quorum for constituting a valid AGM is 10% of the total resident permanent members; this figure currently stands at 132.Outdoor gatherings capped at 100On January 6, 2022, due to the rising Covid cases, an order was passed by the Chandigarh administration, limiting outdoor gatherings for any purpose to a maximum of 100 people with effect from January 7.Cognizant of this order and in the interest of the club members’ safety, the returning officer wrote to the standing committee, seeking postponement of the AGM and related election process.The standing committee deliberated on the matter and whilst agreeing with the returning officer recommended (a) immediate postponement of the AGM-cum-election with a direction to restart the process as soon as restrictions are eased and (b) the existing managing committee should continue as usual in the interim.An emergency managing committee, on January 7, accepted these recommendations.UT nod awaitedIn view of the new situation, I have written to the UT administration seeking permission to hold the AGM-cum-election at the earliest feasible date and a response is awaited.A few members have suggested that the club should consider electronic or other forms, and have also referred to the holding of five state assembly elections.However, the managing committee can only function under the aegis of the memorandum of association, and rules and regulations of the Chandigarh Golf Club, which clearly establish the procedure to be followed and the restrictions imposed by the Chandigarh administration, which are applicable to us as a responsible and reputed institution of the UT.Any alteration of rules and procedures is not within the ambit of the managing committee which, nevertheless, remains steadfastly committed to upholding the democratic spirit enshrined in the club constitution in the best interests of this premier institution.(The writer is the president of the Chandigarh Golf Club.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-clearing-the-air-on-chandigarh-golf-club-elections-101642971429290.html
24-01-2022||Noida||Factory owner found dead in guest house||Police said on Sunday that a 48-year-old factory owner was found dead in a guest house in Noida Sector 117 on Saturday night.The victim, Umesh Kumar, was a resident of Noida Sector 82.Sharad Kant, station house officer (SHO), Sector 113 police station, said that the victim left his home on January 20 evening, and did not reach home at night. His family members filed a missing complaint at the Noida Phase 2 police station on January 20.On Saturday, the police received information from a guest house that a person was found dead under mysterious circumstances. “A police team reached the spot and launched an investigation in the matter. The victim’s identity was established with the document submitted at the time of check-in at the guest house,” Kant said.Kant also said that the body was sent for post-mortem and medical reports revealed that he died of a heart attack.“We are investigating the matter. The victim’s family has not filed a complaint yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/factory-owner-found-dead-in-guest-house-101642971304622.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest man for attacking wife||Police have arrested a resident of Sector 25 for attacking his wife with a sharp-edged object on Saturday evening. The accused has been identified as Sonu. Police said he is unemployed.Police said that Sonu and his wife, Kiran, had an argument, following which he attacked her. She informed the police and they arrested him. He was later bailed out. A case under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 11 police station. Kiran is undergoing treatment at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-man-for-attacking-wife-101642971124526.html
24-01-2022||Noida||Noida STF arrests three members of a gang for impersonating in UPTET in Meerut||The Noida Special Task Force (STF) arrested three members of a gang on Sunday for their alleged involvement in impersonating in the Uttar Pradesh Teachers Eligibility Test (UPTET) in Meerut.The suspects were identified as Monu Prajapati (mastermind), 25, Anil Kumar (candidate), 23, and Raja Tomar (solver), 23 -- residents of Baraut, Bulandshahr and Baghpat, said police.  Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Noida-STF, said that police received a tip that some men would impersonate as candidates and appear for the UPTET in Meerut.“The Noida-STF team conducted a search and arrested three people from the exam centre in Meerut. Police recovered an Aadhaar card, one OMR sheet, one marksheet, ₹1,690 in cash from their possession,” Mishra said, adding that Prajapati revealed during interrogation that he had called the two people for impersonating in the exam.“Prajapati is a Class XII pass out. He had joined coaching for a competitive exam after his schooling in Baraut in 2016, where he met a person named Shahnewaz. Shahnewaz, who was involved in fraudulent activities, promised Prajapati to facilitate a job in Indian railways and cheated him of ₹2.5 lakh,” Mishra added.  However, Prajpati failed to get a job and demanded his money back, police said, adding that Shahnewaz then engaged him in fraudulent activities and asked him to fetch candidates in the racket.  Mishra also said that Prajapati had met Kumar at a coaching centre and took ₹2.5 lakh from him to facilitate a government job. “However, Kumar failed to get the job as promised. Prajapati then promised that he would engage a solver and pass the UPTET on his behalf. Prajapati then engaged Tomar for the job and promised him ₹50,000,” he said.A case was registered against the three suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) in Meerut on Sunday.“The suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody,” Mishra said.Police have launched a search to nab Shahnewaz, who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-persons-arrested-for-impersonating-in-up-tet-exam-101642970824549.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula police bust gang of car battery thieves with arrest of seven||The accused have been identified as Sahib Kumar from Mauli Jagran, Rohit Jaswal and Satnam Singh from Sector 4, Panchkula; Shivam, Deepak and Mohit from Baltana in Mohali, and Madan Shah from Abheypur in Sector 19, Panchkula.A few cases of battery thefts had been registered against them including the one in November 2021, wherein a Sector 15 resident complained that someone stole the battery of his Alto Car. On January 2, a Sector 12 resident lodged a similar complaint. Man held for stealing AC compressor in ChandigarhChandigarh Police have arrested a 24-year-old man for trying to stealing a compressor and condenser coil of an air conditioning unit from the roof of a showroom in Sector 44. The accused has been identified as Vikash, 24, of Burail village. The owner of the shop, Ravinder Singh of Budmajra, Mohali, caught the accused red-handed and handed him over to the police . He was with an accomplice, who jumped from the roof of the shop and managed to escape. A theft case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. Car’s wheels stolen All four wheels of a car were stolen from Khuda Lahora village on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The victim, Mohinder Singh, said the car was parked outside his house. Also, three gutter covers and three grills were stolen from the Sector 50 community centre. On Saturday, brass, copper, some cash and an LED were stolen from the shop of Suresh Singh of Kaimbwala Village. Theft cases have been registered for all three incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-police-bust-gang-of-car-battery-thieves-with-arrest-of-seven-101642970344398.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||A stall is born||The large counter is stacked with very many egg cartons. A steel tray is serried with green chili and onion pakoris. Another tray is packed with bread pakoras. The adjacent platter is crammed with pooris. The plastic packets of fen and toasty rusks are plopped upon each other into a hill. The chipped pan for chai is atop an unlit burner. The pan is cold on touch.This is a new destination by the roadside. Name—Shyam Nashta Corner. Owner—Radhe Shyam Saini.In a time when the coronavirus pandemic is disrupting lives and professions, Mr Saini is adjusting to the odds by launching a fresh start. “I began about a month back,” he says. The stall is perched on the side of a road snaking up to Gurugram railway station, a short jog away. At this moment in the afternoon, it is the only such establishment to be seen on this portion of the pave. In the pre-pandemic era, and also in some of the easy-going months sandwiched between the second and the third wave, the lane was choc-a-bloc with food carts, selling meals from plain parathas to elaborate biryanis. In fact, the cart stands on the spot where a very friendly elderly man operated a coffee stall—his unique selling point was his instant coffee (so rare for a street) served in kulhar (doubly rare). That stall became history with the first lockdown.Mr Saini has no inkling of that landmark of the past. In a way, he too is a landmark of the past, but of another place. He earlier carried on with his street food living in Daulatabad, “but I was no longer doing well there, so I moved out.” Glancing towards the rail station’s direction, he draws hope from those would-be regulars who might restart commuting by train daily from Gurugram to adjacent towns once the pandemic eases. “I hope they will become my customers.” Mr Saini himself is a native of nearby Rewari but have been in the Millennium City for some years.The wider area is not absolutely deserted of street entrepreneurs. A chhole bhathure cart is standing across the road, along with a tikki stall in the distance. One cart is decked with handkerchiefs, masks, belts and soaps. A couple more wheeled stalls can be sighted, in addition to a watch repairer’s kiosk (sheltering a dog).The scene at Mr Saini’s is not looking promising. There are no customers, and the cart is loaded with just too much food. But he is not nervous. He explains that he prepares fresh snacks immediately after his “routine” midday break, and that the day’s earlier stock finishes by noon. “Somebody or the other will arrive sooner or later… people have been coming to me.” He turns to look at both sides, and freezes his gaze towards the bread pakoras. Soon, a masked man approaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-stall-is-born-101642970155518.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Kamaldeep Saini is PLC candidate from Kharar||Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) has declared Kamaldeep Saini, 46, as its candidates from the Kharar assembly constituency for the Punjab assembly elections scheduled on February 20. Former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced the PLC candidates from 22 constituencies. Saini is the former president of the district youth Congress and is currently vice-chairman of National Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Banks Federation and general secretary in-charge (organisation), Punjab Lok Congress. SAD has picked realtor Ranjit Singh Gill, 57, as its candidate, while Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has fielded Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Mann, 31. Congress is yet to declare its candidate from Kharar. Among the front-runners for the Congress ticket are former cabinet minister Jagmohan Singh Kang, Mohali District Planning Board chairman Vijay Sharma Tinku, senior advocate Natrajan Kaushal and Youth Congress senior vice-president Jaswinder Singh Jassi. With Kharar being the hometown of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, stakes are high in the semi-urban constituency, located on National Highway-21. Part of Mohali district, Kharar was declared an assembly constituency in 2012. In the 2017 Assembly elections, AAP’s Kanwar Sandhu had won from the seat by a margin of nearly 2,000 votes, defeating Congress’ Jagmohan Singh Kang. But, in November 2018, Sandhu, a journalist-turned-politician, along with Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, was suspended from the party for “anti-party activities”. Though Khaira later resigned from the AAP and the assembly, Sandhu is still with the party, but has not been active in the constituency. During the Kharar municipal council elections in February last year, AAP won only one of the 27 seats. The Congress won 10, the SAD eight and independent candidates also grabbed eight seats. 
24-01-2022||Noida||Greater Noida: Higher compensation for land key issue for farmers this election||Ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, farmers in Jewar are in talks with the authorities for land compensation and mega industrial projects, which are the key issues for them as their land is being acquired for the Noida international airport and other developmental projects in the area.They are demanding higher land compensation from political parties seeking votes in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, which is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Polls are to be conducted in the first phase on February 10 in Gautam Budh Nagar’s three assembly constituencies -- Noida, Jewar and Dadri.Jewar, one of the three assembly seats of Gautam Budh Nagar, has grabbed attention in the polls because of the Noida international airport project, which is being developed along the Yamuna Expressway.Farmers in villages, where land acquisition is under process for the airport project, have been demanding higher land compensation and better rehabilitation facilities from the state government in this election season.“Political leaders from different parties have been visiting our villages, and appealing to the people for showing support to them. Our agenda is very clear... The party or candidate, whoever will assure us higher compensation for the land acquired by the authority for developmental projects here, will win our support. The Uttar Pradesh government is giving ₹2,500 per square metre for our land, which is two times the rate set by the government in power. Our demand is four times the (circle) rate set by the government,” said Ajay Pratap Singh, a farmer from Dayanatpur village.  The state government has acquired and handed over 1,334 hectares of land in Jewar to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) -- a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International AG, which was incorporated in 2021 as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to develop the Jewar airport project.The agency has started works on the ground to develop two runways of the airport. According to the concession agreement, the government has to provide 1,363 hectares of land to the subsidiary adjacent to the existing airport site for the third runway and further expansion. The process to acquire 1,363 hectares more land is underway.Six villages -- Karauli Bangar, Dayanatpur, Kureb, Ranhera, Mundhera and Nagla Hukum Singh village -- falling under the project area will be used for setting up the third runway, and a commercial maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) of aircraft centre for the project, and the land acquisition process is underway.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling party in the state, has fielded Thakur Dhirendra Singh, sitting MLA from Jewar; Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal alliance fielded former MP Avtar Singh Bhadana; Congress fielded Manoj Chaudhary, a first-timer; and Bahujan Samaj Party fielded Narendra Dedha, a journalist, from this crucial seat.Most of the farmers said that the “main fight for this seat is between the SP-RLD alliance and the BJP”.Meanwhile, many farmers, who gave land for the first phase development of the airport project, expressed happiness with the land compensation and other benefits. “We are happy with the land compensation provided by the government. The airport and other big industrial projects such as Apparel Park, mobile manufacturing units, and food parks among others have pushed the property’s rate to a new high. Due to the development in the area, our children will easily get jobs and lead a better life here in the coming days, so we will support the BJP and local MLA,” said Devdutt Sharma, a farmer from Banwaribas village.Aarif Khan, a farmer from Nagla Sharif, said, “The airport project is a big one, and it will change this region completely. But we will also vote keeping in mind other developmental projects in the region, and the behaviour of the sitting MLA. He has built roads, colleges, renovated schools and worked in all fields for improvement in this region. So, we are with him.”  The SP-RLD alliance, the Congress and the BSP candidates have been assuring the farmers that they will ensure higher compensation and huge benefits to their families. “The farmers have been victims of injustice as the current compensation rate is very low. We will do justice to the farmers if elected to power,” Avtar Singh Bhadana has been assuring farmers during meetings.Congress candidate Manoj Chaudhary said, “Farmers are unhappy about the way the government has demolished their houses to make way for the airport project, without even providing them houses. We will not let it happen in villages where the land acquisition process is underway.”BJP MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh, who has been conducting door-to-door campaigns ahead of the polls, said, “The airport, Film City, Medical Device Park, colleges, Skill institutions and Food Park are big projects that have come up in Jewar in the past five years. Apart from this, we have worked for all the communities in the region without any discrimination, which is why the people are with us. Farmers are happy with the land compensation provided by the government. If anyone is unhappy, we will address their issues.”
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Swachh Survey 2022: Chandigarh MC holding capacity-building workshops for sanitation workers||With an eye on improving the city’s ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2022, the municipal corporation has for the first time formulated a comprehensive capacity building plan. The plan, conceived on quarterly basis by the MC’s Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) cell, is being carried on out with technical support from various agencies including Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA), City Level Federation (CLF) and Tech Mahindra Foundation. The city slipped sharply in the Swach Survekshan 2021 and was ranked 66th in the country. The city’s poor performance also became a major issue in the just concluded MC elections. For Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban (SBM-U) MC is extending training through workshops, technical sessions, demonstrations and virtual sessions to all its sanitation staff and workers in order to build the capacity of human resource engaged in sanitation work. Along with the capacity building of sanitation staff and workers, other stakeholders including Area Level Federations (ALF) which are women and community-based organisations and skill training providers under DAY-NULM were included in the capacity building, so that they can further link and create awareness in the communities. “Capacity building and training is a key component under SBM (U) and I will put emphasis on transforming the entire training canvas into state-of-the-art environment at ULB level, by pooling institutional and financial resources from public institutions and corporates,” said Anindita Mitra, MC Commissioner. “Along with the capacity building training programme, all sanitation workers including formal and informal were linked with various social security and livelihood schemes in various camps organised simultaneously with the training workshops and sessions. PPE kits were also distributed to all the sanitation workers,” said Mitra. Along with the capacity building training programme, all the sanitation workers including formal and informal were linked with various social security schemes like Jan Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Health Card*and livelihood schemes viz enrollement in Self Help Groups (SHGs), Skill Training under National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM)* in various camps organized simultaneously with the training workshops and sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swachh-survey-2022-chandigarh-mc-holding-capacity-building-workshops-for-sanitation-workers-101642969744758.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh teen Kashvi selected for Indian fencing team||Chandigarh-based Kashvi Garg, 16, has been included in the Indian fencing team which will be competing in the upcoming Fencing Grand Prix 2022 for senior men and women epee event from January 28 to 30 at Doha in Qatar. The selection trials for this event were conducted last week at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Campus, Amritsar. The Fencing Association of India (FAI) had invited the best 32 epee fencers (men and women) for the selection trials on the basis of their past performance and ranking in the national and international championships and finally shortlisted top eight men and eight women fencers for team India. Kashvi happens to be the youngest player not only in the selected Indian squad, but also in the entire tournament that will have around 150 top-ranking fencing players from all over the world. Kashvi is a student of Class 11, Carmel Convent School, Chandigarh, pursuing medical studies. “This is a very prestigious tournament and based on the performance in this tournament, players get the points that are taken into consideration while deciding their world ranking,” quipped Kashvi. When asked if she is excited about the tournament, she says, “Of course, this is my first big tournament where I will get to compete with the best players of the world and it will be a huge learning experience for me,” added the young fencer, who honed her skills under guidance of senior coach Charanjit Kaur and Mukesh Kumar. Kashvi is two-time national gold medallist and has also represented the country previously in the 41st International Children Fencing Tournament that was held at Wroclaw, Poland, in 2018. Apart from this, she was also awarded with a commendation certificate by the Chandigarh administration’ on the Republic day last year for her achievements in the field of sports. Kashvi is also the child rights ambassador for the Chandigarh Commission of protection for child rights (CCPCR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-teen-kashvi-selected-for-indian-fencing-team-101642969564259.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||37-year-old biker killed in Karnal road mishap||A 37-year-old motorcyclist was killed after being hit by a speeding car in Landora village of Karnal district on Saturday night.The victim, Ved Prakash, was returning to his house when the mishap took place. He was rushed to a local hospital but doctors declared him declared him brought dead.Karnal Sadar Police station in-charge Tarsem Singh said a case has been registered against the unidentified driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Panel Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/37yearold-biker-killed-in-karnal-road-mishap-101642969504695.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Parakram Diwas: Haryana CM calls upon youth to take inspiration from Netaji||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday unveiled a statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at a park named after him at MLA Hostel in Sector 3, Chandigarh, to mark the countrywide celebrations of Parakram Diwas on the revolutionary’s 125th birth anniversary. Khattar said that the occasion is a golden opportunity to remember pivotal contributions made by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and many others towards the freedom movement. “I call upon the youth of the nation to dedicate their lives to serve the country, while taking inspiration from the ideals and sacrifices made by Netaji,” added Khattar. Despite heavy rains, Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, development and panchayats minister Devender Singh Babla, deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa, Bihar Vidhan Sabha speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria and Panchkula mayor Kulbhushan Goyal were present on this occasion. Similar programmes were also organised at 75 locations across Haryana at village and ward levels. The CM said that Netaji was an unparalleled leader, who by leading Azad Hind Fauj had proudly kept the torch of freedom burning not only on Indian soil but also across the globe. “Despite cracking the toughest examination of Indian Civil Service (ICS) at the age of 23 only, as wished by his father, Netaji pursued his passion of serving the country,” Khattar added. Governor pays floral tribute In a quiet and solemn ceremony organised at Punjab Raj Bhawan, Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit and other officials paid floral tribute to Netaji. The governor said that Netaji personified valour, determination and sacrifice and played an invaluable role in liberating our motherland from the yoke of British rule. The nation will forever be grateful to Netaji for his enormous contribution in India’s struggle for freedom, said Purohit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parakram-diwas-haryana-cm-calls-upon-youth-to-take-inspiration-from-netaji-101642969444954.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House meeting today: AAP, BJP likely to clash over repair of waste plant||The first municipal corporation House meeting after the mayor elections, scheduled for Monday, is set to be a noisy affair.One of the main thorny issues will be the agenda of repair/overhaul of the existing solid waste processing plant in Sector 25 at a cost of ₹6.33 crore. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), with 14 councillors in the House of 35, is likely to corner the BJP on the issue. BJP has 13 councillors, Congress seven and SAD one.As per the agenda, MC is proposing the overhaul/repair of the existing mixed waste processing plant to get it in working condition, so that dry waste can be converted to refuse derived fuel.The agency will repair and further maintain the plant for a period of one year, extendable by two years, along with providing labour for its running. Some of the machinery will be replaced/repaired, as per requirement.The AAP contends that the MC is going against its own resolutions passed last year, wherein an IIT Roorkee report had stated the machinery cannot be repaired and must be replaced.“The report clearly stated that even after repair and maintenance of existing machinery, etc the existing plant will at best handle 60 to 65 TPD,” said senior AAP leader Chandermukhi Sharma.Defending the proposal, mayor Sarabjit Kaur, said, “The solid waste management needs of the city till the upgrade takes place requires the existing plant to be used to its full potential. For this, repair work is needed. This proposal couldn’t be brought last year because of election code of conduct.”Notably, the January 8 mayoral elections had witnessed large-scale ruckus in the House, after one AAP vote was declared invalid. AAP has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court demanding quashing of the polls
24-01-2022||Noida||UP elections: State’s deputy CM Sharma rakes up Kairana in Dadri poll campaign||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister and BJP leader Dr Dinesh Sharma was in Greater Noida on Sunday to campaign for the party’s Dadri candidate Tejpal Nagar. He took part in a door-to-door campaign in Alpha-1 sector and held an election meeting with voters at a private college in Knowledge Park. Speaking to the media during his campaign, Sharma raised the issue of “palayan” (Hindu exodus)” during the Samajwadi Party (SP) rule and claimed that under the BJP, UP has been transformed into a state where development is the key. “UP has changed now. This is not a state of mass exoduses but that of development now. The state does not have a place for lawlessness and has become a place where employment, health and education are given importance,” said Sharma. “The elimination of regionalism, family politics and mafia-rule are BJP’s objectives, which fights polls on agendas of development”, Sharma added. Sharma was referring to the 2016 allegations of a few BJP leaders that there was an exodus of Hindus from the Muslim-dominated town of Kairana in Shamli district. However, a five-member team of Hindu seers in June 2016 (during the SP government) contradicted the BJP’s claim of an exodus but said there was an atmosphere of fear in the town because of criminals. Sharma’s statement comes a day after Union home minister and BJP stalwart Amit Shah was in Kairana to campaign for the upcoming polls. Sharma further said that the Opposition is giving tickets to their family members and tainted leaders. “The people of UP have tasted the benefits of development. Now, there is no space for caste-based or communal politics. There is a rising fear in the public that mafia and criminal elements will come back again as some parties have fielded criminals or their family members as candidates,” he said. Sharma was apparently referring to SP candidate from the Kairana seat, Nahid Hasan, who was arrested on January 15 by the UP Police under the Gangsters Act. Later, SP gave the Kairana ticket to Hasan’s younger sister Iqra. Sharma said, “There are criminals who are openly supporting some parties, indirectly warning people that if they do not support them, they will create an atmosphere of terror. But it will never happen, the entire state has changed under BJP rule”. Sharma added that rival parties, including the Congress, the SP, and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), will not be able to get even 100 seats in the upcoming polls. “I feel western UP will break its own previous record by supporting the BJP with more votes. We will get over 50 per cent of the votes and break our own record,” said Sharma. On Priyanka Gandhi Vadra denying she is Congress’ chief ministerial candidate, Sharma said he need not say much about it as numerous TV surveys are forecasting a mere 3-7 seats for her party. “Their combined figures (Opposition parties) in the upcoming polls will not reach three-digit,” he said. Sharma further alleged that earlier, political parties in UP fought elections on communal issues and polarised minority voters, even winning elections in the past. Dadri in western UP’s Gautam Budh Nagar district goes to the polls on February 10. BJP has fielded sitting MLA Nagar once again from the seat, which has 15 other candidates in fray. According to Vijay Bhati, BJP’s Gautam Budh Nagar district president, the campaigning was carried out by following Covid-19 norms. “At the election meeting held in a private college in Greater Noida, only 70 party workers and key voters were present in the hall, maintaining social distancing while the deputy chief minister’s door-to-door campaign was also carried out in accordance with guidelines issued by the Election Commission,” he said. Incidentally, BJP candidate Nagar was campaigning in Greater Noida west and did not accompany Sharma. Responding to Sharma’s allegations, SP’s Dadri candidate Raj Kumar Bhati said, “A number of sitting MLAs and leaders of the BJP have criminal cases pending against them. As they are in power, they are not pulled up and point fingers at us. However, the voters are smart enough to judge and the poll results on March 10 will say for itself”. Political analysts say that by highlighting the Kairana “exodus”, BJP is trying to revive the memories of the Muzaffarnagar riots. Before the 2014 general elections, the riots in August and September of 2013 between Jats and Muslims in Muzaffarnagar had left 60 people dead and displaced nearly 50,000. “Recently, during the farmers’ agitation, Jat and Muslim communities have come together, and this poses a serious challenge for the BJP. In this context, it becomes necessary for the party to revive the memories of the Muzaffarnagar riots in order to win the elections”, said Hilal Ahmad, associate professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), New Delhi, who had also conducted a study on the Muzaffarnagar riots. Psephologist and CSDS professor Sanjay Kumar said, “By raking up the Kairana issue, the BJP is trying to convey to the Hindu voters that the party cares for them while the Opposition does not. The bigger narrative that they are trying to put across the state, especially western UP where Muslims are in larger numbers, is that if the SP is voted to power, minorities will have a larger role to play”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-elections-state-s-deputy-cm-sharma-rakes-up-kairana-in-dadri-poll-campaign-101642969324285.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||12 deaths, 7,516 fresh Covid cases in Haryana||Twelve coronavirus-related deaths were reported in Haryana on Sunday that raised the state’s fatality count to 10,177, while the infection tally climbed to 9,08,819 with 7,516 fresh cases, according to a Health Department bulletin.The worst-hit Gurugram district reported 2,102 fresh cases.Faridabad (1,232), Panchkula (615), Sonipat (560), Ambala (341) and Hisar (366) were among other districts which recorded a surge in cases.While five new fatalities were reported from Karnal district, two deaths were from Faridabad while a fatality each was from Gurugram, Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Jind, according to the bulletin.Haryana now has 57,753 active coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12-deaths-7-516-fresh-covid-cases-in-haryana-101642969204774.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala Cantonment gang war: Car used in shootout recovered from Kurukshetra||In a major development in the daylight shooting on Friday where Mohali-based gangster Mohit Rana was shot dead and his associate was left critically injured, police have recovered the car used in the crime from the neighbouring district of Kurukshetra. Ambala superintendent of police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the Ford EcoSport SUV belonging to the accused was found unattended at Pipli bus stand by their Kurukshetra counterparts. “As established earlier, the registration number of the SUV is fake. It has also come to the fore that the same car with the original number was used in the murder of a businessman in Rohtak on January 6. We have found the original registration number and our teams are working on several leads to nab the three assailants,” Randhawa said.CCTV cameras had captured the three assailants stepping out of the SUV and firing indiscriminately. Mohit, an aide of the Bhupi Rana gang, was killed on the spot and Vishal, alias Bhola, was grievously injured. Bhola, who was immediately referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, for treatment, is still critical. It has been learnt that chances of his survival are low and a major surgery is still pending.Soon after the murder, Goldy Brar claimed responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post. Brar is said to be affiliated to the Lawrence Bishnoi and Kala Rana gangs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-cantonment-gang-war-car-used-in-shootout-recovered-from-kurukshetra-101642969144375.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir logs 6,253 Covid-19 infections; highest active cases in Srinagar district||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 6,253 Covid-19 infections and seven deaths owing to the novel Coronavirus induced illness, official bulletin said. The active cases in the union territory crossed the 42,000-mark.Saturday had reported the highest-ever daily Covid-19 spike witnessing 6,568 infections, again breaching all records since the pandemic began in 2020. For the past five days, the union territory has recorded above 5,700 cases daily. Before this week’s surge, the highest novel Coronavirus cases reported in the union territory were 5,443 and 50 deaths on May 7 when the second wave had peaked. The first wave had peaked in September 2020 reporting the highest surge of 1,698 cases and 10 deaths on September 12. The active cases in the union territory reached 42,866 with over 41,500 active cases added in January so far. On December 31, the union territory had just 1,337 active cases.The officials said 74,785 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking Sunday’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) to 8.36% - first time since May.The authorities have increased the testing rate this month as earlier they have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December.Of the total infections on Sunday, Kashmir valley saw almost 72% of the infections with 4,499 cases and four deaths while 1,754 cases and three deaths were reported in the Jammu division.In Kashmir valley, the surge was in nine out of the 10 districts with Srinagar witnessing the highest 1,464 cases followed by 590 in Budgam, 564 cases in Baramulla, 344 in Kupwara and 320 in Ganderbal.In the Jammu division, the Jammu district reported 1,075 cases followed by 176 in Ramban, 140 in Doda and 114 in Udhampur.Srinagar is the district with the highest number of Covid active cases at 11,079 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 8,825 and 5,964 active cases, respectively.This month has witnessed a steep rise in cases with daily infections shooting up sharply from 169 on Jan 01 to 6,568 on Jan 22.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 2,493 with active positive cases reaching 42,866.However, of the 4,994 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 10.77 percent or 538 are occupied in J&K. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 22,955 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to cross 2.019 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,49,731 while the recovery rate has dropped to 88.04%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,97,202 and the death toll has reached 4,605.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,184 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 890 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-logs-6-253-covid-19-infections-highest-active-cases-in-srinagar-district-101642968966015.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana | 2 IAS, 14 HCS officers transferred||The Haryana government issued transfer and posting orders for two IAS and 14 HCS officers on Sunday.Tourism director Amarjit Singh Mann was given the additional charge of special secretary, Home-I. Shantanu Sharma has been posted as additional deputy commissioner, Sonepat-cum-district citizen resources information officer.The list of the HCS officers include, Jaideep Kumar, CEO, Zilla Parishad, Rewari and CEO, DRDA, Rewari has been posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner, Rewari-cum- District Citizen Resources Information Officer, Rewari Satish Kumar Jain has been posted as additional director (administration), health services, Haryana and additional chief executive officer, Ayushman Bharat Haryana Health Protection Authority, Panchkula. Sushil Kumar, sub-divisional officer (civil)-cum- additional collector, Radaur, has been posted as CEO, Zilla Parishad, Karnal and CEO, DRDA Karnal.Mamta, district transport officer-cum-secretary, RTA, Panchkula has been posted as district municipal commissioner, Kurukshetra. Meenaxe Raj, secretary, Haryana Right to Service Commission and Joint Director, State Transport, Haryana has been posted as vigilance officer, HAFED and district transport officer-cum- secretary, RTA, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-2-ias-14-hcs-officers-transferred-101642968964553.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Man who molested JNU student on university campus arrested||The Delhi Police on Sunday said they have arrested a man who allegedly molested a Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student on campus on January 17.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Gaurav Sharma said the suspect is not a student of JNU.“The man had also fled with her mobile phone. It was recovered by police,” Sharma said, adding that the accused was arrested from Munirka. He said that more than 60 police personnel worked on the case.A case under sections 354A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment), 354B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Vasant Kunj North police station.In her complaint to the police, the woman, a PhD scholar, said the incident took place near the East Gate of the university. She told the police that the suspect, who was on a motorcycle, tried to molest her, and fled when she raised an alarm.On January 18, the JNU Students’ Union took out a protest march against the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-who-molested-jnu-student-on-university-campus-arrested-101642968843866.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||3 cops in CBI net for graft||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested three personnel from Kalindi Kunj police station, including the station house officer (SHO), for allegedly demanding a bribe of ₹39,000 to allow the construction of a boundary wall.A CBI official said a case was filed against SHO Bhushan Kumar Azad, head constable Rakesh Yadav and constable Dinesh (who goes by a single name).The complainant alleged that the SHO, through Yadav, allegedly demanded ₹500 per square yard to allow the construction of a boundary wall surrounding a plot of 132 square yards at Madanpur Khadar Extension Part 3, under the jurisdiction of Kalindi Kunj police station. The complainant claimed that he was later able to bring down the amount to ₹300 per square yard, reducing the total amount to ₹39,000.The complainant subsequently approached the CBI which laid a trap and caught the constable who received the bribe in the presence of the head constable.“Searches were conducted at the official and residential premises of the arrested personnel. All the arrested persons will be produced in court,” said a CBI official.Delhi Police officers did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-cops-in-cbi-net-for-graft-101642968506421.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||1,000 youngsters to get adventure sports training each year: Haryana CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said adventure sport camps will be held in Kalesar, Dhosi, Aravalli and Mewat, and 1,000 youngsters will be trained in adventure sports every year.  Speaking at the closing ceremony of a training programme named ‘Youthpreneur’ under the Milkha Singh adventure sports club’, Khattar said ₹2 crore will be spent each year on training as part of the 75th Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations and 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. Around 40 Morni residents aged between 16 to 29 were trained about entrepreneurship related to ‘adventure sports and home stay’ at the training programme. Minister of state for sports and youth Affairs Sandeep Singh was also present as a special guest.The CM laid the foundation stone of the state information commission building to be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹36.49 crore in Sector 3, Panchkula , the CM said it will be named after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1000-youngsters-to-get-adventure-sports-training-each-year-haryana-cm-101642968665949.html
24-01-2022||Noida||Sahibabad: UP CM Adityanath drums up support for BJP with door-to-door campaigns||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath conducted a door-to-door campaign in Sahibabad assembly constituency and held two indoor meetings with eminent persons on Sunday as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) campaign for the first phase of the UP assembly elections scheduled on February 10. While UP deputy chief minister Dr Dinesh Sharma was on a campaign trail in neighbouring Greater Noida, Adityanath himself led the campaign in the two key assembly seats of Sahibabad and Ghaziabad. Sahibabad seat has 10,12,154 eligible voters, while Ghaziabad assembly constituency has 4,69,505 voters according to the latest electoral rolls. The BJP has fielded all its five sitting MLAs from each of the five seats in Ghaziabad. From Sahibabad, the party has fielded Sunil Sharma, who is given ticket for the fourth consecutive time while UP minister (health) Atul Garg will contest his second consecutive election (third overall) from the Ghaziabad seat. Sources in the party said that there was dissent among BJP workers and some of its leaders because tickets were to the sitting MLAs. In several cases, some of those opposing the ticket distribution have filed their nomination papers as Independents, while some have also joined the opposition parties and secured a ticket, like in case of KK Shukla, who is contesting the Ghaziabad seat on a ticket given by the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Adityanath, who is also BJP’s star campaigner, chose Sanjay Colony in Sahibabad and a slum cluster in Vijay Nagar to drum up support for his party. There was a heavy rush at Rajiv Colony with hundreds of locals arriving to get a glimpse of the chief minister, who arrived with Ghaziabad MP and Union minister General VK Singh (retired). People showered flower petals on Adityanath and handed over memorandums, highlighting their concerns to him. “There was a huge gathering as Adityanath came afoot for the door-to-door campaign and women wished him good luck while showering flower petals. Our locality has a dominant population of Valmikis and comprises about 20,000 votes that falls under Sahibabad seat,” said Tilak Ram, a local who was elated after the chief minister visited his house. In Sahibabad, BJP’s Sunil Sharma faces arch-rival Amarpal Sharma who is contesting this time on SP ticket and also against debutant Sangeeta Tyagi from the Congress, Chhavi Yadav from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Ajit Kumar Pal from the BSP. In Ghaziabad seat, UP minister Atul Garg faces BSP’s KK Shukla, SP’s Vishal Verma, Sushant Goyal of the Congress and Lalit Yadav from the AAP as key opponents. BJP office-bearers denied that dissent would have any impact on the poll campaign of the ruling party. “There is no dissent in the party and in the coming days you will see that some people will withdraw their nominations. Their issues have been taken up and discussed. Adityanath himself holding two meetings and door-to-door campaigns in Ghaziabad shows the significance of the district for the party. His visit will infuse a lot of energy among party cadres,” said Sanjeev Sharma, president of the BJP’s city unit. Political experts said that Adityanath holding a series of poll campaigns and meetings in a single day in Ghaziabad holds importance. “Speeches made from key areas such as Mathura, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and western UP hold a lot of importance and have a state-wide impact. His visit is significant as Ghaziabad district has five seats at stake for the party,” said Dr Virendra Singh, associate professor (political science) from MMH College, Ghaziabad. On Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah campaigned in Kairana in western UP’s Shamli district and addressed small groups and also took part in a door-to-door campaign. “The door-to-door campaigns are the best form of meeting voters and garnering their support. This practice of late has reduced considerably unlike the way it used to happen during previous elections. It is one of the best forms of campaigning, which directly impacts voters. It will come in handy as rallies and roadshows have been banned for now due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) from MM College, Modinagar. 
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Veteran PDP leader Yashpal Sharma cremated in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch||Amid a pall of gloom and grief, the mortal remains of the veteran politician and former MLC of the People’s Democratic Party from J&K’s Poonch district, Yashpal Sharma were cremated in Poonch on Sunday.He passed away around 2.30 am on Sunday following a massive cardiac arrest at his native home in Poonch town.He was 76 years old. Sharma, a leader of the masses, who always worked for the weaker sections of society and was called ‘Sher-e-Poonch’ was deeply revered by the people from all communities.He is survived by his wife Parveen Kumari, brothers advocate Sunil Sharma (chairman of the municipal committee, Poonch), and Dr Sushil Sharma (head of the cardiology department at the government super speciality hospital in Jammu), two sons Kirtipal Sharma and Dr Udeshpal Sharma and two daughters Neetu Sharma and Dr Chaya Sharma.Poonch SSP Dr Rohit Baksotra said that the PDP leader died of cardiac arrest around 2.30 am on Sunday.He informed that the mortal remains of the late leader were consigned to flames around 4 pm in Poonch. Sharma was considered a veteran voice of the PDP.In March last year, he was among 14 leaders named by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti in the 14-member Political Affairs Committee (PAC).J&K PDP wrote on Twitter, “With great grief and remorse we announce the demise of a senior leader, ex-MLC and PAC member Yashpal Sharma. A towering personality who dedicated his entire life serving the masses of Poonch. Our thoughts and prayers are with the members of the family in this hour of grief. #RIP.”Sharma along with his family had migrated from PoJK and had settled in Poonch.Sharma had contested his first election for assembly from Poonch Haveli in 1983 as an independent candidate and later won elections for municipal committee Poonch.Yashpal Sharma was a close confidante of PDP founder Mufti Mohammad Sayeed.In 2012-13, he was nominated as a Member of Legislative Council (MLC) by the PDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/veteran-pdp-leader-yashpal-sharma-cremated-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch-101642968544476.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||ED set to arrest Delhi minister Jain ahead of Punjab polls, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday told reporters he has learned that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is likely to arrest a senior minister in his cabinet, Satyendar Jain, ahead of the Punjab assembly polls, and said that the alleged move will be another example of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) using federal agencies to target political rivals.Kejriwal, whose government has been at odds with the BJP over several issues and government schemes, did not elaborate how he or his party became aware of this information.“We have learned from our sources that in the coming few days, before the Punjab election, ED is going to arrest Satyendar Jain (Delhi health minister). I welcome ED. The Centre got Jain raided twice before, but found nothing. Now if they want to come again and raid, they are welcome,” Kejriwal said in a digital press conference.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief went on to add that leaders of his party have nothing to fear from any agency because they have not done anything wrong.“If BJP-led central government wants to send ED, CBI, Income Tax, Delhi Police, or any other agency, they can go ahead and send them. If they want to raid and arrest anyone including Bhagwant Mann (AAP’s Punjab chief ministerial candidate), they can do that. We all will be very happy to host you and will welcome you with wide smiles. We are not afraid because we have never done anything wrong,” Kejriwal said.The Enforcement Directorate declined to comment on the charge.When asked about the apprehensions raised over his possible arrest, Delhi health minister Jain said he was ready to face any action.“It is due to Punjab elections. We will not buckle down and we will fight the Punjab election with all strength. The previous raids were also conducted during Punjab elections. ED has raided my house twice in past. I welcome CBI, ED, income tax and other agencies,” said Jain, who was in Ludhiana on Sunday.Jain was on ED’s radar in 2017 in connection with an alleged money laundering case.The case was filed by CBI, which claimed that Jain could not explain the source of funds received by four companies in which he was a shareholder. Jain and his wife were alleged holders of one-third of the shares of these companies.CBI in 2018 filed a charge sheet in the case against Satyendar Jain, his wife Poonam Jain and business associates in the disproportionate assets case. The agency said the extent of disproportionate assets amounted to ₹1.47 crore.Kejriwal said this was not the first time that AAP leaders were being targeted.“In the past, raids were conducted against him (Jain), Manish Sisodia (deputy CM), and other AAP ministers, but nothing was found. Our 21 MLAs were arrested, but in the end all of them came out clean through the court. Jain will also come out on bail within 5-10 days. They won’t have a single proof for the courts to see,” Kejriwal said.Talking about the recent raids against Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey, he said that leaders of his party will not get “flustered” in the way the Punjab chief minister got.“Channi has been making a spectacle out of the raids conducted on his relatives because he knows he is the wrong one there. Everyone by now has seen the mountains of cash he was sitting on that got exposed during the raids.The people of Punjab are in utter shock that something like this could have panned out in a mere 111 days,” said Kejriwal.ED had on Wednesday said that it seized cash amounting to over ₹10 crore, including about ₹8 crore from the house of Channi’s nephew during raids conducted in connection with an anti-money laundering investigation against illegal sand-mining operations in the poll-bound state.Calling the raids “political motivated”, Channi on Wednesday denied any link with the cash allegedly recovered from his Honey’s residence.Channi also said on Friday that he would file a defamation suit against Kejriwal for making insinuations linking him to the cash recovered by ED.BJP leader and leader of Opposition in the Delhi assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, said Kejriwal’s allegations were nothing but a political stunt.“Kejriwal accuses the central investigative agencies of working on the directions of the central government, but when the same agencies carry out raids against Kejriwal’s political rivals, he hails the raids. Kejriwal has realised that he is going to lose the assembly elections, so he is trying to play an emotional card to gather sympathy. If Satyendar Jain has done nothing wrong, then why is the AAP government making a hue and cry?” Bidhuri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ed-set-to-arrest-delhi-minister-jain-ahead-of-punjab-polls-says-kejriwal-101642968247127.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Unseasonal rainfall may damage crops, say Haryana growers||With Haryana receiving rainfall accompanied by high-velocity winds over the last two days, farmers are worried that stagnant water may damage crops in low-lying areas. As per the India Meteorological Department Haryana had received 12mm rainfall on Sunday, of which Panchkula received the maximum rainfall at 35mm, followed by 34mm in Yamunanagar, 31mm in Ambala, 31mm in Kurukshetra, 20mm in Karnal, 14mm each in Panipat and Jind, 13mm in Rohtak and 11mm in Jind. Kurukshetra’s Ladwa sub-division has received 52mm rainfall, Thanesar 38mm, Ismailabad 32 mm and Babain 24mm rainfall on Sunday.“Around four acres of my paddy field has been submerged and more rain has caused waterlogging. The crop will be destroyed in the next couple of days,’ said a farmer, Naseeb Singh, Duddi village, Kurukshetra.A mustard grower, Nirmal Singh of Henori village, Karnal, said, “My crop had been flattened during the previous rainfall, and more rain is sure to impact the yield. Even, the potato growers are staring at huge losses. “We are already getting poor prices, but frequent spells of unseasonal rainfall have damaged six acres of produce, which was ready for harvest,” Krishan Kumar of Shahbad, Kurukshetra said.As per data collated before January 10, around 50-100% loss was reported on 2,000 hectares of wheat crops, 2,500 hectare of mustard and 100 hectare of pulses in Kurukshetra district. Karnal Haryana agriculture department deputy director Aditya Dabas said water stagnation is harmful for mustard and wheat and the agriculture department will collect reports of damage to crops due to waterlogging.A special girdawari (crop inspection) has been ordered by the revenue department and the agricultural department has also done its own survey of damage to crops during this month to compensate the aggrieved farmers.Additional chief secretary to Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare department Sumita Misra said fresh directions have been issued to the district authorities to send the reports of loss to the revenue department.
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||I’m not afraid of ED raids, says Delhi health minister Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday that he and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were not afraid of possible Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on him.Canvassing in favour of AAP candidate KNS Kang in the Dakha constituency, Jain said on his party chief Arvind Kejriwal’s claim of his arrest by the ED, “We welcome them (ED). Earlier too, the agency had raided my house twice, but did not find anything. Such raids are politically motivated as the elections are around the corner.” Jain said that people of Dakha constituency had voted party leader and senior advocate HS Phoolka, “Phoolka could not continue due to certain reasons but his wishes and vision continues to guide us. Similarly, Kang has done a lot for society and particularly in the field of education. We strongly believe that people will show the same love to him as they showed to Phoolka.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/im-not-afraid-of-ed-raids-says-delhi-health-minister-jain-101642968365927.html
24-01-2022||Noida||2022 UP elections: CM Yogi Adityanath holds dialogue with voters in Ghaziabad||Uttar Pradesh chief minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)star campaigner Yogi Adityanath on Sunday held two indoor meetings with different groups of voters and highlighted the achievements of his government while invoking the nationalist and Hindutva agenda. Adityanath also lashed out at its key opponent, the Samajwadi Party (SP), contesting in alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in western Uttar Pradesh, which goes to polls on February 10. It was Adityanath’s third visit to Ghaziabad in less than a month. He had earlier attended BJP’s ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ on December 25 and also took part in a Covid-19 review meeting on January 17. BJP workers said that Adityanath held a “Prabhavi Matdata Samvad” comprising key people from different groups such as resident welfare associations (RWAs), engineers, doctors and traders among others. He urged them to propagate the achievements of the ruling party during the five years of his regime. Among the key persons present at the meeting were Mahant Narayan Giri of the Dudheshwarnath Temple and Pawan Sinha, a spiritual leader. Targeting the Opposition, Adityanath drew a comparison between the SP’s return to power in 2012 and the BJP forming the government in 2017.“The first decision we took was to shutdown illegal slaughterhouses, formation of anti-Romeo squads and waiver of ₹36,000 crore of farm loans. Our decisions benefitted the ‘Gau Mata’ (cow, considered sacred by Hindus), women and farmers. When the SP came to power in 2012, the first decision they took was to drop cases against the terrorists,” Yogi told the gathering at Pandit Deen Dayal auditorium in Ghaziabad. The chief minister said that the SP allegedly provided shelter to professional mafias, and it incited a series of riots in places such as Kosi Kalan, Bulandshahr, Meerut among others and these ended only when they got a hint that the BJP was to return to power in 2017. During the 2012 assembly elections, the SP contested in 401 seats and won 224, while the BJP contested in 398 seats and won only 47. The BJP turned the tables in 2017 when it contested in 384 seats and won 312, while the SP contested in 311 and won only 47 and got voted out of power. “You celebrated Dussehra and Deepawali during the pandemic and when I inquired from the health minister, I was told that people get a sense of assurance that when Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) and Yogiji are there, Corona would not be able to harm them. During their (SP) regime, there was no Corona, but they imposed curfews. We imposed only a night curfew during this third wave... we are giving free vaccines, free tests and treatment to all without any discrimination but without any appeasement,” Adityanath said. Yogi also cited examples of the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and development of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project in Varanasi. “In Ghaziabad, we had seen development of the Haj House in violation of norms during the previous regime, but we gave you Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan. They stopped the Kanwar Yatras and even banned the Janmashtami celebrations. They thought only for their family, but we held a nationalist approach and thought about everyone, while respecting the faith of the people,” Adityanath said in an apparent dig at the SP. During his address, there were regular chants of “Jai Shri Ram”, “Bharat Mata ki jai” and “Har Har Mahadev” by the BJP supporters. Yogi cited the examples of the development of the War Memorial near India Gate in New Delhi and said that celebration of ‘the Samvidhan Diwas’ (Constitution Day on November 26), development of the Panch Teerth (sites related to Dr B R Ambedkar), celebration of the National Unity Day to remember the contributions of Sardar Patel in the integration of India, were due to the thought process of PM Modi. Adityanath also cited development projects such as the Ganga expressway, Jewar airport, film city, medical device park, sports university in Meerut and a civil terminal at the Hindon airport. “Their thought process was divisive and destructive while we believe in nationalism and inclusion of all communities. You just see the first two lists of candidates for the assembly election, and you will come to know about the people who got tickets. For them, the development was only restricted to the Saifai family. They promise 300 units of free electricity. One should ask them what they did when they were in power. In those days, there was no electricity,” Adityanath said. The chief minister said that people in the Opposition parties were not seen anywhere during the pandemic while BJP workers were busy trying to save lives. “A BJP government is needed in UP in order to uphold the rule of law so that history-sheeters don’t run police stations and criminals don’t get protection. Politics of appeasement should never return, and illegal properties of mafias must be bulldozed...,” Adityanath said. Meanwhile, SP office-bearers said that Adityanath himself is campaigning and making frequent visits to Ghaziabad for a reason. “He knows that the base of the BJP has shifted, and it is the SP which will form the next government. Many BJP leaders have joined the SP. We have promised 300 units of free electricity, and this will benefit the poor and middle-class people. During the pandemic, people suffered due to shortage of oxygen and there were many deaths during the second wave. The BJP workers were not seen anywhere. They know that they will lose the upcoming election,” said Rashid Malik, SP district president. Political experts said that Adityanath’s frequent visits to Ghaziabad is bound to boost BJP workers in western Uttar Pradesh. “Ghaziabad district has five seats and BJP is strong here compared to seats in Baghpat and Meerut, which are comparatively tough. Yogi wants to send a positive message in western UP, which goes to polls in the first phase. In the process, he has also targeted the SP, which is the key opponent of BJP. The frequent visits will also calm down internal dissents within the party after it gave tickets to all its sitting MLAs,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) from MM College at Modinagar.
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu-Srinagar highway blocked due to landslides||The Jammu-Srinagar National Highway was closed for traffic as light to moderate rains and snowfall continued sporadically in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday.Traffic officials said that the national highway was blocked owing to landslides after the snowfall during the night.“Traffic update: Jammu-Srinagar NH blocked due to mudslides and shooting stones at many places,” traffic police said in a tweet.Besides the highway, Mughal road in south Kashmir, Srinagar-Sonamarg-Gumri Road, & Kishtwar-Sinthan road were also closed for vehicular movement in view of snow accumulation, the traffic police said.The weather was overcast at most places of J&K with reports of widespread light to moderate rain and snow in both Jammu and Kashmir divisions.The J&K centre of the Indian meteorological department said that 14.5 cm of snow was recorded in Kokernaq while Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu, experienced 13.2 cm snowfall till 8.30 in the morning.The rains were more in the Jammu division with 50.6 mm recorded in Katra, followed by 40.8 mm in Batote and 32.8 mm in Bhaderwah. “Expect a gradual decrease in precipitation from this evening and overall improvement from January 24 onwards till 29,” said Sonam Lotus, director of meteorological centre in J&K and Ladakh.He said that fog may develop in the plains of Jammu during January 26-28.“There is no forecast of any major precipitation till ending January,’ he said.Light snowfall and rains were experienced in Jammu and Kashmir during the night preceding Saturday as the weather office had predicted a fresh active western disturbance to affect J&K and adjoining areas from Saturday.The lowest night temperature on Sunday in Kashmir was recorded in the northern ski resort of Gulmarg where the mercury dropped to -6.0°C.The resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded -1.2°C.The mercury settled at 0.4°C in summer capital Srinagar during the night while it was 0°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu.It was -0.7°C in Kokernag, -0.6°C in Konibal and 1.2°C in Kupwara.The day temperatures on Saturday at all the above stations did not cross 5.8°C degrees with Gulmarg seeing lowest -2.2°C and Kupwara recording highest 5.8°C.Kashmir is under the grip of Chilai Kalan, the valley’s harshest over 40-day winter period which started on December 21 and will be over by the end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammusrinagar-highway-blocked-due-to-landslides-101642968064468.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Ex-Indian hockey team captain Ajit Pal Singh also in the fray||Former Indian hockey team captain Ajit Pal Singh, 74, who is in the poll fray from the Nakodar constituency on Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) ticket, hails from Jalandhar district’s Sansarpur village that has produced several hockey Olympians. Singh, a Padma Shri awardee, was centre half of the Indian team that won the 1975 Hockey World Cup and was part of India’s Olympic contingent in 1968, 1972 and 1976.“I never thought of contesting the elections but did so on PLC supremo and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s insistence. I have had no alignment with any other political party. But it is high time to give direction to the state’s youth towards a bright future. There was a time when Punjab produced army generals and great players. But it is a thing of past now. The neighbouring Haryana is now way ahead of Punjab in sports,” he says. “To save Punjab, we have to generate employment for our youth which is migrating to western countries. We need to curb the drug menace,” added Singh, who served as a deputy commandant in the Border Security Force (BSF). He will be shifting to Sansarpur soon and will start campaigning in Nakodar, he added. Besides Ajit Pal and state cabinet minister Pargat Singh of the Congress, another former Indian hockey team captain and Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi is also contesting from Jalandhar Cantonment seat.
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Hooda’s Twitter account hacked||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s Twitter account was hacked on Sunday. The Congress leader’s Twitter handle @Bhupinder S Hooda was hacked around 11am and replaced with ‘@iLoveAlbaik’.The leader’s social media manager Chander Hooda said they have written to Twitter and have urged them to restore the account.“ @I love Albaik has been removed but the blue tick is yet to be restored,” he said. Hooda, who had tested positive for Covid on January 22, has 3,02,000 followers and follows 329 people on Twitter. Neither the former chief minister nor his son Deepender Singh Hooda, a Rajya Sabha MP, could be reached for comment, despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-haryana-cm-bhupinder-hooda-s-twitter-account-hacked-101642967764260.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Filing of nominations to start from Jan 25||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Sunday announced that filing of nomination for the upcoming Punjab polls scheduled for February 20 will begin from Tuesday (January 25) and a notification on this will be issued the same day. February 1 will be the last date for filing nominations whereas scrutiny of papers will be held the next day, Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju said. The last date for withdrawal of candidature will be February 4. The nominations will not be accepted on January 26 and January 30 owing to holidays. The EC has fixed 11am to 3pm as timing for filing of nominations with the returning officers in the districts. Raju said a candidate should be registered as a voter of any constituency in the state. The candidates should produce a certified copy of the relevant entry of the electoral roll for this, he added. Raju informed that there are a total of 2,12,75,066 registered voters in the state for these elections, of which 1,11,87,857 are male, 1,00,86,514 female and 695 transgenders. There will be 24,689 polling stations at 14,751 polling locations. All polling booths will be webcast on the voting day. The counting of votes will be done on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-filing-of-nominations-to-start-from-jan-25-101642967644250.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||It’s a bumpy ride on Ludhiana’s cremation ground road as repair work stopped midway||In a perfect example of a half-baked plan going awry, the carpeting work of the Cremation Ground Road in Model Town Extension has been stopped midway due to unsuitable weather conditions. The project was started by the municipal corporation in December, with an eye on assembly elections, but the work had to be suspended in January due to dip in temperatures.The result: One side of the road has been covered with premix while the other half continues to have potholes, with a height difference of at least two to three inches between both sides. Due to this, residents say driving on this stretch has become risky and several accidents have also taken place over the last few days. Preet Basant, a resident of Guru Gian Vihar, said, “In the first week of January, when I was passing through this stretch on my two-wheeler, I lost balance and fell on the road. I was fortunate that I got away with a few minor injuries, but such road conditions can also prove fatal.” He further added, “The civic body should not have started the project during cold weather conditions. If they start it, they should ensure timely completion. Authorities should not play with the lives of residents just for electoral gains.”Area councillor Harbhajan Dang, who owes allegiance to Shiromani Akali Dal, also slammed authorities for leaving the work midway. He claimed that the municipal corporation (MC) had failed to check quality of the road repair works at other places in the city too. “This (Cremation Ground) road has been crying for attention for a long time. The repair works started last month, but the authorities left it incomplete. The MC should have commenced the project a little earlier, as they knew that the cold weather conditions would hamper the work. When accidents take place, we end up facing the public ire.”“Authorities have also failed to ensure quality of repair works in other places in the city. On most roads, the bitumen starts wearing off within weeks of repair. It is a waste of public money, if substandard material is used for these projects.”MC superintending engineer Rahul Gagneja said, “We will resume the repair work on Cremation Ground Road, as soon as the temperature becomes favourable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/its-a-bumpy-ride-on-ludhiana-s-cremation-ground-road-as-repair-work-stopped-midway-101642967586048.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Man thrashed over suspicion of sacrilege at Amritsar village gurdwara||A 30-year-old man was beaten up on Saturday evening over the suspicion of sacrilege attempt in a gurdwara at Bhindi Aulakh village of Ajnala sub-division in Amritsar district. The suspect, identified as Gursahib Singh of the same village, was handed over to police by the local residents. He was questioned about his ‘motive’ to enter the shrine after being caught by the villagers. Also, a video clip of the man being questioned by the residents has also surfaced on social media. In the video clip, the accused is heard saying that one Ganna told him that he would get a lot of money for tearing the Guru Granth Sahib but he rejected the offer. The man then asked him to go inside the gurdwara just to check for which he would be provided drugs, the suspect is heard saying. A case under Sections 380 (theft in a dwelling house, etc.), 454 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Bhindi Saidan police station against some unidentified persons on the complaint of gurdwara granthi (priest) Jarnail Singh. The complainant said he found the lock of the main gate of the hall broken when he entered the shrine around 5:30 pm. ₹4000 was stolen from the offering box that had also its lock broken, he added. Superintendent of police (SP) Jagjit Singh Walia said their investigation has suggested that it was an incident of theft. “The suspect is a drug addict. We are investigating the matter and we are looking for the other accused Ganna,” he said. Some Sikh organisations have demanded that Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) be added to the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-thrashed-over-suspicion-of-sacrilege-at-amritsar-village-gurdwara-101642967465473.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Rape victim writes to EC demanding Simarjit Bains’ arrest||The 44-year-old woman who had lodged a rape case against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, has written to the Election Commission, seeking his arrest. The woman alleged that Bains has been roaming freely, conducting poll meetings while the police claim he is avoiding police.The woman, who has been protesting outside office of the Ludhiana police commissioner for the past few months, in her complaint to the commission mentioned that earlier she had moved court, seeking FIR against the MLA and his aides Karamjit Singh, Baljinder Kaur, Jasbir Kaur, Sukhchain Singh, Parmjit Singh and Gogi Sharma. The woman further stated that non-bailable warrants were issued by the court against Bains. On January 10, a police official appeared before the court and stated that the officer responsible for executing the proclamation proceedings is not well and sought an adjournment. She added that it suggests that the police are under political pressure for not taking action against Bains.It is learnt that a local court has already initiated proceedings against Bains to declare him a proclaimed offender as he has not responded to the warrants issued by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-rape-victim-writes-to-ec-demanding-simarjit-bains-arrest-101642967406082.html
24-01-2022||Noida||UPTET candidates protest after denied entry to examination centres||Noida: A group of candidates on Sunday protested against authorities of a school, an exam centre, in Noida Sector 30 for allegedly denying them entry to appear for the Uttar Pradesh Teachers Eligibility Test (UPTET) over non availability of “valid documents”.Some candidates also said that the centres’ doors were closed at 9:30am when many students were still in the queue.Sandeep Kumar, a candidate, said he was carrying his admit card and Aadhaar card for verification. “Officials said the documents were supposed to be signed by the B.Ed college principal. As I was unable to get those signed, I and some other students were denied entry to the exam centre,” Kumar said.Kumar also said that he went to the Noida Sector 30 school from Ghazipur to appear for the exam. In protest, the students briefly halted traffic movement on the adjacent road of the exam centre, however, a police team soon reached the spot and pacified the protesting students and cleared the road.A group of students at another centre in Noida Sector 25 faced similar problems.Amit Kumar, another student, said that the officials at the exam centre demanded original papers of the B.Ed for entry to the exam venue. Some students could not produce the documents and so they were barred. “Students who came after 9:30am were also denied entry,” he said.Dharmveer Singh, district inspector of schools (DIOS), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the instructions were already being given to the students in the admit cards.“The candidates were informed to report before 9:30am. The original copy or certified copy of the mark sheet of B.Ed (Bachelor of Education)/Basic Training Course (BTC) by their college principal or a competent authority is mandatory for the UPTET exam. Non-certified photocopy is also not allowed,” he said, adding that all the candidates who met these criteria were only allowed to appear for the exam.Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida,said that nearly 30 candidates at four exam centres faced the same problem in the morning. “A police team reached the spot and intervened into the matter. There were no problems in the second shift,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar has 27 exam centres -- 11 in Noida, nine in Central Noida, and seven in Greater Noida -- where the exams were conducted in two shifts, 10am-12:30pm and 2:30pm-5pm. There was tight security at the exam centres as on November 28, 2021, when the exam got cancelled over allegations of question paper leak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uptet-candidates-protest-after-denied-entry-to-examination-centres-101642967284203.html
24-01-2022||Other||GMDA to make environment mgmt plan for Gurugram city in six months||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is working to develop a sustainable environment management plan with focus on the urban population needs till 2041, said officials on Sunday, adding that the plan will be ready by June this year. Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer of GMDA, said, “The sustainable environment plan will focus on interventions that have to be made on a micro level in the whole metropolitan area to make all the aspects of environment like greenery, measures to reduce pollution, and water conservation, come together. It will be an integrated plan for the whole city which will be citizen centric and will be made using inputs from residents of the city.” Rajpal said that an agency will be hired soon to work on the plan. In December 2019, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), GMDA and the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had jointly prepared a district-level environmental management plan for Gurugram. But officials said that this plan does not have specification for an urban population, and is a generic plan for the whole district. Subhash Yadav, head of GMDA’s urban environment division, said, “A district management plan is there for Gurugram but the issues and challenges of an urban area are different compared to the whole district. So, GMDA will develop an environment management plan for the urban area which will be based on the needs and demands of the population over the next 20 years. As the mobility plan has been made for 2041, we have to see what will be the environmental challenges along with it and mitigation measures will be offered.” An expression of interest to hire an agency for developing the plan will be issued by next week, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmda-to-make-environment-mgmt-plan-for-gurugram-city-in-six-months-101642967224095.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: BJP leaders’ hopes dashed as pre-poll partner Punjab Lok Congress names candidates from key seats||With Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) releasing its first list of 22 candidates, several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders who were eyeing tickets from Ludhiana South, Ludhiana East and Atam Nagar assembly constituencies were left dejected.Captain’s party is in alliance with the BJP for the upcoming Punjab assembly elections, which means the saffron party won’t be fielding candidates from the seats where PLC is fighting from. The PLC has named district president Jagmohan Sharma from Ludhiana East, Satinderpal Singh Tajpuri, son of a former cooperation minister in Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) government, from Ludhiana South and former SAD MLA Prem Mittal from Atam Nagar. Soon after the PLC’s announcement, several BJP workers started sharing messages on social media groups that in the past, the alliance with SAD had brought down the morale of the saffron party workers and now, it is the Captain’s party. BJP Daba Mandal president Surinder Sharma, said, “We strongly oppose the move of offering a ticket to a parachute candidate Satinderpal Singh Tajpuri. Today, a joint meeting of Dholewal, Daba and Giaspura Mandal was held in which it was decided that we will express our resentment to the party high command and ask them to review its decision. The workers are feeling neglected and have decided to not support parachute candidates.”Sources in the party said that Gurdeep Singh Gosha, former district president of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD), had deserted the SAD a few days ago and joined the BJP in hope of a ticket from Ludhiana South. With PLC announcing its candidate from this seat, Gosha is now vying to contest from Ludhiana North. But it won’t be a cakewalk for Gosha as BJP’s state vice-president Parvin Bansal, general secretary Jeevan Gupta and spokesperson Anil Sareen are frontrunners for Ludhiana North. Sources said that the Ludhiana East and South went into the kitty of PLC, after BJP and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) led by Simarjit Singh Bains failed to forge an alliance.PLC candidates to fight on BJP symbol in urban areas: SharmaSoon after getting the party ticket, Jagmohan Sharma said that it has been decided that PLC candidates will contest on BJP symbol in urban seats, while in rural areas, the party candidate will fight on PLC symbol. The decision has been taken in view of the strong voter-base of BJP in urban areas, which will add to the vote share of the candidates, said the leader.Captain confidant get ticket from DakhaDamanjeet Singh Mohi, an active Youth Congress functionary who has formerly served as sarpanch, zila parishad member and chairman of market committee, Mullanpur, will fight from the Dakha seat. Mohi was an officer on special duty (OSD) to ex-CM and PLC chief Captain Amarinder Singh. Captain Sandeep Sandhu, former loyalist of Amarinder, has already got a Congress ticket here. On the other hand, Harpreet Singh Makhu is the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha candidate for this seat. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has fielded KNS Kang. SAD’s sitting MLA from Dakha, Manpreet Singh Ayali, has homeground advantage and has been credited with developing parks and facilities in the villages, stated to be at an advantageous position in the multi-cornered contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bjp-leaders-hopes-dashed-as-pre-poll-partner-punjab-lok-congress-names-candidates-from-key-seats-101642967044658.html
24-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: H-Rera to bring in ‘code of conduct’ for brokers||In order to streamline the functioning of real estate brokers in Gurugram, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) will come up with a ‘code of conduct’ for brokers and property dealers by the end of next month. Officials from the authority said the move is aimed at ensuring that the dealers do not indulge in unfair trade practices.The authority will also reach out to the broker community and ensure that there is a wider compliance with regard to the norms as prescribed in the Rera Act, the officials said, adding that at present there are 1,800 registered brokers with H-Rera, Gurugram. KK Khandelwal, chairman of H-Rera, Gurugram, said that the Rera Act offers a real estate agent a formal and legal recognition, while defining their responsibilities and duties. “We have come across several instances where property dealers falsely represented products and services, and misled customers. The proposed code of conduct will resolve these issues,” he said. The code will also ensure that brokers maintain record of transactions and do not charge more than 1% commission rate on the sale of properties, the H-Rera chief said, adding that there will also be a provision for imposing a penalty in case of non-compliance by a real estate agent. The brokers are not very enthused with the proposed code of conduct or requirement of registration by the authority. “The proposed code of conduct will further make it difficult for brokers to operate as the realty market is already facing slowdown. The cost of registration with H-Rera is very high and there is no support from the authority,” said Ravinder Agarwal, president, Association of Certified Realtors of India (Gurugram chapter).Rajiv Sinha, a property consultant, said that the brokers are not finding any benefit from associating with the regulator. “Most of the brokers are engaged in secondary sales, so they avoid registering themselves with the authority,” he said. The brokers are worried about the compliances required by the proposed code of conduct. “The move will put more burden on us. Also, the authority must involve brokers in the exercise,” said Sanjeev Thakur, a city-based broker. 
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Ferozepur City all set for a four-cornered contest||For the first time, a close four-cornered contest is likely in the Ferozepur City assembly constituency which has been a traditional bastion of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) never won from here.Four-time legislator Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi is set to pose a challenge to old Congress colleague and incumbent Parminder Singh Pinki from the segment located along the India-Pakistan border. The Aam Aadmi Party’s Ranbir Singh Bhullar, who is emerging as a formidable challenger, is harping on the popularity of the party’s chief ministerial face Bhagwant Mann. Sodhi, who represented Guruharsahai for the last four consecutive terms as a Congress candidate, switched over to the BJP in December.In the public meetings, Bhullar is trying to consolidate the support of the state government employees who have been protesting against the Congress government besides banking on anti-incumbency against Pinki. The Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the forerunner of the BJP, won from here on five occasions since the first elections in 1951 and the Janata Party retained the seat in 1977. The Congress captured the seat on 9 occasions in the last 71 years.The SAD has fielded its district unit president Rohit Vohra Montu from the seat.In the 2017 elections, Pinki was polled an impressive 54% votes and the BJP candidate secured 30%. The AAP nominee had secured 13% of the total votes polled last time.After moving to the urban segment of the border city, Sodhi is banking solely on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s political charisma.In his public address, he has been raising the issue of the cancellation of Modi’s rally in Ferozepur on January 5 when the PM’s security was breached. Now, he hopes to get sympathy votes over the fiasco that hogged national headlines. “Besides laying foundation stones of a series of development projects, the PM was expected to announce Punjab-centric welfare initiatives. The Congress government conspired to sabotage the Ferozepur event and people’s anger will be reflected in votes for the BJP,” says Sodhi who was a key Sikh face to join the saffron party in December last year after Modi announced to withdraw the 3 contentious farm laws.Political observers say the former minister opted for a new segment as the BJP’s new face may not consolidate agrarian support in the rural constituency like Guruharsahai.Since he joined the BJP, Sodhi, a Sikh Khatri, was hinting at contesting from Ferozepur City which has over 40% Hindu voters.On the other hand, Pinki is banking upon the development projects such as laying of underground drinking water, sewage, beautification of the city and installation of LED screens in parks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-ferozepur-city-all-set-for-a-four-cornered-contest-101642966804422.html
24-01-2022||Other||Rain helps improve air quality in Gurugram to ‘poor’ after five days||The light rain over the past 24 hours has helped improve the air quality in Gurugram significantly. On Sunday, the city’s air quality entered the “poor” zone after remaining in the “very poor” category for five consecutive days. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin, the air quality index of the city on Sunday was 205, a climbdown from Saturday’s AQI reading of 304 with PM2.5 as the prominent pollutant. The last time the city had “poor” air quality was January 17 with an AQI value of 219, according to the CPCB data.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gurugram received 23mm of rainfall in the past 24 hours. With the overnight rain, some parts of the city witnessed waterlogging which was mostly cleared by this morning, officials said. However, waterlogging at Narsinghpur Chowk stayed for long, and the rainwater receded by evening, said a traffic police official, seeking anonymity. The Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch is one of the critical waterlogging points in the city. On January 11 too, the stretch had witnessed waterlogging after heavy rain leading to traffic disruptions. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in the city also dropped by two degrees on Sunday and was recorded at 14.6°C, seven degrees below normal. The minimum temperature was 10.5°C, which was normal, the IMD said. On Saturday, Gurugram recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures at 16.5°C and 10.8°C, respectively.The IMD also predicted that dense fog and cold wave will continue over the south Haryana region, including Gurugram and Faridabad, for the next four days. Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, said, “Dense fog conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over Haryana during the next two days. Cold day conditions are also likely to prevail on Monday and cold wave conditions is likely in isolated pockets over the region from January 25-27. In the south Haryana region, an alert has been issued for dense fog for Monday and Tuesday and cold wave alert for three days.” According to IMD, when the maximum temperature is less than or equal to 16°C in the plains, it is considered a “cold day”. According to the weekly forecast of IMD, over the next five days, the minimum temperature is likely to drop by four degrees in Gurugram and will be around 6°C, while the maximum temperature is likely to remain around 16°C with mainly clear sky. According to a bulletin by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality over the national capital territory improved owing to rain, strong winds and better ventilation conditions on Sunday. “The air quality is likely to remain in poor category on Monday and Tuesday. Over the next two days, the direction of wind will shift from southeast to northwest and wind speed is also likely to reduce,” the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-helps-improve-air-quality-in-gurugram-to-poor-after-five-days-101642966744222.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 755 Covid infections; Kangra reports highest cases||Himachal Pradesh logged 755 Covid-19 infections on Sunday taking the state’s tally to 2,60,321 while the death toll mounted to 3,916 after two patients succumbed to the infection.Highest 151 cases were reported from Kangra, 124 from Shimla, 121 from Solan, 87 from Sirmaur, 83 from Mandi, 72 from Hamirpur, 63 from Una, 21 from Chamba, 18 from Kullu, 14 from Bilaspur and one from Kinnaur. No case was reported from Lahaul-Spiti.Active cases have come down to 16,821 while the recoveries reached 2,39,550 after 1,227 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 58,263 cases reported since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020, followed by Mandi with 35,469 cases and Shimla with 32,803 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-755-covid-infections-kangra-reports-highest-cases-101642966686037.html
24-01-2022||Noida||Agreement signed for demolition of Supertech twin towers||NOIDA: The Supertech Limited and Edifice Engineering signed an agreement on Sunday to demolish the Emerald project’s Twin Towers located in Noida Sector 93A as per the Supreme Court order.In its order on October 31, the Supreme Court gave three months to the Supertech group to demolish the towers, and directed the Noida authority and Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) to supervise the demolition work.The Supreme Court ordered the demolition of the twin towers as the structure was built in violation of building norms. However, since many requisite approvals are required from multiple government bodies before the demolition, the Supertech Limited has sought help for no objection certificates (NOCs) from the concerned departments.“In compliance with the Supreme court order, the Supertech has signed an agreement with Edifice Engineering for execution of the demolition of the twin towers and made advance payment to Edifice Engineering for mobilisation of men, materials and machine to site as per the agreement. Also, the copy of the said demolition agreement executed and duly signed by and between Supertech and Edifice Engineering has been submitted to the Noida authority,” said Rajesh Kumar spokesperson of Supertech Limited.“For a smooth and safe demolition of the twin towers, the company has submitted requests for issuance of required no objection certificates with intimation to the Noida authority to various departments, which include district magistrate of Gautam Budhh Nagar, city magistrate of Noida, commissioner of police, deputy commissioner of police, among others,” Kumar added.Before the demolition, NOCs are required from at least 11 government bodies including fire department and pollution body among others.On December 10, 2021, a team from the Central Building Research Institute of Roorkee visited the twin towers in the Emerald Court housing complex in Noida Sector 93A, following the SC order. They also discussed issues related to the demolition work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/agreement-signed-for-demolition-of-supertech-twin-towers-101642966684740.html
24-01-2022||Other||18.22 lakh overcome Covid-19 fear to appear in UPTET-2021||Barring a few complaints by candidates who were not allowed to appear in the exam without admit card or who arrived late, Uttar Pradesh Teacher Eligibility Test (UPTET)-2021 went off smoothly on Sunday. UPTET-2021 was earlier cancelled on November 28, 2021, due to a paper leak forcing the exam to be rescheduled for January 23.The exam was conducted by the Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA), Prayagraj, in association with the district administrations, across the state. No untoward incident was reported during both the shifts of the exams, an official said. Even though UPTET was held amid the third wave of Covid-19, out of the total registered 21,65,179 candidates, 18,22,112, amounting to 84.15%, appeared in the exam in the two shifts, informed ERA secretary Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi. With personnel of the UP Special Task Force (STF), Local Intelligence Units (LIUs) and district police keeping a strict watch, the examination was conducted in two shifts— 10 am to 12.30 pm for primary level teachers and 2.30 pm to 5 pm for upper primary level teachers.Social media posts claiming paper leak misleadingChaturvedi said some misleading posts on social media claimed paper leak in the first shift (primary level) of the exam. However, when the alleged leaked questions were compared with the actual question papers, they were found to be completely fake. “Police is now acting against people responsible for such posts,” he added.A total of 21,65,179 candidates, including 12,91,627 for the primary level and 8,73,552 for the upper primary level, were registered for the UPTET-2021. For the primary level, a total of 2,532 examination centres, and for the upper primary level, a total of 1,733 examination centres, were set up across the state.For the primary level, a total of 10,73,302 candidates (83.09%) appeared in the exam in the state. Likewise, for the upper primary level, a total of 7,48,810 (85.72%) appeared. For the exam, 1,62,511 invigilators, 8530 observers, 1423 flying squads, besides 5,814 class-3 and 14,059 class-4 workers, were pressed into service.In Lucknow, the UPTET exam was conducted at 99 centres. In the morning shift, 39,583 (83.5%) appeared for the exam, while 7766 were absent. In the afternoon shift, 33,255 were slated to appear for the exam, out of which 28,596 (85.9%) candidates appeared, while 5659 were absent, said Amar Kant Singh, district inspector of schools, Lucknow.Uproar at a few centresThere was an uproar in the first shift of the exam at TD Girls Inter College, Gomti Nagar and Bright Inter College, Thakurganj, as well as at a few other examination centres. A few of the candidates accused the administration of depriving them of an opportunity to take the examination. There were more than two dozen candidates, who could not take the first shift examination due to late arrival at the examination centre. They joined in the second shift. Surprise inspection by DMLucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash inspected Sri Jai Narayan Mishra PG College (KKC), Bappa Sri Narain Vocational Inter College, and Mahamana Malviya Vidya Mandir Inter College, Vivek Khand-1 Gomti Nagar. He instructed centre administrators to follow Covid-19 protocols. Smart monitoring through CCTV was also done. Mathematics tormented the candidates The question paper in both the shifts of UPTET was common, with mathematics bothering most of the candidates.The mathematics section of the examination was comparatively more difficult, said the candidates after appearing for UPTET. “I prepared well for the exam. The paper was simple. I faced no problem in solving it,” said Vagish Srivastava, while another candidate Prabhakar added, “Social distancing was followed in the examination hall. Even after the examination was over, the candidates were released separately to avoid chaos.”Digi locker soft copy invalidThe government gave strict instructions to ensure that there is no dispute in the UPTET exam, and candidates were instructed to bring their original certificates or attested proofs. A few of the candidates at TD Girls Inter College were without certificates and instead showed a soft copy of the certificates uploaded in the digi locker to the officials. However, it wasn’t accepted. “The government has approved digi locker. Despite this, I wasn’t allowed to appear for the examination. If the original proof gets lost then, who’ll take responsibility,” said Shashank, a candidate. The results of the exam will be declared on February 25. ERA will release the answer key of the examination on January 27. The aspirants will have the opportunity to register their online objections to the answer key by February 1. The special committee will go through the objections on February 21 and publish the final answer keys on February 23, an official said. UPTET is a state-level exam conducted once a year to enable candidates to gain eligibility to teach primary (Classes 1-5) and upper primary (Classes 6-8) in schools of the Uttar Pradesh government.(With inputs from Faara Nadeem)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1822-lakh-overcome-covid-19-fear-to-appear-in-uptet2021-101642966628240.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Audit report: Firm owned by Punjab CM Channi’s nephew, aides had ₹18. 37 lakh revenue in 2019-20||The firm owned by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh, alias Honey and his aides Kudrat Deep Singh and Sandeep Kumar had a total revenue of ₹18.77 lakh in the financial year 2019-2020, according to the audit report available on the website of the Union ministry of corporate affairs. The Provider Overseas Consultancy Private Limited was a key link between the CM’s nephew and a raid conducted by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an illegal sand mining case. The central agency had seized a whopping ₹10 crore, a Rolex watch worth of ₹12 lakh besides gold worth ₹21 lakh from Honey and Sandeep during the raid on January 19. It has been probing money-laundering charges against the three as it suspects the proceeds of illegal sand mining were transferred to the firm. As per the details, the form was set up in Sector 44-D, Chandigarh, in October 2018 and has Kudrat Deep Singh, Bhupinder Singh and Sandeep Kumar as directors with 33.33% equal share. The firm has an authorised equity share capital of ₹5 lakh whereas its paid up capital is ₹60,000 and each director owns 2,000 shares. The audit reports, including balance sheets, submitted last in February 2021 reveal that the firm’s revenue of ₹18.37 lakh in the financial year ending March 31, 2020, came in the form of commission. It also shows that total expenditure of the company was ₹23.12 lakh, including ₹12.34 lakh in salaries to employees and ₹10 lakh as other expenses. The reports also reveal that the company has an unsecured loan of ₹3.88 lakh in the long-term liability category and ₹5.26 lakh amount was shown as advance from customers. The report mentions that the company had no revenue in the financial year ending March 31, 2019 whereas it had an expenditure of ₹22,954. The ED’s probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is based on a 2018 case registered by Punjab Police for illegal sand mining in the state. The agency had lodged an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) at its zonal office in Jalandhar in November last year after taking over the probe. According to the FIR, there are 26 accused, including Kudrat Deep, and mostly truck drivers. Bhupinder Honey was not accused in the FIR whereas Kudrat was also granted clean chit by the SBS Nagar police in a follow-up inquiry. The case was registered on the complaint of the Punjab mining department that found sand quarries being run without approval during its raids in 2018. 
24-01-2022||Other||Gurugram reports below 2.5k cases for first time since Jan 11||The district on Sunday reported 2,102 fresh Covid-19 cases, including seven cases of the Omicron variant, with a test positivity rate of 24%, according to the district health bulletin. This is for the first time in the past 12 days that Gurugram has reported less than 2,500 new cases in a day. The last when the district had reported below 2,500 cases was January 11 (2,385 cases). On Sunday, a 70-year-old fully vaccinated woman, who was Covid-19 positive, also died due to comorbidities, said officials, adding that 16 Covid patients have died this month. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “The woman was suffering from comorbidities like hypertension, chronic liver disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. She was hospitalised due to complications after testing positive for Covid-19 earlier this week. Cases have started to reduce in Gurugram now, but people should continue to follow all Covid-19 safety protocols.” A total of 945 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the district since the start of the pandemic, of which 627 have been deaths due to comorbidities, the officials said. On Sunday, the district had 19,135 active cases, of which 180 are hospitalised. The district also recorded 3,079 recoveries on Sunday, according to the data. In the past two days, recoveries in the district have been higher than daily cases, the officials said, adding that the health department collected 8,547 samples for testing in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, on Sunday, a total of 5,185 doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered, including 1,619 first doses, 2,682 second doses and 884 precautionary doses. With this, over 4.72 million doses have been administered in the Gurugram district till now. On Sunday, 439 teenagers were also vaccinated in Gurugram. According to the officials, the health department on Monday will conduct door-to-door vaccinations at 43 locations, including Khandsa, South City 2, Arjun Nagar, and Patel Nagar, among others. A vaccination camp for persons without identity will also be set up at Babupur Jhuggies on Monday, the officials said, adding that the vaccination will also continue at 58 government health centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-reports-below-2-5k-cases-for-first-time-since-jan-11-101642966444343.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Heavy snowfall brings life to standstill in Himachal; 289 roads closed in Shimla||Heavy snowfall in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh since Saturday night has brought life to a standstill, particularly in tribal areas. More than 730 roads, including four national highways, have been blocked for traffic due to the inclement weather. Maximum 289 roads are closed in Shimla and 181 in Lahaul-Spiti. Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma said the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang (ATR) has been closed for traffic. The Manali-Leh highway is closed for all types of vehicles (from Solang to Sissu) due to heavy snowfall in Lahaul Valley. There is almost three feet of snow in the Valley. The weather is mostly cloudy and snowfall is continuing, he said. Over 700 electricity transformers, mostly in Shimla, Lahaul-Spiti and Chamba have been hit due to the snowfall, causing the suspension of power supply in the remote areas. Over 100 water supply schemes have also been hit. Shimla, Manali wear white blanket As per the State Emergency Operation Centre Report, the Atal Tunnel north-south portal has got around one feet of snowfall and it is still continuing. The ATR north portal, Koksar and Sissu got 1.5-ft snowfall that is still continuing and Rohtang has got 2-ft of snow, Jalori Jot 1.2-ft snowfall, Gulaba 10 inches and tourist town Manali 3 inches. State capital Shimla has got 6 inches of snow. All the city roads and major roads connecting upper areas of the district with the capital town are blocked for traffic, said Shimla SP Monika Bhutungru. Many parts of the town are also without electricity since Saturday night. The famous tourist destinations of Narkanda and Kufri have around more than a foot of snow. Chopal also got 1-ft snow while Khirki experienced 2-ft snow. Chanshal Peak has got about 6-ft of snowfall. Chail in Solan got one-ft snowfall. It is also the season’s first snowfall in Chail. In Lahaul-Spiti Koksar and Sissu near the north portal of the Atal Tunnel has got two feet of snow, Keylong got 3 inches of snow and Kaza 2 inches. Sumdo got 1.5-feet snow. Rakchham, Sangla and Kalpa in Kinnaur district got 5 inches of snow, Morang 3 inches, Nichar 4 inches and Pooh 2 inches. Shikari in Mandi experienced 1.3-ft snow, Prashar lake 1-ft, Barot 4 inches and Janjheli 3 inches. The remote Pangi valley in Chamba district got 3 inches of snow and tourist town Dalhousie 1 inch. Bharmour got 6 inches of snowfall. Triund, the trekkers’ destination, overlooking Dharamshala received heavy snowfall besides Naddi village and Dharmkot also got snowfall. Four youth missing in Dhauladhar moutains Four youth have gone missing in the Dhauladhar mountains overlooking Dharamshala town. They belong from villages nearby Dharamshala. They had gone on trekking near the Rising Star Hill. SDM, Dharamshala, Shilpi Beakta said a rescue operation has been launched but bad weather is hampering the efforts. She said the rescue teams had been able to contact one of the missing youth as his phone was working and he said that they were stranded after a snow storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-snowfall-brings-life-to-standstill-in-himachal-289-roads-closed-in-shimla-101642966324111.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||Kingpin of job racket that duped over 200 job aspirants held||The Lucknow police claimed to have unearthed a gang of fraudsters after the arrest of its kingpin, on Sunday. The gang used to dupe unemployed youths assuring them of contractual jobs in different government departments and corporations, said senior police officials.The officials said the fraudsters used to trap unemployed youths approaching outsourcing agencies for different jobs. They said some operators of outsourcing agencies were involved and used to convince unemployed youths to make payments to get jobs.In a press note issued by the Lucknow police, the officials stated one Nityanand is the kingpin of the racket and with the help of Abhishek Rai, he used to operate this gang from Aliganj area. It read the police are carrying out raids in search of Rai.While sharing their modus operandi, a senior police official said the fraudsters used to first make job aspirants fill forms of different jobs, and thereafter, conduct fake interviews and even issued fake appointment letters for the post of review officers at secretariat, clerks, computer operators and office assistants at different corporations and other departments.He said the accused used to charge ₹1 lakh to ₹15 lakh assuring jobs for different posts. He said the initial probe suggested that the fraudsters have duped several lakh from over 200 job aspirants. He said most of the victims preferred not to approach the police after being threatened with dire consequences by the fraudsters. He said the accused was arrested in connection with an FIR in a similar type of fraud by one Manoj Kumar of Sitapur at the Aliganj police station on November 20, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kingpin-of-job-racket-that-duped-over-200-job-aspirants-held-101642966146748.html
24-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: MCG starts work on road at Sector 33/34 marble market||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Saturday started the construction of service lane that caters to the Sector 33/34 marble market. The market is currently situated on an unmetalled stretch which is pothole-riddled. The marble market is located along the 3km sector dividing road connecting Hero Honda Chowk on the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway and Subhash Chowk on Sohna Road. Without any bitumen covering, the entire market area is prone to waterlogging which also inundates portions of the 3km sector dividing road whenever it rains.Besides providing commuters with space to park their vehicles, the ₹4 crore project is also aimed at dust mitigation, officials said.Gurugram mayor Madhu Azad inaugurated the construction of the road on Saturday.“The completion of the construction of parking roads in both the sectors would not only benefit the traders here, but also the customers visiting the market. People have to face a lot of problems due to waterlogging in the market during the rainy season,” said Azad.Azad further said that she has also directed MCG officials and representatives of the construction agency to ensure that the project is completed within the stipulated time frame.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, the agency has been given a time period of nine months to complete the project, with emphasis to finish it before the 2022 monsoon season.The MCG officials said that market traders demanded to install streetlights in the area which is being taken into consideration. The MCG’s main office in Sector 34 is located in close vicinity to the marble market.Daily commuters said that the project will provide them with a lot of relief. “The mixing of rainwater and soil creates sort of a swamp during the monsoon season. Due to this, the three-lane carriageway reduces to a solitary lane through which vehicles have to navigate their way. Once constructed, it can save 20-25 minutes of travelling time during peak monsoon season,” said Satbir Yadav, who works in Sector 34. 
24-01-2022||Other||Gurugram: Two arrested for selling new spare parts as scrap||Police arrested two persons for allegedly selling new spare parts of two-wheelers in scrap instead of supplying it to a motorcycle manufacturing firm located in Manesar, Gurugram.The spare parts worth at least of 17.5 lakh were sold for mere ₹2 lakh in scrap on the night of January 11, police said.The arrested persons are truck driver Ankit Singh and scrap dealer Gulzar. As per police, it was Ankit who was transporting the consignment from a factory in Binola village to the two-wheeler manufacturing firm in Manesar.Police said Ankit was arrested from Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday while Gulzar was arrested from Binola under Bilaspur police station area in Gurugram on Saturday. Police also recovered ₹1.07 lakh from their possession.An FIR was registered against Ankit with Bilaspur police station under Section 407 (whoever being entrusted with property as carrier etc commits criminal breach of trust with respect to such property) of Indian Penal Code.Police said Ankit parked the truck near a warehouse in Binola and fled.“Gulzar later sold them to a few other suspects who are still at large. Ankit had provided a fake address of Jhansi to the factory owners when he started working for them,” a police officer said. He said spares are suspected to be supplied in Delhi and districts in neighbouring states. Gurugram police PRO Subhash Boken said further investigation is on to know whom Gulzar sold the spares. “More arrests are expected to take place in the case,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-two-arrested-for-selling-new-spare-parts-as-scrap-101642965845086.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mandi hooch tragedy: Facing heat, Congress expels Hamirpur general secretary||Facing heat over the Mandi hooch tragedy case, the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) has expelled its Hamirpur district general secretary after he was found involved in the illegal liquor trade.Hamirpur district Congress president Rajendra Zar said that Neeraj Thakur has been removed from the post of district general secretary after his name cropped up in the case. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police had confiscated illicit liquor from Thakur’s premises in Hamirpur.Thakur was a panchayat up-pradhan from 2011 to 2016, and was a claimant to the Congress ticket for assembly polls from the Hamirpur assembly segment. He was arrested from Chandigarh on Saturday evening after nine boxes of illegal liquor were seized from his commercial complex in Hamirpur.It is learnt that he was trying to escape to Nepal even as he was told not to leave the state. Batches of liquor seized from his commercial complex are being matched with the batch recovered in Sundernagar where seven people died after consuming spurious liquor.Initial investigation revealed that Thakur owned 17 liquor vends, a hotel and property worth crores.The SIT is scrutinising papers of his property. It was revealed that Thakur worked as a salesman in a liquor vend about a decade ago and amassed property worth crores through illegal trade. Five more arrestedMeanwhile, the SIT has arrested four more people in the case. They have been identified as Praveen Thakur, who owned the illegal factory in Hamirpur, his workers Pushpendra and Sunny; AK Tripathi, who supplied the formula and Sagar Saini, the spirit supplier. A total of 13 people have been arrested in the case so far. The deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Madhu Sudan, who heads the Special Investigation Team (SIT), said that they were trying to track down the consignments of liquor supplied in various districts. He said that the accused used methanol instead of ethanol in the illegal liquor which led to the fatalities.Meanwhile, it was also revealed in the investigation that Narender, alias Kalul, a key player in the illicit liquor trade, amassed property worth crores in a few years.He came from a humble family and used to ply an autorickshaw in Sundernagar. He also worked as a private bus driver. He came into contact with some people involved in the illegal trade. Police have seized five buses, two trucks and two JCB machines.The kingpin of the case Gaurav Manhas, who hails from Panchrukhi in Palampur of Kangra, has also amassed property worth crores through illegal trade. He has many cases registered against him in many districts of the state.
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||ED raids a political vendetta, but not giving clean chit to anyone: Sidhu||Chandigarh : Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday termed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raid on chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew “political vendetta” while maintaining that he is not giving a clean chit to anyone. Questioning the timing of the ED action, Sidhu said the case they put on Channi’s nephew was registered in 2018 by the then Capt Amarinder Singh government and four years have passed since the FIR was registered. They were sleeping for four years and have brought the ED near the elections, he said, slamming the political misuse of the central agencies. The PPCC president, who held an interaction with journalists here, also said that he was not giving a clean chit. “Let the law take its own course. If you prove a link, then I will be the first one to criticize. But if you are doing political vendetta, then I am not with you…today it is clear it is political vendetta,” he asserted. On the multiplicity of parties in the election this time, Sidhu said that people of Punjab always make up their mind and act decisively, never leaving things half-way. “Even if votes are split among four or five candidates, people do not cast their votes to defeat anyone. They vote for victory. They will not waste their votes on spent cartridges and people like Capt Amarinder Singh,” he added. On being asked how many seats does he expect the Congress to win in the upcoming polls, Sidhu said if the dilemma is removed and a clear agenda is given in the manifesto, then 70 seats. Asked if his agenda will be included in the Congress manifesto, Sidhu said he had a one-hour meeting with (manifesto committee chairman) Partap Bajwa in the morning, and will meet him again on Monday. “It (manifesto) will be with you soon,” he said. On the raging infighting, the PPCC chief asked which party does not have infighting. “In AAP, they are slapping each other. At least, we don’t have that kind of situation,” he said. He said the high command had set the ‘one family, one ticket’ rule. “There are going to be no exceptions, be it Sidhu, CM Channi or anyone else. Only one ticket will be given to one family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-raids-a-political-vendetta-but-not-giving-clean-chit-to-anyone-sidhu-101642965785403.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Heavy rain lashes Punjab, Haryana||Chandigarh: Heavy rains lashed several parts of Punjab and Haryana even as the minimum temperature hovered above normal at most places in the two states, the weather office said on Sunday.Several places in the states received rains in the past 24 hours and the showers continued at many places on Sunday.Chandigarh, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Rupnagar, Mohali, Moga, Gurdaspur, Ambala, Hisar, Rohtak, Panchkula, Bhiwani and Gurugram were some of the places which received rains.The minimum temperature at most places in the two states stayed above normal.Amritsar recorded a low of 10.6 degrees Celsius while Ludhiana’s minimum settled at 11.2 degrees and Patiala recorded a low of 10.4 degrees Celsius.Ferozepur registered a low of 11.4 deg C while Pathankot’s minimum settled at 11.7 deg C.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 10.7 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 10.8 degrees while Hisar’s minimum settled at 9.4 degrees Celsius.Rohtak registered a low of 10.8 degrees while Gurugram’s minimum settled at 10.5 degrees. Sirsa also registered a low of 10.5 degrees while Kurukshetra’s low settled at 11.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-lashes-punjab-haryana-101642965664328.html
24-01-2022||Other||Mystery shrouds teenage boy’s death in Kheri village, SP orders probe||A teenage boy alleged to have been involved in the theft of a mobile phone of his uncle a few days ago died under mysterious circumstances in Lakhimnpur Kheri district on Sunday. While family members of the 17-year-old boy, a resident of a village under Sampurnanagar kotwali of Kheri district, alleged that he died due to police brutality after he was brought to Khajuria police outpost for interrogation, Kheri superintendent of police Sanjiv Suman refuted the allegations and ordered a probe into the incident. Following the death, the family members of the deceased boy held a demonstration on Sampurnanagar road demanding action against some police officials. The Kheri SP along with ASP Arun Kumar Singh and deputy SP Pallia SN Tiwari rushed to the spot and assured them that an impartial inquiry into the incident would be carried out and strict action against those found guilty would be ensured. Following this, they ended their agitation and handed over the body for a post-mortem examination.“The uncle of the boy had complained to Khajuria police outpost about the theft of his mobile following which the police had brought the boy along with his parents and the complainant uncle to the outpost for inquiry on January 19,” the SP said. “In the presence of them all, a compromise was reached and they were sent back to their home,” the SP added.“However, the next day (January 20), the mother of the boy lodged a complaint with the police in which she alleged that his uncle had beaten him despite the compromise the same night (January 19). The boy was reported to have been admitted to a hospital where he was reported to have succumbed to his injuries on Sunday,” Suman said.“In view of the fresh complaints by the aggrieved family members against some police men, I have ordered a thorough probe into the case,” he added. “All complaints had been taken into cognizance and stringent action would be taken against the guilty,” the SP said. - Deokant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mystery-shrouds-teenage-boy-s-death-in-kheri-village-sp-orders-probe-101642965543996.html
24-01-2022||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reports 969 fresh coronavirus infections, one death in a day||Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday reported the second death due to Covid-19 this month, along with 969 new cases, according to the state’s health bulletin. The test positivity rate of the district on Sunday was 18%, a climbdown from Saturday’s positivity rate of 21%, the data shows.The district on Saturday had reported 987 new cases.According to officials from the district health department, a 27-year-old man lodged in Luksar jail in Greater Noida died at the Meerut hospital on January 20 after being tested positive for Covid-19. On Saturday, he was wrongly attributed to the death tally in Ghaziabad but was later cross-notified to Gautam Budh Nagar, said the officials. “The patient was suffering from tuberculosis and was an alcoholic. On January 15, he was admitted to the district hospital for the treatment of other diseases. The next day he was referred to LLRM hospital in Meerut where, as per new admission procedure, he was tested for Covid-19 and the report turned out positive. On January 20, he passed away at the same hospital,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity. The last Covid-19 death was reported in the district on January 14 when a 60-year-old man admitted to a private hospital had died. As per officials, the man suffered from comorbid conditions. The district has reported a total of 470 deaths due to Covid-19 since the start of the pandemic. On Sunday, the district also reported 1,674 recoveries from Covid-19 and the active cases went down to 6,898. So far, 90,258 cases have been reported in the district and 1,874,547 tests have been conducted. “We can now see a downward trend in new cases of Covid-19 in the district while recoveries are on an upward trend. However, the health department remains on alert to prevent the spread of the viral infection in the district,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.
24-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: Pro-quota body demands restoration of reservation in promotions||Lucknow: Condemning the political parties for not including the issue of quota in their poll announcements, the Arakshan Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, a body representing eight lakh Dalit and backward class government employees, on Sunday passed a resolution demanding restoration of the provision of reservation in promotions. The body also asked its members to assess political parties’ commitment and seriousness about the demand before they and their families decide to vote for a party in this assembly elections. It told political parties that only talking of 85% vs 15% would not do and demanded them to disclose their action plan to protect reservation in jobs and promotions. The Samiti, at its core group’s meeting here, passed three resolutions and demanded political parties to incorporate the same in their electoral manifestos. “We demanded restoration of the provision of quota in promotion for SC-ST employees, providing reservation in promotion for Backward Class employees as it was available to them prior to 1977. Besides providing 50% representation to SCs, STs and OBCs in all the commissions under the government,” Samiti convener Avadhesh Kumar Verma said. He said that it was deplorable that political parties were resorting to a lot of rhetoric on the issue of reservation without making any announcement as to what was their action plan if they came to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-pro-quota-body-demands-restoration-of-reservation-in-promotion-provision-101642964885518.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Guest Column | ‘Fearless Governance’ is about ‘We’, not ‘Me’||Voters elect the persons they want to be governed by. The majority then forms the government. The administration recruits, selects and appoints its public servants for administering them. The elected and the recruited, therefore, govern and help the country. Thanks to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, I got the opportunity to govern, administer and serve Puducherry as the Lieutenant Governor for nearly five years. His single instruction was to ensure financial prudence in administering the Union Territory. He said, “Kiran ji wahan ja kar paise ka dhyan rakhna.”And I did it against all herculean odds. The financial powers are with the Lt Governor, as per the rules, yet no political effort was spared to hound the officers advising financial prudence. The office of the Lt Governor was taken to the highest courts of the land to obstruct the exercise of correct use of public money. The legal battles cost energy and money. A thoroughly corrupt system was in place. Financial irregularities were enormous. The defunct state public sector companies were being given financial grants. Employees’ provident fund was abused to pay and meet office expenses; audit objections were pending compliance for years. The Cooperative Bank gave away loans without due securities, and to the persons of influence. I saw hundreds of excess recruitments, all as patronage. The book “Fearless Governance” is about “We”, not “Me”. It is an outcry for conscientious service and leadership. It is about people and their basic needs, which are expected to be provided by those in governance — appointed or elected — to serve fearlessly. It’s about the people, loving and respecting what officials ought to be doing. It’s about puncturing vested interests that corrode the vitals of administration. A lot depends on financial prudence. How public money is prioritised and spent? Not about transactional sops announced without provisioning for them. It is like robbing Peter to pay Paul. It is about opening up the doors and the systems. It’s about visible leadership and authentic communication. It’s about placing on the centre stage the ordinary person who has no powerful connections, and giving people the faith that one is for all, always. It’s also about the miracle of teamwork. Trust is what the country needs the most. Government is one organic whole The government is one organic whole. Constant upskilling and retraining is the need of the hour, always. Governance is about exercising responsibility for the present and future needs to provide quality of life. It’s about their responsible living and doing. It’s about clean living, about giving and not taking. It’s about joy and celebration, promoting openness and have no secrets. I have demystified governance through sustained communication and regular people engagement to remain responsive. The book explains the purpose of one’s power and position as it is a product of when I took up the responsibility of Puducherry as its Lt Governor. I saw a closed Raj Niwas. Not accessible at all. Not celebrating anything. An isolated palace with an entourage of personal staff for maximum comfort. But very rich in flora and fauna. Secretariat staff, too, was lean. To do minimum, perhaps. No practice of schedules of meeting with a periodicity. Also had occasional dinners with select staff and all the generosity of cuisine. I also did not see websites of any department updated, barring an exception. The Raj Niwas website was just for the sake of it. The book fleshed out the ideas in seven parts. The first is about the call, the calling and the strategy. It gives an insight into how I had to prepare myself for this onerous responsibility. When I began, I did not know any officer from my past postings. I also did not know Tamil. Only seniors and a few knew how to converse in English. Hence communication was limited. The position and gender kept most at bay. Now, comes the challenge. How do we clean up the city? How do we put systems in place where an ordinary person is heard? How do we track grievances? What is the role of the Lt Governor as the administrator? How should we open up the Raj Niwas? What about visitors wanting to see this iconic building of Puducherry? What about the mafias in medical seat sale and land grabbing of senior citizens, too weak to defend or away to France and unable to defend? What about the colossal funds going for no work done, just because unable to take politically decisions? Who would bell the cats? At the top of it, questioning the legal powers, as laid down under the law, I was before the high courts and the Supreme Court. Those not comfortable with my ways to set the things right held press conferences to misrepresent and misinform the people, and even challenge the office of Lt Governor. The book explains how this was countered, making the tenure one of trials and tribulations, yet making amendments to the broken-down systems by putting systems that started to deliver on autopilot. The challenge of Covid-19 finds a particular chapter in the book on how only the intervention of the Government of India rescued the day. In the end, the UT got the highest ratings in governance. What if we all had worked together in a more significant interest? Puducherry could have been a model for emulation. Fearless leadership practices which made the change possible are for future generations to learn from. These measures are suitable for private and government sectors, as Ms Indra Nooyi said at the book launch. She termed it “a blueprint for Good Governance”. For me, governing and administering is all about fearless, duty conscious, and patriotic governance — by the elected and the appointed — for a developed India. kiranbedioffice@gmail.com(Views expressed are her personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-fearless-governance-is-about-we-not-me-101642964884110.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: BJP-led alliance to field Sikh candidates on about 70 seats||New Delhi: Eyeing to expand its base in Punjab, the BJP will nominate Sikh candidates on more than half of the total seats it will contest in next month’s assembly polls, its general secretary Tarun Chugh said on Saturday. Speaking on the BJP-led alliance, which comprises the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) and the SAD (Sanyukt), he said it is expected that most of its candidates for the February 20 polls to the 117-member assembly will be from the Sikh community, especially farmers and OBCs. The BJP may also explore the option of announcing a chief ministerial face for the alliance, Chugh said. The BJP is likely to contest on 65 out of the total 117 assembly seats in Punjab, while its allies the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress is expected to contest 38 seats and SAD (Sanyukt) 14. The BJP is likely to field 33-35 Sikh candidates and the alliance as a whole may have more than 70 nominees from the community, they said. Talking about the BJP’s prospects in the elections, Chugh, who hails from the state, said the party will “surprise many with its splendid performance in the polls”. On the question of seat sharing with allies, Chugh did not divulge any details, but said, “The BJP will play the role of a senior partner in the alliance.” “The BJP will field Sikh candidates on about half of the total seats it will contest and the alliance as a whole will have about 60 per cent Sikh candidates, mostly farmers and those from OBC (other backward class) and SC (schedule caste) communities,” he told PTI. The BJP has already announced its first list of 34 candidates which includes 13 farmers and nine from the SC community. On whether the BJP or the alliance will project someone as the chief ministerial candidate, Chugh said,”All options are open. We are open to ideas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-bjp-led-alliance-to-field-sikh-candidates-on-about-70-seats-101642964644143.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 8 Covid deaths in 24 hours, highest daily toll since June||With eight persons succumbing to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, Ludhiana recorded its highest single-day fatality count since June on Sunday. With this, the number of deaths in the last 10 days has climbed to 51. In some respite, the daily count of infections as well as active cases is showing a downward trend. On Sunday, Ludhiana recorded 836 fresh infections, against 939 on Saturday. The active case count dropped from 7,676 on Saturday to 7,368 on Sunday.Among the latest fatalities are a 75-year-old man of Model Gram, a 70-year-old woman of Kot Mangal Singh, a 70-year-old man of Dhandra Road, a 68-year-old man of Burj Hari Singh village of Raikot, a 57-year-old man of Bindra Colony, a 52-year-old man of Giaspura, a 45-year-old man of Dhandari Kalan and a 17-year-old boy residing near Chand Cinema.Sounding a word of caution, civil surgeon Dr SP Singh asked senior citizens and those not vaccinated or partially vaccinated to get inoculated.“It has been observed that even the Omicron variant of the virus is proving to be adverse for senior citizens, especially those suffering from comorbidities. So we urge residents to adhere to Covid protocols of wearing masks, sanitising their hands and maintaining social distance, and urge senior citizens to get their booster dose at the earliest,” said Dr Singh. Till date, Ludhiana has recorded 2,178 Covid deaths.Health officials said that of the 7,368 active cases in the district, 7,136 are in home isolation while 214 are admitted at private hospitals and 18 at government hospitals. As many as 25 persons are on ventilator support, of which 10 patients belong to Ludhiana while 15 belong to other districts or states.Mega vaccination drive: 57,124 vaccinated at 258 sitesAs many as 57,124 residents were inoculated during the mega Covid vaccination drive in Ludhiana on Sunday.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said 258 session sites had been set up in the district on the day.He further added that health teams had been preparing for this mega campaign for the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-8-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-highest-daily-toll-since-june-101642964464656.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 5,664 fresh Covid cases, 30 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Sunday reported 5,664 fresh Covid cases, and 30 Covid-related fatalities, according to a medical bulletin of the state health department. The positivity rate dropped from Saturday’s 16.65% to 13.28% on Sunday. Punjab on Saturday had reported 7,699 fresh Covid cases. With fresh cases, state’s patient tally ob Sunday reached 7,13,445, the bulletin said. The number of active cases was 46,472, it added. Mohali topped the list with 1,084 cases with a positivity rate of 35.18%, Ludhiana 836 with 15.91% positivity rate, Jalandhar 703 with positivity rate of 18.92% and Hoshiarpur 518 with positivity rate of 20.13%, the bulletin said. Amritsar reported 410 cases, Ferozepur 240, Rupnagar 232, Bathinda 226, Patiala 224, Pathankot 174, Gurdaspur 171, Faridkot 148 and Muktsar 145. With recovery of 7,660 patients from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 649,995. Till now, 16, 978 people have lost their lives due to the virus in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-5-664-fresh-covid-cases-30-deaths-101642964406398.html
24-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: Three more FIRs against Shine City officials||PRAYAGRAJ: Civil Lines police have registered three more cases against Shine City’s director Rashid Naseem and others involved in duping hundreds of people across the country. The fresh cases have been registered on the instructions of the court. The company’s director Rashid Naseem is in Dubai and the state government has declared a reward of ₹5 lakh on his arrest. While Rashid’s brother Asif and others have been arrested, CBI is trying to extradite him from Dubai. A resident of Meja area and retired bank employee, Somnath Sharma, has lodged FIR against Rashid Naseem, Asif and Saba Fatima alleging that they took ₹38 lakh cash from him on pretext of investments in real estate. They also took ₹30 lakh from retired army man Kripal Singh and ₹18 lakh from lawyer Mukesh Chandra. In the other case registered against the company, Kalindipuram resident Yogendra Tripathi claimed that the company duped him and Lakhan Lal Verma, Krishna Narayan Mishra, Sangamlal, Vishnu Shukla of ₹7 lakh in the name of investments. The third FIR has been lodged by one Shashi Devi of Pratapgarh whose husband is a cop. Shashi claimed that the company duped her of ₹1.25 lakh on pretext of selling a plot of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-three-more-firs-against-shine-city-officials-101642964225092.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Channi involved in illegal sand mining, alleges Capt||Chandigarh : Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) supremo Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday alleged that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s name had come up in connection with illegal sand mining. “When I was going to Hoshiarpur one day, I saw trucks and diggers and asked the Ropar police to investigate. We found that several parties were involved and Channi’s name also figured along with one or two other persons,” the PLC leader said, dismissing the present CM’s statements on the Enforcement Directorate’s raid on his nephew. Asked why he did not take action against Congress leaders allegedly involved in sand mining, the former CM said that he had informed about them to the Congress president (Sonia Gandhi) when she asked him about sand mining. “I asked her what she would like me to do, but she kept quiet,” he claimed. Commenting on former Punjab DGP Mohammad Mustafa’s alleged ‘hate speech’ in Malerkotla, Capt Amarinder said he should be arrested for ruining the atmosphere. “After what he is doing and saying, he has no right to be outside. I hope the Election Commission will take notice and put him inside,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-involved-in-illegal-sand-mining-alleges-capt-101642964223986.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Capt releases 1st list of 22 candidates, to contest from Patiala||Former chief minister and Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) supremo Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday released the first list of his party candidates from 22 constituencies for the February 20 assembly polls, announcing to again contest from his home constituency of Patiala Urban.The party, which also named former Indian hockey team captain Ajit Pal Singh as its nominee from Nakodar, has been allotted 37 out of the total 117 seats as part of its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). The line-up announced by the former chief minister includes several former leaders of the Congress, the party Capt Amarinder quit after being removed from the chief minister’s post four months, and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in its line-up.However, contrary to Capt Amarinder’s claims that several sitting MLAs and cabinet ministers would join his party, none came on board or are on the list. Three sitting MLAs Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, Fatehjung Bajwa and Harjot Kamal, who have quit the Congress in recent weeks, have all gone into his alliance partner BJP’s fold.“We have given a good set of candidates with clear focus on winnability while ensuring due representation across regions and various sections of the society,” Capt Amarinder said while releasing the first list of candidates at a virtual press conference. He said discussions are continuing with the BJP for five more seats for the party. As per the present arrangement, the BJP will contest on 67 and SAD (Sanyukt) 13 seats. Of the PLC’s allocation of 37 seats, 26 are in the Malwa region, 7 in Majha and four in Doaba region.In Malwa, the PLC has fielded Farzana Alam Khan, a former SAD legislator and wife of late DGP Izhar Alam Khan, from Malerkotla. She is the only woman among the candidates. The party’s list includes eight Jat Sikhs, four belong to the SC community and three to the OBC community, while five are Hindu faces. Another candidate from the Malwa region is the current Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma, who was the president of District Youth Congress for a number of years. He will contest the Patiala Rural seat.Kamaldeep Saini, former PPCC secretary and PLC general secretary in-charge (organisation), has been fielded from Kharar, while Jagmohan Sharma, former president of the District Congress Committee, Ludhiana, will contest from Ludhiana East. The Ludhiana South seat will be contested by Satinderpal Singh Tajpuri, the son of a former cooperation minister in the erstwhile SAD government.Prem Mittal, a former SAD MLA from Mansa and former senior deputy mayor of Ludhiana, has been fielded from Atamnagar, while Damanjeet Singh Mohi, an active Youth Congress functionary and former chairman of Market Committee, Mullanpur, has been named as the PLC candidate from Dakha. Retired PPS officer Mukhtiar Singh has been fielded from Nihalsinghwala.Other candidates include Ravinder Singh Garewal from Dharamkot, Dr Amarjeet Sharma from Rampura Phul, Raj Nambardar from Bathinda, Sawera Singh from Bathinda Rural, Subedar Bhola Singh Hasanpur from Budhlada and Dharam Singh Fauji from Bhadaur.Bikramjit Inder Singh Chahal, son of Capt Amarinder Singh’s close associate and advisor BIS Chahal, has been named from Sanaur, Surinder Singh Kherki, former Punjab Congress secretary, will contest from Samana.In the Majha region, the party has fielded Tejinder Singh Randhawa, former vice-president of DCC Gurdaspur, from Fatehgarh Churrian, while former MLA Harjinder Singh Thekedar will fight from Amritsar South seat. Amandeep Singh, former Punjab Congress spokesperson, has been fielded from Bholath and Satvir Singh Palli Jhikki from Nawanshahr in Doaba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-capt-releases-1st-list-of-22-candidates-to-contest-from-patiala-urban-101642964044465.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||No one can dislodge BJP for next 25-30 yrs: Dinesh Sharma||Agra Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma challenged on Saturday that no one was yet born who could dislodge the Bharatiya Janata Party from power for the next 25 to 30 years. Sharma urged his party workers to not lose their cool while responding to provocative speeches and instead, reply democratically by increasing the vote share of the BJP. Dinesh Sharma, who was in Agra, was interacting with party workers at a programme organised to establish effective communication with voters. He also led the door-to-door campaign for BJP candidate Dr GS Dharmesh who is contesting from Agra Cantt. “The opposition parties made every effort to dislodge the BJP but failed and so called their ‘B Team’ from Hyderabad (an indirect reference to AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi) who began using provocative language against BJP leaders and said that Yogi Adityanath would go to ‘math’ (religious center) and Narendra Modi to Himalayas, leaving none to save their supporters,” Sharma said. ‘These leaders making provocative statements should know that there is rule of law in Uttar Pradesh. Every child of Uttar Pradesh is Yogi and Modi. They should pack their bags as they will not find place in Hyderabad too because after UP elections, Yogi ji is going to Hyderabad to tackle such leaders,” he said. “Itna jaan lo ki abhi 25 se 30 saal tak BJP ko ukhadne wala koi mai ka lal paida nahi hua” (Let it be known that no one capable of dislodging the BJP for the next 25 to 30 years has been born yet) said Sharma. Sharma urged party workers to not get provoked by inflammatory statements against the party and its leaders and respond by increasing the vote share of the party. “A senior leader of the Congress termed Narendra Modi as ‘maut ka saudagar’ while another opposition leader named him ‘hatyara’ (murderer) but PM Modi did not reply himself and it was the masses in Uttar Pradesh who replied. As such, party workers should not lose their cool in election period and have patience,” he said. Later, Sharma went for door-to-door campaigning and began from Gihara Basti, a locality in reserved constituency of Agra Cantt, told voters about the achievements of the BJP in the state and at the centre and sought votes for party candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-one-can-dislodge-bjp-for-next-25-30-yrs-dinesh-sharma-101642963804546.html
24-01-2022||Other||Phaphamau multiple murder: Justice for victims to be a big issue in poll||PRAYAGRAJ: Murder of four members of a family in Phaphamau area of tran-Ganga region of the district is likely to be a major issue during this state assembly elections. As the police have failed to crack the murders till date and have instead sent three suspects behind the bars against whom no concrete evidence has still been found, the Dalit community in Phaphamau are up in arms over the gruesome murders and rape with one of the victims, a woman. Meanwhile, many senior leaders of different political parties, including Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, have visited the village and consoled the aggrieved kin while demanding justice for them. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Rawan also met the kin of the victims and assured them of all support to get justice. While, around two months have passed and the dust has settled down in the case, anger still remains among them victims. On November 24 last year, the bodies of a middle-aged couple, their 25-year-old daughter and 10-year-old differently able son were found at their house in Phaphamau area. Their kin lodged FIR against 11 named persons of upper caste Thakur family following which they were arrested. However, police later arrested a 23-year-old labourer Pawan Saroj and claimed that he committed the rape and murders as the young woman refused his advances. The kin of the victims raised doubts on the police theory and demanded fair investigations in the case. Few days later, the police arrested two youths Shashi Patel and his cousin Rajneesh Patel of neighbouring villages. Police said that Shashi was in an affair with the woman and was in contact with her through chat. “Despite being pressurized for marriage by the woman, Shashi was reluctant to marry her as she was from different caste. Shashi came from Gurgaon on November 21 and killed the woman and her kin after raping her,” the police had said. A close relative of the victims, who is a CRPF man posted in Jharkhand, said that the family was unsatisfied with the police action till now. “Our different demands including CBI probe into the incident is still pending. We are still waiting for justice. Police should crack the case and arrest the real culprits. Moreover, our other demands which include jobs to family members of the victims should also be fulfilled,” he said. Congress district vice president Manoj Pasi said that police failed in taking action against culprits and instead sent innocent persons to jail. “Dalit community is in rage over the injustice and will give a befitting reply in state assembly elections. If Congress comes to power, then a CBI probe will be initiated into the gruesome murders,” he added. Meanwhile, BJP leader of trans-Ganga area Sushil Maharaj claimed that the family of victims was satisfied with the police action and compensation provided to them. “Some persons are unnecessarily making it an issue for political gains. BJP leaders will again meet the kin and will talk to them to learn if they have any complaints,” he further said. Local Samajwadi Party leader Sandeep Yadav said that not only the kin of victims, but Dalit community was still waiting for justice in brutal murders and rape. “Police implicated innocents to save the real culprits. Justice will be ensured to victims after Samajwadi Party comes to power,” he said. SP (trans-Ganga) Abhishek Agarwal said that investigations were still underway and teams were on work to identify suspects. “Justice will be ensured into the incident at any cost,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/phaphamau-multiple-murder-justice-for-victims-to-be-a-big-issue-in-poll-101642963744036.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Arrest Mustafa for trying to incite communal violence: Sukhbir||SANGRUR: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal sought arrest of former DGP Mohammad Mustafa for allegedly trying to incite communal violence in Malerkotla.After addressing a gathering at Malerkotla in favour of party candidate Nusrat Iqram Khan, the SAD chief urged the Election Commission to take note of the development and order the immediate arrest of Mustafa. Sukhbir, who also addressed the media at Dhuri along with party candidate Prakash Chand Garg, said the AAP had told Punjabis that it would give tickets to ordinary persons but had instead sold seats to highest bidders.Lashing out at AAP’s Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, Sukhbir said he was never given any recognition in the party. “For one year, Arvind Kejriwal kept telling Punjabis he was looking for the right face while sitting alongside Mann. Even now, when Mann has been announced as the party’s chief ministerial candidate, posters across Punjab are still demanding a chance for Kejriwal. This itself proves that Mann is only a dummy candidate,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arrest-mustafa-for-trying-to-incite-communal-violence-sukhbir-101642963623998.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Sidhu’s adviser Mohd Mustafa booked for provocative speech||The Malerkotla police on Sunday booked Mohammad Mustafa, former Punjab DGP and principal strategic adviser to state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, for his alleged provocative speech, which went viral on social media on Saturday.Mustafa is husband of Congress candidate from Malerkotla Razia Sultana.Malerkotla senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said: “The police registered a case for provocative speech on Saturday night. We have also sent a report to the Election Commission on Sunday morning.”The case was registered under Section 125 of the Representation of the People Act (promoting enmity between classes in connection with election) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code at the City-1 police station, Malerkotla.The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of a police officer in Malerkotla.A video of Mustafa making the purported remarks was shared by BJP leaders Sambit Patra and Shazia Ilmi on their Twitter handles on Saturday. Mustafa said he had gone to an event of some Congress workers nearby and warned the AAP workers, who were also from the Muslim community.The purported video clip was played by the BJP at a press conference on Saturday. “I swear by Allah that I will not allow them (AAP) to hold any event. I am a ‘kaumi fauji (soldier of community)’. I am not an RSS agent who will hide in the house out of fear. If they (AAP) again try to do such a thing, I swear by Allah I will thrash them in their homes,” the video allegedly showed him saying at the meeting held on January 20.Mustafa said he used the word “fitno” (mischief makers) for AAP workers belonging to the Muslim community and there was no question of warning Hindus. “There was no Hindu-Muslim context to what happened in Malerkotla to which the quoted video clip relates. It was a verbal outburst unilaterally mischievously provoked by Jhaduwalas, all Muslims,” Mustafa said in a tweet.In another tweet, he hit out at the BJP, saying his “nationalist” credentials were superior than those from the party. “Your intended branding will not work on Mustafa, as my nationalistic credentials are far superior to yours with a history of life long fight against enemies of India and destroyers of communal harmony in the state,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-sidhu-s-adviser-mohd-mustafa-booked-for-provocative-speech-101642963445448.html
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Jalalusma is SAD candidate from Baba Bakala segment||Chandigarh : Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday announced Baljit Singh Jalalusma as the party candidate from the Baba Bakala constituency for the February 20 Punjab assembly polls. Jalalusma is former member of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and ex-MLA from the Jandiala Guru constituency. With this, the party has so far declared 95 candidates. It is yet to declare candidates on two seats --- Lambi and Amritsar East. Lambi is currently represented by former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal while Amritsar East by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. The announcement of the candidate from Baba Bakala took time as party cadres were divided over Jalalusma and Manjit Singh Manna, who remained MLA from the constituency in the past. Baba Bakala falls in Amritsar district and on his recent visit, the SAD president met supporters of both Jalalusma and Manna to resolve the issue. Later, a consensus was reached at Jalalusma’s name. The SAD is contesting 97 seats of the total 117 and its ally BSP on 20. The SAD entered into a pre-poll alliance with the BSP last year after it broke ties with the BJP over the (now repealed) three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-jalalusma-is-sad-candidate-from-baba-bakala-segment-101642963265181.html
24-01-2022||Mumbai||Patole’s remarks on Modi anger BJP||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole has landed in another controversy following his remarks reportedly against prime minister Narendra Modi. Speaking to media in Nashik, Patole said, “Whose wife runs away is named as Modi.” Reacting to this, the BJP has announced state-wide agitations. BJP workers in various parts of the state burnt the effigy of Patole. “His comments are shameful. He forgot that he was talking about the prime minister of the country. Patole needs to be given psychological treatment. He has insulted half a billion women of the country. We will stage state-wide protests against Patole,” BJP leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule said. Patole later issued a video, denying to have said anything against the prime minister. “I repeated what a local goon said in a village. It was not against the prime minister. We do not have only one Modi in our country. There are many Modis…Nirav and Lalit too are Modis. In fact, BJP leaders are defaming the PM by linking my statement with him. They want to divert the key issues like unemployment etc. by politicising such a petty thing,” he said. Patole last week kicked up a row when he said “he can beat Modi, abuse Modi” as he ensured to remain clean in politics. The BJP submitted complaints in 100 police stations demanding an FIR against the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/patoles-remarks-on-modi-anger-bjp-101642963263911.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: DDMA releases ₹100 crore more for aid to Covid victims’ kin||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has released an additional ₹100 crore to the city’s 11 district administrations to pay ₹50,000 aid to families of the Capital’s Covid-19 victims who are yet to receive financial assistance from the state’s disaster relief fund.So far, 25,586 people in the Capital have died of Covid-19, and the families of 21,914 have already received the one time ex-gratia ₹50,000 aid under the Delhi Disaster Relief Fund (DDRF) till January 22. The remaining applications are being processed, said officials. “All the district magistrates of revenue department are authorized to incur the expenditure for payments of ex-gratia assistance of ₹50,000 to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid-19 as per guidelines,” said a revenue department order dated January 21, signed by the deputy controller of accounts. HT has seen the order.According to a DDMA order dated January 6, over 20,000 people who lost a family member to Covid-19 and have already received ₹50,000 as ex gratia under the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna, were to be given an additional ₹50,000 each under DDRF. “It is a standing fund which does not lapse at the end of the financial year. The fund will be used by the districts to disburse ex-gratia payment against applications from Covid-19 victims. Our target is to ensure that no Covid-19 victim’s kin is left out of the financial assistance scheme. We have already initiated media campaign to create awareness for availing ex-gratia assistance. We will also approach the affected families who have not submitted the applications to assist them in filing the applications,” said a Delhi government official. DDMA documents showed that most disbursal approvals have been in West district, which has green lit 3,688 applications. Meanwhile, South-West district has approved 3,524 applications, and North-West has approved 2,423. Shahdara (2,047), North (1,930), East (1,860) district, Central (1,685) and New Delhi (819) make up the rest of the listIn June 2021, the Supreme Court directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend guidelines for ex-gratia assistance to the kin of those who lost their lives due to Covid-19. The order came in response to petitions seeking directions to the Central and state governments to provide ex-gratia compensation under the Disaster Management Act for Covid deaths. In December, the Supreme Court sought information from the Delhi government and other states on the progress of processing applications and releasing payments under the scheme||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiddma-releases-100-crore-more-for-aid-to-covid-victims-kin-101642962124336.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Another extreme weather event as Delhi eclipses January rain record||The spell of extreme or unusual weather events occurring almost every month in the national capital has continued, with Delhi breaking its all-time rainfall record for January after receiving an additional 19.1mm of rain between 8:30pm on Saturday and 8:30am on Sunday.With this latest spell, Delhi has got 88.2mm of rainfall so far in January, beating the previous record for the month (79.7mm) set in 1989, data maintained by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) between 1901 and 2022 shows. And there are still eight days to go in the month.However, IMD has forecast no rain for the city till January 29, and said the impact of colder winds from snow-clad hills will lead to a drop in the minimum temperature, which is expected to hover around 6-7 degrees Celsius in the next five days. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature could also hover around the 16-degree mark for the next three days, before a gradual rise to 17 or 18 degrees. This could mean that ‘cold day’ conditions persist in parts of the Capital.Met officials said Delhi has already recorded six western disturbances (WD) so far this month, with the last two, including the latest spell this weekend, among the most active seen in January in years.“Last weekend, we saw over 40mm of rainfall at almost all stations, and this was the most active western disturbance of this winter season. Similarly, the latest western disturbance (WD) was also fairly active, and has brought moderate rainfall at the Safdarjung and Palam stations,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD.He added that though six to seven WDs in January have been recorded in the past too, Delhi rarely sees them operating at such a high intensity. “This time, the frequency of WDs has not been the difference, but the intensity has. We normally see one active spell like this and even then, the rainfall is not much. This time around, we have seen two active spells with both spells bringing moderate rainfall, leading to several records tumbling,” Jenamani said.While no rainfall was recorded after Sunday morning, the Safdarjung station recorded 19.7mm between 8:30pm on Saturday and 8:30am on Sunday. It was 28.4mm at Palam, 27mm at Lodhi road, 25mm at Ayanagar and 17.8mm at Ridge during this period. IMD classifies rainfall as “light” when it is between 2.5mm and 15.5mm, as “moderate” when it is between 15.6 and 64.4mm, and as ‘heavy’ when it is above 64.5mm in a single day.Delhi’s maximum temperature remained low on Sunday, and was recorded at just 14.9 degrees Celsius – six degrees below normal for this time of the season. It was 14.7 degrees on Saturday, which is the lowest so far this winter. The minimum, meanwhile, was 10.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. Delhi’s lowest maximum was 14.2 degrees at Mayur Vihar, however it was not classified as a “cold day” by IMD because the minimum temperature was not below 10 degrees Celsius.A “cold day” is when the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below normal, along with the minimum being below the 10-degree Celsius mark.Delhi has only recorded six days this month where the maximum temperature was above normal. Till January 23, Delhi’s average maximum temperature was 18 degrees, 1.9 degrees below the normal average of 19.9 degrees.The trend in the Capital shows that 2022 has started exactly where 2021 had stopped -- breaking weather records every month.Not only did Delhi see extreme cold waves at the start and end of last year, it witnessed an intense summer, with a “severe heatwave” recorded in June, while Delhi recorded its second warmest February in the last 120 years. March was little different, bringing the hottest day that month in the last 76 years, data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows.It also saw an intense monsoon that continued well into late October as the city recorded 1,512.4mm of rainfall till December 29, the second highest ever, behind 1,534.3mm in 1933.CLEAR REPUBLIC DAY: IMDIMD on Sunday said there will be no rain and negligible impact of fog at India Gate during the Republic Day parade on January 26, adding that while a shallow fog is expected in the morning hours, visibility will not fall below 500 metres.In its forecast for India Gate on Sunday, IMD said the maximum is expected to hover between 17 and 19 degrees Celsius, while the minimum is expected to be around 5 and 7 degrees.On Monday, however, a moderate fog is forecast during the day, with “cold day” conditions expected at a few places. The maximum could hover around 16 degrees, while the minimum is expected to be 7 degrees Celsius.The rain over the weekend has also improved Delhi’s air quality, which dropped to the lower end of the “poor” category on Sunday. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 202, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 pm bulletin, a major improvement from 316 (very poor) on Saturday.A seventh western disturbance for the month is forecast in the northern plains on January 28, but IMD scientists said its impact over Delhi will be negligible. “No rain is likely at the moment, but it will lead to an increase in the maximum and minimum temperature,” said a Met official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/another-extreme-weather-event-as-delhi-eclipses-january-rain-record-101642962065220.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Man stabs wife multiple times, kills self in Ghaziabad flat||The husband of a 22-year-old woman stabbed her at least 30 times on her face and neck with a surgical blade at her mother’s house in West Delhi’s Khyala on Thursday, police said, and after thinking he’d killed her, died by suicide at a house in Ghaziabad’s Loni the following day.The woman, however, miraculously survived the vicious attack, and is undergoing treatment at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in west Delhi.The man’s actions were likely prompted by a petty argument between the couple, and the two would often quarrel with each other, the woman’s family told police during preliminary investigations.Deputy Commissioner of Police (west) Urvija Goel said the incident was first reported to the Police Control Room by the staff of a private hospital in Paschim Vihar on Thursday. The hospital staff told police that they admitted a woman with stab wounds, and that she was attacked at her mother’s house, possibly by her husband. The woman was later shifted to DDU hospital.A police team recorded the statement of the woman’s mother, and an FIR under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Khyala police station on the basis of the complaint. A team was formed to nab the accused, the DCP said.An investigator aware of the details of the probe said that, according to woman’s mother, her daughter had come to her house on Wednesday after a fight with her husband. The woman’s mother lives alone.In her complaint to the police, the mother said that her daughter’s husband followed her, and was trying to persuade her to return to their house in Loni’s Naseeb Vihar area. When she refused, the husband stayed back with her on Wednesday night. On Thursday, at around 7.30pm, while the woman’s mother was out to buy groceries, the man allegedly attacked his wife with a surgical blade. According to the doctors, there were at least 30 stab wounds on her neck and face.The police team raided multiple locations in the city after gathering details about the man’s whereabouts, but could not find him. On Friday, they got a tip-off that he was hiding in a vacant house owned by his brother-in-law in Loni’s Ambedkar Colony, the officer cited above said.The brother-in-law accompanied the police team to Loni, where they found the house latched from inside. When they peeked inside from a window, Ram Kumar was seen hanging from the ceiling, ostensibly dead by suicide, the DCP said.Police said that, according to the man’s family, he had a drug addiction and shared a strained relationship with his wife. They said that the woman complained to them about her husband.The incident came to light a day after a similar crime was reported from Saket where a 57-year-old man allegedly killed his wife at their home on Friday evening, and then tried to take his own life by slashing his neck with a kitchen knife, after an argument between the two. Police said they were trying to ascertain the exact motive and circumstances of the crime.Rajat Mitra, a clinical psychologist, said long relationships or social bonds are no guarantee against domestic violence. He said the reasons in each case are different, and each perpetrator is driven by different motives. “It is very difficult to generalise because each domestic or relationship violence case is unique. So, it can have a different motive like a 57-year-old man will have a different reason than the person in 20s or 30s. Having a relationship for a long time is no defence against violence. There can be a wide variety of reasons behind the domestic violence. For example, it can be a mental disorder, suppressed rage and humiliation that the man may be carrying inside, or may be the man completely feels that it’s a case of infidelity.”Mitra further elaborated that the law and criminal justice system see domestic violence as something that happens within the periphery of home. “They also feel that it is something that best be left to the couple. But when this first happens, it continues. The law usually takes the position that the couple can sort it out between each other with the help of counselling. But almost 35% cases cannot be solved through counselling, they need special care because the man may have a mental disorder, may be feeling suspicious, or is unable to hold back his emotions. He may have an explosive personality disorder, which cannot be cured by just counselling or medication. What is important is that the woman must get away at the very first instance of violence. It’s a warning,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-stabs-wife-multiple-times-kills-self-in-ghaziabad-flat-101642961823762.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||Bleak times for an ecosystem amid Delhi Metro's stop-start Covid journey||In 2020, Binod Mairta, was working on his second novel Last Train to Huda City Centre —part of a three-book series set in Delhi Metro-- when the pandemic struck and Metro services were halted for over five months. “I had to stop writing the book because Metro is my muse I and drew inspiration for every scene in my book from my daily travel on it,” says Marta, whose first book, A Rose on the Platform, a story of love and betrayal was set in Delhi Metro.“Over the years, Metro had also become a kind of social engine of the city, the hottest venue for socialising and dating. Today, it is a gloomy place. I can only resume my book when Metro returns to its pre-pandemic self,” adds Mairta, who works as a deputy director, editorial and translation services, in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, and travels between Dilshad Garden and Central Secretariat in Metro.Indeed, many Delhi Metro stations such as Barakhamba Road, which, before the pandemic witnessed swarms of people, today look jarringly empty. Even some of the busiest interchange stations such as Rajiv Chowk and Kashmere Gate, whose restaurants and cafes were hot spots for social and business meetings and dating, continue to be the pale shadows of their former selves two years after the pandemic struck.With footfalls down sharply, most retail outlets and restaurants have witnessed a debilitating drop in business, with some shutting shop. According to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), average passenger journeys have come down from 6 million to 6.5 million a day before the pandemic to about 1.5 million to 2 million a day.It is 11 am on a Friday morning, and Café Coffee Day at Rajiv Chowk station is empty. “Before the pandemic, our sales were ₹65, 000 a day, but by Diwali last year it dropped to about ₹30,000. Now, with only takeaway allowed sales have come down to ₹3, 000 a day,” says Shiv Rathore, an assistant manager at the outlet.“Earlier, our restaurant was always packed. People celebrated birthdays here and also held business meetings. But most of our customers were young couples,” adds Rathore.One of the customers was Nidhi Khanna, who recently came to the café after one and a half years on her way to Noida—but was dismayed by the change she witnessed in how Metro ‘felt and functioned’.“Underground Metro stations have a charm and energy of their own. I loved spending time with my friends at CCD at Rajiv Chowk and watching people waiting, meeting, rushing in and out of the trains. Indeed a lot happened over coffee here ” says Nidhi Khanna, 26, a Noida-based IT professional.“But Metro is not the same now. The temperature checks at the entry and Covid-related stickers on the seats inside the compartments keep reminding you of the dangers of infection. Ironically, earlier people fought to grab the seats, now they prefer to stand as it allows more social standing, though standing is currently prohibited. Finding a seat in the Metro has never been so easy,” adds Khanna.Jatin Arora, who lives in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar and works in Gurugram, says that Kashmere Gate was the station where he often met his girlfriend, now his wife. “What made Metro so attractive for dating is that two young people could travel in close proximity in air-conditioned comfort without attracting too much attention. But now that anonymity is gone in the relatively empty compartments and stations, and that feeling of comfort and cosiness inside Metro has given way to fear, ” says Arora, a marketing professional.Like Shiv Rathore of Café Coffee Day, Shubham Goyal, manager at Namaste Delhi, a fast food outlet at Kashmere Gate station, says couples constituted a large part of his clients, but with most offices and colleges closed, his business is down by around 80%. “If you allow hundred per cent seating in the trains, sitting in the station’s cafes can also be allowed. After all, we are inside the Metro and unlike those outside, we cannot even do home deliveries,” says Goyal.Under the curbs imposed by Delhi Disaster Management Authority in the wake of surge in Covid cases, restaurants have only been allowed takeaways and deliveries.Prakash Joshi, who works at Sahitya Akademi bookshop at Kashmere Gate station, says that before the pandemic struck most of his customers were either elderly people or Delhi University students interested in Hindi literature. “Often, a lot of commuters would walk in and turn our shop into a literary saloon, discussing Munshi Premchand. But now hardly anyone comes. Even before the third wave began on December 15, our sales were down by 50%. Now, we have very few customers,” says Joshi, sitting at the counter of the bookshop whose walls have black and white pictures of Indian literary greats such as Toru Dutt, Devaki Nandan Khatri and Nagarjun. The teakwood shelves are stacked with hundreds of titles in over two dozen Indian languages.It is afternoon and Vishwavidyalaya station, which once buzzed with chitter-chatter of DU students, is eerily silent. Balbir Singh, who works at the NBT book store at the station, said with the universities and colleges closed there are no customers and it is hard to pass time. “ Before the pandemic, we sold books worth ₹7,000 a day. Now, we are lucky if our daily sale exceeds even ₹1,000,” he says as he watches 1966 ‎Dharmendra‎ and Meena Kumari starrer, Phool Aur Patthar, on YouTube. “This is the only way to pass time,” says Singh.Back at Rajiv Chowk station, Ravi Kumar, a sales associate with an eyewear retail chain, is worried that his store might close by February. “In October-November, our monthly sales were about ₹12 lakh a month. But this month it is barely ₹2 lakh so far. The rent for the shop is about ₹3.5 lakh, and the company has told us we might exit the station by February. We were 10 people here before the pandemic, but now we are only four. Our business is directly related to footfall at the station,” he says.The DMRC said it has taken several measures to help businesses running from the Metro premises. “We have taken a number of measures such as rent waivers, moratorium and lease period extensions to retain various retail and food outlets at stations. We are continuously interacting with the vendors to understand their requirements and challenges and necessary measures are being taken. A very small number of retailers have shut shops,” says Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, Delhi Metro.It is 5.30 in the evening, and the corridors of the Barakhamba Road station are pitch dark as most doors of the station are closed. The station which used to witness a maddening rush of commuters at this hour has a small queue of commuters today. Rajiv Arora, who works at a private bank on Barakhamba Road, says not just the atmosphere of the station, even the profile of the commuters have changed. “This is an office heavy area and earlier most commuters were office goers headed home in the evening, and I recognized a lot of them. Now, I do not see any familiar face,” says Arora.As we talk, there is an announcement on the public address system ‘wearing the face mask is mandatory’, Arora pushes his mask up to his mouth and gets into the almost empty train going to Dwarka.
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Government Railway Police reports near 20% drop in cases filed under IPC in 2021||The Government Railway Police (GRP) recorded near-20% drop in criminal cases registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the city from 2020 to 2021.A total of 64 criminal cases under IPC were registered at the local police station last year, in comparison to 78 cases in 2020.The number of theft cases fell from 53 to 36 in the period, as did the number of murder and abetment to suicide cases, coming down to two and one from six and two respectively.No cases of human trafficking or wrongful confinement was registered by the GRP last year.In an anomaly, incidents of snatching and death by negligence saw a rise last year, with nine and three cases being registered in comparison to seven and one respectively in 2020.A significant rise in the cases pertaining to the Proclaimed offenders was also reported as a total of 10 accused, who were released on bail by local courts last year, did not appear before the court. No such instances had been reported in 2020.Cases under local and special law riseThe GRP, however, registered a total of 21 cases under local and special law last year when only 17 such cases were registered in 2020.While 14 cases were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act last year in comparison to 12 in 2020, two and four cases of were also lodged under the Arms and Excise Acts respectively, a marginal increase from the 2020 figures of one and three.Stolen property worth ₹2L recoveredThe GRP also recovered stolen property worth of ₹2,02,300 from a mammoth ₹10,86,850 in 2021. The figure marked an improvement from 2020, when stolen property worth only ₹70,000 was recovered from a total of ₹9,81,696.The authorities also arrested a total of 18 proclaimed offenders last year in comparison to six in 2020. According to sources, 300 proclaimed offenders still remain at large.
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana consumer disputes commission penalises insurance company for deficient service||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directed National Insurance Company Limited to release an accidental claim of ₹2 lakh and pay ₹8,000 compensation to Naresh Kumar Jain of Rishi Nagar, who had submitted a complaint of deficient services.In his complaint, Jain claimed that the repudiation of the claim, of ₹2 lakh climbed after an insured car met with an accident, was wrong and amounted to deficiency of service on the part of the insurance company.A surveyor of the company had inspected the car after the accident, but no claim with regard to damages were paid. The insurer reasoned by saying that the complainant firm had no insurable interest in the car as one of the partners in the firm gifted the car to his daughter and delivered possession in 2006. The insurer had further said the same had been confirmed by Vipul Jain, son of Rajesh Chander Jain, the authorised signatory of the complainant firm.The Commission, in its order, observed that the insurance company has been accepting the annual premium of insurance from the complainant firm.“To prove the allegation that the car was gifted in the year 2006, no documentary evidence has been brought on record and the insurance company has relied upon just one evidence. Therefore, merely on the unproved allegations that the car has been gifted to the daughter of one of the partners of the complainant firm, the claim could not be validity repudiated when the complainant firm continues to be the registered owner of the car and has been getting insured it regularly,” the order read.The Commission further added that the insurance company shall consider and reimburse the claim in respect of the car as per the terms and conditions of the policy and also pay an additional ₹8,000 compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianaconsumer-disputes-redressal-commission-penalises-insurance-company-for-deficient-service-directs-it-to-release-accidental-claim-101642960143807.html
24-01-2022||Delhi||HC asks Delhi Police to explore feasibility of a ‘ballistics database’||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has asked the police force to explore the feasibility of maintaining a ‘ballistics database’ to connect each bulletto the weapon it was fired from.Hearing a 2018 anticipatory bail plea of an accused in an Arms Act case, justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said that the database, if created, could immensely help investigations and keep a check on the illegal firearms. The judge said that a committee constituted by the city police commissioner may consult the technical experts of Central Forensic Sciences Laboratory (CFSL) for the creation of such a database.“The committee appointed by the police commissioner, may also examine the possibility of creation of a Ballistic Database, where ballistic reports of all firearms, in respect of which licences are issued or which are endorsed on the licenses issued to public, can be stored so that the said database can be accessed in case of an investigation,” the court said in its order on January 10.In the 2018 anticipatory bail plea hearing, the court is examining the aspect that whenever any weapon is recovered, no fingerprints are taken from the weapon or the bullets/rounds/shells found in the weapon. In 2018, the court had noted the submission of the state’s counsel that there is no specific procedure laid down for investigating officers or other police officers for the same.During later proceedings, senior police officers had told the court that fingerprints from weapons and/or bullets/rounds/shells are taken on a case to case basis, depending on the facts and circumstances of each case.Even though the pre-arrest bail plea was later withdrawn after a few dates in 2018, the court continued to examine the aspect and conduct discussions with senior police officials on the issue.In February 2019, the court had suggested that the city police consider installing electronic sensors in the licensed firearms to monitor its GPS location and when the gun is fired, send alerts including the direction it is pointing and how many rounds were fired. The judge had also asked the city police to take cue from the global alternatives available.According to a 2019 news report, a Chinese firm, Beijing Bailineng Technology, developed a chip to pinpoint the location of firearms and trigger an alert when guns are taken out of designated areas. The firm had claimed that the chips used China’s BeiDou Navigation Satellite System to send real-time location to a control centre. Authorised handlers of the weapons would also be issued with BeiDou watches which will send alerts if they are separated from their firearms, with the aim of stopping the weapons falling into the hands of criminals, the report had said.However, the state’s counsel Hirein Sharma informed the court that installing GPS devices in licensed weapons “may not be a feasible option on the basis of the technical, financial and privacy concerns”.In a status report filed on January 15, the police said, “There are lakhs of different types of licensed weapons in the country and shall be a big challenge to install such type of additional fitment in all licensed firearms.” The report added that no such certified/patent company was found making such type of censors in India.Senior advocate and criminal lawyer Vikas Pahwa told HT that it is high time that India has a national database for firearms, ammunition and ballistic reports.“The access to ballistic reports can be of great help in investigations where arms are not connected with the fired bullets and cartridges in the crimes. Arms used in a crime in the past can be matched with the ammunition used again in a subsequent crime. Database can be accessed by the police all over the country. We need to use technology for expediting the process of investigations for an efficient criminal justice system in our country,” Pahwa said.On January 10, the court noted that the state’s status report is not on record and posted the matter for April.According to the Union ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), as many as 22,804 new gun licenses with all India permission have been issued by the government between January 2018 and September 2020. An overwhelming majority of these -- 17,905 – was issued to the residents of Jammu and Kashmir.According to the data, a total of 94,400 arms licences were renewed with all India permission between January 1, 2018, and September 15, 2020, of which 19,238 were in Uttar Pradesh, followed by Jammu and Kashmir (14,172) and Haryana (12,230).The maximum of 2,435 licenses cancelled nationwide between January 1, 2018, and September 15, 2020, were in Uttar Pradesh (1,911).
24-01-2022||Delhi||Rail body booked for felling 18 trees near Delhi’s Dwarka Sector 21||The state forest and wildlife department has booked the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) for allegedly damaging or felling at least 18 fully-grown trees without permission at the site of the Bijwasan Rail Terminal Redevelopment Project near Dwarka’s Sector 21.Confirming the same, a senior forest official from the west division said, “During the first inspection, at least 18 trees were found to be damaged or cut. They (RLDA) could not show any permission during the inspection. An offence under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act (DPTA), 1994, has been filed against the agency and the hearing for this matter will take place in the first week of February.”The official said a second, detailed inspection will be carried out at the site to determine the extent of the damage.An RLDA official said that they did not seek any permission as the land was barren when the project was awarded eight years ago. “Over time, some trees have grown, but we have only cut smaller saplings to make room for trucks and supplies to reach the site. For the fully-grown trees, we will be applying for a permission,” said the official.HT had earlier reported how locals from the nearby Shahabad Mohammadpur village in Dwarka, along with a local NGO, had filed complaints with both the Delhi Police and the forest and wildlife department, alleging over 200 trees had already been felled from the forest patch behind Dwarka’s Sector 21 metro station. In their complaints, the locals had stated the RLDA, which is undertaking the redevelopment project, was unable to show them a permission to fell the trees.Naveen Solanki, a 20-year-old from the village who had alerted the forest department about the illegal tree felling, said the area was rich in biodiversity and had nilgai and other mammals too. “Deforestation work has only begun in the last two weeks or so. We were quick to object to it, the agency has no permission to cut these trees. An FIR has also been initiated to prevent trees from being cut any further,” he said.The Bijwasan railway station is undergoing an airport-style makeover on a public-private partnership (PPP) model. While the project was initially awarded to the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), the government body was shut down last October and the project was later awarded to the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) in December 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rail-body-booked-for-felling-18-trees-near-delhi-s-dwarka-sector-21-101642957863444.html
24-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: BJP, ally Apna Dal name candidates for seats in Azam Khan’s Rampur||The BJP ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) on Sunday named Haider Ali Khan, 32, as its candidate from the Swar Tanda seat in Rampur district for the UP polls, apparently sending a strong message with regard to Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan’s political turf. The move comes days after the BJP fielded Akash Saxena, 46, the man behind 30 of the over 100 FIRs filed against Samajwadi Party veteran Azam Khan in its first list from the Rampur (Sadar) assembly seat. Azam Khan, currently a Lok Sabha MP from Rampur, has won the Rampur (Sadar) assembly seat a record nine times. Both Rampur (Sadar) and Swar Tanda assembly seats in Rampur district go to polls in the second phase of the seven-phase UP assembly elections on February 14. The BJP had released its first list of 107 candidates on January 15. It has named 195 candidates in four tranches so far.Azam Khan’s son Abdullah Azam had won the Swar Tanda seat in 2017 to become a first-time lawmaker. But in December 2019, he was disqualified for allegedly forging his birth certificate and for being below 25 years of age when he had filed his nomination on the seat. It is from Swar Tanda that Abdullah had defeated Haider’s father Kazim Ali Khan, a sitting four-term lawmaker in 2017. Haider is from the family of the Nawabs of Rampur, arch rivals of Rampur’s Lok Sabha MP Azam Khan, currently in jail. The BJP anticipates that the Samajwadi Party would again name Abdullah Azam, currently out on bail, on the seat for the UP polls.The Rampur (Sadar) is now held by Azam’s wife Tanzeen Fatima after Azam Khan became a Lok Sabha MP in the 2019 polls, defeating the BJP candidate, actor-turned-politician Jaya Prada.BJP leaders have been targeting the SP list. Party leaders admit that once Abdullah is named, they would again up the ante over “candidates being either in jail or out on bail”.The BJP top leadership held several rounds of discussion with its two other backward classes (OBC) allies in UP – Apna Dal (S) and Nishad Party – before finalising the seat-sharing pact for the UP polls, political leaders said. Political experts were quick to notice that the BJP’s arrangement with its OBC ally in Rampur’s Swar Tanda appears to be part of a carefully crafted plan in the context of Muslim votes on the seat that Abdullah had won despite a BJP wave in 2017. The victory was attributed to Azam Khan’s political clout in the region. Abdullah, who holds an engineering degree and who has learnt the nuances of political oratory from his father, was recently seen in a viral video, weeping bitterly while talking to his supporters about the plight of his parents – his mother Tanzeen Fatima, a former Rajya Sabha MP and current MLA from Rampur (Sadar), and MP father Azam Khan. While Tanzeen and Abdullah have got bail in all the cases against them, Azam is still to get it in a few cases. Haider Ali Khan was all set to be a Congress candidate before joining the Apna Dal (S) last week after some quick back-channel discussions he had with the BJP’s ally, which promptly declared him as its candidate on the seat. Haider, a graduate from University of Essex, is the lone candidate to be declared by the Apna Dal (S) on Sunday. “No more declarations for today,” the party’s spokesperson Rajesh Patel confirmed. Rampur has for decades been witness to a traditional political rivalry between Azam Khan and the Nawabs of Rampur, to whose family Haider belongs. Though Haider’s grandfather Zulfiqar and his grandmother Noor Bano have both been former MPs, and popular in the district, Azam Khan has dominated the politics of the district for decades. However, for all his political clout, Azam Khan’s victory margins had been dipping. He won by 60,000 votes in 2012 and by 47,000 votes in the 2017 elections. With him now embroiled in political controversies, and battling over 100 cases that have been filed against him since the BJP government came to power in 2017, political experts sense that the fight for Rampur could be an interesting one. In 2017, the BJP won two of the five assembly segments that make up the Rampur Lok Sabha seat.Now with Azam Khan unwell — twice during his jail term he had to be rushed to a hospital for treatment — the BJP is eyeing the assembly polls as its best chance to weaken Azam’s political hold, political experts say. During his rallies in UP, Union home minister Amit Shah has been targeting Azam Khan consistently. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, has not minced words in hitting out at Azam Khan. Besides the BJP, the Aam Aadmi Party candidate from Rampur (Sadar) seat – Faisal Lala – too is one who had been consistently targeting Azam Khan. “Khan sahib is hugely popular. Nothing can diminish his appeal here but yes, now, with him in jail and battling not just cases but ill health too, the opponents are targeting Rampur,” an Azam Khan aide said on condition of anonymity.
