25-01-2022||Mumbai||Daily cases may drop below 1,000 soon: BMC||MUMBAI Civic officials said on Tuesday that they expect the daily caseload in the city to fall below 1000 in 10 days, indicating that the Omicron-fuelled third wave of Covid-19 may be subsiding. This could also result in some relaxations in Covid norms, including allowing citizens to access public places such as gardens and playgrounds for longer hours. However, time restrictions on restaurants and bars are likely to continue. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and the officer in charge of public health said, “We expect daily cases to go below 1,000 in about 10 days. However, we are on alert and will not lift restrictions imposed to check the spread of the disease.” On Tuesday, the city reported 1,815 cases and 10 deaths taking the case tally to 1,037,587 and toll to 16,556. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 996,145 recoveries and the mortality rate is 1.59%. There are 22,185 active cases in the city. No Omicron variant Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday, and the total Omicron count remains 1,010. Covid bed occupancy in the city fell from 21% a fortnight ago to 9.1% on Tuesday. Kakani said, “We may relax timings of gardens and playgrounds, but the current cap of 50% table occupancy in restaurants and the 10pm closure deadline will remain. We will take a call on relaxations in the coming weeks after studying the case pattern.” BMC officials said that from December 21, 2021 (the day the third wave began) till the end of the month, the city was averaging 3,000 cases a day. However, by January 6, cases jumped to 20,000. By January 25, the daily caseload fell to around 2000. Daily testing, too, has dropped to between 40,000 and 50,000 from the earlier 60,000 to 70,000 tests. Covid experts opine that though cases have reduced, it will be too early to comment on lifting relaxations. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force said, “It is too early to comment on when we can relax 100% restrictions. We should wait and observe how the pandemic is progressing.” He added that deaths will also show a rise, though not at an alarming rate. “Deaths always lag case-peaks by a few weeks. Therefore, even when cases come down, deaths may take time to reduce.” To be sure, the daily positivity rate (number of confirmed cases per 100 tests) has improved from a peak of 29.5% on January 7 to 5.27% on January 25. Deaths, on the other hand, have gradually increased from up to three a day in December 2021 to up to 12 at present. Dr Kedar Toraskar, critical care specialist and another member of the state Covid task force said, “The BMC is assuming the three-digit trend on the basis of the current reduction in numbers. It could well happen that way. However, one cannot be certain. Though there is no resurgence anywhere in the world except in the UK, we cannot be complacent. We will have to remain on alert.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-cases-may-drop-below-1-000-soon-bmc-101643135248717.html
25-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Security guard arrested for killing wife over ‘late’ dinner||A 35-year-old security guard was arrested on Monday night for allegedly killing his wife over the delay in serving food at their rented accommodation in Sector 141. The suspect was identified as Sonu Kumar alias Anil, a native of Haridwar in Uttarakhand. Sonu was presently living with his wife, Sharda Devi, 33, in Noida’s Sector 141, police said, adding that the couple has two children – a daughter,12, and son, 8 – who live at their mother’s sister’s place in Uttarakhand.Uttam Kumar, station house officer, Sector 142, said that the suspect worked as a security guard at a private company while his wife worked at another company in Noida. “Sonu used to drink heavily due to which he had frequent quarrel with his wife. On Monday evening, he returned home and asked his wife for food. She was busy with some work and could not serve food. The suspect got angry and he allegedly pulled the two ends of the shawl, which was around the woman’s neck, and strangled her,” he said. Locals informed police and a team from Sector 142 police station reached the spot. The police team rushed the woman to a private hospital where she was declared brought dead, the SHO said. The deceased’s brother Sunil Kumar, 25, filed a complaint alleging murder by his brother-in-law. In his complaint, Sunil said that his sister had complained about domestic violence by her husband on several occasions in the past. A case has been registered against the suspect under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. “The suspect fled the spot after committing the crime. On Monday night, police received information about his movement near Sector 142 Metro station. A police team reached the spot and arrested him,” the SHO said, adding that the suspect was produced in court that sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-security-guard-arrested-for-killing-wife-over-late-dinner-101643135188778.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal IGP awarded President’s police medal for distinguished service||Himachal Pradesh Inspector General of Police (Southern Range) Himanshu Misra has been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service. As the in-charge of ‘Scheme for Modernisation of State Police Forces’, he was instrumental in getting ₹ 24 crore as incentive to Himachal Pradesh from the Centre during 2019-20. As a key member of the SIT probing fake degree scam of a private university, he had also ensured the arrest of key accused and attachment of properties worth ₹194 crore. He was the chairman of HP Police Recruitment Board and successfully conducted the first-ever online recruitment of constables in 2019. Misra has served with the United Nations’ mission in Bosnia-Herzegovina as CIVPOL officer and was awarded UN Peace Medal. He served UN mission in Liberia and UN assistance mission in Afghanistan on secondment. SP Lokayukta Ranjana Chauhan, ASP Shimla (city) Vijay Sharma, Inspector Laxman Thakur (SHO, Shimla West police station) and assistant sub-inspector (CID) Jagdish Chand have been awarded police medals for meritorious services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-igp-awarded-president-s-police-medal-for-distinguished-service-101643135069991.html
25-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram records 2,030 fresh coronavirus cases, 5,689 recoveries in one day||Gurugram on Tuesday reported 2,030 fresh Covid-19 cases, with the positivity rate at 23.51% -- a dip of 2.25% from 21.26% the previous day, according to the health bulletin.The number of active Covid cases in Gurugram was recorded at 11,538 on Tuesday, with 185 patients being hospitalised. The active cases in the city had crossed the 10,000-mark on January 10, with 10,160 active cases.The district recorded 5,689 recoveries on Tuesday.The health department, meanwhile, collected 8,633 samples for testing in the past 24 hours, said officials on Tuesday. On Tuesday, a total of 9,449 doses were administered to beneficiaries in the district, including 3,218 first doses, 5,093 second doses and 1,138 precautionary doses. Gurugram has administered nearly 4,740,000 (4.74 million) doses till date.About 1,076 children in the 15-18 age group received their first dose on Tuesday, and a total of 100,086 teenagers have been vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccine so far.Vaccination against Covid-19 for children in the 15-18 age category started across the country on January 3 this year. The health department on Tuesday informed that there would be no vaccination session in the district on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-records-2-030-fresh-coronavirus-cases-5-689-recoveries-in-one-day-101643135068705.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||No end to weather blues in Himachal||There is no end to the weather blues in Himachal as nearly 500 roads, including three national highways, remained blocked for traffic in the state while several areas reeled under dark due to power supply being hit. The high-altitude areas and mountain passes groaned under Arctic-like conditions with mercury staying several notches below freezing point.Natural sources of water like springs, lakes and tributaries of major rivers in tribal areas were drastically reducing the discharge of water. Meanwhile, Shimla received mild snowfall in the afternoon.Kukumseri in Lahaul-Spiti experienced 6.9cm snowfall, Chopal 5cm, Khadrala 2.5cm while Janjheli, Sangla and Kalpa got 2cm of snow. Barthin in Bilaspur was wettest recording 12.2mm of rainfall while Rohru got 10mm rain, Nahan 9.9mm, Sarahan 9mm, Palampur 8.8mm and Gohar 8mm. Other parts too experienced light rainfall.Keylong, administrative centre of tribal district Lahaul-Spiti, was the coldest with night temperature dropping to minus 12.3 degrees C while Kalpa in the neighbouring Kinnaur shivered at minus 7.6 degrees.The minimum temperatures dropped 3-4 degrees in several parts as compared to the night temperatures recorded on Monday.The tourist destination of Kufri was cold at minus 3.2 degrees C and Dalhousie minus 1.8 degrees C.Famous hill-station Manali saw a low of minus 0.2 degrees C and Shimla minus 0.1 degrees C. The MeT department has sounded a yellow alert for dense fog in the plains on Wednesday. The sky would likely clear on January 27.Meanwhile, the Defence Geoinformatics Research Establishment has issued an avalanche alert in at least three districts including Kullu, Lahaul-Spiti and Chamba.At least 90 people of remote Pangi area are awaiting helicopter services to get out of the snowbound valley.More than 40 people have booked flights to district headquarters Chamba and remaining people to Bhunter in Kullu.Meanwhile, weather was foggy in Jammu and cloudy in Kashmir on Tuesday with night temperature dipping to -9.2 degrees Celsius in ski resort in Gulmarg in North Kashmir. “There are reports of fog in plains of Jammu,” said director of J&K MeT, Sonam Lotus.He said that the weather will remain fair to partly cloudy throughout J&K till January 29 with moderate to dense fog in morning hours in plains of Jammu. “It will be generally cloudy on 30th and possibility of light rain and snow on Jan 31st,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-end-to-weather-blues-in-himachal-101643134892305.html
25-01-2022||Noida||State polls: Noida sees increased youth participation this time||Gautam Budh Nagar has a relatively young pool of candidates fighting the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls this time. Of the 39 candidates in the fray, seven are in their 20s, while only four are over 60, according to data shared by the office of the district election commission. Whereas, during the 2017 election, of the 39 contesting candidates, only three were in their 20s and one was over the age of 60. Gautam Budh Nagar goes to polls on February 10 during the first phase of the seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly election.This time, in the Noida assembly constituency, seven of the 13 candidates are in their 20s while there is no candidate over 60. In 2017, of the 15 candidates from Noida, two were in their 20s and one was over 60.The youngest candidate in Gautam Budh Nagar is 25-year-old Nitish Kumar from Rashtriya Janata Party who is contesting from Noida. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Pankaj Awana (27) and Congress candidate Pankhuri Pathak (29), both contesting from Noida, are also under 30. Other candidates in their 20s are Kush Kumar (27) from Bharatiya Jan Jagriti Party, Ashish Sharma (29) from Loktantrik Janshakti Party, Rohit (28) from Rashtrawadi Janlok Party and independent candidate Yeshu Singh (27). Experts say that an increasing participation of the younger generation is good for democracy, especially in a country that has a higher population of younger people compared to the elderly. “Relatively younger people filing nominations shows that there is a growing political vigour and a feeling of initiative among the youth of this region. The fact that campaigns are being conducted online also attracts more people, since this provides younger individuals who do not have a very strong financial background a better opportunity . The younger population is also well versed with social media and can get their points across to a larger population now,” said Dr Shalini Saxena, associate professor (political science), Amity University, Gautam Budh Nagar. According to AAP’s Pankaj Awana, the participation of the younger generation in the electoral process is important for democracy. “As a young candidate, I want to help the people of Noida deal with the common problems they face. I know I have the energy and the will to work for the people that big leaders and parties lack,” said Awana. However, there no candidate in his/her 20s from Jewar and Dadri constituencies this time. In 2017, one 29-year-old candidate fought in Dadri while there was no candidate under 30 in Jewar then either. In Dadri, there is just one candidate over the age of 60. At 68, Tejpal Nagar is the oldest candidate in all three constituencies of Gautam Budh Nagar. However, the sitting MLA from Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) is also one of the strongest contenders for the Dadri seat. His main opposition is from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) -- 42-year-old Manveer Singh. Jewar has the largest pool of older candidates, including all the stalwarts contesting from this seat. Jewar has three candidates who are over 60. The Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal candidate Avtar Singh Bhadana is 64, BSP candidate Narendra Kumar is 63 and Sarva Samaj Party candidate Neeru Walia is 65. Traditionally, Jewar is the stronghold of the SP and BSP and the two parties will be giving a tough competition to the sitting BJP MLA this time as well. Though the candidates from both major opposition parties are older, they also have greater political experience. Bhadana is a four-time MP and sitting MLA from the Meerapur constituency in Muzaffarnagar, who recently left the BJP to join RLD. At 55, BJP’s candidate and sitting MLA Dhirendra Singh is also a seasoned leader in the region and has a lot of development work to his credit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/state-polls-noida-sees-increased-youth-participation-this-time-101643134889349.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Allies turn rivals: Local body polls may see bitter Sena-BJP fight||Mumbai The latest war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiv Sena over Hindutva and ‘wasted period in alliance’ may be an indication of a bigger fight between the two former saffron allies during the ‘mini assembly’ (local body) polls. Leaders from both the parties and observers believe that the two, who have resolved to not join hands again ever, are set to take on each other in the future.After keeping almost away from the political appearance for more than two months following a spinal surgery, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday took the BJP head on. Addressing party workers on Sena founder Bal Thackeray’s 96th birth anniversary, he said the Sena rotted in the alliance for 25 years. He termed the BJP’s Hindutva hollow and opportunist. He also said that the BJP, which used its local allies to gain and later dumped them, benefited from its alliance with the Sena to a great extent.This evoked a sharp reaction from the BJP, which reminded the Sena that the party had its corporators and MLAs elected in Mumbai even before the latter was born in 1966. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis produced elections results of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly from 1993, saying almost all the Sena candidates lost their deposits whenever they contested polls there. Fadnavis questioned if the Sena was doubting late Bal Thackeray-endorsed alliance till 2012 and why the Sena was pushed to fourth position in the recent local body polls after snapping ties with the BJP.No room for reconciliationAccording to leaders from both the parties, the tussle is expected to intensify. “Union home minister Amit Shah made it clear at his rally in Pune last month that there would be no reconciliation with the Sena at any cost. He also dared the Sena to fight with them. Thackeray too has clarified that the two parties, which were in the alliance for more than three decades, will not come together. Both the parties are expected to fight against each other in the municipal corporation elections, especially in Mumbai, Thane, and Kalyan-Dombivali,” said a BJP leader requesting anonymity.The two had fought the local body elections separately in 2017 and had collectively won much more seats than the then opposition parties: Congress and Nationalist Congress Party. The difference in the number of seats had narrowed in Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivali. The Sena and the BJP had bagged 84 and 82 seats in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and 52 and 42 seats in the Kalyan-Dombivali civic body respectively.The Sena that was founded on the Marathi ‘manoos’ or sons of the soil agenda in 1966 embraced majoritarian politics in the late 1980s. The use of political Hindutva helped it cultivate right-leaning voters, and the late Sena chief, Bal Thackeray, emerged as a right-wing mascot. With the split, the BJP is using Hindutva as the ammo to fight the Sena. Prestige battle“The war is basically for the Mumbai corporation, which is one of the richest civic bodies in Asia with an annual budget of more than Rs. 34,000 crore. The city has the highest number of billionaires in the country and governing it is a matter of prestige for any political party. The Sena has been ruling it for over 25 years and retaining it is more important than having power in hands at the state level. Similarly, the BJP has resolved to use all its might to wrest it from the Sena. If succeeded, the party will also be able to hit the Sena where it hurts the most,” another BJP leader said.Mumbai-based political analyst Hemant Desai said the tussle between the two has stooped to a new low and has come to the individual level. “The truce is unlikely now as the bitterness has turned into antagonism. Both have benefitted from their alliance despite their love-hate relationship for three decades.” The rivalry has intensified in the last two days. BJP MP Poonam Mahajan even warned Sena MP Sanjay Raut to not act like a ‘namard’ (a timid person). “Two mards (courageous men) late Pramod Mahajan and Balasaheb Thackeray forged the alliance for the sake of Hindutva. Do not post a cartoon like a ‘namard’,” she tweeted on Monday.Toon controversyMahajan was irked by Raut’s tweet where he posted an old cartoon of Bal Thackeray and Pramod Mahajan and wrote, “Who moved ahead because of whom”. In the cartoon, Thackeray is depicted sitting on a chair and his leg is on another. Mahajan is standing in front of him. A small chair is placed in front and Thackeray is asking him to sit.Raut, who deleted the tweet later, said he wanted to send a message to the BJP, and it wasn’t directed towards Pramod Mahajan. However, Raut questioned her role in the party, saying the families of Mahajan, Gopinath Munde, and Manohar Parrikar were sidelined. The two parties snapped the three-decade-old ties after the Assembly polls in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allies-turn-rivals-local-body-polls-may-see-bitter-sena-bjp-fight-101643134828823.html
25-01-2022||Noida||Covid: 17-yr-old among two dead in Ghaziabad, one dies in Noida||Two persons, including a 17-year-old boy, died in Ghaziabad on Tuesday due to Covid-19 while the district also reported 820 new cases, according to the state health bulletin. In the neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar, 1,373 new cases, along with one Covid-19 death, were reported. The two patients who died in Ghaziabad included an 81-year-old male with comorbidities such as hypertension and was fully vaccinated, officials from the district health department said. “He was hospitalised after complaining of difficulty in breathing, cough and general weakness. He died due to respiratory failure with cardio-respiratory arrest,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer, Ghaziabad. The second death in Ghaziabad was that of a 17-year-old boy who had not taken any vaccine dose yet. He was a pulmonary tuberculosis patient and had taken medications for the disease for three months last year, the officials said. “He was admitted with complaints of breathlessness, dry cough and weakness. He died of cardiopulmonary arrest with hypoxia,” Gupta said. In Noida, the patient who died was a 20-year-old female suffering from severe anaemia and was given blood transfusion at a private hospital before she tested Covid positive and was transferred to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, the officials said. “She was in the hospital for about three days before she passed away. The treatment included remdesivir as well as plasma therapy but she could not be saved. She died on January 19, but her death was added to the records on Tuesday,” said Dr Manoj Kushwaha, district surveillance officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. Meanwhile, after reporting reducing numbers for five days, Gautam Budh Nagar saw another spike in numbers as 1,373 new cases were added on Tuesday. Before this, cases had consistently dropped for five days in a row. Since January 20, the daily count of cases went down from 1,684 to 501 on Monday. Gautam Budh Nagar now has 5,789 active cases while 1,673 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, the data shows. In January so far, the district has reported a total of 28,367 cases. The test positivity rate is also on the decline as it was 22% on Tuesday. At the peak of the third wave, the positivity rate had reached 48% in the district on January 16. Ghaziabad now has 4,000 active cases while 1,533 people have recovered in the past 24 hours. In January itself, 24,358 cases have been added to the tally. The district has reported a total of 80,272 cases so far and 2,431,869 tests have been conducted. The positivity rate on Tuesday was 10.78% .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-17-yr-old-among-two-dead-in-ghaziabad-one-dies-in-noida-101643134530111.html
25-01-2022||Gurugram||February 1 deadline for residents with manual water supply meters in areas falling under GMDA to change to electronic meters||Residents living in newly built sectors where water supply connections are provided by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), will have to install electronic water meters by February 1, said officials on Tuesday. The change is being made to reduce non-revenue water supplied by the GMDA, which is not metered and leads to revenue loss. Officials said that residents will have to change to electronic smart meters so that the water supply can be tracked from the integrated control and command centre (ICCC) of the GMDA, where hourly water flow details can be measured. Pardeep Kumar, a chief engineer at the infrastructure-II division of the GMDA, said, “With manual water meters, chances of theft are high. In a particular area, a meter might not be working for 10 days but water is being supplied daily. The entire water supply goes unmetered, leading to loss of revenue for the authority. Developers or the body that applies for connections in areas where water supply connections are given by the GMDA will now have to switch to electronic meters. It definitely will streamline the process of monitoring water supply.” Kumar said that for all new water connections, electronic smart meters are the only option for residents. He added that the GMDA has so far given over 600 water connections, mostly in the new sectors from 81-110. For sector 111 to 115, water supply is likely to start from March. “The electronic water meters must have power backup as they will be connected to the ICCC and in case of a power cut, the water will be charged based on the hourly average supply to a particular area, as data will be available to us on how much water is being supplied throughout the day,” the chief engineer said. The authority has already taken measures such as tapping flowing water, which earlier used to get wasted, installing water flow meters and setting up flow control devices for equitable distribution of water to reduce non-revenue water. Incidentally, non-revenue water sources stood at 50% in August last year, which was reduced to 11% by November-end, said officials. Praveen Malik, the vice-president of the United Association of New Gurugram, a body comprising 40 housing societies located in Sector 77 to 90 said, “This is a good move and will help the GMDA to monitor the water supply, but still there are at least 10 societies in the new sectors where residents are yet to get supply. The authority should first ensure water connectivity to all these areas.” Societies such as the NBCC Heights and Tulip Ace in Sector 89 and three societies of Mapsko Group in Sector 82 are yet to be given water connection by the authority. Water supply became operational in the new sectors in August last year after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated a piped water supply initiative to residential societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/february-1-deadline-for-residents-with-manual-water-supply-meters-in-areas-falling-under-gmda-to-change-to-electronic-meters-101643134230828.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: DMs asked to enforce EC’s guidelines on use of video vans by parties||The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday sought to regulate the use of video vans being deployed by various political parties for campaigning for assembly polls in the state by, among other things, making it mandatory for parties to seek a prior permission for using such vehicles.“We have issued orders to all DMs asking them to ensure compliance of the Election Commission’s guidelines with regard to the use of video vans/digital video vans,” additional chief electoral officer BD Tiwari said.He said any political party that wanted to make state-wide use of such vans for publicity would have to take a prior permission from the chief electoral officer while permission for the use of such vehicles at district or assembly constituency level could be obtained from the concerning district election officer. “The permission will be granted only after the transport department certifies that the vans sought to be used for campaigning are in keeping with the Motor Vehicles Act,” he said.He further said that political parties would be allowed to use video vans to make publicity of their party and programme and for campaigning for a particular candidate. “Also, deployment of such vans will be allowed only between 8am and 8pm and the vehicles will not be used for road shows and rallies,” he clarified.He said it would be responsibility of political parties to follow Covid-19 guidelines by ensuring that not more than 500 people gathered at the viewing point and the vans did not stay for more than half-an-hour at one place. Tiwari said there was no restriction on the number of video vans but expenses on them would be included in political parties’ poll expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-dms-asked-to-enforce-ec-s-guidelines-on-use-of-video-vans-by-parties-101643133328830.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||EIA report on CNG pipeline in eco-sensitive zone yet to be made public||Mumbai Even as the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) is set to conduct a mandatory public hearing over a proposed 45-km natural gas pipeline through Dahanu eco-sensitive zone on January 27, the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) is yet to be made public. Moreover, MPCB issued the public notice for hearing only on January 21, despite the Environment Impact Assessment notification mandating that this be done at least 30 days before the hearing date.A truncated, executive summary of the EIA is available on the MPCB website, which environmentalists say does not provide enough details. The proposed pipeline, being executed by Gujarat Gas Limited, will supply piped natural gas to homes in the Thane district. It will start from Umargam Road at Zai Village in Dahanu taluka, running parallel to existing roads under the custodianship of the public works department and the taluka municipality. The pipeline will terminate at Dahanu’s Kolavali village.The executive summary of the EIA, reviewed by Hindustan Times, states that “The proposed Dahanu Taluka pipeline network is an intra-state pipeline which falls in Dahanu Taluka and Dahanu Taluka is notified as ecologically fragile area/ecologically sensitive area as per MoEF&CC notification vide dated 20th June 1991... and as per present EIA notification 14 September 2006 it attracts the provision of obtaining prior environmental clearance from MoEF&CC as a Category A project, to be apprised by Centre and not the state environment impact assessment authority.”“The manner in which this hearing is being pushed is clearly against the procedure. The entire Dahanu eco-sensitive zone is being fragmented by multiple linear intrusions other than this pipeline, including the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train, Mumbai-Vadodara expressway, the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor, and another set of pipelines to carry water from the Surya Dam to Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayander,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust and an invitee of the Dahanu Taluka Environment Protection Authority or DPTEPA (which is yet to consider this project).Goenka further said that environmental clearances for these projects need to be considered keeping in mind their cumulative impact on the ecosystem. “Such piecemeal clearances runs counter to the intent of the MoEFCC’s 1991 notification declaring the region as eco-sensitive.”Yashwant Sontakke, joint director, MPCB, did not respond to calls and messages seeking a response.The Dahanu ESZ serves as an ecological buffer between the highly industrialised region of Vapi in Gujarat, and the Boisar industrial complex in Tarapur, which is also home to the Tarapur Atomic Power Plant. It is also home to the upcoming Vadhavan port project, which is being opposed by local fisherfolk communities and environmentalists, who have for decades been advocating for stronger land-use regulations in the region.In addition to EC from the Centre, the project also requires clearance from the DTEPA, which is yet to consider the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eia-report-on-cng-pipeline-in-eco-sensitive-zone-yet-to-be-made-public-101643133150958.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 10,669 fresh Covid cases, 10 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: Pune district on Tuesday reported 10,669 more cases of Covid. Till date, Omicron cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits are 1,042, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) 122 and 63 in Pune rural. As per the state health authorities, 10 Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Five deaths reported from PMC, three from PCMC and two from Pune rural. PMC has so far reported 632,650 Covid cases and 9,332 deaths till Tuesday. PCMC has reported 324,065 cases and 3,537 deaths. Pune rural has reported 406,878 total cases so far and 7,064 deaths due to the infection. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,363,593 Covid cases. Of this, 1,249,668 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,283 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 93,642 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 30,500 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 7,120,436 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.07%. Across Maharashtra, 33,914 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Tuesday and 86 Covid deaths were reported on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.87%. The state health department stated of 73,684,359 laboratory samples, 7,569,425 have been tested positive till Tuesday. That is 10.27% of patients till Tuesday. Currently, 1,620,371 people are in home quarantine and 3,358 in institutional quarantine. Tracking the virus Pune district figures Covid-19 cases: 1,363,593 Recovered Patients: 1,249,668 Deaths: 20,283 Active cases: 93,642 New cases: 10,669 New deaths: 10||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-10-669-fresh-covid-cases-10-deaths-in-24-hours-101643133088461.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Residents of PMC merged areas demand water supply or property tax relief||PUNE: Residents and elected members of 23 merged villages have demanded regular water supply or water tax waiver till the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) arranges piped supply. Ranjan Das, resident of Yeolewadi Khadi Machine, said, “Our residential society has to depend on tanker supply. With our area is included in PMC, we expect civic water supply as we pay tax. While we know that pipeline network will take time, PMC should give us water tax relief till we get piped water facility.” Juhi Parekh of Warje Ahiregaon said, “Though other PMC areas get water supply, we pay around ₹18,000 property tax per annum and buy tanker water. We are ready to pay more tax provided PMC ensure adequate water supply.” Elected member Yogesh Sasane said, “If the citizens are paying tax, they should get water facility. We have raised the issue in PMC general body to either provide water or keep water tax on hold.” Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday staged protest in front of PMC headquarters blaming the ruling party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for not providing water in merged areas. NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “Ruling BJP is intentionally not providing water in merged areas as maximum residents in these areas are voters of NCP. PMC even denied tanker supply in these areas. Our elected members are using ward development funds to make life easy in these areas.” BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “While merging the villages in PMC, it was the state government’s responsibility to allocate funds for creating infrastructure in these areas. We have approved funds for erecting the drainage lines and appointed a consultant for water supply network. As the areas are vast, it would require time to establish water network but the NCP is playing politics over the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-of-pmc-merged-areas-demand-water-supply-or-property-tax-relief-101643132909887.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Padma awards to vocalist Prabha Atre, Dr Cyrus Poonawalla||The central government on Tuesday, on the eve of 73rd Republic Day, announced the names of the Padma awardees.Among the names announced for Padma award on the eve of 73rd Republic Day included Padma Vibhushan to veteran singer of Kirana Gharana Dr Prabha Atre and Padma Bhushan to Dr Cyrus Poonawalla, Chairman of Poonawalla Group, CMD, Serum Institute of India and Padma Shri to Dr Balaji Tambe (posthumously).Dr Prabha Atre was overwhelmed and thanked her gurus, parents and her students. “This is the biggest award in my life and I am very happy. It is the music and listeners who have given me an identity, for which I am thankful. This happiness extends to my students, friends and family. It is indeed a great occasion on the eve of the 73rd Republic Day that this honour is announced,” said Atre.Acknowledging the Padma Bhushan Awardees announcement by Government of India, Dr Cyrus S Poonawalla, MD, Serum Institute of India, said, “It is a great privilege for me to be amongst a prestigious list of illustrious people who have contributed to the growth of our country. I would like to express my gratitude to the Government of India for this honor. Health is one of the strongest pillars of society, and I will continue to work towards making it equitable for all.”Adar Poonawalla, MD Serum Institute of India in his tweet praised the government for conferring the Padma Award to his father. “My heartiest congratulations to all the deserving individuals who will receive the Padma awards this year. I thank the government of India for acknowledging my mentor, my hero, my father, Dr. Cyrus Poonawalla.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/padma-awards-to-vocalist-prabha-atre-dr-cyrus-poonawalla-101643132788402.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Maya to launch BSP campaign from Agra on Feb 2||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati will launch her party’s electioneering for UP assembly polls from Agra on February 2, said BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra in a tweet. “The BSP chief will address a public meeting in Agra while following the Covid guidelines announced by the Election Commission of India,” Mishra tweeted. Agra district, which has a large chunk of Dalit voters, has been a BSP stronghold ever since Kanshi Ram founded the party in 1984. The BSP chief is working to regain hold over the base vote of the party–Dalits—after the saffron brigade made inroad into the Scheduled Caste voters in the 2017 UP assembly election.“Riding on Dalit-Muslim alliance, the BSP has been able to bag maximum seats in Agra in the successive assembly elections. In the 2007 assembly election when the BSP formed the government, the party had won six of the nine assembly seats in Agra district. In the 2012 polls when the Samajwadi Party wave swept the state, the BSP managed to maintain hold in Agra by winning six assembly seats,” said a BSP leader. In the 2017 UP polls, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) was able to made inroad into the BSP citadel by bagging all the nine assembly seats in the district. The BSP candidates were runners-up in the eight assembly seats. Along with consolidating its hold over the Dalit voters, the BSP is working on backward-Muslim and forward community alliance formula in the 2022 assembly election.For the first phase of UP election to be held on 58 assembly seats spread in 11 districts, including Agra, on February 10, the BSP has given tickets to 16 Muslim candidates, 18 OBC, 9 Dalits and 15 upper castes nominees.Even as the rival parties, including the BJP, the SP and the Congress launched their election campaign after the slowdown in the second Covid wave in July last, the BSP chief did not address public meetings. However, BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra addressed Brahmin conferences in all 75 districts of the state. “Mayawati was screening and finalising candidates for the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab where the BSP is contesting the polls in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). After finalising candidates on all the seats, she is launching the election campaign of the party. The BSP has announced 30 star campaigners for the party that include Mayawati her brother Anand Kumar, who is national vice president, and SC Mishra,” said a BSP leader. The state will vote in seven phases—February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, March 3 and 7. The counting of votes for all 403 assembly seats will be held on March 10.
25-01-2022||Pune||PMC approves ₹2 crore for medicine purchase||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday approved to purchase medicines for PMC clinics to be provided free of cost to patients from economically weaker section. The PMC health department will procure medicines directly from authorised traders. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “There was a budgetary provision of ₹7 crore for medicines that was utilized this year. With two months left for the financial year, the health department has asked an additional provision of ₹2 crore and all elected members agreed to the proposal.” PMC health department said, “With 23 villages merged with PMC, requirement for medicines has increased in civic clinics.” The civic body has approved to establish a training centre for backward classes, tribal students and women at Baner. The centre would also provide them residential facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-approves-rs-2-crore-for-medicine-purchase-101643132608402.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Deccan Queen gets new rake of Linke Hofmann Busch coaches||PUNE Commuters traveling by the Deccan Queen Express train between Pune and Mumbai will be privileged to be seated on a new set of coaches of the Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) design from February onwards. The Central Railway (CR) has manufactured these uniquely designed new coaches which have better passenger amenities and also a new dining car. A total of 20 such new coaches will be added to the DQ express. As per the CR, these LHB coaches are specially designed with advanced safety features, a better suspension system and seating comfort. Green is the colour of these new coaches showing the train’s modern sensibility. These coaches were built at the integral coach factory of the railways in Chennai. The decision to upgrade the Deccan Queen coaches along with the dining car was taken in February 2021. The new designs are been approved by the National Institute of Design (NID), Ahmedabad, after getting approval from the railway ministry. The train with these new rakes will be capable of a speed of upto 160 km per hour. The Deccan Queen train runs daily between Pune and Mumbai. The existing dining car has a capacity of table service for 32 passengers which will be upgraded to 40 in the new dining car. It will have a modern pantry and kitchen facilities such as a microwave oven, deep freezer and toaster. Currently, the train has a total seating capacity of 1,417 passengers. While regular commuters of the train are happy with the new coaches coming, Shankar Joshua a passenger said, “I often travel by Deccan Queen Express train from Pune to Mumbai for work. Its coaches have become old and now new technologies are coming in, so it’s good that the Railway is upgrading. We are always ready to ticket fares, but there should be better facilities given too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/deccan-queen-gets-new-rake-of-linke-hofmann-busch-coaches-101643132548973.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Woman, 6 relatives arrested for killing her lover||PUNE Unit 5 of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch have arrested a woman and her relatives for killing a man who was allegedly in love with her, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The deceased was identified as Sachin Natha Pawar, 29, a resident of Devachi Uruli, Ganesh Nagar in Haveli, Pune. The crime branch unit led by senior police inspector Ramdas Ingavale found Pawar’s identity through missing cases registered with Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Pune rural policeThe arrested were identified as Rohini and Amol Ovhal, Krushna Bhairav Jadhav, Sanpat Vaijnath Landge, Vishnu Raghu Konde, Pradeep Shantaram Tulve, and Narayan Ambadas Aher, according to the police.A statement issued by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police read, “Rohini Ovhal called Pawar to Mahalunge on January 18 and forced him into a Chevrolet Cruz car with the help of her sister’s husband Santosh alias Appa Popat Pinjan, 36, a resident of Khed, and his accomplice, while she followed them in an Alto car. They took him to a forest land in Karanjvihar village where he was assaulted and forced back into the car. In the car, his mouth was shut with tape while the men beat him into unconsciousness. He was then taken in an unconscious state to a dilapidated abandoned structure in the forest area near Chandkhed gorge where he was beaten to death.”The police found Pawar’s body with the bare minimum clothes on it on January 19 in the building which falls under the Shirgaon police station’s jurisdiction. His family had reported him as missing and a missing person case was registered at Lonikalbhor police station on January 23. A case under sections 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered with the Shirgaon police station in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-6-relatives-arrested-for-killing-her-lover-101643132430224.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Aggravated flu symptoms can be due to Covid: Pune doctors||Pune: Even though many patients in the city are testing negative for Covid, some are exhibiting severe than usual flu symptoms. City doctors have advised patients showing excess fatigue to take rest and fully recover. Dr Kedar Deodhar, city-based general physician, said that sometimes Covid tests may show a false negative. “RT-PCR is only 70-80 per cent foolproof. If the patient has history or is a direct contact, then the person is asked for retest. If the patient shows all symptoms related to Covid and continued fatigue then it may be due to the virus infection. If the patient would come to us in December, I could say it was the common flu. But with increasing transmission and infectivity of Omicron, there is a higher possibility that patients have Covid. So, even if the test shows negative, you should isolate yourself for the safety of others and take rest and medication,” said Deodhar. He said those with Covid infection show more fatigue and weakness as compared to flu, and should take precautions. “Many times, patients are reluctant to take treatment and wait for a day or two before seeking medical help. So, those who show common flu-like symptoms show strictly follow precautions,” he said. Dr Mahendra Dadke, MD Medicine from Jupiter Hospital in Pune, said patients with cold symptoms may show a false negative. “Sometimes viral load is less and subsequently the test comes positive. Fortunately, this variant is not serious. Patients should continue medication for upper respiratory infection and consume homemade food,” said Dr Dadke. “All homemade remedies should be kept at bay and patients should follow doctor’s instructions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aggravated-flu-symptoms-can-be-due-to-covid-pune-doctors-101643132369851.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||UPRTOU to hold 16th convocation ceremony on Jan 28||The 16th convocation of UP’s lone state open university—Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU)—will be organised on January 28 while following the Covid-19 protocol. The programme will be chaired by governor Anandiben Patel, who is also the chancellor of the open university.The chief guest of the convocation would be vice chancellor, Gujarat Central University, Gandhi Nagar, prof Rama Shankar Dubey who will deliver the convocation speech, said varsity officials. Talking to media persons, vice chancellor, UPRTOU, prof Seema Singh said 21 gold medals, including 10 to male students and 11 to female students, will be awarded during the ceremony.“Degrees will be awarded to students who have passed the examination of December 2020 and June 2021 session of the university. There are total 19,151 such students, including 11,225 males and 7,926 females. Monika Pandey of Lucknow will be awarded the Chancellor’s Medal,” Singh added. “All the necessary preparations for holding the convocation have been completed. The ceremony will be organised in an offline mode with students wearing traditional dresses i.e. male students would be wearing white coloured kurta-dhoti/pyjama while female students would have yellow sari/salwar suit as their attires”, said the VC. She further said in the postgraduate category, the gold medal will be awarded to six toppers. Similarly, in the undergraduate category, gold medals will be awarded to six toppers of different schools. Besides, eight meritorious students will also be awarded donor gold medals. “This time the university has decided to give a donor gold medal in the memory of Prof Sushil Prakash Gupta, former director, School of Education of UPRTOU. The university lost him during the pandemic. The late Sushil Prakash Gupta Memorial Gold Medal will be given to Priyanka Singh, a student of MA (Education)”, said prof Singh. The VC also said adequate arrangements for cleanliness and parking were being made around the venue in compliance with the Covid-19 protocol. “We will be strictly following all the pandemic norms and ensuring safety of everyone attending the convocation,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uprtou-to-hold-16th-convocation-ceremony-on-jan-28-101643132368481.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||UP education dept, its officers working in a casual manner: Allahabad HC||Observing that the state education department and its officers are not attending to the grievance that are raised against it and they are performing their duties in a very causal manner, the Allahabad high court has directed the principal secretary, basic education, UP, to ensure that all district basic education officers start performing their duties promptly and taking the final call on all the matters which come before them for consideration at the earliest.The court warned it would be compelled to take stringent action against these officers in case they failed to do as directed. Hearing a writ petition filed by one Avaneesh Kumar of Auraiya district, Justice Rohit Ranjan Agarwal observed, “This court is flooded with writ petitions every day simply for a direction upon these officers to decide the grievances. This court has recorded earlier also that the matters relating to life and property could not be decided in view of the huge pendency being created due to filing of writ petition seeking mandamus against the authorities. It is high time that now these officers of the state government should start working and attend to the grievances which come before them through representations within a period of one month”.In the present case, the posting order of the petitioner has to be issued by the district basic education officer, who has been allegedly withholding the same for the last one year. He moved the representation before him on March 6, 2021, for ventilating his grievance which till date has not been attended by the officer concerned. Hence, the present writ petition was filed.While granting the authority concerned the last opportunity of three days to decide the representation of the petitioner, the court in its order dated January 21 fixed January 28, 2022 as the next date of hearing and also directed the state counsel to inform the court about the decision taken on the representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-education-dept-its-officers-working-in-a-casual-manner-allahabad-hc-101643131888365.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Tired of husband’s drunken antics, woman, brother-in-law hacks him to death||PUNE The Pune police on Monday, arrested a woman and her brother-in-law for allegedly killing her labourer husband due to his drunken abusive behaviour.The deceased man has been identified as Kaptansingh Nayak, 37, while the two arrested have been identified as Anjali Chavan-Nayak, 32, and Gajendra Chittarsingh Nayak, 36, according to the police. Kaptansingh and his wife Anjali lived in Keshavnagar area of Mundhwa.The deceased man is a native of Delhi living in Pune and working as a daily wage labourer. He allegedly had a drinking habit and regularly assaulted his wife in a drunken state. On Sunday afternoon, the woman asked for help from her sister’s husband and they both beat Kaptansingh to death in their house, according to police.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Mundhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tired-of-husband-s-drunken-antics-woman-brother-in-law-hacks-him-to-death-101643131828342.html
25-01-2022||Pune||PMC extends property tax amnesty scheme by 15 days||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has extended the amnesty scheme for property taxpayers’ deadline of January 25 by 15 days. Under the scheme, tax defaulters will get 75 percentage rebate in fine amount. PMC standing committee approved the proposal for extension on Tuesday. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Many elected members suggested to extend the scheme by 15 days and allow citizens to pay default tax amount.” Property tax department head Vilas Kanade said, “The scheme was open from January 7 to January 26. PMC has given an extention, hoping to garner more revenue.” PMC collected record property tax of ₹1,400 crore this year despite the Covid situation. Rasne said, “PMC launched the amnesty plan twice in this financial year in an effort to recover maximum property tax dues from citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-extends-property-tax-amnesty-scheme-by-15-days-101643131768216.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Man arrested for using dummy candidate in police exam||Mumbai A 30-year-old Beed resident has been arrested for allegedly using his friend as a dummy candidate to clear his physical test for the post of police constable. The accused, Balanath Pawar, was produced before a court and remanded to police custody till January 29, while his friend Ganesh Pawar is still at large.According to the police, Balanath Pawar had cleared the written test but was not confident about clearing the physical examination. He had, therefore, asked his friend Ganesh Pawar to help him clear the tests.Balanath had sent Ganesh for physical measurements and on-ground tests in Mumbai, senior police inspector Jitendra Pawar of the Bhoiwada police station.Balanath had submitted his photograph on December 16 and while verifying the documents, officials noticed a difference between the photograph of the persons who appeared for physical measurement and the one who cleared the written test, the inspector added.Further, the officials also noticed a discrepancy in signatures and the senior official in charge of the recruitment were informed. Balanath was called for verification and video recording of physical examination was also checked and it was found that the person who appeared for physically test was thinner and their faces were completely different, said a police officer.Subsequently, a case was registered in Bhoiwada police station and Balanath was arrested under the charges of cheating and forgery and other relevant sections of the Indian penal code. Police is also looking for Ganesh, who is also an accused in the case, added Pawar. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the police constable recruitment of 2019 was postponed. The written test was later conducted on November 14, 2021, at various centres in Maharashtra and more than 1 lakh candidates appeared for the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-using-dummy-candidate-in-police-exam-101643131593569.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||Aspirants allege anomalies in RRB exam results, protest in Prayagraj||Alleging anomalies in the result of non-technical popular category (NTPC) exam conducted by Railway Recruitment Board, aspirants in large numbers tried to stop a train at Prayag railway station on Tuesday. The aspirants also claimed to have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and railway officials in this regard earlier. Police reached the spot with railway officials and pacified the students. However, cops had to use a mild force when the aspirants refused to disperse. Some of them were also detained. According to reports, the students called a meeting at Prayag junction where aspirants in large numbers assembled and then moved to the tracks. They later sat on a dharna before Kanpur Intercity train and started raising slogans. Forces of many police stations along with government railway police (GRP) and railway protection force (RPF) reached the spot and tried to pacify the protestors. The protest continued for around-one-and-a-half hours. Different student organisations, including Yuva Manch and Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha participated in the protest.The aspirants claimed that notification issued by RRB on February 28, 2019 for 35,277 vacant posts under CBT-1 and CBT-2 phases. The CBT-1 was held in six phases between December 28, 2020 and July 31, 2021. The result was CBT-1 was declared on January 15, 2022. The CBT-2 phase of exam is scheduled to be held between February 15 and 19. The recruitment included 12 vacancies on different grades which were divided into seven slots. As per the notification, CBT-1 was a screening exam and its marks were not added to the main examination. RRB was to qualify 20 times the number of posts zone wise in phase one and eight times the posts in phase which, the aspirants alleged, the RRB failed to do.This resulted in selection of high merit candidates in each slot in the first phase of exam. In such a condition, the real number of selected aspirants was quite less than the promised vacancies, the candidates alleged. In the first phase of examination, 80,643 candidates were declared as successful.Meanwhile, following similar protests in different part of the country, the union railway ministry in a communiqué has warned that railway job aspirants found indulging in unlawful activities may face lifetime debarment from obtaining railway job.“It has come to notice that aspirants of railway jobs have indulged in vandalism/unlawful activities like protesting on railway tracks, disruption of train operations, damaging railway properties etc. Such misguided activities are highest level of indiscipline rendering such aspirants unsuitable for railway/government job. Videos of such activities will be examined with the help of specialised agencies and candidates/aspirants found indulged in unlawful activities will be liable for police action as well as lifetime debarment from obtaining railway job,” the communiqué says.The notice further mentioned that Railway Recruitment Boards are committed to conducting fair and transparent recruitment process maintaining highest standards of integrity. Railway job aspirants/candidates are advised not to be misguided or come under the influence of such elements who are trying to use them for fulfilling their own selfish ends, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aspirants-allege-anomalies-in-rrb-exam-results-protest-in-prayagraj-101643131348400.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Close to 34K cases in state, experts say third wave declining||Mumbai Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 33,914 Covid cases, prompting officials from the public health department to say that the third wave, which was driven by the Omicron variant, could be on the decline.As many as 28,286 people tested positive on Monday after 141,949 tests were conducted. On Tuesday, 1,72,498 tests were conducted. However, the number of mortalities were higher at 86, compared to 36 on Monday. Mumbai too saw 1,815 new infections, compared to a marginally higher 1,857 cases on Monday.Pune city recorded the highest number of cases at 5,323, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad (3,299), Nagpur city (3,023), and Pune district (2,047). A total of 13 patients with Omicron were reported in Maharashtra, and of these, 12 are from Pune city, and one from the neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad city. To date, a total of 2,858 patients infected with the Omicron strain have been reported in the state of which 1,534 have been discharged following a negative RTPCR test.“The wave has begun to recede,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, the state’s surveillance officer. The third wave set in earlier in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and areas neighbouring Mumbai by December 22. This was because the Omicron variant arrived in India from foreign shores, and the effect was first felt in areas with international links and high population density. The wave also began waning earlier in these areas. “In other parts of the state, the rise started later, and is also expected to taper later,” he explained.“The infection numbers are expected to be stable by January-end or the second week of February, and they will begin to decline gradually later,” added Awate. “We were expecting the cases to be one-and-half times of the second wave. But there were several variable factors. Though Omicron is more transmissible, the virgin population, which had not been vaccinated or had not been infected during the first and second wave (and hence lacked natural or virus-induced immunity), was in a minority. This restricted the spread of the strain,” he said.Awate added that while around 50 to 60 per cent of the infections were breakthrough infections with those being fully vaccinated also testing positive, they were mostly mild and asymptomatic cases.However, officials admit that the availability of rapid antigen test (RAT) kits that allow people to get themselves tested at home had ensured that these figures were not completely captured in the system. So far, around 3,00,000 people, of which 15,000 have tested positive through the home testing route, have uploaded their reports, though the actual number of those who have tested positive yet not informed the authorities is likely to be much higher, according to state officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/close-to-34k-cases-in-state-experts-say-third-wave-declining-101643130512031.html
25-01-2022||Ranchi||RPN tried to topple J’khand govt: MLA||Hours after Congress leader and former union minister RPN Singh joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday, a Congress legislator from Jharkhand said he had colluded with the saffron party for more than a year in a bid to overthrow the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)-led government in the state.R P N Singh was Congress’s in-charge of Jharkhand since July 2017 and has been instrumental in forging an alliance with the JMM and Congress in 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly elections. He was given extension as in-charge in September 2020 and has been acting in that capacity till the time he crossed over to BJP on Tuesday. “Since the beginning, he has been trying to destabilise the state government. We also had brought this to the notice of the central leadership. Every true Congress worker and supporter of Jharkhand is happy with him (Singh) going to BJP,” said Amba Prasad, a first-time legislator who represents Barkagaon seat of Hazaribag district in the state assembly.Asked by reporters on the allegations made by her, Singh said, “Entire Jharkhand is aware of my contribution to the formation of government in the state... I don’t make personal comments.”The JMM-Congress-RJD combine government led by chief minister Hemant Soren enjoys a comfortable majority, with 49 MLAs in the 81-member assembly. Of the 49, 30 are from JMM, 18 from Congress and one from RJD, besides outside support of one MLA each of NCP and CPI (ML). However, the ruling dispensation has, in the past, accused opposition BJP of trying to topple the government through horse trading. Last year, a case was registered in Ranchi and three persons arrested from a hotel here for allegedly trying to lure at least three Congress legislators to cross over.The exit of RPN Singh has also exposed the prevailing cracks in the Jharkhand unit of Congress, a section of which also demanded that the decisions taken by Singh related to the party be revoked, an apparent reference to appointment of new Jharkhand Congress president and four working presidents last year. “It is for the first time that party workers burst fire crackers at the party office after a leader left the party. They were forced to accept all his decisions, treating him as representative of party president Sonia Gandhi. However, he tried his best that BJP comes to power in 2019 assembly election with his decisions. Even after people threw away the BJP out of power, he installed outsiders on key positions in the state unit, weakening the organisation further,” said Alok Dubey, former spokesperson of the Jharkhand Congress. Dubey is considered close to former president and serving finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who was made state president ahead of 2019 assembly elections. Oroan relinquished his party post in September last year after Rajesh Thakur, considered close to Singh, was appointed state unit chief. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Thakur said Singh’s exit would not have any effect on the party. “Congress is fighting for truth under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi. It requires courage. His decision to quit the party seems driven by selfishness. He would never get the stature in BJP that he had in Congress,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/r-p-n-tried-to-topple-j-khand-govt-mla-101643129189117.html
25-01-2022||Patna||Rly job aspirants go on rampage across Bihar, disrupt trains||PATNA: As railway job aspirants continued to block railway tracks in protest against alleged irregularities in competitive examinations of the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) on Tuesday, the Bihar Police had to fire several rounds in the air, apart from resorting to lathi-charge and tear gas shells, to disperse the agitating students, officials said. According to reports, a group of students blocked a railway track in Ara and set on fire a bogie of a passenger train. Patna rail superintendent of police (SP) Pramod Kumar Mandal told HT that the incident took place when the train was stranded near the outer signal of the railway station. In Nawada, students set ablaze a railway track maintenance engine, ransacked railway station premises and uprooted railway tracks. When RPF and GRP personnel reached the spot to pacify them, the agitated students allegedly pelted stones causing police to use lathi-charge, officials said.A large number of students also created ruckus at Sitamarhi, Buxar, Muzaffarpur, Chhapra, Vaishali, Gaya railway station and other parts of the state as well. In Sitamarhi, the police used tear gas shells and opened fire in the air to push back the job aspirants. “Protesters turned violent and few police personnel were even injured. Public property was also damaged. Police exercised restraint and used force only when needed,” said Samastipur DM Sunil Kumar Yadav.In Patna’s Saidpur-Bhikhna Pahari localities, police resorted to baton charge and used tear gas shells on agitated students when they allegedly pelted stones on them. More than six policemen and dozens of students were injured in the clash. Late in the evening, the administration had to cut-off power facilities and conducted raids against the protestors.Demanding that corrections be made in the results, one of the agitating candidates said, “Multiple selection of the same candidate means that many genuine candidates have to sit out. They have been deprived of their opportunity.”Taking serious note of the violence by railway job aspirants since Monday, RRB on Tuesday issued a stern warning saying that those involved in “illegal activities and destruction of government property” could be banned for life for any kind of jobs in the Railways.“Demonstration on railway tracks, disrupting trains and damaging railway property reflects high level of indiscipline, making those involved ineligible for government jobs. Assistance from special agencies would be sought to look into the video footage the candidates involved in vandalism and apart from police action, they will also face life ban for railway jobs. RRB is committed to unbiased and transparent recruitment process. Railway job aspirants are advised not to get misled by those using them for their vested interests,” said the notice from the RRB chairman on Tuesday.Meanwhile, hundreds of daily commuters including office employees were left stranded at various railway stations on the busy Howrah-Patna-New Delhi main line, Dhanbad-Gaya-DDU grand Chord Rail section and Gaya-Kiul-Bhagalpur section, with trains to destinations like Buxar, Ara, Mokama and Bhagalpur unable to run due to the protests.Following the agitation and road blocked, the east central railway (ECR) authority canceled five trains including 12351 Howrah-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Exp, 13287South Bihar Express, 03616 Gaya-Jamalpur special, 15126 Patna-Banaras Express and 13024 Gaya-Howrah Express.The ECR authorities had to divert more than 15 trains including Shramjeevi Express, Poorva Express, Danapur-Secunderbad Express, Bhagalpur-New Delhi Express, Patna-Kota Express, Magadh Express, Dehradoon Express, Ernakulam Express, Gaya-Kamakhya Express and Indore-Patna express.Meanwhile, Patna DM Dr Chandrasekhar Singh said three separate FIRs have been lodged and four persons have been arrested in connection with the disruption caused at the Rajendra Nagar railway terminal. “More FIRs could be lodged against students and suspected owners of the coaching institutes, who are provoking job aspirants, “ the DM said.The RRB had conducted stage-1 computer-based test of 2019 Non-Technical Popular Category (NTPC) recruitment. The results of the RRB NTPC for CBT-1 exam was released on January 15 for shortlisting the candidates for the CBT-2..
25-01-2022||Patna||MU registrar’s bail application rejected||A day after rejecting Magadh University vice chancellor Rajendra Prasad’s anticipatory bail plea, the special vigilance court in Patna on Tuesday rejected the regular bail petition of the university registrar PL Verma, according to Anandi Singh, who is representing the Bihar government in the case in which vice chancellor and four other university officials are accused of financial irregularities and corruption.Verma was arrested along with Subodh Kumar, the private assistant to the VC, proctor Jainandan Prasad Singh and library in-charge Vinod Kumar. Anandi Singh told the court that Verma had made payments for e-books worth ₹1.5 crore by signing the cheque, even though he had neither signed the pay order nor the agreement.The special vigilance unit (SVU) had lodged a case against several university officials, including the VC, on corruption charges. The VC had proceeded on medical leave after his premises were searched two months ago.
25-01-2022||Patna||Two from Bihar get Padma Shri||Two persons from Bihar, Acharya Chandana, founder of Veerayatan, and late social scientist and political economist Saibal Gupta, have been conferred with Padma Shri awards for 2022. An announcement to this effect was made on Wednesday. Acharya Chandana is known for introducing the concept of “seva” (’service to humanity’) among the Jain community. In 1974, she founded Veerayatan, a non-profit, non-governmental service organization based in Rajgir which has centres in more than 10 countries.Acharya Chandana began her humanitarian work in poverty-stricken areas of Bihar from 1972.The organization, founded on the occasion of Lord Mahavira’s 2500th Nirvana Mahotsava, operates hospitals, schools, colleges, and vocational training programs for the underprivileged throughout India.Late Saibal Gupta was the founder and member secretary of the Asian Development Research Institute in Patna. His works focused on the economy of Bihar. His research was a contributor to the roll-out for various state government-led societal programmes and economic reforms in the state. He was was also the director of the Centre for Economic Policy and Public Finance (CEPPF), which was set up by the government of Bihar as a public finance research institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-from-bihar-get-padma-shri-101643129131348.html
25-01-2022||Ranchi||Amid row, JPSC defers civils (mains) exam, to review prelims result||The Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) has decided to postpone the civil services mains examination, which was scheduled to begin from January 28, till further orders, the commission informed Jharkhand High Court on Tuesday. In an affidavit submitted before the division bench comprising chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujeet Narayan Prasad, which is hearing a petition seeking revision of results of preliminary examination, the commission sought three weeks from the court to deliberate on the issues raised by the petitioner. “The commission informed the court that they are postponing the Mains exam and has sought three weeks time to review the issues raised by us. Our primary plea has been to postpone the mains exams as there has been discrepancy in the prelims result that needs to be reviewed,” Amritans Vats, counsel for petitioner Kumar Sanyam, told reporters. The petitioner has challenged the prelims result saying the commission provided benefit of reservation to reserved category candidates at the preliminary examination stage, which was against “The Jharkhand Combined Civil Services Examination (1st Amendment) Rules, 2021. On November 2 last year, the JPSC had declared preliminary examination result, announcing 4,293 candidates eligible for the Mains exam, including 1,897 under unreserved category, 1,057 under scheduled tribe (ST) category, 389 under scheduled caste (SC) category, 645 under OBC and 305 under EWS category.The JPSC civil services examination prelims result has been under scrutiny since beginning, with several applicants as well as opposition parties demanding cancellation of the examination and removal of JPSC chairman who they accused of corruption.Questions were raised after few selected candidates, who took the examination in the same room in at least two centres in Latehar and Sahebganj, were found to have cleared the examination. Opposition BJP had disrupted proceedings in the winter session of Jharkhand assembly over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/amid-row-jpsc-defers-civils-mains-exam-to-review-prelims-result-101643129129641.html
25-01-2022||Patna||Patna has five original copies of Constitution in three libraries, one put on display||The Gandhi Sangrahalaya in Bihar’s capital Patna has put on display one of the original 1,000 copies of the Indian Constitution, which was gifted to it in 2017 by former Governor of Tripura, professor Sidheshwar Prasad, who was elected to the Lok Sabha from Nalanda in the first parliamentary elections in 1952, the museum’s joint director Asif said. These copies were printed at Survey of India’s printing facility in Dehradun using lithograph technique. The Indian Constitution was adopted by the Constituent Assembly on November 26,1949, and came into force on January 26, 1950.The Constitution was originally hand written by Prem Behari Narain Raizada in English and by Vasant Krishna Vaidya in Hindi. There were only three copies of this hand written version of the Indian Constitution at that time. Later, 1,000 copies were printed in Dehradun.“These printed copies were given to parliamentarians and ministers and other eminent leaders of the time. Gandhi Museum did not have this copy in its collection. It was only in 2017 that the former Governor of Tripura donated some of his collections to the museum, including the original copy of the Constitution,” Asif said. “It’s now one of the most precious possession of the Gandhi Museum. Earlier, people would visit us mainly to see the collection of objects, documents and photographs on Gandhi. These days, many also turn up to take a look at the original copy of the Indian Constitution,” he said.Apart from Gandhi Museum, Patna Museum in the state capital has three of the original copies. “But these are not available for public viewing these days,” Suman Kumar, curator, Patna Museum, said, adding that Dr Rajendra Prasad gallery, where the copies is kept, is under construction these days.One of the three copies was donated to Patna Museum by Dr Rajendra Prasad, the first President of the country and president of the Constituent Assembly. “The other two copies came to us a few years ago. “In fact, these copies were handed over to the museum by the local police which had recovered them in some case,” Kumar said. The two copies were originally with the family of Mungeri Lal, who was elected MLA in the first Bihar assembly elections and went on to become a minister in the state government. Yet another copy of the Indian Constitution is at the Sachidanand Sinha Library in Patna, named after the man who was the chairman of the Constituent Assembly. “But that too is not on public display because of security reasons. It’s a precious collection and needs to be preserved,” said B K Sinha, grandson of Sachidanand Sinha.“The original final draft of the Indian Constitution still has his signature. To get his signature, the final draft had to be brought to Patna at his residence as Sachidanand Sinha was too week to visit Delhi,” he said.This printed copy, which was presented to him, later became a part of collection of Sinha library, which he had set up in memory of his wife in 1924.
25-01-2022||Kolkata||‘Demeaning ’: Bengali singer Sandhya Mukherjee, 90, declines Padma offer||KOLKATA: Sandhya Mukherjee, the most veteran among female playback singers and musicians in Bengal, received a phone call from a government official for her consent to receive the Padma Shri on Tuesday afternoon but she refused, a family friend said on condition of anonymity.The Centre announced the list of awardees late on Tuesday evening.The singer, who lives in the Lake Gardens area of south Kolkata, is considered a legend for rendering thousands of songs for Bengali cinema and her albums of modern and semi-classical music. Her duets with the legendary Hemanta Mukherjee, who became popular in the Hindi film industry as Hemant Kumar, are considered assets by millions of her fans. “She said an official from Delhi called her up in the afternoon. She told him that Padma Shri is not an award that should be conferred on a veteran like her. It would be demeaning for her to accept it,” the family friend said, citing a conversation with the singer.Born in 1931, Sandhya Mukherjee recorded her first song in 1948 for the Hindi movie Anjaan Garh. The music was directed by Rai Chand Boral. She sang under the direction of famous composers such as S D Burman, Roshan and Madan Mohan.Mukherjee received the Banga Bibhusan, the highest civilian honour given by the West Bengal government in 2011 and the National Film Award for best female playback singer in 1970 for the movies Jay Jayanti (a Bengali remake of Sound of Music) and Nishi Padma. Nishi Padma was remade in Hindi as Amar Prem, starring Rajesh Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/demeaning-bengali-singer-sandhya-mukherjee-90-declines-padma-offer-101643128347796.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Torn doctor’s prescription leads to arrest of 3 for murdering 45-year-old in Bhiwandi||A torn doctor’s prescription led the Bhiwandi Nizampura Police to the three accused for allegedly murdering a 45-year-old man and dumping his body in a white gunny bag last week.The police were initially clueless about the man’s identity but later traced the doctor and the pharmacists and identified the man. The investigations revealed that the deceased was killed by three of his colleagues as one of them had an affair with the victim’s wife.On January 20, the police found the body of Arman Sher Ali Shah under the Rupala Bridge in Bhiwandi. The body had already started to decompose and was beyond identification. The police searched his person and found a torn prescription from a doctor. While inspecting his clothes, they also found a blot of colour used in pearls or beads factories. With these two clues, the investigations began. An officer from Nizampura police station said, “The deceased had several injury marks on his body, establishing that he was brutally killed. The prescription we found was torn, so we could not find the name of the patient. The doctor’s name was partially visible. So, after day-long inquiries in different areas, we traced the doctor. However, he had no record of the patient. So, we inquired in the nearby pharmacies with the same prescription and also inquired about the missing person in the nearby areas. Finally, we traced the family after two days. However, they too found it difficult to identify Shah. His elder son identified the body based on a mole on his face and a locket (Tavij) he was wearing.The police learned that the deceased never left his wife anywhere and accompanied her everywhere. The cops traced the calls on his mobile. However, he had not carried his mobile with him on the day of the murder. They called some of the repeated calls on his number for questioning, when the main accused, Salman Shaikh, 27, confessed to the murder.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Y Chauhan, said, “He allegedly had an affair with the deceased’s wife and Shah was an obstacle for him. He and two of his friends murdered Shah. The other two accused had fled to UP. So, we sent a team there. They had escaped from there and went to Bhusaval. We sent another team to Bhusaval and nabbed Taslim Ansari, 30, and Chanbabu Ansari, 26.”Chauhan added that the three assaulted the accused to death, packed him in a gunny bag, threw him under the bridge and left. The deceased’s wife, however, had no role in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/torn-doctor-s-prescription-leads-to-arrest-of-3-for-murdering-45-year-old-in-bhiwandi-101643125947557.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Three leopard cubs rescued in Hinjewadi||PUNE The forest department has rescued three leopard cubs which were found in the sugarcane field of farmer Mohan Jadhav in Nere village which is located neat Rajiv Gandhi Hinjewadi IT Park on Monday morning. Leopards and their cubs are often spotted by citizens. Residents of the area fear as the leopard has been spotted frequently over the past two years. Last year a leopard had killed two young calves in the same village while five hens were eaten by the leopard at Kasarsai village, a year ago. Vitthal Palve, a labourer spotted the cubs in the field and informed the farm owner Mohan Jadhav. The family immediately informed the forest department after which the Mulshi Forest Range officials reached the spot along with RESQ NGO members.Forest department officials said that cubs are between 15 days to a month old and will be kept at the same place where they were found. The area will be kept under CCTV surveillance to track the leopard movement of the mother and also carry out further research. Range forest officer Santosh Chavan of the Paud range said, “We had kept cubs precisely at that place in the field where they had been found on Monday morning. However, the mother did not come. But on Tuesday night, she came looking for them and took the cubs with her. We had placed a trap camera to shoot the act. We have advised villagers in the area not to venture out in the night for farm works to prevent possible attacks from the animal.”During the first week of Jan, a successful rescue and conservation effort by Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department rescued a pair of 45-day-old leopard cubs found in a sugar cane field in Nirgude Village in Junnar taluka and reunited with the parents. BOXIncidents so farPune city witnessed its first leopard attack in Oct 2021, when Sambhaji Athole (45), out on a morning walk in Gosavi Vasti in Hadapsar was attacked. Junnar has lost 34 people and had 108 injured in leopard attacks since 2001. While the number of deceased in Junnar has been restricted to one per year since 2015, barring 2018, when there were two deaths, and 2020 when there were no deaths, the livestock in the area has seen an increased threat over the years.With 382 animals attacked by leopards in 2001, the number has gone up to 1,178 in 2021, according to the records of the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-leopard-cubs-rescued-in-hinjewadi-101643125228331.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Hackers attack Worli firm’s server, demand ₹1 lakh in bitcoins||Mumbai A case of extortion has been registered against unidentified persons for hacking into the server of a Worli-based garment firm and demanding $1,350 (about ₹1 lakh) in Bitcoins in exchange for encrypted data. The hacking came to light after one of the employees was unable to access the data on the server. He informed the company’s I-T team about it. Following their preliminary probe, it was revealed that the company’s server was compromised and the confidential data was encrypted by the attackers, making it inaccessible for the employees, police officers said.Later, the garment firm’s accountant, Kishore Wamanpur, also a complainant in the case, received a threat email demanding $1,350 to be paid in Bitcoins in exchange for access to their encrypted data. The alleged cyber-attack took place between January 19 and 21, the police officers said.The NM Joshi Marg police has registered an FIR under sections 385 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 43 and 66 of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hackers-attack-worli-firm-s-server-demand-1-lakh-in-bitcoins-101643123906823.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||BEST to induct 900 double-decker AC electric buses||MUMBAI Passengers traveling by Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses will soon be able to enjoy a cool ride in double-decker AC electric buses.The civic body’s BEST committee on Tuesday cleared a proposal to procure 900 such buses on wet lease basis. Under the model, the BEST does not own the vehicles but hires them from contractors along with the drivers at a fixed rate for each km. In the first phase, 400 buses are expected to arrive this year, including 200 at a cost of Rs.132 crore, by March. The remaining buses will be procured in 2023. “This move will help commuters as the number of buses will increase. We are already operating mini and midi AC buses. All 900 buses will arrive by 2023,” Lokesh Chandra, general manager, BEST, said. The BEST had in December 2021 planned to procure 200 electric double-decker AC buses and subsequently added another 200 buses. The number was later increased to 900. A double-decker bus has a capacity to carry 79 passengers. It was introduced by the BEST in 1937 and it gained popularity among commuters and tourists visiting the city. From an initial fleet of 141 during 1947-1948, it grew to 882 in 1993. At present, there are only 48 double-decker buses in a fleet of 3,377 buses. Rest of the buses were phased out from the aging fleet. The drop in their number was also because of the difficulty and higher cost of maintenance. The number of single-decker buses, including AC mini and midi, stands at 3,329.The BEST buses presently have an estimated ridership of 2.7 million passengers every day. It is the second biggest mass transport system in Mumbai after the suburban railway network. The BEST operates buses on nearly 400 routes in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-to-induct-900-double-decker-ac-electric-buses-101643123426688.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Three policemen, two firemen from Pune bag President’s award||PUNE Three policemen from Pune city police and two of fire brigade officials, including the chief of Pune city fire brigade, have bagged various President’s award as per the government notification released on the eve of Republic Day. The three policemen to receive the award are- police sub-inspector Prakash Bhila Chaudhury currently posted at Special branch of Pune city police, assistant police sub-inspectors Pandurang Lashman Vanjale posted at anti extortion squad, and Vijay Uttam Bhong posted at Lashkar police station of Pune city police. They were all awarded the police medal for meritorious service.The chief fire officer of Pune city fire brigade Prashant Ranpise is the fourth person from Pune city to get the President’s fire service medal for distinguished service. Fireman Chandrakant Narayan Anandas was awarded Fire service medal for meritorious service.Among other police officials posted in other offices in Pune are Deputy superintendent of police, Sitaram Laxman Jadhav posted at the additional director general of police and director (communication and transport) and assistant sub-inspector Kashinath Ubhe of the Pune unit of Anti terrorism sqaud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-policemen-two-firemen-from-pune-bag-president-s-award-101643122886803.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||UP sees 11,583 fresh Covid cases, 18,875 recoveries||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh reported 11,583 fresh Covid cases and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours. There was a slight increase in the number of new cases on Tuesday, after the state witnessed a drop in the fresh case count for three consecutive days. The state had recorded 16,740 fresh cases on Saturday, 13,830 on Sunday and 11,159 on Monday. The number of the recoveries (18,875) was more than the fresh cases bringing down the state’s active case tally to 86,563. Ghaziabad and Moradabad reported two deaths each while Lucknow, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Meerut, Varanasi, Agra, Saharanpur, Gonda, Pilibhit, Mainpuri, Auraiyya and Kasganj reported one death each, as per the health department. “In all 1,99,290 samples were tested for Covid in the state. Till now, 9,82,94,982 samples have been tested,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement. “The test positivity rate is coming down in the state. From 7.78% on January 19, it is now at 6.19% (January 23),” he said. Out of 86,563 active cases in the state, 84,141 people were in home isolation and about 2,422 in hospitals. UP’s recovery rate was 94.4%, he said. As part of the Covid vaccination drive, 17,07,150 doses were given to people on Monday. Till Monday, 14,46,77,806 first doses had been administered to people above 18 years, which was 98.14 % of the population above that age group. Second doses were given to 9,72,56,030 people above 18 years, which was 65.97 % of the population in the above 18 years category. Till Monday, 82,28,310 children in 15-18 years age group had been given the first dose of vaccine, which was about 58.70% of their population while 8,56,234 precaution doses were given to eligible people. Uttar Pradesh had given a total of 25,10,18,380 vaccination doses to people, said Prasad. Prasad called upon people to take the Covid vaccine. “Those who have taken their first dose must take the second dose on schedule. Covid infection is continuing and people should follow Covid guidelines, even after being vaccinated. In case of any problem, people can contact Covid Helpline 18001805145,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sees-11-583-fresh-covid-cases-18-875-recoveries-101643121686987.html
25-01-2022||Pune||In run-up to civic polls, corporators busy converting amenity spaces into gardens||PUNE With the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) polls just round the corner, elected representatives are going all out with a flurry of citizen-centric initiatives to woo the electorate. Corporators are busy converting their amenity spaces into gardens, playgrounds and theme parks to attract voters in their respective constituencies.Although only three gardens have been officially sanctioned by the civic administration over the past three months, over two dozen small and big parks have been inaugurated by corporators across the city to please citizens. According to officials, the gardens are being developed on open spaces with no reservation and are in the general category. According to the PMC, deserted places can be made green by planting trees.PMC garden head Ashok Ghorpade said, “We are developing three gardens in Kondhwa and the adjoining areas where the projects have been sanctioned. We encourage citizens to plant trees as per the guidelines of the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act.” Ghorpade said that initially, citizens take care of the spaces where they develop gardens and later after completing the paperwork, the civic body takes over the project.A total of 208 public gardens have been developed in the city by the PMC. Around 100 out of these have come up on amenity spaces with 10 having come up recently. Some of these gardens were inaugurated in the Kothrud, Baner, Mohammadwadi, Kondhwa, Kharadi, Kale Padal and Hadpasar areas of the city. According to the elected representatives, the greatest demand is for public gardens followed by that for playgrounds even as some residents want a hospital or public dispensary for their ward. In the Kale Padal area of the city, a massive garden and sprawling sports ground is being readied on reserved amenity spaces to be inaugurated before the announcement of the model code of conduct.Corporator Pramod alias Nana Bhangire who has been spearheading over a dozen citizen-centric projects in ward number 26 namely Mohammadwadi said, “I have been trying to bring funds under various categories for development of the ward. We are building a world-class sports complex, playground, gardens, theme parks and a nullah garden for the citizens. Similarly, we are taking assistance from private agencies to ensure that the development works are carried out in full swing.” Of these projects, the playground-cum-garden sits on six acre of land and is being constructed at a cost of ₹6 crore while the sports complex – one of the biggest sporting venues – is being constructed on four acre of land at a cost of ₹8 crore. According to BJP corporator Srinath Bhimale, corporators carry out public works including constructing public gardens, playgrounds and schools; beautifying chowks; installing CCTVs; among others for residents of the locality. “I have completed flyover work including taking possession of the space reserved for the garden which is a major victory for the people. It’s a good thing that the corporators are completing the pending work before the civic body goes to polls,” Bhimale said. The residents of Salisbury Park from where Bhimale has been elected as corporator won a 20-year-long battle for the garden in November. The new garden spread across 3.5 acre lies adjacent to the old Gool Poonawala garden at Salisbury Park.According to social activist Pravin Chavan, with polls round the corner, the elected representatives are busy inaugurating gardens, playgrounds and other public utilities, which is a good sign. “However, we want citizens to play a direct role in the decision making process as elected representatives do not always undertake projects as per public needs. The issue of reservation of amenity spaces must be taken up after considering the citizens’ demands and not the amenity space committee which makes unilateral decisions in official cabins,” he said. BOX: Areas where gardens have been developedHadapsar Kale Padal Kondhwa Mohammadwadi Baner Pashan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-run-up-to-civic-polls-corporators-busy-converting-amenity-spaces-into-gardens-101643121391709.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Employee injured in accident at Khadki ammunition factory in Pune||An employee of the Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) near Pune was injured in an accident during the drying of explosives, a defense release said on Tuesday. A high-level inquiry has been ordered following the incident which took place on Monday afternoon at one of the production sections, it said. The injured personnel was identified as a junior, who works manager DR Thakre. He has been hospitalised, the release added. "The cause of the accident is being ascertained by ordering an immediate higher-level departmental enquiry," it said. AFK, established in 1869, presently a unit of Munitions India Limited under the Ministry of Defense, is a premier manufacturer of ammunition for the country's armed forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/employee-injured-in-accident-at-khadki-ammunition-factory-in-pune-101643119954620.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||College girl gang-raped in Prayagraj, body found in well||PRAYAGRAJ The body of an 18-year-old college student, who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered in Colonelganj area of the city, was recovered from an old well in the bushes near the Institute of Engineering and Rural Technology (IERT) on Tuesday during a search operation launched by the police. The victim had been missing from her hostel for two days, after which her kin lodged an FIR of abduction against a youth, said police. When detained and questioned, the youth (victm’s alleged boyfriend) claimed that he and the girl were attacked by some youths while they were at a deserted spot near IERT on January 22. He was the prime suspect in the case as he was giving contradictory statements, said cops.A resident of Sarai Mamrez area of trans-Ganga, the victim was a BA student of a degree college and lived in a girl’s hostel in Salori area. Her kin reached the hostel when they could not contact her on her mobile phone despite repeated calls. The girl’s roommate informed the family that she left the hostel on January 22 evening, saying she was going to hand over some notes to her friend, Aman Singh, of Azamgarh. Subsequently, the girl’s family approached the Colonelganj police and lodged an FIR of abduction against Aman. The cops detained Aman and questioned him about the whereabouts of the girl. He informed police that he and the girl were at a deserted spot near IERT when some miscreants attacked them. Aman claimed that he fled the spot after being assaulted and had no knowledge about the girl’s whereabouts since then. The police traced the last location of the girl’s cell phone, which was found at the same spot near IERT. Late on Monday night, police teams launched a search operation in the bushes and found the body of the girl in an old well (around 80 ft deep). An NDRF team was called to pull out the victim’s body, which was identified by her mother and other relatives.A panel of doctors conducted a post-mortem examination of the body on Tuesday, which suggested that the girl was gangraped before being strangulated. SSP Ajay Kumar said the girl’s alleged friend, Aman, was giving contradictory statements during interrogation and was the prime suspect. Investigations revealed that he did not try to get help from the police when he and the girl were assaulted at the deserted spot, and instead remained silent about the incident. Probe also revealed that he and the girl used to have fights. Meanwhile, the police were rounding up other suspects and launched a fresh search at the spot to collect other evidences, added the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/college-girl-gang-raped-in-prayagraj-body-found-in-well-101643119946554.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's Covid tally rises slightly with 6,028 cases, hospitalisation continues to dip||Delhi on Tuesday reported a marginal spike in its single-day Covid-19 tally after 6,028 people tested positive for the virus in 24 hours, according to the health bulletin data. This was a surge of 268 new infections as the national capital logged 5,760 Covid-19 cases on Monday. The cumulative tally of Delhi has now climbed to 18,03,499, the health bulletin data showed.Fresh recoveries also witnessed a decline - a significant one, to 9,127 on Tuesday from Monday's 14,836, taking the total number of patients to recuperate from the disease to 17,35,808 in the national capital.As many as 31 people succumbed to the virus in 24 hours, one more than Monday. The death toll of Delhi due to Covid-19 now stands at 25,681, the bulletin data revealed.The capital's case positivity rate, however, maintains its downward trend steadily, further dipping to 10.55% on Tuesday from 11.79% on the preceding day.As many as 57,132 tests, of which 42,607 were RT-PCR and 14,525 were Rapid Antigen, were conducted in Delhi in the last 24 hours. This was an increase of 8,288 from Monday when 48,844 tests were carried out in the national capital. Notably, testing was accelerated in Delhi recently after the Centre pulled up all states and Union territories (UTs) for low Covid-19 testing rates in wake of the ongoing third wave of the pandemic.On January 22, as many as 70,226 tests were conducted, but the number started to see a drop from the next day onwards, before shooting up again on Tuesday.The number of people hospitalised in Delhi, including those suspected to have contracted Covid-19, continues to decrease. As per Tuesday's health bulletin data, a total of 2,304 people are hospitalised in the capital, down from 2,394 on Monday.Weekend and night curfew remains in place across Delhi, however, it might change on Thursday (January 27) when the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is going to hold a meeting. The event will see the attendance of Delhi's lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is also the DDMA chairman, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, among others top officials and experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-tally-rises-with-6-028-cases-hospitalisation-continues-to-dip-101643117503989.html
25-01-2022||Pune||PMPML to develop EV charging stations for public use||PUNE In a bid to generate non-ticketing revenue, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is soon going to start charging stations at their depots as well as PMPML-owned open spaces in and around Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities.The tendering process for the development of PMPML-owned spaces has been initiated, and depots will be developed under this project. As the demand for electric vehicles and bikes has risen following the hike in fuel prices in the country, one of the major issues faced by people is how to charge these e-vehicles.Chetana Kerure, joint managing director of PMPML, said, “We are developing depots and open spaces owned by the organisation in the city and around the highways that are currently used for the parking of buses. Already, we have our depots with charging facilities but to generate revenue and income, we have decided to develop charging stations for public use.”“Under this project, people can charge their electric vehicles at these charging stations and pay for the same. Through this, we can also get some more income as we are already suffering financially due to strict Covid-19 restrictions and decrease in the number of passengers,” she said.Citizens have welcomed the decision and Vipul Alekar, owner of an electric car, said, “I stay in Hadapsar and for charging of the car, I have to go all the way to a friend’s house. If we get a PMPML charging station nearby and also on the highways, it will be beneficial for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-develop-ev-charging-stations-for-public-use-101643119707312.html
25-01-2022||Bhopal||FIR against Amazon sellers for Indian flag-themed shoes on MP minister’s order||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh police on Tuesday registered a criminal case against sellers on e-commerce giant Amazon’s shopping platform for selling Indian flag-themed shoes, T-shirts and other fashion accessories on the site, a senior police officer said.Bhopal commissioner of police Makrand Deouskar said the case was registered under section 2 of Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971 and section 505 (2) (creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of IPC after home minister Narottam Mishra’s orders.Deouskar said the case was registered by the crime branch which will lead the probe.At a Press briefing earlier in the day, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said: “It has come to my notice that the online platform is using the national flag for the sale of its products. It is unbearable that it has even been used on shoes. I have instructed the director-general of police (DGP) to take action by registering an FIR against the owners of Amazon.”“Prima facie, this case appears to be a violation of the Flag Code, which is painful. Insult to the nation will not be tolerated at any cost,” he added.A police officer said the case was registerd on a complaint filed by a 26-year-old private firm executive Shubham Naidu and clarified that the case names the seller as the prime accused.The exact details of the items considered offensive were not shared by the police.An Amazon spokesperson said: “Amazon.in is an online marketplace where third-party sellers offer products for sale directly to customers, and as such are responsible for ensuring their products comply will all applicable laws and regulations. Amazon remains committed to taking necessary action against sellers who list any non-compliant products, including the take-down of non-compliant listings and potential removal of their account.” This is the third time that Narottam Mishra has ordered the police to register a FIR against the e-commerce platform in recent months.In November last year, a FIR was registered against Amazon after a seller was accused of selling marijuana on the website in Bhind district. A few days later, a second FIR was registered after a youth died by suicide by consuming a poison that he ordered from the site. The home minister also said the state will come up with a law to keep a check on the sale of products on online shopping sites.
25-01-2022||Mumbai||City shivers at 13.4 degrees Celsius, AQI improves slightly||Mumbai Making Mumbaikars shiver, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 13.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday morning, down from 15 degrees Celsius on Monday. Mumbai has been experiencing cooler than normal temperatures since Saturday when a western disturbance and cyclonic circulation over parts of Rajasthan brought light unseasonal rains to the city. This marks the coldest morning this month since January 10, when the minimum temperature settled at 13.2 degrees Celsius.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had cautioned that temperatures will dip steeply between January 23 and 25, with the daytime maximum expected to drop to around 25 degrees Celsius on Sunday and nighttime minimum to around 14 degrees Celsius. Warmer conditions are expected to start setting in over the next 24 hours, said an official with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. The daily minimum will rise to about 18 degrees Celsius and maximum to about 31 degrees Celsius by January 30, as per forecasts.A day after air quality levels in the city touched ‘severe +’, as per SAFAR’s network of monitoring stations, with 502 on the AQI, pollution levels improved and settled at a ‘very poor’ 387 on Tuesday morning. The AQI is taken as an average of hourly AQI data over the past 24 hours.“Dust tends to accumulate during the late night and early morning period and there may be some issues with dispersal owing to lower temperatures and lower wind speeds. But the influence of the Western disturbance has begun to subside so we will see temperatures and air quality return to normal in the next one or two days,” said a meteorologist with the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-shivers-at-13-4-degrees-celsius-aqi-improves-slightly-101643116167739.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||R-Day honours: Third consecutive gallantry medal for UP’s ADG (law and order)||LUCKNOW UP Police additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar will be conferred with the President’s Medal for gallantry on Republic Day (Wednesday) for his bravery in the encounter of dreaded criminal Shiv Shakti Naidu on February 18, 2020 when he was ADG (Meerut).Naidu was wanted in the murder of a Delhi cop and had 14 criminal cases against him in UP and Delhi. He carried a reward of ₹1 lakh on his head. Prashant Kumar holds the distinction of being awarded the gallantry medal for three consecutive years (2020, 2021 and 2022).Besides, five police officers and personnel of UP, including ADG (fire services) and DIG SP Mishra will be conferred with the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service while 73 police personnel will be honoured with the police medal for meritorious service. As many as 369 more police officers and personnel will be awarded the UP Director General of Police (DGP) commendation disc for bravery. As many as 21 cops will be conferred with the platinum disc, 67 with gold commendation disc and 281 with silver commendation disc, stated a press note by the UP Police. ADG Prashant Kumar was conferred with the President’s Police Medal for meritorious services in 2007 and President’s Medal for distinguished services in 2014. He, along with nine other cops, received a reward of ₹3 lakh each as Chief Minister’s Appreciation on January 7, 2022 for bravery in the encounter of dreaded brigand Uday Bhan Yadav alias Gauri Yadav on October 30, 2021. Uday Bhan carried a reward of ₹5.5 lakh on his head.For bravery, the DGP’s platinum disc will be conferred on eight IPS officers including DG (training) RP Singh, ADG Prem Prakash, IG Padmja Chauhan, DIG SP Mishra, SPs Abhishek Singh, Ashish Tewari and RN Mishra, Sanjiv Tyagi. The list includes two ASPs - Rashmi Rani and Sarvesh Kumar Mishra, two Dy SPs - Vandana Sharma and Babita Singh, two inspectors - Atul Kumar Srivastava and Chhote Lal, reserve inspector Avinash Saini, sub-inspector Rakesh Kumar Singh, four constables and one driver constable. Similarly, the DGP’s gold disc for bravery will be conferred on 67 cops, including nine IPS officers and seven PPS officers as well while the DGP’s silver disc for bravery will be conferred on 281 cops. The DGP’s silver disc will also be conferred on 27 more cops for their work. The Police Excellent Service Medal for bravery will be conferred on one cop and 24 cops will get the medal for bravery. Besides, the police medal for meritorious service records will be conferred on 49 police personnel and police medals on 176 police personnel for distinguished services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rday-honours-third-consecutive-gallantry-medal-for-up-s-adg-law-and-order-101643116166324.html
25-01-2022||Other||Newborn forces change of heart towards mother in UP’s Pratapgarh jail||A newborn always brings happiness to a household. Often, in case there is a rift in the family, the bundle of joy helps mend that rift. Much the same is the case of Kesh Kumari, lodged in the Pratapgarh district jail for murdering her three-year-old son, last year.She delivered a baby girl a fortnight ago and that child is forcing a change of heart among family members, who had totally shunned Kesh Kumari, as well as fellow prisoners.Her husband, mother-in-law and other family members and fellow jail inmates, all have had a change of heart owing to the birth of the little one and have begun helping Kesh Kumari raise the newborn. Prison authorities, too, have begun providing much-needed nutritious food to Kesh Kumari as per the jail manual.The details are as follows. Rakesh Verma, a resident of Baijnath village of Antu police station of the neighbouring district of Pratapgarh is a labourer. On March 29, 2021, his wife, Kesh Kumari, insisted on going to her maternal home on Holi but Rakesh refused. It is alleged that an upset and angry Kesh Kumari killed her only son Yug (3) with a knife and even tried to slash her own throat. However, her screams of pain resulted in her mother-in-law, Prabhavati, waking up and crying out for help. Soon Rakesh and his father, Ramsukh, rushed in to find Yug’s body lying in a pool of blood, jail officials said.It is also alleged that the family members buried the body to escape police investigation. On the evening of March 30, when someone informed the police, the body was taken out and a post-mortem examination was carried out. On the complaint of Ramsukh, the police registered a case of murder against Kesh Kumari and also arrested Rakesh and Prabhavati for conspiracy.The latter two got bail but Kesh Kumari, pregnant at the time of the incident, was sent to jail. Soon, family members distanced themselves from her, prison officials said. After the birth of the girl, Kesh Kumari’s husband and mother-in-law went to meet her for the first time after a long gap and had even brought Sonthoura, Achwani and Pissua (ethnic preparations given to a woman who has delivered a baby) among other things for her and the baby. Because of this, her condition too has started to improve, officials said. Even the jail administration made arrangements of a special nutritional diet as per the jail manual. Officials said that as the jail staff and female prisoners were also worried for the new-born, the little girl has started getting extra care from everyone. A woman head warder, considered very strict by the prisoners, has started massaging the newborn after her duty hours. Women prisoners are helping in preparing ‘Uptaan’ (the paste of turmeric and gram flour) and have brought oil for the massage of the child. Jail superintendent, RP Chaudhary, said, “After the birth of the girl, Kesh Kumari is being treated and provided all help according to the jail manual and the guidelines of the Supreme Court for pregnant women in jails.”
25-01-2022||Other||Special Sunday meal for Naini jail inmates in Prayagraj||In a move aimed at improving the quality of food served to prisoners, the Naini central jail administration is introducing “Sunday Special Thali” wherein the jail inmates will be served yummy dishes as a weekend treat. As part of the initiative, instead of the usual pulses, rice, roti and drab seasonal veggies that they get in meals during the week, the inmates would now be served “puri sabzi”, “kadhi” and even vegetables like cauliflower and broccoli on Sundays. The move follows director general of prisons, UP, Anand Kumar’s efforts to improve the standard and quality of food being served in prisons across the state. He even tweeted and shared videos of “paneer” being made in Fatehgarh jail on January 16. Earlier, he had tweeted pictures of a variety of vegetables being grown in prisons farms (January 14, 2022 and December 16, 2021) and special meals being cooked and served on festivals like “Makar Sankranti” (January 14) as part of the effort. Naini central jail has the capacity of housing 2,026 inmates but presently it has over 4,300 inmates locked up. The jail has witnessed prisoners raising the issue of poor living standards and food quality on several occasions in the past. “Continuous efforts are being made to improve the standard of living and food of the inmates in the prison. In this sequence, now an initiative has been taken to provide special Thali every Sunday,” said PN Pandey, senior jail superintendent of Naini jail.He said till now special dishes were prepared only special occasions like the Independence Day and the Republic Day besides festivals like Holi and Diwali. “Special food has also been served on other festivals,” he added. Officials shared that though no specific orders for special food to be served on Sundays has as such been issued but orders to improve the quality of food so as to ensure nutritious and balanced diet in accordance with the UP Jail Manual had been issued.About UP jails The state has 73 prisons, including 63 district jails, six central jails at Naini (Prayagraj), Varanasi, Fatehgarh, two in Bareilly, and Agra besides four special jails at Lucknow and Bareilly besides a Nari Bandi Niketan. The total capacity of these prisons is around 61,419 inmates but according to the website of the prison administration and reforms, over 1.18 lakh inmates, including 26,485 convicts and 91,871 undertrials, were lodged in UP jails as on November 30, 2021. They include 444 foreigners (110 convicts and 334 undertrials as well.
25-01-2022||Pune||Khadki Ammunition Factory official injured in accident||PUNE An official at the Ammunition Factory in Khadki was injured in an accident on Monday afternoon. The injured official has been identified as DR Thakre, a junior works manager.“It is to intimate that, an accident took place in one of the production section during afternoon on January 24, 2022 at Ammunition Factory Khadki, Pune, during drying of explosives in which Shri DR Thakre, junior works manager/technical (chemical) got injured and is hospitalised,” read a statement from the Pune defence authorities.No other person has been injured in the explosion. A departmental enquiry has been ordered in order to determine the cause of the accident, said officials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/khadki-ammunition-factory-official-injured-in-accident-101643108835539.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress nominees to accompany Rahul at Golden Temple on Jan 27||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be accompanied by all 117 party candidates of the Punjab assembly elections when he pays obeisance at Golden Temple in Amritsar on Thursday morning. Also read: Punjab elections: Rahul to address virtual rally from Jalandhar on Jan 27According to the itinerary shared by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu over his social media handles, Rahul will reach the holy city by air from New Delhi at 9am. He will first go to Golden Temple and spend around 45 minutes there. Besides paying obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum, he will partake of langar (community kitchen) as well. Then, he will go to Durgiana Temple and visit Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Sthal at Ram Tirath. He will leave for Jalandhar at 12.15 pm by road and address the Punjab Fateh virtual rally at White Diamond in Mithapur village of Jalandhar district at 3.3 pm. At 5.25pm, he will fly to Delhi from the nearby Adampur airport. As the process of filing nominations began in Punjab on Tuesday, campaigns by all political parties intensified even as the Election Commission imposed Covid-19 restrictions.
25-01-2022||Pune||Man in police custody for stabbing nephew for not fetching his phone||PUNE The Pune police on Tuesday remanded a man to police custody for stabbing his nephew because he refused to fetch the man’s phone from another room. The man and the nephew live in the same house in Market Yard area of Pune, said officials. The injured teenager has been identified as Piyush Deepak Sharma, 17, who lived with his grandmother and the accused. The arrested man has been identified as Sanjay Gokul Pardeshi, 38, while the complainant has been identified as the accused man’s mother Meena Pardeshi, 65. “They all live in Anandnagar vasahat area of Market Yard and the boy and the arrested man are labourers. The boy is the accused man’s nephew and his parents live separately while he lives with his grandmother and uncle,” said Police sub-inspector Yuvraj Shinde of Market Yard police station who is investigating the case. On Sunday night at around 8:30pm, the 38-year-old asked Sharma to bring his mobile phone from another room. However, as the teenager did not do so, he stabbed him in the stomach with a knife with an intention to kill him, according to the police. A case under Sections 307, 504 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 37(1)(3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-in-police-custody-for-stabbing-nephew-for-not-fetching-his-phone-101643107396017.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Shiv Sena mouthpiece hits out at Modi over his ‘correcting the mistakes’ remark||MUMBAI: Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the government was “correcting the mistakes” made after Independence, Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana criticised him, saying destroying the old does not mean creating a new history. An editorial in Saamana said searching for “mistakes” after Independence meant destroying everything that was done to build the country in the last 50-60 years and rewriting history how leaders want today.Modi on January 23 unveiled a hologram statue of Subhas Chandra Bose at India Gate and said the country was correcting “mistakes” made after independence. He added efforts were made to erase the contribution of “several great personalities” along with the nation’s heritage and culture.The Sena mouthpiece said those speaking about the fight for Independence were not involved in it while Jana Sangh and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) did not even exist. Questioning Modi’s statement, the Sena asked if the construction of a new Parliament and relocating the Amar Jawan Jyoti, which was to commemorate the sacrifice of soldiers, were mistakes the government was rectifying.“The Parliament building is connected to the freedom struggle. Many great leaders who were involved in the fight are associated with the building. It is witness to many important decisions... the Constitution Assembly. When Modi was elected as prime minister, he stood at the steps of the same building and got emotional. But this building is a mistake that Modi is correcting by building a new Parliament house.”BJP leaders as a policy do not respond to criticism in Saamana.
25-01-2022||Kolkata||Tensions flare as Bengal governor, assembly speaker engage in war of words||KOLKATA: Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday was engaged in a war of words with West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government after lashing out at them for blacking out his addresses to the House twice and ignoring his letters.Dhankar said he came to the House to address it twice and there was a blackout every time. “The speaker... thinks he has license to speak anything about the governor. Has he become a law unto himself? I will not tolerate such kind of indiscretion. The Speaker should not henceforth blackout the address of the governor. If he, does it, he will face the music,” Dhankhar said. He added that the speaker cannot be allowed to be a law unto himself. “He thinks he is above the governor. Who is the Constitutional head? I hope good sense prevails,” Dhankhar told reporters after visiting the assembly to pay floral tributes to BR Ambedkar on the occasion the National Voters’ Day.Biman Banerjee, who was nearby when Dhankhar made the comments, said the criticism was unwarranted. “The governor said he would pay floral tributes. But he held a press conference. I was stunned that the governor made critical statements on several issues related to the assembly while paying tribute to Ambedkar. I think this is extremely discourteous.”Dhankhar has been in the news for his acrimonious relationship with the TMC government since he took over as the governor in 2019. The government has accused Dhankhar of stalling bills.Dhankhar maintained not a single proposed law was pending with him. “No file is pending with me. I have raised questions (and sent back files to the state government). There has been no response from the government. Unless they respond to my questions, they will have a tough time. Before invoking my powers, I would want every answer well in advance.”Also Read: Bengali actor Bonny Sengupta quits BJP, says party failed to keep promisesBiman Banerjee said multiple bills were pending with Dhankhar as he refused to sign them. “He wants specific words to be included in the bills without which he would sign them. He is just delaying the bills. He is not the only governor. We have worked with several governors but there has been no resistance. We had cordial relations and no governor had made such statements. I did not understand who was the governor representing?”Dhankhar also lashed out at chief minister Mamata Banerjee and bureaucrats, alleging that they never reply to his letters. “For the last two years, the chief minister has not replied to any information sought...” He added the bureaucracy has to be held accountable. Dhankhar alleged the bureaucracy is politically committed. “Are they to follow the diktats of an individual?”TMC lawmaker Saugata Roy hit back, saying Dhankhar has no self-respect. “He sent me messages against the chief minister. He keeps on making absurd statements. He is disrespecting an elected government and the chief minister of a state. He is defying the Constitution. He is the only governor to do this.”Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sukanta Majumdar said they have been saying for a long time that there is no democracy in West Bengal. “The governor has just reiterated this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-governor-gets-into-war-of-words-with-assembly-speaker-tmc-101643105896268.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Republic Day 2022: Delhi Police puts up posters of suspected terrorists with Al-Qaeda links||The Delhi Police on Tuesday put up posters of suspected terrorists near Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place, in the heart of the national capital. As many as four posters were seen in the area that mentioned four individuals having links with Sunni Islamist terror group Al-Qaeda, among others.The Delhi Police said those coming forward with any information regarding the four will be rewarded “suitably”. The names of informants will, however, be concealed, the department added.
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP MLA’s son among 7 medical students killed in Wardha car crash||NAGPUR: In a tragic accident, seven students of a medical college, including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Vijay Rahangdale’ son, died after their vehicle fell in a river near Selsura village in Wardha district, some 120 kms from here in the wee hours of Tuesday., police said.The Superintendent of police (SP), Wardha, Prashant Holkar informed that all the seven students were returning after a late night party to their rooms at the medical college when the person who was driving the car lost control over the steering wheel and rammed into the bridge. Later, the SUV fell into the Bhadari river, which was flowing under the bridge and, unfortunately, all seven students lost their lives. Holkar said that among the deceased students, one of them was Avishkar Rahangdale (22), son of BJP MLA from Tiroda in Gondia district, Vijay Rahangdale. Other deceased were identified as: Niteesh Singh, Vivek Nandan, Pratyush Singh, Shubham Jaiswal, Niraj Chauhan and Pavan Shakti. All were the students of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Sawangi in Wardha district. One was an intern with the local medical college after obtaining an MBBS degree from the same college while two were final year students of MBBS. Villagers informed that the students were passing through Selsura in a SUV when a wild animal suddenly appeared in front of their car. According to a preliminary probe, the person driving the car, in order to avoid the animal, swerved hard on the wheel, resulting in the vehicle falling into a ditch under a culvert. The impact killed all the students on the spot. The lifeguard rushed to the spot to rescue the students and tried to save them but, unfortunately, the rescue operation couldn’t be successful. They found all the students dead.Senior officials of the district and the peoples’ representatives of the area, including Lok Sabha member Ramdas Tadas and MLA Pankaj Bhoyar rushed to the spot. All the bodies were later sent to the Wardha civil hospital for post mortem. “The college authorities have informed the parents of the students about the tragedy,” informed Ravi Meghe, the registrar of the college. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his sorrow over the tragedy and conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the family of the deceased. The Prime Minister’s Office also announced a compensation of ₹two-lakh each to the families of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-mla-s-son-among-7-medical-students-killed-in-wardha-car-crash-101643105235456.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Metro launches special train to commemorate 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav'||As part of the ongoing 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav-celebrating 75 years of India's Independence', Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday launched a specially decorated metro at Yamuna Bank Metro Station on the Blue Line.The train was inducted into passenger services immediately after the launch.As per the DMRC, the exterior of this eight-coach special train has been exclusively wrapped and decorated with collage of photographs and slogans depicting the glorious history of its people, culture and achievements in the last 75 years signifying the spirit of 'Aatmnirbhar Bharat'."The train has been symbolically launched on the occasion of Republic Day Celebrations to spread the idea of nationalism and unity amongst the general public. This special train will continue to remain in service throughout the commemorative period of 'AzadiKaAmritMahotsav'," they informed in a press release.DMRC has been organising a host of activities to commemorate the 'AzadikaAmritMahotsav - 75 years of India's independence' (AKAM) celebrations since last year.In July 2021, DMRC kick-started its AKAM commemorative activities from the Lal Quila Metro station on the Violet Line in the form of an Exhibition to bring out the significance of the historic venue from where the Prime Minister addresses the nation on every Independence Day ie 15th August, the DMRC said."In addition, spaces such as event corners, display panels inside and outside prominent Metro stations across the network, digital screens at stations and inside trains are also being utilized regularly to disseminate theme-based interesting messages on 'AKAM' celebrations. This includes trivia on major events of Indian independence, inspirational quotes of renowned leaders from India, journey of the evolving India in different sectors, cultural diaspora etc," DMRC's release read.The DMRC also informed that from time to time, online and on-ground activities like Cyclothon, children workshop, quiz and drawing competitions etc are also being organised by DMRC to create awareness regarding the use of public transport, non-motorised transport, environmental benefits and also revisiting the history of independent India through such activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-launches-special-train-to-commemorate-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-101643104644295.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Eye on elections, Himachal CM announces benefits for employees, pensioners||With an eye on the assembly elections this year-end, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday announced financial benefits for employees, pensioners, police personnel besides free electricity for consumers. Also read: Cold wave likely in parts of northwest India this weekPresiding over the Himachal Pradesh Statehood Day function at Solan, Thakur announced that his government had implemented the new pay scale from this month, benefitting 2.25 lakh employees. The move has put an additional burden of ₹6,000 crore annually on the state exchequer. “It has come to my notice that employees were not getting proper benefits under the two options which they have been given to opt from. Now, a third option will be given and if there is still some shortcoming, the government will reconsider their demands and decide accordingly,” he said. Government employees in Himachal Pradesh have played a crucial role in tilting the political scales. The chief minister also announced enhanced dearness allowance for the state government employees. He said that the government had announced 28% DA on revised pay scales. “However, now the state government employees will be given 31% DA, which is on a par with central government employees,” he said. The DA will be given from the due date and it cost the exchequer ₹500 crore. The chief minister said that the state government was sympathetic towards the demands of pensioners and despite its limited resources, pensioners would be given benefits on the basis of the Punjab Pay Commission, which will benefit 1.75 lakh pensioners. The decision will put an annual additional burden of ₹2,000 crore on the state government. Reiterating his commitment to the welfare of low-income groups, he said: “Domestic consumers will be provided free electricity up to 60 units. Consumers, whose electricity consumption is up to 125 units, will be charged ₹1 per unit instead of ₹1.90,” he said adding the decision will benefit 11 lakh domestic consumers. In a relief to farmers, the per-unit cost of electricity will also be cut to 30 paise from 50 paise. The decision will be effective from April 2022. 
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Rahul to address virtual rally from Jalandhar on Jan 27||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will address a virtual rally in Punjab on January 27 in the run-up to the assembly elections. Also read: SC notice to Centre, EC on plea over freebies promise by political partiesRahul will be received by party candidates in Amritsar before he heads for Jalandhar to address the rally, which will be telecast live on all social media platforms, a party leader said. The state unit and its social media cell are making arrangements with two-way link in 22 districts for party workers and leaders to view his address. The Congress candidates are also preparing for live telecast of the digital rally in their constituencies. The party has announced its candidates for 86 of the 117 assembly seats in the state so far. The names of candidates for the remaining 31 seats, which have got delayed due to lack of consensus among the state leaders on half of them, are expected to be announced in a day or two. Rahul was earlier scheduled to launch the party’s campaign with a public meeting in Moga on January 3 and some party leaders, including cabinet ministers, had also visited the district to select the rally spot. However, the public meeting was later cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-rahul-to-address-virtual-rally-from-jalandhar-on-jan-27-101643102175540.html
25-01-2022||Jaipur||Goods train loaded with limestone derails in Jailsalmer, disupts traffic||Fifteen wagons of a goods train loaded with limestone derailed in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer district on Tuesday, disrupting train traffic on the route, a railway spokesperson said.The derailment took place on the Jodhpur-Phalodi railway track between Jetha Chandhan and Thayath Hameera when the train was going to Asansol in West Bengal from Sanu in Jaisalmer.The engine of the goods train and two wagons behind it were safe and the derailment took place from the third wagon, a Government Railway Police source said, adding some of the wagons overturned.A North West Railway spokesperson said a relief train has been dispatched to the site and restoration work is being started.The official said the Jodhpur-Lalgarh train has been cancelled and seven other trains have been partially cancelled due to the derailment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/goods-train-loaded-with-limestone-derails-in-jailsalmer-disupts-traffic-101643099177888.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Kangana again moves plea seeking transfer of Javed Akhtar’s lawsuit against her||MUMBAI: Actress Kangana Ranaut has again challenged the order of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) court before the Mumbai city and civil court, Dindoshi, seeking to transfer all proceedings in a case filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar against her. The Bollywood actress has said that though she brought the alleged bias of the magistrate to the knowledge of the CMM court, it rejected her petition.Ranaut has moved the petition under section 408 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which deals with ‘power of sessions judge to transfer cases and appeals’.She has said in her petition filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee that being aggrieved by the orders of the Metropolitan Magistrate 10th Court, Andheri, which sufficiently proves the acts of biased and prejudiced mind on the part of the said magistrate the applicant filed a plea under section 410 of CrPC before the CMM court (withdrawal of cases by judicial magistrates). Despite bringing to the knowledge the act of bias of the magistrate the court passed an order on 21st of October rejecting the actress’ application of transfer of the case filed by Akhtar, the plea added. Thereafter, the sessions court also rejected her revision on technical grounds on December 31, 2021. So, she has filed the fresh petition under section 408 of CrPC praying transfer of the proceedings to any other court.Additional session’s judge, Shridhar Bhosale will hear the plea on January 27. The judge has asked Akhtar who was represented by his counsel Jay Bharadwaj to file a reply by the next date to her petition.The actress alleged in her transfer petition that the Andheri magistrate who is hearing Akhtar’s defamation complaint against her is prima facie biased against her, issuing a bailable warrant in a summons triable case despite she been represented by her counsel, not hearing her plea for permanent exemption which is pending since long, coercing the applicant to file exemption application on every date and threatening to issue “arrest warrants” in a bailable and non-cognizable offence to secure presence. She also made a statement through her counsel, “I am making a categorical statement that I have no faith in this court,”Akhtar filed a defamation complaint against Ranaut in November, 2020, for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in a television interview.The actress filed a counter complaint against Akhtar alleging extortion and criminal intimidation. She alleged that during her dispute with her co-star Hrithik Roshan, Akhtar called her and further acting as a mediator threatened her thereby asking her to tender a written apology to her co-star.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-moves-fresh-plea-for-transferring-javed-akhtar-s-case-against-her-101643099115183.html
25-01-2022||Bhopal||Criminal shot at in leg after he tries to flee from police custody in MP||A criminal was injured after he was shot at in one of his legs by escorting police personnel when he tried to flee from their custody in Madhya Pradesh's Ratlam district, an official said on Tuesday. The criminal, identified as Akbar Ghosi, was taken into custody along with two others from Pratapgarh in Rajasthan on Monday in connection with an attempt to murder case registered last week. The incident occurred on Monday evening when Ghosi was being taken to Nagda in Madhya Pradesh to recover the vehicle used in the crime, Superintendent of Police (SP) Gaurav Tiwari told reporters.He said the escorting police personnel stopped their vehicle between Piploda and Jaora at Ghosi's request to attend nature's call. "After getting down from the vehicle, he threw dust in the eyes of the police personnel and tried to snatch a service rifle from one of them. The policemen initially shot in the air as a warning but Ghosi refused to surrender, following which he was shot at in his leg," the SP said. He was admitted to a hospital and undergoing treatment. The policemen accompanying Ghosi sustained minor injuries in the scuffle, he said. Tiwari said at least eight cases were registered against Ghosi including murder and extortion. Ghosi and his two associates were booked on January 21 after he fired at a vendor in the Manik Chowk police station area. All the three accused were carrying a reward of ₹10,000 each, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/criminal-shot-at-in-leg-after-he-tries-to-flee-from-police-custody-in-mp-101643097918341.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Missing school instead of wanting to miss it||When they were little, one of the biggest grudges my kids held against me, was that I never allowed them to skip school. On the rare occasions that they had to stay home on account of illness, I would ensure that they didn’t have fun, keeping them in a state of ‘complete rest’ with the television out of bounds. It was easy to condemn children to boredom then, the internet and its accompanying 24x7 entertainment had yet to arrive. When my five-year-old daughter kept telling me how all her friends got to occasionally stay home. I thought it was time to put an end to the pestering. So, I told her she could miss school if she agreed to attend my class instead. She happily agreed thinking that I would get busy with my patients and she would be free to do as she pleased. Our residence is located on the floor above my clinic. I spent the day rushing upstairs between patients to check my daughter’s assignments and give her more. At first, she was compliant, but I slowly wore her down. She finally broke and cried, “Aapka school toh bahut khatarnak hai. Games period aur recess bhi nahin hota (Your school is very dangerous. There isn’t even a games period and lunch break).” Never again did my daughter ask to stay home. My son, who is seven years younger, had heard exaggerated accounts of mummy’s khatarnak school from his sister. The more diligent of the two, he wasn’t convinced. “How bad could it be?” he reasoned. “Kitna kaam dengi?Mein karta chala jaunga. (How much work can she give. I’ll keep doing it.).” So, I let him stay home for a day. I had developed a knee problem by then which made negotiating stairs cumbersome. But I knew that to make the treatment effective I had to deliver the optimum dose of ‘bitter’ medicine. So, I made countless trips from my clinic to my son’s room where he sat diligently doing the assigned work. My heart broke each time I saw that he had completed it in his beautiful handwriting. Keeping a straight face, I kept piling it on until he cried in frustration. Needless to say, it was the last day he asked to miss school. For those of you wondering whether I had scarred them for life. I hadn’t. They still call me ‘gandi mumma’ though. Recently, I watched my niece’s daughter attend school. The usual chaos, the teacher instructing a child to sit up straight, students raising hands to answer questions, some speaking out of turn. This was interspersed with some ‘unusual’ classroom banter, the monitor instructing a student to mute his mike, a child requesting the teacher to share her screen. My six-year-old grandchild followed the proceedings on a laptop, while simultaneously scrolling her mobile for an assignment the teacher had sent on WhatsApp. She wanted to be the first one to register and submit. Real competition exists in virtual classrooms! The resourcefulness of schools and the patience of the ‘constantly scrutinised’ teachers notwithstanding, kids are craving to return to real schools. Virtual can never live up to the actual. My heart goes out to these youngsters who miss school, instead of wanting to miss it. They are losing out on a large chunk of childhood due to this pandemic - chaotic classrooms, punishable pranks, forged friendships, bustling bus journeys, packed lunches, peer pressure and…the urge to play truant! dr_manjugupta@icloud.com The writer is a Gharaunda-based gynaecologist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-school-instead-of-wanting-to-miss-it-101643096474873.html
25-01-2022||Indore||Indore boy awarded PMRBP for excellence in technology, vedic math||A 12-year-old boy from Indore has been awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2022 on Monday for excellence in technology and Vedic math, the highest award for citizens below 18 years.A motivational speaker and composer of the 250-verse abridged version of the Ramayana called Bal Mukhi Ramayana, Rashtriya Bal Puraskar awardee Avi Sharma has also built a voice command system that operates the laptop through voice command software named MADHAV (My Advanced Domestic Handling Ai Version).Congratulating Avi, PM Modi, in a tweet said, "At the age of 12, Avi Sharma is a motivational speaker and has also composed an abridged version of the Ramayana called Bal Mukhi Ramayana! Congratulations to Avi for winning the Rashtriya Bal Puraskar."Talking with ANI, Avi expressed the pride he felt while talking to PM Modi and said that the Prime Minister talked to him for a long time and had shared an anecdote of Uma Bharti."It's a matter of great pride. Avi wrote Ramayana in 2020 and taught free Vedic Math and coding online in 2021. He has received a certificate and ₹1 lakh," his mother, Vinita Sharma said.The Government of India confers the Bal Shakti Puraskar under Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar to the children with exceptional abilities and outstanding achievement in the fields of innovation, scholastic achievements, sports, arts and culture, social service and bravery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-boy-awarded-pmrbp-for-excellence-in-technology-vedic-math-101643095753067.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||'Politics of fear, hate intruding Punjab': Navjot Singh Sidhu on alleged sacrilege bid in Patiala||Punjab Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday condemned the alleged sacrilege bid at the Shri Kali Mata Mandir in Patiala on Monday by saying that the politics of fear, polarisation and hate is intruding the northern state.Taking to Twitter, Sidhu wrote, “The incident of sacrilege at Mata Kali Devi temple is deplorable, divisive forces can never tear into the socio-economic fabric of Punjabiyat."The Punjab Congress president added that Punjabiyat's armour is universal brotherhood and respect for all religions.On Monday, a man was arrested by the Patiala police for an alleged sacrilege bid at the historic Shri Kali Mata Mandir. He has been identified as Rajbir Singh, resident of Nainkalan village, Patiala police's deputy superintendent (DSP) Ashok Kumar told news agency PTI. Also Read| Man arrested for sacrilege bid at Patiala’s Kali Devi TempleThe video of the sacrilege, which was circulated on social media, showed Singh climbing the enclosure of the Kali Mata Mandir and reaching the area where the idol of the goddess was kept.Politics of fear , polarisation and hate is intruding Punjab …The incident of sacrilege at Mata kaali Devi temple is deplorable, divisive forces can never tear into the socio - economic fabric of Punjabiyat .. our armour is universal brotherhood and respect for all religionsA case under relevant sections, including 295-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), has been registered against the man, DSP Kumar further told PTI.Political parties in Punjab have condemned the incident and expressed apprehensions of spreading communal hatred weeks ahead of the high stakes assembly elections in the state.Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, meanwhile, urged people to maintain peace and communal harmony in Punjab, adding that bad elements were trying to create mayhem ahead of the elections.Monday's sacrilege bid at the Shri Kali Mata Mandir comes over a month after a similar bid was witnessed at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on December 18 last year. The man, who attempted the sacrilege at the holy shrine was beaten to death by a group of angry pilgrims as he was being taken away by members of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-chief-navjot-singh-sidhu-condemns-alleged-sacrilege-bid-in-patiala-101643087518277.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Covid curbs to ease soon as Delhi reporting dip in positivity rate: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the test positivity rate for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has dipped by 20% in the last 10 days, indicating that the restrictions will soon be eased in the national capital. Kejriwal said that the daily test positivity rate has come down from 30% on January 15 to about 10% at present, adding that it was possible due to the consistent pace of vaccination.“Soon we will try to do away with (Covid) restrictions and bring your life back to normalcy...will make all efforts in that direction,” the chief minister said after hoisting the Tricolour on the sidelines of Republic Day.Night and weekend curfew to continue in Delhi as DDMA issues fresh guidelinesKejriwal also announced that photos of BR Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh will be put in every office of the Delhi government and photos of any chief minister or politician won't be kept from now.दिल्ली सरकार के दफ़्तरों में आज से किसी नेता की तस्वीर नहीं बल्कि बाबा साहब डॉक्टर भीमराव अम्बेडकर जी और शहीद-ए-आज़म भगत सिंह जी की तस्वीरें लगाई जाएँगी। pic.twitter.com/0gqiIT1AkXClaiming to have brought a revolution in the education sector in the last seven years, the Delhi chief minister pledged to fulfil Ambedkar’s dream of quality education for every kid.“We have brought that revolution in the education sector in the last seven years. Melania Trump, former US President Donald Trump's wife, also visited our government schools…we got our certificate,” he said.Kejriwal sent a proposal last week to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal regarding easing of restrictions, including the weekend curfew, in view of a dip in daily infections. While Baijal agreed to some recommendations, he rejected the proposal related to the weekend curfew. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chaired by Baijal, however, offered relaxations to the functioning of private offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-curbs-to-ease-soon-as-delhi-recording-dip-in-positivity-rate-kejriwal-101643089437237.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Plea in Supreme Court seeks postponement of NEET-PG||MUMBAI: A group of aspirants has moved the Supreme Court demanding postponement of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) scheduled in March to accommodate all candidates. Delay in conducting exams in 2021 due to the rising Covid-19 cases left thousands of MBBS graduates ineligible to appear for the NEET-PG exam. MBBS graduates, who are currently completing their internship, are also worried about the loss of a year. Without the completion of their internship, they will not be eligible for the entrance exam this year.“Many students will be completing their internship only by July-August, so we become ineligible for the exam which is being held on March 13. The next exam will be held in 2023, which means we will be waiting one year for no mistake of ours,” said a NEET-PG aspirant.Due to rising Covid-19 cases last year, several exams were postponed or cancelled. The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences conducted MBBS exams in late July and students managed to start their internships after that.Some students are also unsure how will they be able to prepare for the entrance exam especially since most interns have been working overtime because of Covid.“By postponing the entrance exam, the examination authority will also ensure there is an adequate gap between the counselling process for 2021-22 which goes on till March 16, and also gives us interns a chance,” said another student.
25-01-2022||Kolkata||West Bengal logs over 1,000 daily Covid-19 cases after nearly six months||The Covid-19 situation in West Bengal deteriorated as the state on Wednesday registered more than 1,000 daily cases after a gap of 177 days, a health bulletin said.Kolkata registered 540 of the 1,089 new cases as the state's tally rose to 16,32,906, it said.The death toll went up to 19,745 after 12 more patients succumbed to the disease, it added.Three deaths each were reported in Kolkata and neighbouring Howrah district, two in North 24 Parganas and one each in Hooghly, South 24 Parganas, Birbhum and Nadia districts, the bulletin said.In the last 24 hours, 807 recoveries were recorded though the discharge rate slipped to 98.32 per cent. So far, 16,05,434 people have recovered from the disease in West Bengal.Accordingly, the number of active cases went up to 7,727, it said.Since Tuesday, 38,375 samples were tested in West Bengal taking the total number of clinical examinations to 2,13,12,161, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-logs-over-1-000-daily-covid-19-cases-after-nearly-six-months-101643076932443.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||South Kashmir gets light rain, snowfall; mercury drops to -9.5°C in Gulmarg||After two days of snowfall and rains, the weather started to improve in parts of Jammu and Kashmir from Monday morning even though the Srinagar-Jammu Highway continued to remain closed for the second day amid isolated light precipitation in south Kashmir.While the night witnessed rains and snowfall at many places, there were no rains in Srinagar from morning unlike the past two days while the weather is mainly dry in northern and central Kashmir as well. However, light rains and snowfall were reported in south Kashmir.“We are witnessing some isolated rains and snow in south Kashmir. The weather is dry in central and north Kashmir,” said Mohammad Hussain Mir, a meteorologist at the Srinagar centre of Indian Meteorological Department.“The weather has started to improve and will remain dry from Tuesday,” he said.Jammu-Srinagar National Highway was closed for traffic on Sunday as light to moderate rains and snowfall triggered landslides following two days of precipitation. “Jammu-Srinagar NH blocked at Panthyal due to loaded truck deeply embedded in the mud, restoration work is going on war footing basis. People are requested not to travel on Jammu-Srinagar NH without confirming the status of road from traffic control rooms,” traffic police said in a tweet on Monday morning.However, traffic was restored on Srinagar Jammu Highway in the afternoon after a truck stuck in the mud was removed but the traffic was again stopped owing to landslides at Seer, Ramban. “The road is temporarily closed. Subject to fair weather and better road conditions, light motor vehicles will be allowed on Tuesday Srinagar towards Jammu, “ said a traffic official. The air couriers of the air force from Ladakh to Srinagar and back were cancelled due to bad weather at Kargil.The J&K centre of the Indian meteorological department said that 12.8 cm of snow were recorded in Pahalgam in south Kashmir while 11 cm were recorded in ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir for the past 24 hours till 8:30 am on Monday. Bhaderwah in Jammu witnessed 7.4 cm snowfall.The rains were more in Jammu division with 24.7 in Bhaderwah, 19.6 mm recorded in Banihal, and 16.2 mm in Batote.The weatherman has predicted dry weather from Tuesday. “From Tuesday, the weather is expected to remain dry till January 29,” said the meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir.“The night temperature will decrease and the day temperature will improve,” he said. The lowest night temperature on Monday in Kashmir was recorded in the northern ski resort of Gulmarg where the mercury dropped to -9.5°C. The resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded -0.8°C.The mercury settled at 2.8°C in summer capital Srinagar during the night while it was 0.2°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu.It was -0.5°C in Kokernag, 1.2°C in Konibal and 0.2°C in Kupwara.The day temperatures on Sunday remained lowest at Gulmarg with -1.5°C and Srinagar recording the highest 6.4°C.Kashmir is under the grip of Chilai Kalan, the valley’s harshest over 40-day winter period which started on December 21 and will be over by the end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/south-kashmir-gets-light-rain-snowfall-mercury-drops-to-9-5-c-in-gulmarg-101643060232054.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fresh landslide in Ramban blocks Jammu-Srinagar highway||A fresh landslide on Monday evening blocked the 278-km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway at Seri in Ramban district, said officials SSP Traffic national highway, Shabir Malik said, “At around 12 noon we restored the traffic movement and even allowed vehicles from Jammu. The traffic plied normally and we cleared all the vehicles but around 5.30 pm, a fresh slide at Seri in Ramban district blocked the highway.” Malik informed that men and machinery were immediately pressed into service. He said that the affected stretch was likely to be restored in another hour or so. “The skies have now opened up and on Tuesday we will allow normal traffic movement,” he added. Meanwhile, chief secretary Dr AK Mehta on Monday ordered strict action against overloaded load carriers being plied on the Jammu-Srinagar highway. Mehta on Monday chaired a meeting to review the condition of the national highway-44 connecting Jammu and Srinagar, and take stock of the traffic movement thereon. It was informed that the government has prioritized construction and maintenance of the national highway-44 which has kept the highway open for vehicular traffic even during extreme weather vagaries. Mehta was apprised of the recent traffic disruption on the highway due to the breakdown of an overloaded vehicle carrying 36-ton dry ration in violation of the laid down norms. He directed for ascertaining reasons for the incident to prevent recurrence of such incidents in future. He further directed the NHAI and traffic police to forthwith put in place a mechanism for calibrated checking of all load carriers to prevent plying of overloaded vehicles, which not only disrupts the usual traffic flow but also compromises the road quality.  Mehta maintained that all load carrying vehicles are to be passed through weighing bridges at toll plazas in a staggered manner to avoid any jams and action against overloaded vehicles is to be initiated to ensure smooth flow of traffic. Further, the agencies concerned were asked to submit daily violation reports and weekly action taken reports to the higher offices and establish zero tolerance to traffic violations and plying of overloaded vehicles. They were asked to conduct regular drives to check traffic violations. Reviewing the progress of works at the Panthayal Tunnel, the chief secretary directed the NHAI to double its efforts and complete the pending works by April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-landslide-in-ramban-blocks-jammu-srinagar-highway-101643059813441.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir logs 5,394 19 Covid infections, 8 deaths; highest active cases in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded eight Covid-19 induced deaths and 5,394 fresh 19 infections taking the overall cases in the union territory to cross 4-lakh mark. The month of January, which is witnessing a surge in novel Coronavirus infections, contributed over 61,000 cases so far. Saturday had reported the highest-ever daily Covid-19 spike witnessing 6,568 infections, breaching all records since the pandemic began in 2020. The month of January so far has contributed 61,306 cases and 85 deaths with past one week mostly contributing around 5500 to 6000 cases every day. Before this week’s surge, the highest novel Coronavirus cases reported in the union territory were 5,443 and 50 deaths on May 7 when the second wave had peaked. The first wave had peaked in September 2020 reporting the highest surge of 1,698 cases and 10 deaths on September 12. The active cases in the union territory reached 44,609 with over 43,200 active cases added in January so far. On December 31, the union territory had just 1,337 active cases.The officials said 59,704 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking Monday’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) to 9.03% - first time since May.The authorities have increased the testing rate this month as earlier they have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December.Of the total infections on Monday, Kashmir valley saw almost 62% of the infections with 3,349 cases and four deaths while 2,045 cases and four deaths were reported in the Jammu division.In Kashmir valley, the surge was high in eight out of the 10 districts with Srinagar witnessing the highest 963 cases followed by 574 in Budgam, 514 cases in Baramulla, 276 in Kulgam and 267 in Kupwara.In the Jammu division, the Jammu district reported 1,204 cases followed by 234 in Udhampur, 187 in Doda and 121 in Ramban.Srinagar is the district with the highest number of Covid active cases at 11,627 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 8,729 and 6,020 active cases, respectively.This month has witnessed a steep rise in cases with daily infections shooting up sharply from 169 on Jan 01 to 6,568 on Jan 22.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 3,643 with active positive cases reaching 44,609.However, of the 5,038 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 11.59 percent or 584 are occupied in J&K. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 33,147 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to cross 2.022 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,53,374 while the recovery rate has dropped to 87.77%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have crossed 4-lakh mark to reach 4,02,596 and the death toll has reached 4,613.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,187 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 890 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-logs-5-394-19-covid-infections-8-deaths-highest-active-cases-in-srinagar-101643059332872.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Like a rolling stone||It is suddenly making an unsuspecting passerby hungry, this delicious smell of spiced veggies shallow-frying in oil. The entire lane is infused with a strong aroma of home-cooked subzi. At this evening hour, every household in the central Delhi neighbourhood must be preparing dinner.The source of the smell is identified within minutes. It is coming from a truck parked on one side of the lane. All the men in it are chatting in the front cabin. Except for one person, who is preparing the meal for everyone.“I’m making aloo-gobi,” says Mr Vinod. He, too, is inside the truck, but in another part of it, sitting on a low wooden patri by a small door-like opening on one side of the truck’s long trailer. “We are labourers, we work on the road outside during the day, and sleep inside [the truck] at night.” The men are in the area to lay underground electric cables.The interior of the truck’s trailer is coal-dark, though one can spot the cooking gas cylinder, and a cloth hanging from what looks like some blackened machine.Mr Vinod is amused at the assumption that he might have learned cooking at his village in Jharkhand. “Why will I have to cook in my own house? My wife makes food for me when I’m there.” He meets her very rarely though, he says, visiting his village once a year.“There is no direct train… we board a special bus at Anand Vihar bus adda that leaves at four in the evening.” The bus takes full “chaubis ghante”, or 24 hours, to drop him at his village at four the next evening. “It is a very long journey, and expensive,” he says in a flat tone.Although he has been working in Delhi for some years, Mr Vinod does not think of himself as a Delhiwale. “This city does not have the atmosphere of home.” Besides, the nature of his profession makes it impossible for him to set up roots anywhere in the city. “We stay in the truck [owned by a contractor], going from one site to another, spending only a few days in each site.”By now, the subzi in the kadhai is almost done. The cooking is at a delicate stage, and if he is not careful, he fears, the dish might get burnt. It will take another hour for everyone in the truck to be done with the dinner (including washing the dishes). And then, it will be time to sleep, Mr Vinod mutters, stirring the subzi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-like-a-rolling-stone-101643059107085.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||All of us have the power to create magic: Poet Naina Pachnanda||Naina Pachnanda , a lawyer by day and poet by night, has released her second collection of 200 poems, Miracles do Happen, which have been inspired by the coronavirus pandemic, and navigate the themes of life, love, loss, rejection, failure, hope, motivation, introspection, self-reflection, acceptance, manifestation and happiness. Ask her about the title of her anthology and Pachnanda says, “Life is full of uncertainty and challenges. However, the last couple of years have been particularly challenging for everyone. Poetry is an impactful form of self-expression, which touches the heart, and therefore I wrote this book to spread, hope, light and motivation.” Pachnanda, who hails from Panchkula, says she started writing poetry when she was 10 years old and has the uncanny ability to make anything rhyme within 30 seconds. Is it any wonder then that everything in the anthology be it the preface, acknowledgements, dedication or conclusion rhyme. While working on her career her creative side briefly took a back seat, but she rallied and started an Instagram page to share her poetry in 2019. “I got a warm response and within two years I had 40,000 followers,” she says. Buoyed by her online success, Pachnanda decided to publish her first poetry collection in 2020, on a slightly unusual topic – government schemes such as Make in India, Startup India, Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, and Digital India Mission. The anthology titled A New India was launched by minister of woman and child development Smriti Irani. Her advice to budding poets is to remember that each of us have the power within us to create magic through our own personal experiences. “When I wanted to publish my anthology, I approached a number of publishers who told me there was not a big market for poetry in India, but I persevered, and used social media as a platform to share my poetry. So, my advice to budding artists is to stay consistent and to persevere no matter what.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-of-us-have-the-power-to-create-magic-poet-naina-pachnanda-101643059211847.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||LG Manoj Sinha announces 15% quota for women in non-gazetted posts in Jammu & Kashmir Police||On the occasion of National Girl Child Day, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha announced 15% reservation for Women in the non-gazetted posts in the Jammu Kashmir Police. This landmark decision will further strengthen women empowerment in J&K UT.The LG added that the 15% reservation is just the beginning and the government is determined and committed to increase it further in the future.“For women and girls to be agents of change, J&K government is committed to ensure Nari Shaktis’ social and economic empowerment while redressing long-standing inequalities to build a more just and resilient society”, the Lt Governor said.The step of 15 % reservation for women in Jammu Kashmir Police will give due representation to women in Police force and will ensure the availability of sufficient women personnel to engage exclusively in the matter of gender-based crimes. The move will lay the foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable society.Despite several assurances before 2019, the matter of reservation for women in J&K Police was never addressed. At present, without any exclusive reservation, women constitute 3% of the total strength of J&K Police and the numbers will increase after the reservation is implemented in future recruitments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lg-manoj-sinha-announces-15-quota-for-women-in-non-gazetted-posts-in-jammu-kashmir-police-101643059031805.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Hooda seeks compensation for rain- affected crops||Demanding compensation for farmers, leader of the opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said continuous rainfall over the last two weeks had caused damage to the crops. In a statement, the former chief minister said that vegetable crops, including potatoes, have been completely destroyed. “Wheat and mustard farmers have also suffered due to the rainfall. Therefore, the government should give compensation to the farmers by conducting a special girdawari (crop inspection) for the loss caused to farmers without further delay,” he said. Hooda said farmers have been facing the wrath of the weather for several seasons and they have been demanding compensation but neither insurance companies nor the government has compensated them for their losses. “In the last season too, more than five lakh acres of crops were damaged due to excessive rain and waterlogging, but farmesr are still waiting for compensation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhupinder-hooda-seeks-compensation-for-rain-affected-crops-101643058971988.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Four held for selling infant for ₹50,000||The Delhi Police has arrested four people for allegedly selling infants to childless.Police said they received information about the racket at the police post at Tis Hazari court complex on January 22, following which two police personnel posed as a decoy couple and contacted one of the accused.“They introduced themselves as a childless couple. The accused and her associate demanded ₹50,000 and, once the amount was agreed upon, took them to Mangolpuri where another women was present with the infant and her mother,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi.“We immediately arrested them. During questioning, it was revealed that they were running a racket,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-held-for-selling-infant-for-50000-101643058025221.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||16-year-old Karnal boy honoured with PM Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for developing website||A 16-year-old Karnal resident was on Monday awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for developing the website karnalcovid.in.The Class-12 student, Aakarsh Kaushal, has developed a website to help residents and officials to keep a tab on the surge and fall in the cases.Kaushal is among the 29 children from across the country, who have been awarded a medal, a certificate and cash award of ₹1 lakh.The awards are given in six fields — innovation, scholastic achievement, sports, arts and culture, social service, and bravery. These awards were conferred during a virtual ceremony on Monday and the Prime Minister also virtually interacted with winners of PMRBP.Kaushal wants to study computer science to help the society. “ During the second wave, I noticed that people were facing problems with getting their RT-PCR test reports and I created the portal to facilitate them, and later created another portal for the availability of the beds in the hospitals of the district,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16yearold-karnal-boy-honoured-with-pm-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-for-developing-website-101643058731774.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Northern Army Chief Lt Gen YK Joshi visits his first Commanding Officer in Jammu||The Northern Army Chief Lt Gen YK Joshi, paid a visit to Colonel (retd) KS Jamwal, his first commanding officer, at his residence in Jammu. Army Commander was commissioned into the 13 JAK Rifles. ”Col KS Jamwal has been a role model to emulate, contributing immensely in the glorious military career of Gen Joshi spanning nearly four decades. The meeting was a nostalgic throwback of Gen Joshi’s association with Col KS Jamwal with both sharing and reliving the old memories,” said a defence spokesman. The meeting was a tribute by the General to his mentor who groomed him during the formative years of military career, giving a strong foundation to later grow into a war hero, an inspiring military leader and a soldier’s General. The gesture reflected the General’s connect with his roots and attitude of gratitude towards the veterans and elders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/northern-army-chief-lt-gen-yk-joshi-visits-his-first-commanding-officer-in-jammu-101643058551710.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Year on, 100% vaccination coverage tag eludes Mohali||Over a year after the nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16, 2021, Mohali district has been able to vaccinate only 85% of its eligible population.In comparison, in the tricity, Panchkula district has already achieved 100% double-dose vaccination target, while Chandigarh is close behind at 99%.This, despite Mohali leading the tricity with highest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020.The total eligible adult population of Mohali is 7,46,119 according to the growth estimates based on the 2011 census. With people from neighbouring cities and migrants also getting the jab here, as many as 10,25,067 people have received the first dose in the district, but only 6,25,635 have been vaccinated twice.District immunisation officer Dr Girish Dogra said, “From among Mohali’s eligible population, 100% have received the first dose and 85% are fully vaccinated. But around 2 lakh have defaulted on the second dose.”Since October last year, to encourage higher response, the health department has been creating awareness among the masses through newspapers, radio and announcements at religious places. Special camps are also being organised and the health department also allowed the civil hospital in Phase 6 to function from 9am to 7pm, instead of 3pm.Civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said with the rise in cases, more people were now coming forward for vaccination. “We have even started ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ drive to motivate residents by visiting them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/year-on-100-vaccination-coverage-tag-eludes-mohali-101643058492391.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association urges PSC to postpone PO exams||The J&K High Court Bar Association, (Jammu chapter) on Monday urged the Public Service Commission (PSC) to postpone examinations for the post of prosecuting officers in view of spiraling Covid cases across the UT. In this context the president of the Bar Association, Advocate Covid chaired a meeting with other office- bearers relating to postponement of the main examination of prosecuting officer in view of present prevailing Covid situation. After receiving a number of representations from the aspirants of the Prosecuting Officer Examination 202, J&K High Court Bar Association, Jammu, urged the PSC to postpone the main examination. The examinations were scheduled to be conducted by the PSC from January 31 to February 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-high-court-bar-association-urges-psc-to-postpone-po-exams-101643058191860.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid claims seven more lives in Chandigarh tricity||The tricity lost seven more residents to Covid-19 on Monday, pushing this month’s toll to 68, nearly 10 times higher than seven deaths in December.Both Mohali and Panchkula recorded three virus-related deaths each, while one person succumbed in Chandigarh.Those who died in Mohali were an 84-year-old woman from Phase 9, who was admitted at Cheema Hospital, Phase 4, and a 72-year-old man, who breathed his last at Ivy Hospital, Sector 71. Both were fully vaccinated, but also suffering from other diseases.The third victim, a 55-year-old woman from Kharar, was not vaccinated. She died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.All three deceased from Panchkula were men, aged 91, 78 and 58, residents of Sectors 2, 18 and 19, respectively.The nonagenarian was also hypertensive and diabetic, the 78-year-old was suffering from Parkinson’s disease and the 58-year-old was getting treated for cancer. Two of them were not vaccinated.The only fatality reported from Chandigarh was an 85-year-old man, who lived in Sector 7 and died at GMSH, Sector 16. He was also suffering from hypertension and hypothyroidism, and had not been vaccinated.Tricity’s daily cases drop below 2,000 after 13 daysThough over four deaths daily since January 16 remain a cause of concern, tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases dropped below 2,000, a first since 1,945 cases on January 11.As many as 1,845 people tested positive on Monday, down from 2,507 on Sunday, though health experts cautioned that it could be due to lesser number of tests amid the rainy weather, as the positivity rate didn’t see a significant decline.While Chandigarh and Panchkula reported a dip in their cases, Mohali’s infections rose.A total of 1,096 people were found infected in Mohali, compared to 1,084 the day before. In Chandigarh, the daily case count reduced from 808 to 568 and in Panchkula, from 615 to 181.However, Chandigarh’s positivity remained unchanged at around 14% over the past 24 hours. In Panchkula, though it decreased from 38% to 32%, it was still considerably high. Mohali found 23% people positive out of total samples, against 28% on Sunday, still a worrisome figure. Meanwhile, tricity’s active caseload also increased from 18,669 to 18,764 since Sunday.As many as 8,510 patients are still recuperating in Mohali, 7,768 in Chandigarh and 2,486 in Panchkula.The UT administration also declared 20 micro-containment zones across Chandigarh on Monday to prevent the infection from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-seven-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-101643057959837.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fatalities in Chandigarh tricity rose by 129% in last week||Even though tricity’s fresh Covid-19 cases dipped slightly between January 17 and 23, fatalities saw a 129% spike as compared to the previous week. The 39 deaths this week, up from 17 fatalities in the week preceding it, alone account for 63% of the total deaths (61) between January 1 and 23.According to health officials, most of the deceased patients either had comorbidities, were elderly or not vaccinated against the virus.In terms of cases, the tricity saw the figure dipping slightly from 20,904 to 20,085. Mohali remained the worst affected with 8,130 cases and 20 deaths in a week, a significant rise from previous week’s 7,808 cases and eight deaths. In Chandigarh, the case and death tallies were 8,064 and 15, respectively, against 9,207 cases and seven deaths the previous week. In Panchkula, the cases increased from 3,889 to 3,891, while the deaths dropped from two to one.Deaths less than second waveAmid the peak of second wave last year, the tricity had recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in May. At 49,581, tricity’s cases since January 1 have already surpassed the second wave’s peak, but the number of deaths is far lower at 68.“The fewer deaths this time can be attributed to the fact that the virus is only affecting the upper respiratory tract, preventing acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which poses higher risk. Also higher vaccination coverage since the second wave has helped lower the severity of the infection,” said Dr Sanjeev Palta, nodal officer, ICU management, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.Elderly, unvaccinated, comorbid people still vulnerableDr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “Though severity of Covid infection is lower compared to the second wave, even mild infection is still a cause of concern for the elderly, comorbid and unvaccinated people. All Covid victims in the recent weeks were under treatment for other diseases, including diabetes, hypertension and heart, lung or kidney disease. Also, most of the deceased patients were above the age of 50.”Dr Singh added that it was also being noticed that people getting admitted in hospitals for treatment of comorbidities were being found infected with Covid-19.Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali, said, “Around 60% of the Covid patients dying in Mohali this month had not even taken first dose of the vaccine. Besides, most were elderly and suffering from various diseases. People of all age groups must get fully vaccinated at the earliest to prevent risk of severe infection.”Panchkula chief medical officer Dr Mukta Kumar said a meeting was called to analyse the deaths in the recent weeks and in Panchkula, too, most victims were elderly and comorbid. “No patient is admitted in the district’s government facilities without RT-PCR or rapid antigen test for earlier intervention,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fatalities-in-chandigarh-tricity-rose-by-129-in-last-week-101643057958677.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Bedlam marks new MC House’s first meeting||It was pandemonium all around in the first meeting of the newly elected MC House on Monday, even as four key agendas related to city’s solid waste management and another got passed amid the din without any discussion.The meeting’s proceedings were stalled for around three hours as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Congress councillors sat in the well of the House, and indulged in sloganeering against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), shouting “Tanashahi nahi chalegi”, which were countered by BJP councillors’ chants of “Bharat mata ki jai”. MC marshals had to be called in to restore order, and some AAP and Congress councillors had to be even physically removed from the well of the House to allow the meeting to proceed.From the beginning of the meeting, both the AAP and the Congress voiced vociferous opposition to the agendas tabled by the BJP-led MC.‘We don’t recongnise BJP mayor’Both parties objected to the agenda regarding approval of minutes of the last House meeting on January 8, wherein the mayoral elections took place. They also demanded a vote on the agenda.AAP councillors repeatedly declared from the well of the House that they didn’t accept Sarabjit Kaur as the mayor. To this Kaur retorted that they should maintain decorum in the House, as the case was pending in the Punjab and Haryana high court.In the mayoral elections, the BJP had won the mayor’s post by one vote after an AAP vote was declared void by the presiding officer, who was from the BJP. Thereafter, the AAP challenged the election in the high court, where the matter remains sub-judice. The agenda of the mayoral elections is crucial for both the AAP and the BJP as its approval would give added legitimacy to the election.On the demand of voting for approving the mayoral election-cum-last house meeting’s minutes, senior deputy mayor Dalip Sharma, who was in the mayor’s chair for nearly an hour in Kaur’s absence, said the House rules didn’t allow for voting on the minutes of the House meetings. But the councillors could submit their objections to the mayor for consideration.Ultimately, decision on the agenda was deferred as the chair directed officials to seek legal advice.Meanwhile, Congress councillors rushed to the dais, where the mayor, MC commissioner and MC secretary are seated, when the mayor told them not to create fracas as they had abstained from the mayoral elections. Marshals were called in to push the Congress councillors away from the dais.Amid high-pitch sloganeering by the AAP and the Congress, Sharma said another agenda, the election of five members to the finance and contract committee (F&CC), was approved.Agendas passed amid opposition by AAP, CongressThe AAP and Congress councillors aggressively opposed the twin agendas of repair/overhauling of the existing solid waste processing plant in Dadumajra and the bio-mining project at the adjacent landfill. Both parties also abstained from voting when the agendas were put to vote.When House secretary Rajiv Prasad asked councillors to show support, only BJP councillors raised their hands, while AAP and Congress councillors didn’t. On being asked to express opposition, the AAP and Congress councillors again did not raise their hands. Eventually, the agendas were declared as passed without any discussion.MC will now undertake repair of the mixed waste processing plant, so that dry waste can be converted into refuse derived fuel. The ₹6.33-crore cost of the project is covered under the ₹8-crore budget provided under the sanitation head.“The plant’s upgrade will take at least a couple of years. So in the meantime, its working has to be improved to curtail dumping of unprocessed waste,” said Sharma.For cleaning up more than 7.5 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of legacy waste at the Dadumajra dumping site, which is not covered under the ongoing legacy mining work, MC will undertake a ₹78-crore bio-mining project.The corporation has already submitted a funding proposal with the Union government under the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM-2). Chandigarh Smart City Limited is already cleaning up another 5 lakh MT legacy waste at a cost of ₹36 crore. A total of 2.67 lakh MT has been cleared so far.Agendas cleared- ₹6.33-crore project for repair/overhaul of solid waste processing plant in Dadumajra- ₹78-crore project for bio-mining of 7.67 lakh MT legacy waste at Dadumajra landfill- Payment of hazardous/risk allowance with salary to sewer entry professionals- House also approved to declare Chandigarh as a 5-star garbage-free city (preliminary resolution)- Election of two councillors each from the AAP and the BJP, and one from the Congress to F&CC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhbedlam-marks-new-mc-house-s-first-meeting-101643057956958.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh wettest in country this January||With another spell of 38.3mm rain between Sunday night and Monday morning, and 203.9mm rain so far this month, Chandigarh has become the wettest among all states and union territories of the country in January, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The daily countrywide data compiled by IMD, Delhi, shows that Chandigarh has received the highest rain in January, which is already 749% above normal with a week to go, followed by Himachal Pradesh with 166.4mm, Jammu and Kashmir with 162mm, Punjab with 104.1mm and Uttarakhand with 100.7mm. Due to the strong western disturbances (WD) this month, the north-west region of India received the most rain.The 203.9mm rain in Chandigarh this month is also the highest since IMD started maintaining records for the city in 1953.It is also more than the showers recorded in any monsoon month in 2021. Also around 28% of the total 735.5mm rain recorded in 2021 has already been witnessed in the first 24 days of 2022.Meanwhile, in the region, Punjab has received 104.1mm rain this month, highest since 1957, when 108mm rain was recorded, and third highest of all time, as per IMD records. In Haryana, the 69.2mm rain this month is the highest since 1911, when 70.3mm rain was received, and the fourth highest ever. According to IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh, the unique location of Chandigarh and the districts around it, in the foothills of the Himalayas, led to high rainfall in January. “Though another WD is approaching the region, it is unlikely to have similar effect, but there are chances of light rain towards the end of the month,” said Singh.Dry weather likely in coming daysSingh added that dry weather can be expected for some days. “But there are chances of fog formation from Tuesday morning onwards due to moisture in the air. With the skies clearing up, the minimum temperature can also drop by 4-6 degrees in the coming days,” he said.As the sky cleared up towards Monday afternoon, the maximum temperature rose from 12°C on Sunday to 14°C on Monday, but was still 6.3 degrees below normal. The minimum temperature remained unchanged at 10.7°C, 5.1 degrees above normal. In the next three days, the day temperature will remain around 15°C and the night temperature around 8-10°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-wettest-in-country-this-january-101643057955314.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Illegal axing of trees: Mohali ADC recommends action against Lalru MC president, then EO||A month after indicting Lalru municipal council president Bindu Rana and then executive officer (EO) Ashok Kumar for illegal cutting of trees on 10 acres of shamlat land in Lalru in November last, Mohali additional deputy commissioner Pooja Sayal Grewal has recommended action against both officials in her final report.In the final report sent to the principal secretary, local bodies department, Punjab, Grewal has stated that though there were procedural lapses in the cutting of trees, no financial loss took place. The report detailed that both officials did not take any permission to cut the trees, neither from the forest department nor from the MC House. On the other hand, Lalru MC president Bindu Rana said, “I have no role in the matter. It’s just petty politics by the SAD MLA to defame the Congress. Moreover, the report found no financial loss.”In November 2021, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma had alleged that the MC had sold the axed trees, worth several lakhs, for just ₹2.25 lakh to benefit some private persons.He had claimed that during his visit to the spot, he saw many large trees, with a diameter of about two-and-a-half feet, being axed by around 50 people.“The whole business was going on without the approval of the forest department. As per rules, a written assessment was to be done by the forest department before giving permission for cutting trees on shamlat land, after which advertisement for auctioning of trees was to be issued,” the MLA had said.EO Ashok Kumar was shunted out the same day and sent to the head office in Sector 35, Chandigarh. The next day, an inquiry was marked. Even the block officer of the forest department had confirmed that the matter regarding clearance for axing the trees was not in his notice.
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||CH01CH series auction in Chandigarh: ‘0001’ goes for ₹24.4 lakh||Vehicle registration number “CH01-CH-0001” was auctioned for ₹24.4 lakh, the second-highest bid since 2012 when the same number in the CH01-AP series went for ₹26.05 lakh.The first number in the CH01-CH series, whose reserve price was ₹50,000, was secured by Aman Sharma.As many as 503 fancy numbers of the series were auctioned between January 22 and 24, fetching the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), ₹2.31 crore.The second-highest bid in the latest auction was ₹7.3 lakh for “CH01-CH-0101”. In the previous auction, RLA had earned ₹1.43 crore from the sale of fancy numbers of the CH01-CG series, along with re-auction of leftover numbers of previous series. The successful bidders are required to get their vehicles registered and deposit the bidding amount within one month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10% as well as interest at the rate of 10% on the balance amount will be levied till the date of payment.Only owners, who had purchased the vehicles on a Chandigarh address, were allowed to participate in the e-auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ch01ch-series-auction-in-chandigarh-0001-goes-for-24-4-lakh-101643057952187.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Multi-level security across Kashmir ahead of Republic Day||Ahead of the Republic Day function, high-level security arrangements have been made across Kashmir, especially in Srinagar, where the main function of the Valley will be held on Wednesday.The UT’s Lt Governor, Manoj Sinha, will unfurl the Tricolour at MA Stadium in Jammu, while one of the advisers, RR Bhatnagar will be unfurling the Tricolour at SK Stadium, Srinagar. DDC chairpersons will be chief guests at district headquarters.On Monday, a full-dress rehearsal parade was held at different district headquarters and in Srinagar.To avert any possible militant attack on the security installations or the venue of Republic Day parade functions, aerial surveillance of the places are been done on a daily basis.Three-tier security will be in place in the city on Wednesday. Police on Sunday conducted surprise checking at several places in the city and also additional surprise checking was carried out on the national highway and other highways of the Valley. Even in rural areas, the army has been conducting area domination operations at different places.“From the last one week, police along with Army and the CRPF has been busy in area domination in the city and other townships of Kashmir for peaceful Republic day function. Entire security arrangements are in place,” said inspector general of police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar, on the sidelines of full-dress rehearsal parade.The forces are on a high alert as militants could target forces or security installations on the eve of Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/multilevel-security-across-kashmir-ahead-of-republic-day-101643057835021.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Anti-CAA protest sites ‘picked near mosques’: Cops to court while opposing bail for Khalid||The Delhi Police on Monday, while opposing former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid’s bail plea, told a trial court that sites in Delhi for protests against the amended citizenship law were carefully picked because of their proximity to local mosques and were “purposely given secular names” to prove the legitimacy of the protests, arguing that agitators sought to “instigate the Muslim community” to join the stir.Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, claimed the organisers of the protest sites wanted to “create the groundwork for 24x7 sit-in protests”. He argued that the protest sites were “not organic” and alleged the role of “hidden elements like Popular Front of India (PFI), Jamat-e-Hind and Student Islamic Organisation of India” in their organisation.He alleged that a protest site in northeast Delhi’s Shreeram Colony was close to Noorani Masjid, the Sadar Bazar site was close to Shahi Idgaah, the Shastri Park site in east Delhi was close to the Wahid Jama Masjid and Gandhi Park protest site in south Delhi was near Jamila Masjid.“They spread misinformation and instigated the Muslim community to join the protests, including women and children,” the public prosecutor argued.The prosecution also said that northeast Delhi was “chosen for its social, economic matrix for mass-scale violence”.To this, the court asked, “But if you look at his speeches, Sharjeel Imam does not believe in any ideology starting from Gandhi till today. He only believes in himself. So how did he align with others?”Earlier, advancing his arguments on behalf of Khalid, senior advocate Trideep Pais told the court the statement of the witnesses showed that he was falsely implicated and a case can’t be made against him on half truths.Pais contended that police had written fanciful stories in the chargesheet and asked whether his client could be charged under UAPA for calling for road blockades in the city. Khalid and several others have been booked under UAPA and are accused of being the “masterminds” of the Delhi riots .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/anticaa-protest-sites-picked-near-mosques-cops-to-court-while-opposing-bail-for-khalid-101643056765005.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mandi hooch tragedy: CM Jai Ram Thakur takes on Congress, tells Oppn to behave sensibly||Two days after the Special Investigation Team of the police cracked the Mandi hooch tragedy case that led to the death of seven persons, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said his government was pondering over amending laws to crack down on criminals.“In case of death, as it happened in Mandi after the consumption of spurious liquor, the government will attach the properties of offenders to pay damages and compensate the aggrieved persons or next of kin of deceased,” said the chief minister, who also holds the excise and taxation portfolio. “Investigations which are at an advanced stage have found connection of Congress leader in the case,” he said while interacting with mediapersons. He flayed opposition leader Mukesh Agnihotri, saying that the Congress was blaming others when it has come to the fore that its own leaders are involved in the case. “Leader of the Opposition should behave responsibly,” he said, adding that his government has paid compensation to those who died in the tragedy. “People lost lives due to those involved in the illicit trade. My government has tried to help the families of the victims in the hour of crisis,” the CM said. Thakur also praised the Special Investigation Team of the police for cracking the case with high precision and speed.Two days ago the police had arrested Congress general secretary of Hamirpur district unit Neeraj Thakur. He was arrested from Chandigarh on Saturday evening after nine boxes of illegal liquor were seized from his commercial complex in Hamirpur.Initial investigation revealed that Thakur owned 17 liquor vends, a hotel and property worth crores. The SIT is scrutinising papers of his property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-hooch-tragedy-cm-jai-ram-thakur-takes-on-congress-tells-oppn-to-behave-sensibly-101643056512657.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two youths killed in snowstorm near Dharamshala in Himachal||Two youths were killed and two rescued after they were trapped in a snowstorm on the Rising Star hill overlooking Dharamshala town on Sunday.The deceased have been identified as Akash Kumar, 20, a resident of Nurpur who worked at Kuldeep Nagar, in Haryana’s Ambala district, and Rohit Kumar, 16, from Slate Godam village of Dharamshala.Two others, Rohit Kumar, 18, and Satyam, 15, both of them from Slate Godam village, have been admitted to the Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, and their condition is stated to be stable.The body of one of the deceased, Akash, has been recovered by the rescuers. Additional superintendent of police Puneet Raghu said the four friends had gone on trekking in the sliding zone area behind the Rising Star hill in the foothills of the Dhauladhar mountains. After they didn’t return home, the family members informed the police. A rescue team sent to search the missing youth on Saturday could not trace them amid heavy snowfall. “On Sunday three joint teams of Mountaineering Institute, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and local police resumed the search and rescue operation,” said Raghu. “Unfortunately, two of them have died. Both of them had sustained injuries after falling from a cliff and were unable to move,” he added. Raghu said the body of one of the deceased has been brought to the base camp. Local MLA Vishal Nehria, who was also involved in the rescue efforts, said that the government would provide all possible help to the families of youths killed in the mishap.Kangra had imposed a ban on trekking on a high hill in November last year till the winter season is over.Apart from it, the district administration issues warnings from time to time.Meanwhile, AICC secretary and former minister Sudhir Sharma has expressed grief over the loss of young lives in the incident.He said that young people could have been saved had there been proper rescue arrangements in place.Sharma said despite the fact that Dharamshala has the nearest snowline in the world, the hill town still lacks rescue facilities. “The government should make arrangements for rescue equipment, whether drones, helicopters, specialised teams and dog squads,” he said.Recent tragediesThree trekkers had died near Manimahesh Lake in Chamba on September 12 and 13, 2021, while undertaking the Parikrama of Manimahesh Kailash.Two trekkers were killed and 15 rescued on Manali-Khamengar Pass- Manirang trek route in Lahaul-Spiti district on September 24-25.Seven trekkers died after being caught in a snowstorm over the Lamkhaga Pass which connects Uttarkashi in Uttrakhand with Chhitkul in Kinnaur.Three trekkers were killed in a snowstorm on Buran Pass while trekking from Rohru of Shimla to Sangla in Kinnaur. Seven were rescued alive.
25-01-2022||Delhi||Man arrested for molesting woman in auto||A 24-year-old woman, working with a public bank, was molested and robbed of her handbag by an auto-rickshaw driver near Indira Gandhi Indoor stadium in central Delhi’s IP Estate on Monday morning.The suspect was arrested hours later, the police said.The woman’s mother had clicked a photograph of the auto-rickshaw and its registration number when her daughter boarded it from northeast Delhi around 6am on Monday. That photo helped the police identify and arrest the suspectDuring the incident, when the woman screamed for help, the driver panicked and accelerated the vehicle. The woman then jumped off the moving three-wheeler, receiving minor injuries in the process.The suspect managed to flee the crime scene with the woman’s handbag.Hours later, the police arrested him from east Delhi’s Kardampuri in the evening. He was identified as Gopal (28), said deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-molesting-woman-in-auto-101643055942672.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala: Excess rains leave crops inundated for 2nd time this month||Excessive rain over the last three days in Ambala and other Haryana districts have damaged rabi crops on a large scale for the second time this month. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chandigarh, 10.3 mm rainfall was recorded in Ambala on Monday and 14 mm on Sunday. The rainfall recorded in January is 504% more than the normal due to western disturbances, as per the MeT department. Farmers have been left high and dry because of no drainage facilities in their fields, primarily in the Naneola-Naggal belt along Hisar Road in Ambala-1 block. Earlier, during the first week of January, incessant rain showers had waterlogged fields in several areas. Nayab Singh, a farmer from Chourmastpur village, said that it took days to drain out water from his fields in the last spell of rain and a similar situation arose this time too. “All my wheat crop has been damaged this time due to rain and lack of proper drainage system. I worked for hours amid rains to make way to clear my waterlogged fields,” he said. Another farmer Mandeep Anttal said they urgently need help from the government. “Those who have insurance should get compensation and others through special girdawari (crop inspection),” he said. Meanwhile, the officials of the agriculture department said that the crop loss will be checked and a report will be submitted to the revenue department for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-excess-rains-leave-crops-inundated-for-2nd-time-this-month-101643055973853.html
25-01-2022||Gurugram||DTCP recommends FIRs against 31 for developing illegal colonies across Gurugram||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Monday recommended registration of first information reports (FIRs) against 31 people for their alleged involvement in developing seven illegal colonies in Gurugram.The illegal colonies were spread over 30 acres of land in Farrukhnagar, Bhondsi and Ghamroj, said officials.The DTCP officials also said that they issued several warnings and notices to the land owners and colonisers concerned, but they did not stop the development of the illegal colonies.“We had issued notices to these violators, but they did not stop... So, we have recommended registration of FIRs against 31 violators. Illegal colonisation will not be allowed in the district,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement).According to the DTCP, one FIR would be registered against 17 offenders for developing three separate illegal colonies over 12.5 acres in Farrukhnagar, the second FIR against five offenders for developing an illegal colony over six acres in Ghamroj, and another against nine violators for developing three illegal colonies over 11.5 acres in Bhondsi. In December 2021, the enforcement wing recommended registration of FIRs against 58 people for their alleged involvement in developing nine illegal colonies in Kherki Majra, Garhi Harsaru, Sultanpur and Gadoli Kalan. Bhath also said that over 35 FIRs have been registered against developers of illegal colonies in the past one year, and the DTCP conducted nearly 100 demolition drives during that period.“We have cleared 1,000 acres of land in illegal colonies, and have requested the residents to refrain from investing in properties which are liable to face demolition,” he added. The enforcement wing said that it will recover the cost of demolition drives from the violators, and has served notices for the recovery of ₹16 lakh from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-recommends-firs-against-31-for-developing-illegal-colonies-across-gurugram-101643055972274.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education department honours young achievers on Nat’l Girl Child Day||National Girl Child Day was celebrated virtually by the Chandigarh education department on Monday. The event was presided over by education secretary SS Gill and deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh along with officials from the education, social welfare and sports departments. The virtual event started with a song and dance performance presented by the students of Government Girls Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 18. Also, girl achievers were felicitated by the department of school education. Tarushi Gaur, recipient of Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Baal Puruskar, 2022, was honoured and ten girls from various government schools were felicitated as girl icons of the schools for exceptional achievement in fields like sports, music and arts. Usha Rani from Institution of Blind was also honoured for her achievements in sports. Gill lauded the efforts of the students, their parents and teachers and also interacted with students.Govt Home Science College holds poster-making, slogan-writing contestsGovernment Home Science College conducted a host of activities like online pledge taking and poster-making and slogan-writing competitions on the theme “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao”. Female achievers were also honoured.CCPCR organises webinarChandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) under the aegis of ‘Girls India Project’ organised a special webinar with 25 government and 25 private schools of Chandigarh. Chief guest Pam Rajput, professor (emeritus) at Centre for Women’s Studies and Development, Panjab University, said that it is important to change the mindset of the society at large regarding women and this must be started from the school level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-education-department-honours-young-achievers-on-nat-l-girl-child-day-101643055853840.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mandi hooch tragedy: Himachal Congress chief seeks judicial probe||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Monday demanded a judicial inquiry into the Mandi hooch tragedy in which seven people died after consuming toxic liquor.The government should order a judicial probe into this, he said, adding that how was it possible that the illegal liquor factory was operational for years and police or the excise department didn’t know about it.The state government swung into action only after seven people died and now the police are claiming to have cracked the case within hours.The question, however, is why couldn’t police detect the illegal business for years, said Rathore, adding that it was a complete failure of the government machinery and its department.Rathore said that the Congress has been continuously raising the issue of various mafias ruling the roost under the current regime. The government has failed to take concrete action against the liquor mafia, mining mafia, drug mafia and forest mafia, he alleged. He claimed that the lax attitude of the government on the liquor policy reflects its connivance with the liquor mafia.‘Party has no place for anti-social elements’On the involvement of Hamirpur district Congress official in the illegal liquor trade, Rathore said the party has no place for anti-social elements.Those who help or advocate such elements will not be spared either. “The party has already expelled the person found involved in the case,” he said.Rathore said the government cannot escape its responsibility by blaming the Congress. Rathore said because the mafia has spread its roots to the village and many big fish are suspected to be involved in it, therefore, it becomes necessary that the government should conduct a judicial inquiry into it so that the culprit can be brought to books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-hooch-tragedy-himachal-congress-chief-seeks-judicial-probe-101643055731367.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal extends Covid curbs till January 31; Solan reports highest cases||The Himachal Pradesh government on Monday extended the Covid curbs till January 31 besides imposing more restrictions for Statehood Day and Republic Day events.Order to this effect was issued by chief secretary-cum-chairman of State Executive Committee (SEC) Ram Subhag Singh.For Himachal Pradesh Statehood Day and Republic Day-related programmes scheduled in the districts, the limit for gatherings in open space is allowed up to 50% of the capacity ensuring strict adherence to the Covid-19 safety protocols and Covid-appropriate behaviour, states the order.In a bid to curb the virus spread, the state government had shut all the educational institutions except medical and nursing colleges on January 8. All the offices of government departments, PSUs, local bodies, autonomous bodies, including the state secretariat, are working five days a week and functioning with 50% staff capacity.50% increase in new infections over a weekHimachal Pradesh saw a 50% rise in new Covid-19 infections over the last week while the fatalities recorded a five-fold increase.As per the health department data, the state recorded 16,956 new infections in the week from January 16 to January 23 — the highest tally since May 2021 when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak.As many as 42 people died of the infection during this period. In the previous week (January 9-15) the state logged 11,280 cases and only nine deaths.The positivity rate has climbed to 20% from just 1% in the last week of December 2021, when the third wave hit the state. As many as 84,625 samples were tested in the state.Solan was the worst-hit district last week recording 2,726 fresh infections. Kangra, the most populous district, recorded 2,695 cases while Shimla logged 2,647 cases and Mandi 2,103 cases.Sirmaur (1,597), Hamirpur (1,338) and Una (1,215) were other districts to record more than 1,000 cases. Lahaul-Spiti recorded the lowest 46 cases.Among the 42 fatalities, highest 14 were reported in Kangra, eight in Shimla, six in Una, five in Mandi, three each in Chamba and Solan, two in Sirmaur and one in Hamirpur.11 more die of Covid in Himachal
25-01-2022||Gurugram||With reading of 121, air quality of Gurugram improves to ‘moderate’ after 1 week||The air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram improved to the “moderate” category at 121 on Monday, following rainfall over the weekend and a high wind speed, according to Central Pollution Control Board.On Sunday, the city recorded the AQI at the “poor” category with the reading at 205, it showed.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Gurugram last recorded the air quality in the “moderate” category on January 16, with the AQI at 181.Sachin Panwar, an independent air quality expert based in Gurugram, said, “Due to a high wind speed of around 12-15 kmph in the past two days, and also light rainfall, the AQI in the city has improved to the ‘moderate’ category. It might deteriorate in the coming days due to smog.” According to a bulletin released by the Air Quality Early Warning System (AQEWS) for Delhi, the AQI in the national capital is likely to remain in the “poor” category over the next five days, with the wind speed around six to eight kilometre per hour (kmph).The city witnessed shallow fog on Monday morning, following a clear day from afternoon onwards.On Monday, the city recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures at 15 degrees Celsius and 8.4 degrees Celsius -- six degrees below normal and two degrees above normal. The minimum temperature has dropped by two degrees in the past 24 hours, said the officials. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued an alert predicting dense fog and cold day conditions on Tuesday in south Haryana, including Gurugram and Faridabad.A weather bulletin issued by the Meteorological Centre Chandigarh on Monday predicted that the region will experience a gradual decrease in the minimum temperature by three to five degrees in the next five days.Manmohan Singh, director of the Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, said, “Between January 25 and 29, cold wave conditions are very likely in isolated pockets across the state. During the next two days, dense fog conditions at isolated pockets during night and morning hours are very likely in the south Haryana region, with a possibility of visibility dropping below 500m at some places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/with-reading-of-121-air-quality-of-gurugram-improves-to-moderate-after-1-week-101643055254967.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: CPI to contest 21 seats, releases names of 15 candidates||BATHINDA: The Communist Party of India (CPI) on Monday decided to contest on 21 seats in the February 20 Punjab assembly polls, while expressing resentment against the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM).At a press conference in Bathinda, CPI state secretary Bant Singh Brar released the list of 15 candidates, including Krishan Chauhan from Budhlada (SC), Surinder Singh (Jalalabad), Guranditta Singh (Nihalsinghwala) and Amarjit Singh Ansal (Amritsar West). The list did not have any prominent state leaders. On the occasion, Brar accused SSM leader Balbir Singh Rajwal of trying to sideline the Left groups in the morcha.“The CPI agreed to be part of the SSM for its larger political commitments. It was conveyed that our candidates will contest on the Left symbol. We were promised nine tickets but later three tickets were cancelled without citing any reason by the SSM,” he said.Former MLA and CPI’s national executive member Hardev Arshi expressed displeasure to the SSM’s choice of candidates, including gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who has been fielded from the Maur segment.“Rajewal is taking all electoral decisions without consulting other constituents of the SSM. Candidates should be non-controversial, who had contributed to the farmer agitation. The onus to keep the SSM united lies with its leadership,” said Arshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-cpi-to-contest-21-seats-releases-names-of-15-candidates-101643055191679.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ram Rahim plea: Taking back sacrilege cases from CBI even stamped by , SIT tells HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab Police have told the Punjab and Haryana high court that even the apex court has stamped the Punjab government’s decision of taking back the probe into the 2015 sacrilege cases from Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and constituting an special investigation team (SIT) for the same. The SIT response came to a plea from Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh filed on December 13 demanding that the CBI be asked to continue with the probe into the sacrilege FIRs of 2015. The plea demanded quashing of the Punjab government notification of September 6, 2018, wide which the consent given to the CBI to investigate three FIRs of sacrilege cases was withdrawn. The SIT says five FIRs were registered for five different incidents of sacrilege in 2015 reported within 25 km of area in a span of five months, which points towards a well-planned conspiracy to hurt the sentiments of Sikhs and to disturb peace and tranquillity. Moreover, from the modus operandi, it was evident that people of a close-knit and large organisation were behind all these incidents, the SIT claimed.The court has further been told that in November 2015, the then SAD government sent three FIRs for the CBI probe. When even in three years the CBI failed to trace the accused, a Punjab Police SIT was tasked with the probe. Subsequently, the Punjab government withdrew the consent and the SIT was re-constituted. As the CBI did not stop the probe, the matter went up to Supreme Court, which found withdrawal of consent “proper and legal”, the SIT said. The court has further been informed that after this episode, one of the accused, Sukhjinder Singh, took the matter again to the Supreme Court. However, the apex court upheld the decision. Therefore, the matter has concluded now, it submitted.The SIT says the dera chief has been nominated as an accused in some cases and quizzed too on some occasions. From the investigation of five cases, a challan has been presented in four cases. The probe would clearly indicate that conspiracy of the scurrilous acts was hatched at the dera premises. There are common accused, Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kler, who were members of the national committee of the Dera Sacha Sauda and have directed the actual perpetrators to commit the crime, it claims. “It is clear that if the planning of the crime was made at dera headquarters and the petitioner being head of the dera is bound to be involved in these criminal activities, keeping in mind the criminal bend of mind of the petitioner as he has already been convicted in three cases of murder and rape. Under these circumstances, the involvement of the petitioner is prime facie is made out,” the SIT claims adding that sacrilege incidents were committed by the followers of the dera under his “direct” command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ram-rahim-plea-taking-back-sacrilege-cases-from-cbi-even-stamped-by-sit-tells-hc-101643054951589.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||Bolts found missing from railway bridge in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW A series of nuts and bolts, used to keep iron girders intact, were found missing from a railway bridge (no 297) between Ayodhya and Acharya Narendra Dev Nagar by the patrolling squad on Sunday morning.The problem was fixed after the railways staff informed higher authorities. . Ashutosh Gangal, general manager (GM), Northern Railway (NR) confirmed the incident in a video statement, saying that the police and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) were investigating into the matter. “The matter came to light on Sunday morning when the key man spotted six bolts missing from the bridge. Of these six, three were meant to keep the iron girders in place while the other three were meant to keep the rail intact with the sleeper,” stated the GM. He further said a similar patrol squad was on duty on Saturday also, but they didn’t notice anything unusual then. Gangal said it was possible that the bolts were removed during the wee hours of Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bolts-found-missing-from-railway-bridge-in-ayodhya-101643054891627.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 39 Covid-19 deaths, highest in 3rd wave||Chandigarh :Punjab on Monday reported 5,778 fresh Covid cases, taking the infection court to 7,19,142, according to a medical bulletin. With 39 Covid-related fatalities, the highest in third wave, the death toll in the state reached 17,023, it said. Mohali topped the list with 1,097 Covid cases with a positivity rate of 67.97% against the state’s positivity rate of 17.86%. Ludhiana registered 666 cases followed by 529 in Jalandhar, 455 in Amritsar, 446 in Hoshiarpur, 376 in Bathinda, 292 in Kapurthala and 221 in Moga, the bulletin said. Maximum seven deaths were reported in Ludhaina followed by six in Patiala and five in Amritsar. With 6,479 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 6,56,474 in the state. There are 45,645 active cases in the state, the bulletin said. A total of 2,75,246 doses of vaccine were administered on Monday. Ex-CM Badal discharged from hospitalLudhiana: Five days after former chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch tested positive for Covid, he was discharged from the DMCH, Ludhiana, on Monday. The hospital authorities sent his samples for genome sequencing and it was detected that he was infected with the Omicron variant of the virus. Former cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal said that Badal had mild symptoms when admitted and he was discharged from the hospital after treatment on Monday. However, doctors have suggested that he should remain isolated for a few more days for speedy recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-39-covid-19-deaths-highest-in-3rd-wave-101643054835641.html
25-01-2022||Gurugram||How gangs are using spoof applications to dupe people||Gurugram: Members of several gangs posed as bank executives and duped at least 200 people across Haryana in the last two months on the pretext of increasing their credit card limits by using call spoofing applications, said police.Police said similar cases were registered at Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Rewari, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak and Sonipat. They are still investigating over 400 complaints. Cyber crime police stations in all districts have written to banks and application developers to ensure safe and secure transactions but the process is taking time, said police.Commissioner of police KK Rao said that victims believed the perpetrators because they used spoofing apps to make it seem like they were calling via banks’ real customer care numbers. “People shared their credit card details and one-time passwords (OTP) with the perpetrators, who then transferred money from the victims’ bank accounts to their own, and withdrew it from different locations so that they could not be identified. The process of obtaining the perpetrators’ IP addresses and mobile locations is taking time, because of which the registration of several cases is getting delayed,” he said.Rao added, “The suspects are using spoof applications such as X-lite, Eyebeam and Indicall and posing as bank officials, telecom executives and insurance agents to dupe people.”NK Singh, a senior manager with an automobile company and a resident of Sector 57 in Gurugram, said that he was duped of ₹1.75 lakh after a man posing as a bank executive offered to redeem points on his credit card and offered him an iPhone 13 Pro Max. “I was on my way to a meeting and was in a hurry when the ‘bank executive’ called me. He informed me that I had been offered the latest mobile phone and they want to send it to my house. I shared my address and he asked me to verify the credit card details. While on call, I received an OTP which he asked me to share with him and before the call got disconnected money was transferred from my savings account,” he said.In another incident, a 40-year-old woman was duped of ₹1.50 lakh after she shared the details of her bank account and OTP with a man posing as a bank executive. “I received a call on December 15 from a man who introduced himself as a bank executive and offered me a free holiday package. It was a 15-minute call, I shared the OTP I received and ₹1.50 lakh was transferred from my account,” she said.The Gurugram Police have arrested over 55 members of at least six different gangs from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Telangana, Delhi and Nuh in the last two months in connection with similar cases.According to police, during questioning, most suspects revealed they used different modus operandi to dupe people using spoof applications and emails. In many cases, they use mobile apps to create spoof emails supposedly sent by telecom providers, banks or social media sites. Once a user clicks on a link provided in the email, they are then susceptible to fraud.In several cases, perpetrators also used the names of well-known placement companies and matrimony sites to dupe unsuspecting victims.“We received over 200 complaints whereing victims said they were duped on the pretext of jobs, loans and dating offers via emails. We tracked the emails and found that all the companies in question had no information about such mails being sent out. A thorough check revealed that the fraudulent mails were being sent with the help of spoofing apps,” said Narender Kadiyan, Faridabad deputy commissioner of police (crime).Police said it is convenient for perpetrators anywhere to send an email to anyone from any ID.Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police (SP), Jind, said that perpetrators target victims after scanning their details and grievances on social media accounts and take advantage of their concerns and call them using spoofing apps. “At times people post their bad experience son social media regarding banks, companies or loan issues. Perpetrators note the details and call the victims from a toll-free number posing as bank executives from the credit card division or senior managers of job portals,” he said.He added that victims follow their instructions and lose money from their accounts.Commissioner Rao said: “Perpetrators make spoof calls using X-lite and Eyebeam--these two apps are very popular these days. They display actual toll-free numbers of banks so that if anyone checks on the Internet, they assume it is a genuine call,” he said.According to cyber experts, hackers use several methods to steal victims’ money. “Using spoofing applications is one method. There are also other applications such as Easy Loan- the moment you install the app, all your personal data is stolen from your device, including contacts and photos, which can then be misused to extort money. Also, by using screen-sharing apps such as Anydesk or Team Viewer, anyone can try to steal your OTPs, etc. from your device. They can also ask you to install apps such as SMS Forwarder, which automatically gives your OTP to hackers. Stay safe and call 155260 in case of any monetary loss or log on to www.cybercrime.gov.in,” said Rakshit Tandon, a cyber security advisor.Police said they have been spreading awareness and have asked people not to share their OTPs with anyone as no bank or insurance company asks for it.. 
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU semester exams: 88k students appear on Day 1||The odd semester exams of Panjab University (PU) started in online mode on Monday after being delayed for over a month.As many as 88,000 undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students appeared on Day 1. The time-slots for the examinations are 9.30am to 12.30pm and 1.30pm to 4.30pm. Controller of examination Dr Jagat Bhushan said that examinations for 35 and 48 UG and PG subjects were conducted. “The examinations were conducted smoothly as per the plan and there were no hiccups,” he said. The semester exams were earlier scheduled to be held from December, however, PU had to postpone them due to the teachers’ strike in universities and colleges.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSDehradun flight forced to land in Chandigarh Due to bad weather in the region, a Dehradun-bound IndiGo flight was forced to land at the Chandigarh International Airport on Monday. “IndiGo flight 6E-7401 was forced to land in Chandigarh at 10.12am after departing from Delhi. It later left for Dehradun at 11.40am,” said the airport authorities. Apart from this, seven flights were cancelled due to operational reasons. These included Air India’s AI 805/806 flight to Kullu, Go First’s G8-2503 to Mumbai and G8-1108 to Delhi, Air Vistara’s UK654 to Mumbai and UK660 to Hyderabad, IndiGo’s 6E-2177 to Delhi and 6E-6003 to Leh. 26-yr-old held with banned vialsA 26-year-old resident of Halomajra was arrested with banned vials. The accused has been identified as Ranjit Singh. He was arrested by a police patrolling team in Industrial area and 1,000 capsules of Diclomine Hydrochloride, Tramadol Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen were recovered from him. A drugs case has been registered. PU scholars win e-presentation awardTwo Panjab University (PU) research scholars – Alisha Lalhall and Rohit Sharma – have won the first and third e-presentation awards, respectively, in the 5th international conference on advances in biosciences and biotechnology . They were both working under the supervision of UIET assistant professor Nishima||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-semester-exams-88k-students-appear-on-day-1-101643054831755.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pak wanted Sidhu reinstated as Punjab minister, says Capt||New Delhi: Former Punjab chief minister and Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday claimed he had got a message from Pakistan to reinstate Navjot Singh Sidhu in his government because he was an old friend of their prime minister.Asked about the allegation at a press conference, Sidhu dubbed Amarinder as a “spent cartridge” and refused to comment further on the matter.Amarinder, who has floated a new party after leaving the Congress and is fighting next month’s Punjab assembly polls in an alliance with the BJP, said he was told that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan would be grateful if he could keep Sidhu in the government.Amarinder, who had dropped Sidhu from the Punjab government during his tenure as chief minister, never had smooth relations with the cricketer-turned-politician and was against his appointment as the Punjab unit chief of the Congress.“I removed Sidhu from the job, the man was totally incompetent, incapable and totally useless. In seventy days he didn’t complete a file. I told him I don’t want you in my government. Then several weeks later I got a message from somebody we both know, he knows and also I know. I got a message from Pakistan that the prime minister (Imran Khan) has sent a request that if you can take Sidhu in your cabinet, he will be grateful. Sidhu is an old friend of his. And if he doesn’t work you can remove him,” Amarinder said during a press conference at the BJP headquarters here to announce a seat-sharing arrangement.The former chief minister, however, did not specify who gave him the message.Amarinder also suggested that he has stayed in contact with old political families of Pakistan and said during his earlier tenure as chief minister of Punjab, then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh “asked me to make contact and see if there can be some friendship between Pravez Elahi and us.” Elahi was the chief minister of Pakistan’s Punjab province during 2002-07.In the press conference, Amarinder also expressed concern about a large amount of weaponry coming from across the border to disturb the hard-earned peace of Punjab.On Sunday, he had alleged in Chandigarh that Sidhu has “no brains” and also claimed that he had advised Congress president Sonia Gandhi five years ago not to induct “this incompetent man” into the party.Sidhu and Amarinder had been at loggerheads and never had cordial relations from the very beginning the Congress formed government in Punjab in 2017. Sidhu was dropped from the cabinet of the Singh-led government in the state, but appointed as the Congress state unit chief, against the wishes of Amarinder.Later, Amarinder resigned as chief minister of the state and move out of the Congress by floating his own political outfit Punjab Lok Congress and forged alliance with Punjab. At the press conference of Sidhu in Chandigarh, Congress leader Alka Lamba fielded a volley of questions on Amarinder’s allegation and said answer to it will be given in the next press meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pak-wanted-sidhu-reinstated-as-punjab-minister-says-capt-101643054651918.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai, MMR seem to have crossed third wave peak, says health dept||Mumbai: In what could be a relief for Mumbai, its surrounding areas, the Maharashtra health department officials said that the city, Thane, Raigad, and Palghar may have crossed the peak of the third wave of Covid-19. The health department officials said that the situation in Maharashtra could be stabilising with the third wave crossing the peak in the densely populated urban areas. However, with other areas still to hit the peak, any laxity could overturn the trend, they cautioned.Mumbai on Sunday reported the lowest, 2,550, Covid-19 cases since in last three weeks or 23 days of January. Further, the city also repsaw the drop in the daily positivity rate to 5.54%, the lowest in the last three weeks. The hospitalisation rate too has come down to 10.765 from 21% two weeks ago. Maharashtra recorded its lowest single-day increase in Covid-19 cases since January 17 as it added 28,286. Monday’s dip in the cases can be attributed to a drop in the number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 141,949 samples and had a positivity rate of 19.92%. The state daily average tests are around 190,000-200,000.Mumbai, meanwhile, added 1,857 fresh Covid-19 cases--its lowest single-day tally since December 28, 2021. The city also reported 11 deaths. Mumbai’s active cases stood at 16,546.The state’s active case count is at a touching distance of 300,000 and stood at 299,604 on Monday--its highest so far in the third wave of Covid infections. Maharashtra also added 36 deaths, taking the tally to 142,151.According to the data, Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune districts have reported a substantial number of Covid cases in the third wave so far. In January alone, the health department’s data showed that these districts have a 37.44% increase in their cases. The data also showed that other districts too have seen an increase in daily cases from the previous month.Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary (health), said, “Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad and Thane seems to have crossed the peak. Pune will peak in seven days or so. While other districts are expected to peak at different times, so we are keeping a close watch.”A senior health department official added that the situation could be stabilising as key urban centres which have a dense population and high mobility have peaked out. “The rural and semi-urban areas of the state are seeing cases, but there is no surge that we saw in Mumbai, Pune earlier this month. So largely we are stabilising. but we need to remain cautious,” he said.The rural and semi-urban areas of the state are reporting more cases as the Omicron variant spreads to other parts, officials said. Vyas added that about 45% of samples tested in genome sequencing in the state showed the Omicron variant’s dominance and the rest are Delta variant. He added that the proportion varies between districts.Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force, too maintained a cautious stand on the overall Covid situation in the state. He said, “Some districts such as Mumbai, MMR, etc have stabilised but it is early to say that the wave has stabilised across the state.”Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 86 new cases of Omicron variant, taking the total tally to 2845. Out of these, 1,454 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test. Of the new cases reported on Friday, 47 were from Nagpur, 28 from Pune city, three from Pimpri-Chinchwad, two from Wardha and one each from Mumbai, Amravati, Yavatmal, Bhandara, Thane city, and Pune rural.
25-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 31-year-old man arrested for assaulting wife with dumbbell on road||Police arrested a 31-year-old man on Sunday for allegedly assaulting his estranged wife with a dumbbell rod on a road near Umang Bhargav Chowk in Gurugram Sector 10, said officials. The victim, Sunaina Singh, 23, suffered serious head injuries and a fracture in her left hand during the attack on Saturday evening. She was taken to a private hospital in Sector 10 and is undergoing treatment, police said on Monday. An FIR was registered against the husband, Ajit Singh, under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt), and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) at the Sector 10 police station on Sunday evening.Police launched a probe and arrested Ajit near Himgiri Chowk in Sector 10 on Sunday evening and sent him to judicial custody that night, said the officials. According to the victim, she was walking towards her house in Basai Enclave from her office near Umang Bhargav Chowk, when Ajit suddenly came on her way and hit her multiple times in quick succession. “By the time passersby could understand what was happening, he had hit me with a dumbbell rod at least eight to 10 times on the head and other body parts. I fell unconscious and don’t remember anything after that,” Sunaina told police over the phone.She also said that the couple has been living separately for almost eight months following a discord between them. “I filed a divorce petition with the prayer to give custody of our seven-year-old daughter to me. Ajit did not let me bring my child with me,” Sunaina said, adding that there has not been much development in the divorce case so far and the next hearing was scheduled for April this year. Police have also recovered the dumbbell used to assault Sunaina from the spot. “The suspect revealed during interrogation that he had stopped Sunaina to talk about a reconciliation, but it turned into a heated argument, and he assaulted her with the dumbbell rod,” said a police officer privy to the case, requesting anonymity.The officer also said that Ajit was carrying the dumbbell rod, which was nearly 2kg, inside his jacket.Naveen Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 10 police station, said that the assault was a fallout of their marital dispute. “Further investigation is underway,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-31-year-old-man-arrested-for-assaulting-wife-with-dumbbell-on-road-101643054531548.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Sidhu terms AAP’s ‘CM face phone survey’ a scam, lodges complaint with EC||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday submitted a complaint to the Election Commission (EC) against the Aam Aadmi Party’s “Janata Chunegi Apna CM” phone survey to name its chief ministerial candidate, calling it a “scam” and “fake propaganda”. The PPCC chief, in his complaint addressed to the Chief Election Commissioner, said that prima facie the AAP’s survey seems to be “fake”, as the data with respect to 21.59 lakh phone calls, voice messages and WhatsApp messages within just four days is not mathematically logical. He also demanded registration of a case against the AAP through its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal if his charges are found to be true. Kejriwal had on January 18 named the AAP’s Punjab unit president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann as the chief ministerial face of the party in the state following its phone survey. “The party received 21.59 lakh responses from people during the drive to pick the CM face. Of them, 93.3% respondents took Bhagwant Mann’s name,” Kejriwal had said, while announcing his name at an event in Mohali. Releasing his complaint to the media at a press conference in Chandigarh, the Congress leader said the AAP was trying to fool the people of Punjab through its “deceptive” scheme. “This mechanism of deceit to create an illusion and propaganda of fake news is a complete violation of the model code of conduct,” he said, calling Kejriwal a “trickster”. In the complaint, Sidhu said the AAP claimed that they have received 7 lakh WhatsApp messages, 2.5 lakh voice messages and 8 lakh voice calls, but this does not make sense at all. “Usually, such calls take at least 15 seconds, then only 5,760 calls can be attended in one day and that shall add up to 23,040 calls in four days,” he wrote, asking the Election Commission to direct the AAP to shut this campaign and issue a public retraction. He also requested the poll panel to direct the party to provide all call and message logs for verification.Sidhu a ‘drama queen’: Chadha Calling Sidhu a “drama queen” of Punjab politics, AAP’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha said that no one, not even the Congress, takes Sidhu seriously. He said the purpose of Sidhu’s press conference was to divert the attention of people from the issue of sand mafia and seized money and properties in ED raids. Condemning Sidhu’s remarks, Chadha said that he is leader of the ruling party of the state and should choose his words more carefully and be more responsible. “The thing hurting Sidhu is that neither the people of Punjab, nor the Congress wants him as the chief minister. That’s why he is now making shoddy statements,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-sidhu-terms-aap-s-cm-face-phone-survey-a-scam-lodges-complaint-with-ec-101643054471549.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali court awards 2 Ludhiana men 10 years RI in drugs case||Mohali additional district and session judge Harjit Kaur Kaleke on Monday sentenced two Ludhiana residents to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment in a drug smuggling case. A fine of ₹1 lakh each was also imposed on the convicts.In October 2018, the two convicts, Gurinder Singh, alias Gindi, and Prince Sharma were arrested by the special task force (STF) of Mohali police, and 850gm heroin was recovered from them. They were nabbed from the Airport road while entering Mohali to sell the contraband.The STF in its charge sheet alleged that the two smugglers used to procure heroin from Delhi and sold it in Mohali, Ropar, Kharar, Ludhiana, Samrala, Chandigarh and Morinda at higher rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-court-awards-2-ludhiana-men-10-years-ri-in-drugs-case-101643054411264.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 2.5K cases on Sunday, lowest in last three weeks||Mumbai on Sunday reported the lowest, 2,550, Covid-19 cases since in last three weeks or 23 days of January. Further, the city also saw the drop in the daily positivity rate to 5.54%, the lowest in the last three weeks. The hospitalisation rate too has come down to 10.765 from 21% two weeks ago. With the fresh cases reporrted in the last 24 hours, the case tally in Mumbai touched 1,033,915 and toll to 16,535 after reporting 13 new deaths on Sunday. According to the state health department data, the city’s recovery rate is 96% with 994,889 recoveries, while the mortality rate is 1.59%. There are 19,808 active cases in the city and further zero Omicron variant Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, and the total toll remains to be 1,099. Further, the hospitalisation rate in the city has come down from 21% (15 days ago) to 10.76% Sunday. Out of the total 37,741 beds in the city, 4,011 are occupied.According to BMC data, currently 799,512 citizens who are either infected, close contacts or travellers are under home quarantine in the city and there are 24 sealed buildings in the city and zero containment zones, as of Sunday.However, BMC officials said the number of cases has gone down owing to decreased testing in the weekend. On Sunday, 45,993 tests were reported, which is lesser than an average of around 50,000 to 52,000 tests in Mumbai during the week. Though the cases have started falling down considering the positivity rate has come down to around 5% from 29% in the first week of January, BMC officials have warned citizens of any further spike, in case Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is not followed.Meanwhile, in the coming week the results of genomic sequencing is expected to be released by the BMC. In the last such results declared on December 31, 2021, 56% of the total over 200 samples were detected with Omicron variant.On Sunday (changes from Saturday)Daily cases :- 2,550 (-1018)Deaths :- 13 (+3)Hospitalisation status :-Total beds:- 37,741 (-5)Occupied:- 4,455 (-325)On oxygen bed:- 1,798(-107)Ventilators:- 592 (+3)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-2-5k-cases-on-sunday-lowest-in-last-three-weeks-101643054293984.html
25-01-2022||Noida||Man arrested with illegal weapons in Noida||Days ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, Noida police arrested an alleged inter-state weapons smuggler involved in the illegal supply of arms and ammunitions in the national capital region (NCR).The Uttar Pradesh assembly election is scheduled to be held from February 10 to March 7 in seven phases. Gautam Budh Nagar goes to polls in the first phase on February 10Police identified the man as Raja Thakur, 25, from Khagaria in Bihar. They said he currently lives in Gijhore village in Sector 53.Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Noida, said that police received information about the suspect’s movement near Som Bazar in Sector 53. A police team reached the spot and arrested him. “The police recovered four countrymade guns and two live cartridges from his possession,” he said.“During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he would smuggle countrymade guns from Bihar’s Munger and sell them to people in Delhi-NCR. The suspect revealed that two accomplices helped him,” he said.The police said that a 0.32 bore Munger pistol can fetch between ₹20,000 and ₹25,000 on the black market.Police registered a case against the suspect under sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act at the Sector 24 police station on Monday. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” police said.The ACP said that police teams are searching for the man’s two alleged accomplices.Meanwhile, Sector 58 police on Monday also seized ₹3 lakh from a Mahindra Scorpio SUV in Noida Sector 60.Vinod Kumar, SHO, Sector 58 police station, said that a police team and a Static Surveillance Team (SST) were conducting a checking exercise when they spotted a person in the SUV. “The police team checked the vehicle and found ₹3 lakh inside it. The driver was identified as Kamakhya Prasad Mishra, 35, who failed to reveal the source of money and its use. We have seized the vehicle and cash and launched an investigation into the matter,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-with-illegal-weapons-in-noida-101643054292760.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||AAP delegation meets guv, seeks FIR in illegal sand mining racket||Chandigarh : A delegation of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) submitted a memorandum to Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday seeking his intervention for registration of FIR in the multilayered illegal sand mining racket in the state. The delegation led by AAP’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha informed the governor that crores of rupees and documents were seized in the ED raids on chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s relative. He demanded a “more thorough and impartial inquiry” into the case. The AAP had been alleging for a long time that sand mafia was operating in Punjab, including Jindapur village of the chief minister’s constituency, no action was taken despite complaint, Chadha claimed. Quoting former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh claim that Channi’s name had come up in this connection when he was a minister and conversation with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Chadha said instead of taking action, the Congress high command promoted him to the chief minister’s position. In response to a query, the AAP leader said there was no denying that the raid on Channi’s relative was part of political vendetta, but the recovery of cash, gold and other assets raised suspicions and, hence, the demand for an impartial inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-delegation-meets-guv-seeks-fir-in-illegal-sand-mining-racket-101643054291537.html
25-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram health department writes letter to schools, RWAs to vaccinate all teens||The district health department on Monday wrote to schools and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the city, urging them to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to all the eligible beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group.Vaccination against Covid-19 for children in the 15-18 age category started across the country on January 3 this year.According to officials of the health department, the “pace of vaccination has seen a fall” amid a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported in the district. 908 teenagers in the 15-18 age group received the first dose of the vaccine on Monday, with a total of 10,425 children being administered the jab In the past one week. However, after the vaccination drive for the 15-18 age group started on January 3, more than 10,000 vaccine doses were administered to the teenagers in a single day, during the first week, they said.Earlier, the district health department set the deadline to vaccinate 100% of the eligible teenagers with the first dose of the vaccine by January 10 itself.“There are approximately 151,000 people in the 15-18 age group in Gurugram, and over 98,000 of them have got the jab already. This figure was decided based on the last census, and keeping the growth rate in mind... Many children are yet to get the jab... The list on the eligible beneficiaries is likely to be revised this week, but meanwhile, we have written a letter to all the schools and RWAs in Gurugram to ensure that everyone in the 15-18 age group get the jab at the earliest... as Covid cases are still on the rise,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. On January 15, Haryana health minister Anil Vij announced that children who have not taken the jab will not be allowed to enter schools across the state.Officials said that they are hoping the vaccination numbers might increase in the coming days as a response to the letters sent. In the past one week, the number of session sites in government and private schools has also reduced in the district from over 50 in the first week to less than 10. Officials said that this is because children in most schools have been vaccinated. “Children in most of the private schools have been administered the first dose of the vaccine. In some schools only, maximum five to 10 children are yet to be vaccinated. Separate vaccination camps for these many students would not be set up. We are now focusing on door-to-door vaccination drives, and these children are also included in this. All the children can also take the jab at government health centres in the city,” Singh added. On Monday, a total of 10,803 doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered, including 4,097 first doses, 5,092 second doses and 1,614 precautionary doses. Over 4,730,000 (4.73 million) doses have been administered to the people in Gurugram so far. According to the district health bulletin, Gurugram on Monday reported 2,057 fresh Covid cases, with the positivity rate at 21.26% -- a decline of 3% in 24 hours, from 24% on Saturday. Two more Covid deaths were also reported in the district on Monday. The patients suffered from comorbidities, said the health officials. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “Two Covid deaths were reported in the district on Monday. One of the deceased was an 83-year-old man, who suffered from diabetes mellitus. He suffered a stroke on Monday. He was fully vaccinated... The second person was a 61-year-old woman, who was completely unvaccinated, and had abdominal ailments.”947 deaths have been reported in the district since the start of the pandemic in 2020, of which 629 patients suffered from comorbidities. 18 Covid-positive patients died in the district in January this year. On Monday, the district reported 15,022 active Covid cases, of which 175 were hospitalised. 5,993 recoveries were also seen on Monday. The total number of recoveries in the district in the past two days has been higher than that of the daily Covid cases.The health department has collected 9,675 samples for Covid testing in the past 24 hours, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-health-department-writes-letter-to-schools-rwas-to-vaccinate-all-teens-101643054231553.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab‘provocative speech’: three-member SIT formed to probe case||SANGRUR: Two days after Punjab’s former director general of police Mohammad Mustafa, who is a principal strategic adviser to state Congress unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, was booked for allegedly making communal remarks at a public meeting in Malerkotla, the police formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter on Monday.Malerkotla senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said: “An SIT will be headed by superintendent of police (investigation).”Malerkotla SP (investigation) Ramesh Choudhary, who is heading the probe, said deputy superintendent of police (DSP-D) and in-charge, crime investigation agency (CIA), are members of the SIT.“The police registered a case on the basis of a video that went viral on social media. However, we will find principal sources of the video and it will be verified,” added the SP.The case was registered against Mustafa under Section 125 of the Representation of the People Act (Promoting enmity between classes in connection with election) and 153-A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal code at City-1 Police Station Malerkotla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabprovocative-speech-three-member-sit-formed-to-probe-case-101643054113757.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh girl Tarushi wins PM Bal Shakti award for taekwondo||Tarushi Gaur, 12, has been awarded the Pradhan Mantri Bal Shakti Award for excelling in taekwondo. She received the award in the sports category from Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a virtual ceremony which was telecast live on Doordarshan on Monday . Tarushi is the only awardee from the tricity so far, and the first and the only person to get this award for taekwondo.A student of The British School, Sector 44, she has been training at Emerald Martial Arts in Panchkula since the age of three under Shiv Raj Gharti, who is a 5th Dan Black Belt from South Korea. Union women and child development minister Smriti Zubin Irani and minister of state Munjpara Mahendrabhai were also present during the ceremony. Tarushi received a medal, a cash prize of ₹1 lakh and a certificate. A total 29 children from 21 states from the fields of innovation, social service, scholastic, sports, art and culture, and bravery were selected for the award from all over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-girl-tarushi-wins-pm-bal-shakti-award-for-taekwondo-101643054112518.html
25-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad: 18 nominations rejected, mostly over affidavit mistakes||The process of scrutiny of 73 nominations filed by candidates from the five seats of Ghaziabad district ended Monday with 18 nominations being for different reasons, the primary one being discrepancies in the submitted affidavit by candidates. With the scrutiny process over, 55 candidates are left in the fray in Ghaziabad for the upcoming assembly elections, the voting for which will be held on February 10, under the first phase of the seven-phase elections. All eyes are now on the withdrawal of nominations, which is allowed till 3pm, January 27. Thereafter, the final list of contesting candidates in the district will be declared. The Ghaziabad district has five assembly seats of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar with overall 2,899,484 eligible voters, including a part of the Dhaulana constituency of Hapur district. According to the scrutiny records of the district election office, 18 nominations were rejected by the respective returning officers mainly for wrong filling of Form 26, which mentions a candidate’s details of income tax returns filed, criminal cases, details of movable and immovable assets, loans, government dues, personal details of th candidate as well as those of her spouse and other family members. “Incomplete Form 26 may lead to rejection of nomination but we serve one notice to candidates for making corrections. In case the affidavit in the form of Form 26 is still incomplete or has substantial errors, the nomination is rejected. But a candidate is given at least one chance to rectify mistakes,” said Vivek Srivastava, additional district election officer. The records showed that one nomination was rejected from Modinagar seat, four from Ghaziabad seat, five from Sahibabad, six from Muradnagar and two from Loni. In most of the rejected nominations, the candidates either did not file the Form 26 after they were served notice or they submitted an incomplete form even after being given a chance to rectify it. In the case of a nomination from Loni, one of the candidates did not deposit the required amount as security deposit. In Ghaziabad assembly segment, one nomination was rejected as the proposers did not sign the affidavit while in the case of one other candidate, the two proposers were of a different constituency. According to the officials, all five candidates of major political parties such as the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal combine, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) cleared the scrutiny process on Monday. Before the scrutiny stage, Ranjita Dhama, chairperson of Loni Nagar Palika, brewed up a storm when she in a video message said one of her rivals was allegedly conniving with officials to get her nomination rejected. She also threatened to end her life in front of the chief minister’s office if that happens. Dhama last week resigned from the primary membership of the BJP over not being given the party ticket from Loni, which went to sitting MLA Nand Kishor Gurjar. Later she filed her nomination as an independent candidate from Loni and her nomination got duly cleared during the scrutiny on Monday. “She got to know through her sources that people were trying to get her nomination rejected and hence delivered the video message. Since the nomination is now cleared, she is focussing on her campaign,” said Ritika Dhama, her daughter. 
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Kamala building fire: Death toll in Tardeo blaze rises to seven||Mumbai: Two days after a tragic fire on the 19th floor of a 20-storey building in Tardeo left 24 persons injured and claimed six lives, the death toll in the blaze went up to seven on Monday after 38-year-old Manish Singh succumbed to his injuries.Singh, who was admitted to Nair Hospital, died at 7 am, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s Disaster Management Cell confirmed.Singh was in a critical condition after inhaling toxic smoke. Seven residents of Kamala Building, where a level three blaze broke out on January 22, remain in a critical condition and are admitted in two hospitals, Masina and Bhatia hospitals.As of Monday, 16 patients in all are admitted in six city hospitals, including the civic-run BYL Nair, Kasturba hospitals, and seven have been discharged after treatment. There were over 400 residents in the building when the blaze broke out at around 7 am on Saturday. Flat number 1904 was completely gutted, and three of its residents were killed in the blaze. The wiring in the duct, which runs along the length of the building, also caught fire. The duct itself served as a conduit of the smoke as it opened out into different passageways. Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) officials said they were waiting for victims to be discharged from hospitals before taking their statements. The reason for the fire will be confirmed only after its investigation is completed.Hemant Parab, chief fire officer MFB said, “We have been given 15 days for conducting the investigation, and we are on it. However, the victims are in the state of shock. Hence, we will have to wait for them to stabilise first and later continue with our probe.”The enquiry will look into three aspects: cause of fire in consultation with Parab, reasons for the spread of the fire, illegal addition / alteration in the building beyond approved plans, if any.Meanwhile, the residents of the Tardeo building, which was constructed eight years ago as part of a redevelopment project, continue to stay outside as the MFB has not allowed anyone to enter the building. The MFB has maintained that it will take at least one week to restore electricity of the housing society considering the electric wires in the housing society were completely burned due to the fire.It was found on Saturday that the firefighting system of the building, including its sprinklers and alarms were non-operational. The building had also failed to submits its biannual fire safety audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kamala-building-fire-death-toll-in-tardeo-blaze-rises-to-seven-101643053991327.html
25-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body to revive two ponds to prevent waterlogging on key stretches||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is in the process of rejuvenating two ponds in the city with an aim to prevent waterlogging on key stretches and to also aid in recharging the groundwater level, said officials on Monday.The key stretches in the city that face waterlogging problems are Old Railway Road, New Railway Road and Sohna Road among others. Both the ponds are less than 300 metres away from these major roads.The MCG has floated tenders to develop drainage channels, a non-concretised footpath and a boundary wall at a pond in Sector 12; and lay a box type stormwater drain and construct a revenue road leading to a pond in Bhondsi village.According to the officials, the civic body wants to redevelop these ponds ahead of the monsoon season this year, so that the rainwater from surrounding areas could be channelled to it and help in mitigating localised waterlogging.The pond in Sector 12 -- locally known as the Dronacharya pond -- is located in the Subhash Nagar area, right between the New Railway Road and Old Railway Road. During December 2021 and this January, the MCG officials excavated and cleaned silt and debris, and remove sewerage water from the four-metre-deep pond spread across six acres.“A pond is rejuvenated in four key stages. First is to desilt and clean it, the next is to build a boundary wall around it to prevent encroachment, third step is to redevelop the drainage channels and path leading to the pond, and the last is to cultivate native vegetation in the area,” said Subhash Yadav, district forest officer (DFO), who is also the nodal officer for MCG’s environment and sustainability wing.Yadav said the MCG has completed the first stage works -- cleaning and desilting -- on the Sector 12 pond, and is moving to the next stage of the project.“Rejuvenation of the two ponds are part of our bigger project, which is to revive 72 ponds across the city before the monsoon season this year. For each pond, we are trying to ensure that the measures are not cost-intensive, could be done in quickly, and minimal usage of concrete,” Yadav added.Regarding the Bhondsi pond, Yadav said that the civic body is constructing a box type stormwater drain, which could channel rainwater collected on Sohna Road towards the pond, and redevelop the revenue road leading to it in an inclined manner so that the rainwater naturally gravitates towards the pond. Spread across two acres, Sohna road is just 200 metres away from the pond. The work on ground on the Sector 12 pond is underway, Yadav said, adding the rejuvenating process for the Bhondsi pond will start by February.Apart from resolving localised waterlogging related issues, the MCG officials said that the rejuvenation of ponds in the city is aimed to keep the declining groundwater level on check.According to data of the district agriculture department, the city’s groundwater level has declined from 33.2 metres in 2018 to 38.7 metres in March 2021. 
25-01-2022||Noida||Covid cases reduce to 501 in Gautam Budh Nagar, lowest since January 5||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 501 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest since January 5 this year, when 510 cases were reported in the district. There are 6,412 active cases in the district now, according to data from the health department.Meanwhile, officials said the number of recoveries continues to increase in the district even as the positivity rate--the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to all those who have been tested for it--is reducing and is now around 18%.According to the district health department, 987 people recovered in the past 24 hours.So far, 90,759 cases have been reported in the district and 1,877,859 tests have been conducted, while 470 people have died due to Covid-19. In January so far, 26,694 cases have been added to the district’s tally.According to health department officials, cases have been continuously reducing for the past week. Cases had peaked in the district on January 12 when 2,230 fresh cases were reported in a single day. Following a few days of lower numbers, 2,158 cases were reported on January 17. The number of cases has been reducing since then. Since January 20, the daily count of cases has gone down from 1,684 to 1,489 to 987 to 969 to 501.According to officials, it is likely that cases will not go up now in the district.“It is a good thing that cases are reducing and we may have crossed the tough phase. We still hope that people continue to self-regulate by wearing masks, sanitising and maintaining social distance,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.The district has achieved 133% vaccination, which is the highest in the state so far. According to district health officials, vaccination has crossed 100% as several people from other districts and a migrating population have also been vaccinated in Gautam Budh Nagar.A total of 36.27 lakh ( 3.6 million) people have been vaccinated in the district so far, which include 21.17 lakh (2.1 million) who were given the first dose, 14.88 lakh (1.48 million) who were given the second dose and 22,104 who were given the booster dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-cases-reduce-to-501-in-gautam-budh-nagar-lowest-since-january-5-101643053934036.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cong CEC meet: No decision on half of 31 pending seats in Punjab||Chandigarh :The Congress central election committee (CEC) did not make much headway in deciding its candidates for half of the remaining 31 assembly constituencies in Punjab on Monday even as the process of filing of nomination papers kicks off on Tuesday. The CEC headed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, which cleared the names of its candidates for 86 of the 117 constituencies 10 days ago, discussed the remaining seats, but did not take a decision on these seats in the absence of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi who could not join the virtual meeting, a person familiar with the deliberations said. There are differences of opinion among the senior state leaders, particularly Channi, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar, on these seats, including some presently held by the party. The CEC has asked the sub-committee comprising party general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal, senior leader Ambika Soni and chairman of the secretary committee for Punjab Ajay Maken to hold further discussion for the finalization of candidates for these constituencies. “The list should be out in a day or two,” said the person. The sub-committee was set up in the previous meeting to build consensus for the selection of candidates. Of the 31 seats, 14 were won by the Congress in 2017 or bylections held subsequently. These include Bhoa, Attari, Khem Kharan, Khadoor Sahib, Nawanshahr, Samrala, Gill, Ferozepur Rural, Guru Har Sahai, Fazilka, Amargarh, Patiala Urban, Jalalabad and Shutrana. Capt Amarinder Singh and Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, who represented Patiala Urban and Guru Har Sahai, respectively, have left the Congress. The party is considering dropping its candidates in half of the remaining 12, according to party insiders. In Ferozepur Rural, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has announced that Ashu Banger, the AAP candidate who joined the Congress a week ago, will be fielded in place of sitting MLA Satkar Kaur. There are differences of opinion on the candidates of sitting MLAs Tarsem DC from Attari, Joginder Pal from Bhoa and Nirmal Singh from Shutrana. Both Tarsem and Joginder are being backed by Channi. Raminder Awla, who won the Jalalabad bylection, is keen to shift to Guru Har Sahai from where Rana Sodhi is the sitting MLA, but party leaders want him to take on SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal from there. The CEC is has not taken any call on Jalalabad and Patiala Urban from where Capt Amarinder, who has floated his separate party Punjab Lok Congress, has announced his candidature, party insiders said. 
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress’ mission is to improve school education in rural areas: Mohali MLA||Congress candidate from Mohali and incumbent MLA Balbir Sidhu on Monday said that to strengthen the education structure at the school level in rural areas, they have upgraded five schools in the constituency. During his election campaign on Monday, Sidhu said that the government primary school in Nagaari was upgraded to middle school; government middle schools in Balloo Majra and Siau were upgraded to high schools and high schools in Landran and Saneta were upgraded to senior secondary schools. “Over the years, improving government schools’ infrastructure in rural areas has remained our top priority. It was our agenda to make initial schooling available to each and every child in rural area,” he added. He called upon the people to shun the negative election campaign of his rivals and vote and support the development of Mohali. Will develop villages on the line of cities: Kulwant SinghWhen Aam Aadmi Party forms a government in Punjab, every village in Mohali constituency will be developed on the lines of cities and Mohali constituency will be one of the most progressive and beautiful assembly constituencies of Punjab.While addressing election meetings in various villages, former Mohali mayor and AAP candidate Kulwant Singh said, “ It is my dream that every village should get city-like facilities and no village should be deprived of basic amenities.”As party supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has made tremendous progress in Delhi, in the same way, Punjab will also be developed without any discrimination. He said that Shiromani Akali Dal and Congress have formed the government in Punjab for the last seven decades, but even after 75 years of independence, basic facilities are not available at villages and towns. ₹5 lakh in unaccounted cash seizedThe Mohali police on Monday seized ₹5 lakh from an employee of an airline ticketing agency in Chandigarh.Ajitesh Kaushal, station house officer (SHO) of Phase 8, Mohali, said a naka was laid on jail road leading from Sector 45, Chandigarh, via Burail jail towards education board. Police saw the man, Dheeraj Mehta, crossing the check post with a bag in his hand. On the basis of suspicion, police checked the bag and found ₹5 lakh cash. Mehta failed to produce any documentary evidences supporting transfer of the cash. Police called area DSP and SDM on the spot and the cash was handed over to them and the election commission was informed, said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-mission-is-to-improve-school-education-in-rural-areas-mohali-mla-101643053931393.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ex-Akali MLA Manna holds a show of strength against Jalalusman’s candidature from Baba Bakala||Rift in the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Baba Bakala, a reserved assembly constituency, widened on Monday over the candidature of Baljit Singh Jalalusman with former MLA Manjit Singh Manna threatening to raise a banner of revolt if the allotment of party ticket is not revoked and he is declared party nominee.Both Manna, a three-time MLA, and Jalalusman, a former legislator from adjoining Jandiala Guru segment, were in the fray for the SAD ticket.An upset Manna on Monday organised a show of strength at his village Mianwind in Tarn Taran district with a number of local party leaders and workers expressing solidarity with him. Addressing the gathering, he requested the party high command to reconsider the decision. Also, he announced to contest the elections from this constituency at every cost.Talking on phone, he said, “Ever since Jalalusman was declared party nominee, not even 100 people have visited him to congratulate him. On the other hand, thousands of party workers have been visiting me daily expressing their anger over denial of ticket to me. If the party wants to win this seat, it will have to give respect to the sentiments of party workers who want me to contest the polls.” In 2017, the party had fielded Manna from Sri Hargobindpur segment in Gurdaspur district but he lost. “This time again, I was asked to accept a ticket from Jandiala Guru. I warned the party leadership that if I am shifted to any other segment again, the party will lose from Baba Bakala as well as Jandiala,” he added.Jalalusman is considered close to former minister and Akali leader Bikram SIngh Majithia.
25-01-2022||Lucknow||UP logs 11,159 fresh Covid cases, 17 deaths||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh logged 11,159 fresh Covid cases and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours, witnessing a drop in the fresh case count for the third consecutive day on Monday. The state had recorded 13,830 new cases on Sunday and 16,740 cases on Saturday. Lucknow also saw a considerable fall in the number of fresh cases for the second consecutive day. “In all 1,86,679 samples were tested for Covid in the state. Till now, 98113556 samples have been tested,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement. “The test positivity rate is coming down in the state. From 7.78% on January 19, it is now at 6.19% (January 23),” said Prasad. There were 93,924 active cases in UP, of which 91,519 were in home isolation and about 1,300 in hospitals. Cautioning people against infection, Prasad said, “Cases are coming down but they are in a stable zone at present. Whether they go up or come down depends on how we behave. We need to follow Covid protocol to curb infection spread and make sure the cases come down.” Moradabad reported three deaths, Varanasi and Azamgarh reported two deaths, while Lucknow, Meerut, Jhansi, Sambhal, Ayodhya, Mainpuri, Mirzapur, Kanpur, Amroha, Jaunpur, reported one each, according to the data from the state health department. The state’s Covid caseload reached 1957839 and fatality count 23,073. ONE DEATH IN LUCKNOW Lucknow too recorded a fall in the number of fresh Covid cases for the second consecutive day. On Monday, there were 1,818 new cases in comparison to 2,326 on Sunday and 2,660 on Saturday. A total of 2,042 patients recovered during the day. A Covid positive patient who died was a 71-year-old-man admitted to the Vivekananda Polyclinic and Institute of Medical Sciences. He was suffering from chronic liver disease. Areas that reported major caseload included Alambagh 251 new cases, Indira Nagar 181, Chinhat 245, Aliganj 244, NK Road 95, Tudiyaganj 83 and Sarojininagar 95. Experts said the fall should be sustained by people’s efforts. “New cases have come down, but it will take a few more days for active cases to reduce. It will be possible only if the infection spread is controlled by following Covid protocol strictly by one and all,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-logs-11-159-fresh-covid-cases-17-deaths-101643053752732.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||BJP hits back at Shiv Sena, says Uddhav’s Hindutva claim hollow||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the Shiv Sena wasted 25 years in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said he was speaking out of frustration and ‘selective memory’. The BJP also said that Thackeray’s claim on being a Hindutva party was hollow.Responding to Thackeray’s remarks that the Sena was at the forefront of the demolition of Babri Masjid, Fadnavis said it was nowhere on the scene when the mosque was demolished in 1992.He said BJP workers and leaders faced the batons and bullets while the Sena has not been able to resolve the disputes over Durgadi and Malanggad forts (where two religions stake claim to places of worship).Addressing a press conference, Fadnavis also questioned why the Sena could not rename Aurangabad and Osmanabad districts when Yogi Aaditynath could rename Allahabad as Prayagraj. He said the BJP lives with the Hindutva and it is only under the leadership of prime minister Narendra Modi that the Ram Temple at Ayodhya is being constructed.“The CM has also criticised us that we used the local partners and could spread the roots because of them. Uddhavji should remember that we had had corporators in Mumbai and MLAs even before the Sena was born,” he said.Fadnavis said Uddhav claimed that they had a very favourable political environment in early 1990s after the demolition of the Babri masjid. “He should remember that the Sena had contested 180 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, of which 179 candidates lost their deposits, while in 1996, 23 of the 24 candidates could not save their deposits. Even in 2002, all 39 candidates lost their deposits.”He said the Sena was on the top position in the local body elections when in alliance with the BJP, but now after snapping the ties, it has been reduced to fourth position in recent local body polls.Addressing party workers virtually on Sunday on the occasion of 96th birth anniversary of Sena founder Bal Thackeray, Uddhav said they wasted 25 years in its alliance with the BJP. He attacked the BJP – with whom the Sena first came together in 1994 – saying it used its local partners for politics and “threw them out at their convenience.” He said the BJP’s Hindutva is “nothing but a charade for power.” He termed the BJP’s idea of Hindutva “hollow.”Fadnavis said the Sena chief has raised questions over the leadership of his father and party founder Bal Thackeray who led the party until 2012 and approved the alliance between the two till then. He also alleged that the Sena has helplessly continued its alliance with the Congress.“We pay respect to honourable Balasaheb Thackeray and will continue to do so. But the Sena should reply why Congress leaders like Sonia Gandhi, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi do not even tweet to pay tribute to Balasaheb on his birth or death anniversary,” he asked.Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut hit back at Fadnavis, saying the BJP leader is misleading the people.“Fadnavis has said they had won corporation and Assembly polls even before the Sena was founded. He should produce the birth certificate of the BJP, which was founded in early 1980s. The Sena was born in 1966. Hundreds of Sena workers stood by Hindus during the riots in 1993 erupted after the demolition of the masjid. Sena workers sacrificed their lives and many, including Balasaheb, faced criminal cases. Where were they (BJP leaders) then?” he questioned.Replying to the remarks on the issue of renaming Aurangabad and Osmanabad, Raut said it was the responsibility of the Central government. “Why did Fadnavis himself not get it done from the Central government when he was the CM of Maharashtra for five years?” he said.Speaking about the defeat of his party in polls elsewhere outside Maharashtra, Raut said the BJP first should speak about its defeat in states like West Bengal, Kerala for the last 40 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-hits-back-at-shiv-sena-says-uddhav-s-hindutva-claim-hollow-101643053751371.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: SAD president lashes out at AAP, Mohali MLA Sidhu||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday lashed out at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) stating that the party has given tickets to only affluent people.Sukhbir was campaigning for SAD candidate from Mohali, Parvinder Singh Sohana, at Barri village. He said that even though Kejriwal had claimed that they will be giving tickets to the common man, he has gone against his promise.He added that Kejriwal’s attitude towards Punjabis has been exposed as he had failed to sign the files for the release of Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar and other Sikh prisoners. The SAD president said that once voted into power, SAD will take action against Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu for grabbing shamlat land in villages of Mohali.On being asked about resentment among some local leaders over Sohana’s candidature, he said everything has been sorted out and all the party workers are contesting the elections in a united way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-sad-president-lashes-out-at-aap-mohali-mla-sidhu-101643053693378.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Man arrested for sacrilege bid at Patiala’s Kali Devi Temple||A man was arrested for an alleged sacrilege bid at the historic Kali Devi Temple in Patiala on Monday, police said.In a video, the man is seen jumping into sanctum sanctorum of the temple. He reached the place where the idol of the goddess is placed, said police.The accused was overpowered by the priest and devotees and was handed over to the police. The accused has been identified as Rajbir Singh, a resident of Nainkalan village, Patiala deputy superintendent of police Ashok Kumar said.Tension prevailed in the city as members of several Hindu organisations gathered at the temple. The organisations also gave call of Patiala bandh as a mark of protest against the incident.A case under relevant sections, including 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the IPC has been registered against him, said the DSP.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi condemned the incident and urged people to maintain communal harmony.“Bad elements are attempting to create mayhem by disturbing hard earned peace and harmony of the Punjab ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab,” he said.The incident was similar to a sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple in Amritsar in December. Meanwhile, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh tweeted: “Strongly condemn the disturbing incident of attempted sacrilege at Shri Kali Mata Mandir in Patiala. Repetitive attempts to disturb peace in Punjab will not be tolerated. I urge @ECISVEEP to take strict action so that the atmosphere in the state is not disturbed.”“The attempt of sacrilege at Shri Kali Mata Mandir of Patiala is highly condemnable. The accused should be given strict punishment,” said AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-arrested-for-sacrilege-bid-at-patiala-s-kali-devi-temple-101643053692121.html
25-01-2022||Noida||UP elections: Better upkeep, say in meetings key demands of G Noida east residents||Residents of Greater Noida East in Dadri constituency said they hope their demands are prioritised by candidates during the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Removal of encroachment in sectors, better upkeep of civic infrastructure and representation of residents in authority’s board meetings are some of the key demands of the residents in this region. Greater Noida East comprises about 25 sectors and a population of over 1.5 lakh (150,000) out of the 5.86 lakh (586,000) registered voters in the Dadri constituency, which is one of three assembly constituencies in Gautam Budh Nagar. The district goes to polls on February 10 under phase one of the seven-phase assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.It is currently represented by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tejpal Nagar, who defeated his rival Bahujan Samaj Party’s Satveer Singh Gurjar by a margin of 80,177 votes in the 2017 elections.This year, Nagar is again in the fray from BJP while the Congress has fielded Deepak Bhati Chotiwala from Dadri constituency. From the Samajwadi Party, Raj Kumar Bhati is fighting the elections while Bahujan Samaj Party has fielded Manveer Singh Bhati.One of the major demands of voters in this area is the representation and recognition of Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) in Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority’s (GNIDA) board meetings and decision making procedures. “We want RWAs to be included in the decision-making process of GNIDA when they decide on any civic and infrastructure development in the area. As we currently do not have any say, we have to write several letters to the authority to make our demands heard. We hope the new Dadri representative can help us in the matter,” said Jyoti Singh, member of Alpha-1 RWA. According to Devendra Tiger, president of the Federation of Greater Noida RWAs, which comprises 70 RWAs of the area, the representation of villagers is also a major issue among the voters. “The urban villages near the residential sectors of Greater Noida no longer have self-governance or representation ever since they were brought under the purview of the local authority. As a result, development in these areas is a key issue and our public representative should ensure these matters are raised among the authorities,” he said. Removal of encroachment in sectors and better upkeep of civic infrastructure are the other issues, according to residents of the area. “Encroachment in front of market areas leads to traffic management issues everyday. A number of letters and complaints have been submitted to the authorities but to no avail. We hope the people’s representative can pressurise authorities to resolve the residents’ issues,” said Jitendra Mavi, president of Alpha-2 RWA. Harinder Bhati, a member of Beta-2 RWA, added, “Residents of Greater Noida suffer from poor civic infrastructure here. The sewer lines need redevelopment and the drainage also needs maintenance as waterlogging is a major problem during the rainy season”. Tejpal Nagar says has been attentive to residents’ demands throughout his tenure. “I am aware of the residents’ issues and have worked closely with RWAs during my tenure to resolve their problems. These issues are part of my agenda for the upcoming elections as well,” said Nagar.Congress’ Dadri candidate Deepak Bhati Chotiwala, who conducted a door-to-door campaign in Alpha and Gama sectors on Monday, said that the issue of RWAs’ representation is one of his main agendas. “I have been meeting and hearing the demands of the residents and they have high hopes from me as their issues have not been resolved in the last five years. If I win these elections, I will make sure RWAs get their say in board meetings of the GNIDA,” he said.
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||HC dismisses Majithia’s bail plea in drugs case||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia in the drugs case registered against him in Mohali on December 20.Majithia, who now faces arrest, will have to approach the Supreme Court for interim protection from arrest.On dismissal of the bail plea, his lawyer, senior advocate RS Cheema, even requested the court to give him three days to challenge the high court order before the apex court and enable him to file nomination papers. The demand was opposed by the state citing some judgments, but high court bench of justice Lisa Gill observed that she would consider it in the final order, which is awaited. The nomination process in Punjab starts on Tuesday.Majithia is the brother-in-law of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and the brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Majithia was booked under Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on December 20. On December 24, a Mohali court dismissed his anticipatory bail plea following which he had moved high court. On January 10, the high court asked him to join the probe on January 12 and gave interim protection. A day after this, Majithia who remained underground for 20 days, surfaced and had joined the probe.The high court had again given him interim protection from arrest to Majithia January 18 and also asked him to cooperate in the probe. Directions were given in the wake of Punjab Police complaining before the high court that Majithia did not cooperate in the probe, even though he joined the investigation on multiple occasions.The state government had roped in former Union minister and Supreme Court lawyer P Chidambaram, while apex court lawyer Mukul Rohtagi with senior advocate RS Cheema represented Majithia. On Monday, Rohtagi could not appear.In his plea, Majithia termed the FIR an “election stunt” and alleged that the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government had changed three Punjab Police chiefs in three months to get this FIR registered. The plea also accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards Majithia. In fresh application, which was taken up on Monday, Majithia had claimed that the sole intention of registering the FIR against him was to take him into custody and torture him.Punjab Police, in its response, had said that the government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels during the Akali regime in the state. Majithia was a key minister in the Akali government and it was during the SAD’s term that the cartel was unearthed, the police submitted. The SIT also said incriminating material had come on record against Majithia. SIT had also submitted a sealed cover report on the probe before the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismisses-majithia-s-bail-plea-in-drugs-case-101643053513090.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest fugitive duping banks since 2012||Chandigarh Police have arrested a proclaimed offender who had been booked for defrauding multiple banks by not paying back loans. The accused has been identified as Sarit Kumar Murgai. 50, of Kishanpura village in Zirakpur and five vehicles worth ₹2 crore have been recovered from him. Murgai was declared PO in 2020 in a case of cheating and forgery which was registered on the complaint of a bank. The accused has been sent to judicial custody Police said that Murgai is also a suspect in cases of cheating and forgery registered at the Sector 26 police station in Chandigarh in August 2006 and at Sector 20 police station in Panchkula in December 2009. Police said that Murgai has defrauded multiple banks since 2012. He first purchased expensive vehicles by taking loan by submitting the false and fabricated documents. Then, he sold them by preparing fake/forged NOCs. Murgai had been declared a defaulter by RBI when he cheated to PNB of ₹1 crore on the pretext of setting up a factory in Baddi, HP, under the name of SR Industries. It has also come to light that he cheated ICICI Bank in Sector 9, Chandigarh, of Rs.17.80 lakh. Complaint lodged by bank in 2017 MS Lamba, assistant general manager of State Bank of Patiala, Sector 8, Chandigarh, reported that Murgai and his wife Raj Kumari had visited the Sector 22 branch of the bank to avail loan for purchase of a new Toyota Fortuner car and also submitted the quotation issued by EM- PEE Motors Private Limited, Chandigarh. The branch on May 26, 2015, issued a draft of ₹10 lakh and the accused submitted a receipt and sale certificate issued by EM-PEE motors. Later, when the bank verified with EM- PEE motors, it was found that the accused also got a loan of ₹16.48 lakh from HDFC Bank by tempering with the bank draft. They had also submitted a registration certificate issued by the Registering Authority, Mohali, in which bank is shown as a mortgagee. But, on verification, it came to the fore that the certificate was issued for another vehicleA cheating case was registered and Margai and his wife were declared POs in this case in December 2020. Had duped other banks as well During further investigation, original documents were obtained from the RLA and it came to light that he also cheated HDFC Bank.During further investigation, three more complaints against Murgai and Kumari were received from various banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-fugitive-duping-banks-since-2012-101643053511651.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Akali Dal delegation to meet President Kovind for Devinder Pal Bhullar’s release||A Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) delegation will meet President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his intervention for the release of 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Harcharan Singh Bains, principal adviser to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, said the party has sought time from the President seeking his intervention in the matter. Bhullar was charged under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (TADA) Act and was awarded death sentence that was commuted into life imprisonment by the apex court in 2014. Bains blamed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, saying these leaders befooled the people of Punjab as they never raised the issue of Bhullar’s release.Whether their demand for Bhullar’s release was linked to the ongoing assembly polls, Bains said, “In the past 10 years, SAD delegations have met Presidents and Prime Ministers. There was no election going on in Punjab at that time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-delegation-to-meet-president-kovind-for-devinder-pal-bhullar-s-release-101643053271292.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: BJP ex-councillor to fight as independent from Ludhiana South segment||A day after Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) named Satinderpal Singh Tajpuri as its candidate from Ludhiana South constituency, a member of its alliance partner, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has revolted against the decision and announced to contest as an independent. Surinder Sharma, a former councillor, who had been aspiring for a BJP ticket, said he won’t shy away from fighting independently if the party fails to change the decision. Terming Tajpuri, who is the son of a former cabinet minister, a parachute candidate, Sharma opposed the seat-sharing arrangement between BJP and PLC and stated that BJP should field its candidate from the assembly segment. Sharma is the president of BJP Daba-Lohara Mandal. Sharma’s son Pankaj said, “Earlier during SAD-BJP alliance, the segment was reserved for SAD and now it has been reserved for PLC, which is unfair to the party workers. My family has won three municipal elections in the constituency and we have been preparing to contest from the seat since September 2020 when BJP and SAD parted ways. The office-bearers of BJP Daba-Lohara, Giaspura and Dholewal Mandal are also with us and want the party to rethink its decision.”“We gave a 24-hour ultimatum to the party on Sunday. If the party fails to change the decision, my father has decided to contest as an independent,” said Pankaj.Meanwhile, BJP district president said that they have tried to stop Sharma as it is the decision taken by the party and everyone should stay with the decision. If Sharma still fights the election as independent candidate, then the party will take the decision on what further action has to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-bjp-ex-councillor-to-fight-as-independent-from-ludhiana-south-segment-101643053151331.html
25-01-2022||Noida||Noida’s apparel body seeks govt intervention to rescue industry from cotton crisis||The Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC) wrote to Union textile minister Piyush Goyal asking him to “rescue the apparel industry from the cotton crisis”.According to industry representatives, the industry is in a severe crisis because of the high cost of cotton yarn and raw fabric leading to a steep hike in production costs.President of NAEC Lalit Thukral said that the price of cotton has gone up by 80% over the past couple of months.“Despite being the second-largest cotton-producing country in the world, India is unable to provide cotton to the industry at reasonable rates. Notably, 75% of raw material used in apparel-making is cotton, and the price of the cotton per candy of 335kg has increased to ₹74,000 from ₹37,000 between October 2021 and January 2022,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar houses nearly 3,000 garment export firms and has been branded as the “city of apparel” by the Uttar Pradesh government under the One District One Product scheme. It generates revenue of nearly ₹32,000 crore per annum through apparel export of the total ₹40,000 crore per annum revenue generated in Uttar Pradesh.Neeraj Prakash, whose garment factory is located in Sector 63, added that this unexpectedly steep rise in the price of cotton is posing a serious challenge to apparel manufacturers and exporters, who are struggling for survival due to the sharp hike in production cost. “Indian exporters are losing export orders and facing tough competition in the global export market. As a result, importers and buying houses are losing confidence. If the prices remain unchecked, the price of summer clothes is set to increase,” he said.In its letter to the textile ministry, NAEC suggested various solutions.“Steps like check on cotton export, removal of 10% cotton import duty, resumption of 5% rebate duty and development of a mechanism to regulate the prices of cotton and other raw materials will be beneficial to rescue the apparel industry,” the letter said.According to Thukral, the apparel industry in India constitutes 20% of the total employment in the country. “With the cost of cotton increasing, the industry is also facing an increase in unemployment as exporters will not be able to sustain jobs. In addition to this, the most badly affected firms are MSME apparel production units that constitute over 80% of the manufacturing base,” he said.On January 7, the Apparel Export Promotion Council had also written to the textile ministry complaining about the hike in cotton prices. HT had reported about the letter on January 10. However, there was no response from the ministry. The office of Union textile minister Piyush Goyal could not be reached for response despite several attempts.
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi must explain source of unaccounted cash seized from his nephew: Mann||Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Monday said that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi must explain the source of unaccounted cash that was seized by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) from his nephew Bhupinder Singh aka Honey during raids in an illegal sand mining case. Mann, who conducted a door-to-door campaign in Nakodar, said the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi will soon clear the file for the release of 1993 bomb blast convict Devinderpal Singh Bhullar. Addressing mediapersons, Mann said that the AAP also has a double engine (Bhagwant Mann and Arvind Kejriwal) in Punjab. “The Congress claims to have a double engine but their double engine is in a tussle for power, whereas AAP’s double engine is working to take Punjab forward. Instead of knowing the problems of people, all senior Congress leaders are engaged in making statements against each other. The people of Punjab are fed up with the corrupt rule of traditional parties. They now want change,” he added. Earlier, people used to vote for either the Akalis or the Congress as they did not have option, he claimed. “Now, they have got a better alternative in the form of AAP. On February 20, the people of Punjab will script history,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-must-explain-source-of-unaccounted-cash-seized-from-his-nephew-mann-101643053032721.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||Setting up highway policing: World Bank offers loan, UP weighs pros and cons||Uttar Pradesh is cautiously weighing the pros and cons before it takes a final call on the World Bank’s standing loan offer for setting up a dedicated highway police force to control road mishaps and curb crimes on state highways, people in the know of things said. The home and the PWD departments on Monday made a presentation on the long-pending proposal on creating highway policing infrastructure with the World Bank’s aide in a meeting chaired by chief secretary DS Mishra but the meeting remained inconclusive and no decision on whether to go ahead with the proposal or not could be taken.“The CS called a meeting to discuss the proposal to create a special highway police force with the World Bank’s assistance in the state but no decision was taken in today’s meeting,” additional chief secretary (home) Avnish Kumar Awasthi said when contacted over phone.The World Bank wants UP to take some proactive measures, including setting up a dedicated police force for highway patrolling to promote road safety in the state that accounts for the highest number of deaths in traffic crashes in the country every year.The World Bank is believed to have offered a loan of ₹300 crore to UP to create highway policing infrastructure but the government is in a fix over whether to accept the offer even as the international financial institution is mounting pressure on it to implement the project.“The loan offer that comes with certain tough terms and conditions will ultimately create an additional financial liability for the state that would have to repay the amount,” an official said explaining the government’s hitch. “Moreover, the state will have to bear incurring expenses as well on the maintenance of the special force and the infrastructure,” he added. According to PWD chief engineer (World Bank) VK Jain, the government might take a decision to set up a highway police force in the state after discussing and sorting out certain issues in the times to come. “The NH 2 and NH 25 have already been identified for implementing the highway policing project in the first phase,” he revealed.The NH 2 also called the GT Road runs over 700 km between Mathura and Varanasi in UP before ending in Kolkata while the NH 25 connects Lucknow and Kanpur in UP. According to a home department official, the highway police project in UP has been under consideration since the Akhilesh Yadav government decided, in principle, to create the special force in 2015 to respond to situations of crimes and accidents on highways. “But no significant forward movement was made since even as the World Bank keeps pushing the idea,” he said. 
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Record arrival this time, Makora Pattan in Punjab’s Gurdaspur emerges as new destination for winged visitors||Migratory birds seem to have made Makora Pattan in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district their new destination during the winter season if the number of arrivals this time is of any indication. Mokora Pattan is just 7km from the Keshopur Chhamb, one of Asia’s biggest wetlands and a famous bird sanctuary that gets thousands of winged guests from Central Asia and Siberia during winters every year. Interestingly, this is for the first time that the Punjab forest and wildlife department teams have recorded birds in such a large number at Makora Pattan. The footfall of birds was so low earlier that the department never bothered to count them. As per the census conducted by the department, 2588 migratory birds have been spotted so far at the wetland situated along the India-Pakistan border. Divisional forest officer, wildlife, (Pathankot) Rajesh Mahajan said, “2,535 bar headed geese, 20 great cormorants, 4 brown headed gull, 2 eagle owl, 4 river tern, 13 ruddy shelduck and 10 spot biled duck have been seen.” Claiming that the number may increase in the final survey, he said, “We were surprised to notice such an arrival. It seems that the birds made it their habitat after finding its atmosphere suitable.” “We have deployed a team so to protect the birds. It will sensitise the local people about the need not to disturb them as they do not damage crops. We will ensure this footfall remains consistent in future,” he added. 
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||In Ludhiana’s Atam Nagar, it’s a multi-cornered contest between former allies||In battleground Atam Nagar, which is marked as a sensitive segment in view of the constant flare-ups between supporters of various political groups, the five prominent contestants have past associations with each other. Once a stronghold of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president Simrajit Singh Bains and Congress candidate Kamaljit Singh Karwal, Atam Nagar is now tied in a multi-cornered contest with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)’s Harish Rai Dhanda, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Kulwant Sidhu and Punjab Lok Congress (PLC)-Bharatiya Janata Party’s Prem Mittal are emerging as strong contenders. Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) has fielded Harkirat Singh Rana.Bains, Karwal and Dhanda have remained in the SAD together before Bains and Karwal quit the party and Bains got elected as an independent MLA in the 2012 assembly elections. At the time, Karwal was a close aide of Bains. But in 2015, the two parted ways following a rift and Karwal joined the SAD again. A year later, in 2016, Bains formed the LIP. Dhanda, meanwhile, had quit politics in 2014 and rejoined SAD in 2019. Karwal, who had rejoined the SAD in 2015, quit the party again, and crossed over to the Congress in 2016. AAP candidate Sidhu was also in the Congress at the time. The two served the grand old party for around five years but remained at loggerheads, which was heightened by the fact that Congress chose Karwal over Sidhu during the 2017 assembly elections. On the other hand, former SAD Mansa MLA Prem Mittal who was named the PLC candidate from Atam Nagar on Sunday, has also been a part of LIP in the past. Mittal, who is also a former senior deputy mayor of the city, joined Bains’ party in 2018 and his son Jai Krishan Mittal also contested municipal elections in 2018 on a LIP ticket. Mittal then jumped ship to join Congress in April 2019, only to desert the party and join hands with former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s PLC. Regardless of the past associations, the five leaders are now seen lambasting each other over issues including corruption, hooliganism, failure to take up development projects etc. Due to repeated incidents of violence between their supporters, the segment was declared ‘sensitive’. On January 19, three persons, including Bains’ brother Paramjeet Singh alias Pamma, got injured in a clash between supporters of Karwal and Bains over installation of hoardings on Gill road. Just two days later, AAP candidate Sidhu accused Bains’ son, Ajaypreet, and his supporters of roughing up an AAP worker over installation of hoardings at a building on ATI Road. AAP had lodged a police complaint in this regard, but Bains had refuted the claims as baseless.Flag march conductedWith nominations beginning from Tuesday, returning officer Poonampreet Kaur, along with police officials, conducted a flag march in the vulnerable areas of the assembly segment on Monday.Kaur also took stock of security arrangements and barricading at the nomination venue - municipal corporation’s Zone-C office on Gill road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-ludhiana-s-atam-nagar-it-s-a-multi-cornered-contest-between-former-allies-101643052791589.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||IMD issues severe cold warning across west UP districts||The Indian Meterological Department (IMD) issued fresh alert of cold wave conditions over several western UP districts even as the state continue to reel under chilly weather on Monday.According to the forecast, cold day conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Mathura, Hathras, Kasganj, Etah and Agra. Severe cold day conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Sharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Bijnor and Amroha, on Tuesday and Wednesday.Lucknow recorded a maximum temperature of 17.5 degrees Celsius which is five degrees below normal while the minimum temperature was recorded at 13.5 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal on Monday. The state capital is expected to record a maximum temperature of 20 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 9 degrees Celsius with a possibility of cloudy sky on Tuesday.“Dense fog is very likely over Shahajahanpur, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Farrukhabad, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Gonda, Basti, Santkabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Azamgarh, Mau, Ballia, Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Sambhal, Badaun, Bareilly, Pilibhit, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Etah, Kasganj, Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha, Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Amethi and adjoining areas,” the IMD warning reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/imd-issues-severe-cold-warning-across-west-up-districts-101643052434861.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||666 new Covid cases, 7 deaths in Ludhiana||With 666 fresh Covid cases being detected in the last 24 hours, Ludhiana’s infections continued on the downward trend on Monday. However, with the fatality count remaining at seven, experts advised residents to not let their guard down. On Sunday, the district had logged 836 infections. As many as 58 deaths have been reported in the district in the last 11 days.The latest casualties include a 76-year-old man from Dashmesh Nagar in Doraha, a 72-year-old man from Haibowal Kalan, a 70-year-old male from Haibowal Kalan, a 60-year-old woman from Tamkaudi village in Samrala, a 42-year-old woman from Ajit Nagar, a 35-year-old woman from Dhandari Kalan and a 32-year-old woman from Arjun Nagar.With this, the total count of positive cases in Ludhiana has reached 1,05,080, out of which 2,185 patients succumbed to the virus while 95,902 recovered. There are 6,993 active cases in the district, out of which 259 are hospitalised and others are under home isolation.Presently, there are 9 micro-containment zones: South City, Dugri Phase-1, College Road, Durgapuri, Patel Nagar, Panchsheel Vihar (Barewal), Industrial area (Millerganj), Professor Colony (Barewal) and Sandeep Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/666-new-covid-cases-7-deaths-in-ludhiana-101643052311150.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: 109-yr-old Jagraon woman determined to vote at booth||Bhagwan Kaur, 109, who is one of the oldest voters in Punjab, is determined to cast her vote for the state assembly elections by visiting the polling booth on February 20. Her frail body and age are no deterrent for her when it comes to exercising her voting right. A resident of Jagraon in Ludhiana district, Bhagwan Kaur has hardly ever missed taking part in the democratic exercise, and claims to have voted at least 100 times in different elections. “I have always voted as far as my memory takes me, and I will vote by going to the polling booth this time too,” she says. Kaur’s family is into agriculture and her daughter-in-law is aged 83. Vikas Hira, electoral registration officer-cum-subdivisional magistrate, Jagraon, met Kaur on Monday. He said she has refused to vote by postal ballot, when she was told about the facility meant for senior citizens like her. “Instead, she said she would like to cast her vote by visiting the nearest polling station,” he said. “In the spirit of free, fair and accessible election to all, it was ensured to her family that a dedicated vehicle with assistance will be provided to her on the polling day ,” said Hira, adding that such assistance will be extended to all such seniors in the Jagraon assembly segment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-109-yr-old-jagraon-woman-determined-to-vote-at-booth-101643052131205.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||BJP, AAP spar over enforcing anti-corruption ombudsman in Delhi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi was deliberately not implementing Janlokpal Bill and misleading the people about it even as the AAP shot back saying if the BJP was so serious about eradicating corruption, then why it took away control of Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) from the state government. In a joint press conference on Monday, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and party’s MP from Northeast Delhi Manoj Tiwari alleged that the file related to Janlokpal Bill has been pending with the government since September 2019. Gupta said, “The Kejriwal government had said that the file is pending with the LG. In an RTI reply recently, it was revealed that the file pertaining to the Janlokpal Bill was received by the lieutenant governor’s office on September 25, 2019 and was returned to the Delhi government’s law department within two days, on September 27. The government has been lying to the people of the city. The government should tell people why it has not been implemented so far.” The AAP said the BJP was playing politics over the issue of corruption. It also questioned the BJP on why the central government took away the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) from the Delhi government. The Delhi Janlokpal Bill was passed by the Delhi Assembly in December 2015, and sent for the approval of the Centre. It was returned by the Centre in 2016 along with several other legislations, pointing out several gaps. The AAP government modified various bills, but the Janlokpal Bill has stayed in limbo. Tiwari, former Delhi BJP chief, said, “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal now stands exposed. When the AAP was formed and it came to power in Delhi, it had announced that the Janlokpal bill will be implemented, but nothing has happened till now.” Referring to the CM’s recent press conference claiming that he has learned that that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is likely to arrest a senior minister in his cabinet, Satyendar Jain, Gupta said, “He (Kejriwal) fears that if the bill was implemented, it would expose 22 of his party MLAs who are involved in corruption and have cases against them…He is even scared that his ministers and leaders can be raided by ED. This is why he held a press meeting.” The AAP, in a statement, said, “The BJP is playing politics over the issue of corruption. Why did the BJP-led central government took away control over ACB from the Delhi government? The AAP government had eliminated corruption in 49 days (during its first stint). But, when the AAP again formed government in 2015, BJP snatched away the ACB from the state government. Not only did they snatch it away, they didn’t take a single step against corruption.” “The BJP is the most corrupt party in the history of independent India. They have no right to speak on corruption. We challenge them to return ACB to us, and we will show how corruption can be completely eliminated. They are only playing dirty politics by raising the issue of Lokpal when their own LG rejected the proposal,” the AAP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-aap-spar-over-enforcing-anti-corruption-ombudsman-in-delhi-101643052071151.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||Schools reopen to 40-50% attendance, but many choose to postpone||MUMBAI City schools reopened on Monday to a mixed response nearly three weeks after they were shut on account of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. While most state board schools reopened to anywhere between 35-50% attendance on the first day, several non-state board schools have decided to wait either until Thursday or next week to reopen physical classes. “We needed to ensure sanitisation before students walk in. Instead of January 24, we will reopen on January 27,” said Kavita Agarwal, director of DG Khetan International School, Malad. The institute has decided to follow the ‘odd-even’ rule, where students with odd and even roll numbers will show up on alternate days. “This way we can run the school for all our students in two shifts,” she added. Some institutes are working around space constraints to ensure compliance of Covid appropriate protocols. “We have both English and Marathi medium classes in our school, but with social distancing rules we have put a lot of planning in place to arrange students in classrooms,” said Kshama Valanjoo, assistant headmistress, VPM’s Vidya Mandir High School at Dahisar. “On Day One, we only started with the secondary section of Marathi medium and saw a 50% response. However, in lower classes less than half of the parents have given consent.” Some schools have decided to bring students back in phases. “As per the standard operating protocols shared by the government, we have placed one student per bench,” said Saba Patel, principal, Anjuman-I-Islam School, Bandra. “Just like in October 2021, we started with four classes—classes 10 and 11 in the morning shift, and classes 5 to 8 in the afternoon. We will gradually bring more students back to school for physical classes.” Educational institutes that completely shut down in March 2020 following the nationwide lockdown managed to reopen starting October 2021. In the last week of September, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that physical classes will resume for classes 5 to 12 in rural areas while in urban areas, physical classes from classes 8 to 12 started from October 4. Classes 1 to 7 started physical classes only from December 15. Similarly, state higher education minister Uday Samant called for a reopening of colleges in a phased manner only for fully vaccinated staff and students. All institutes were asked to adopt a hybrid teaching mode until further updates. However, in the first week of January 2022, owing to increasing Covid cases being reported across the state, schools and colleges were asked to shut down again. Gunjan Ghadigaonkar was as excited as her son while dropping him to school on Monday, “The school had asked us to pay a visit and make note of all the Covid protocols and measures that they have put in place. This gave us a lot of confidence. Going to school and interacting with teachers and classmates will help their mental growth,” she said. Her son studies in class 2 of Anand Vishwa Gurukul, Thane. Preschools reopen after nearly two years to positive response Githa S Sridharan, centre head, EuroKids International, Ghatkopar, said, “We have resumed our pre-school classes today in compliance with all the guidelines and SOPs laid down by the government. We have got good response from the parents and students on the first day and are expecting the attendance to start building up over the course of this week as more parents start sending in their consent letters.” Online classes continue for students who prefer to continue attending school from home. Peter Murphy, head of school at Oberoi International School, Goregaon said, “Our youngest learners (three to five years old) turned up in large numbers. Parents have also been overwhelmingly positive, supportive and encouraging. At the end of the school day, as the children left, all were keen to give a ‘socially distant high-five’ to indicate that they had enjoyed the experience of being back in school.” Podar Jumbo group started pre-primary classes with nearly 60% attendance on the first day. “Parents were apprehensive in the morning but when they came to pick their children up, they saw the happiness. Everyone is showing a positive response to reopening of schools,” said Swati Popat Vats, director of the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/schools-reopen-to-40-50-attendance-but-many-choose-to-postpone-101643051953986.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Illegal sand mining: Punjab CM’s nephew fails to appear before ED||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s nephew Bhupinder Singh Honey, whose role is being probed in an illegal sand mining case, failed to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at its zonal office in Jalandhar on Monday. According to ED officials familiar with the development, Bhupinder Singh had sought adjournment of the summons on medical grounds, claiming to be suffering from Covid-19. Meanwhile, his business partner Kudrat Deep Singh, who too had been summoned, appeared before the central agency, ED officials cited earlier confirmed, while refusing to give details of the line of questioning and replies. They said that other people linked with the case have also been summoned in the coming days. Also read: Firm owned by Channi’s nephew, aides had ₹18.37 lakh revenue in 2019-20On January 18, the ED had conducted raids on 10 locations in Punjab, including the premises of Bhupinder Singh, his business partners and six miners in Mohali besides in Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, Rupnagar and Pathankot districts. The agency had seized ₹10 crore besides other valuables from Bhupinder Singh and his business partner Sandeep Kumar during the raid that went on till January 19. According to the ED, Kudrat along with Bhupinder and Sandeep had set up a firm named Provider Overseas Consultancy Limited in 2018 with 33.33% equal shares. The firm was a key link between the CM’s nephew and the raid conducted in relation to a money laundering case based on an FIR of illegal sand mining registered by Punjab Police in SBS Nagar in 2018. The agency had lodged an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) at its zonal office in Jalandhar in November last year after taking over the probe. According to the FIR, there are 26 accused, including Kudrat, and mostly truck drivers. Bhupinder was not named in the FIR, whereas Kudrat was also granted clean chit by the SBS Nagar police in a follow-up inquiry. 
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Former Punjab DGP under lens after audio tapes leak||Audio tapes of a purported conversation between dismissed Punjab cop Sarabjit Singh, who is a proclaimed offender (PO) in the multicrore Bhola drug racket, and director general of police (DGP) Sidharth Chattopadhyaya may land the former state police chief in further trouble, as he is already facing probe in the Prime Minister security breach case.It is learnt the purported conversation took place on December 27 during a meeting between Sarabjit Singh and the then Punjab DGP at the latter’s house in Nayagaon. Inspector Satwant Singh, who was recently arrested by Chandigarh Police in the forged signature scam busted last week, was also allegedly present during the meeting. Even PO Sarabjit Singh has since been arrested in the same case. The audio tapes — that have been accessed by Hindustan Times through intelligence agencies — not only reveal how the PO was giving instructions to the DGP for certain appointments in the name of cracking whip on drug cartels, but also how the state’s top cop was allegedly taking instructions on the issue of national security from a dismissed Inspector, who is facing seven FIRs related to the NDPS Act, including one registered in Madhya Pradesh. The conversation wherein Sarabjit Singh allegedly suggests posting inspector Satwant Singh as the Kharar CIA in-charge is also part of the audio tapes. Satwant Singh was handed the post through the DGP’s orders dated December 28, a day after the purported conversation. Despite repeated attempts, Chattopadhaya remained unavailable to comment on the veracity of these audio tapes.On national security and BholaIn another alleged conversation, the PO is heard giving instructions to the DGP to carry out operations related to national security. In one such sentence, the dismissed cop is even heard referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while allegedly asking the DGP to bring some DSP-rank officer on certain postings and start recovering explosives being pushed from Pakistan.“RDX aur pistol kaafi aaye hai... Kal ton asin chakkna shuru kar dinde hain... Kum se kum Modi diyan akan khol denian hai (A lot of explosives and arms are being pushed [through Pakistan]. We should start making recoveries from tomorrow. At least, it will open Modi’s eyes),” the PO can be heard, while discussing Khalistani militant Ranjit Singh Neeta’s involvement in smuggling explosives in Punjab and his drug-related smuggling in Jammu and Kashmir. Another conversation in the audio is about facilitating Jagdish Bhola, prime accused in the multicrore drug racket, with mobile phone inside the Patiala Central Jail. “Bhola is in touch with me. He is ready to help us in big drug seizures. I have talked to Sukhi (another person). He will be shifted to the Patiala Jail with Bhola with a mobile phone. He will give us all information by using this uninterrupted mobile,” the PO is heard. At this point, Satwant intervenes in the purported conversation and suggests to the DGP to bring Sukhi to Kharar on production warrants in another case and later send him to the Patiala jail. SAD chief demands FIR Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday demanded registration of a criminal case against DGP S Chattopadhyaya, accusing him of taking orders from criminals while functioning as the Punjab police chief. The SAD president said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had gone out of his way to appoint Chattopadhyaya as the Punjab DGP even though he was not eligible to hold the post. Questioning Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s silence on the matter, Sukhbir alleged the DGP was personally chosen by him to register false cases against the top Akali leadership. Chattopadhaya, a 1986-batch IPS officer, remained Punjab’s officiating DGP for 21 days. The drug case against former SAD minister Bikram Singh Majithia was registered on his directions. He was served a show-cause notice by the home ministry after the PM’s cavalcade was stuck on a flyover for 20 minutes due to a farmers’ blockade in Ferozepur on January 5. He was replaced by 1987-batch IPS officer VK Bhawra on January 8.
25-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: Youth suspected to have foreign links detained at Manauri Air Force station||PRAYAGRAJ: Security personnel at Air Force station, Manauri, on Sunday detained a youth, suspected to have foreign links. He has been handed over to Puramufti police for further questioning, said police officials on Monday. Intelligence agencies and ATS personnel were also put on alert after receiving information about the suspected youth, they said. According to reports, the youth, identified as Shailendra Singh, was caught while he was smoking marijuana on the Air Force premises on Saturday. He is son of Bhedraj Singh, a fireman at Air Force station. “Some suspected mobile numbers have been found on the youth’s mobile phone. Police will now investigate if the youth was added to WhatsApp groups of Pakistan or other countries. WhatsApp chats and call details of the youth are being scanned to learn about the persons with whom he was in contact with. Further action will be taken after proper investigations into the matter,” said Ajay Kumar, senior superintendent of police (SSP). According to police, station security officer, Satyam Bhartiya was shocked to find that Shailendra Singh was added to some WhatsApp groups which had foreign links and mobile numbers added to them. His call details revealed that the youth had also made calls on some foreign numbers. On Sunday, the security personnel handed over Shailendra to Puramufti police and gave a complaint mentioning about the suspected WhatsApp groups. A pouch of marijuana was also recovered from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-youth-suspected-to-have-foreign-links-detained-at-manauri-air-force-station-101643051893595.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2022: 3 kids from UP make it to PM’s honours list||It was a proud day for Uttar Pradesh as three youngsters from the state won the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar (PMRBP) 2022, on Monday. They are Jiya Rai (13) from Azamgarh, Abhinav Kumar Choudhary (15) from Moradabad and Chandhary Singh Chaudhary (13) from Aligarh.In a virtual ceremony, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave digital certificates to them using block chain-driven technology developed by IIT Kanpur under the National Blockchain Project and a cash prize of ₹ 1 lakh credited in their bank account.Jiya is a para athlete who achieved India’s top ranking in open water para swimming, according to a PIB tweet. She is the first Autism Spectrum Disorder girl to swim 36 km in 8 hours and 40 minutes from Worli Sea Link to Gateway of India. Her name finds mention in Asia Book of Records for her achievement.Jiya has been awarded the PMRBP for her excellence in sports, said her father Madan Rai.In a tweet congratulating Jiya, PM Modi said, “Jiya Rai is an inspiration for everyone. At a young age, she defied odds to become India’s top ranking open water para swimmer. Congratulations to her for the Rashtriya Bal Puraskar.”Abhinav, a Class 12 boy, was feted in the social work category as he helped 10,000 underprivileged children by arranging second-hand books through a website, while Chandhary Singh Chaudhary, a Class 8 student, was awarded in the sports category for making a record of skating for 96 hours.Abhinav (15) has won the PMRBP in the social service category. “During the lockdown, new books were largely inaccessible and very costly. I faced a lot of problems which gave me the idea to develop a webstore for others who can’t afford books. I urged my friends to sell their books at my store instead of selling it to scrap dealers,” said Abhinav, a student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya. He provided second hand books through his webstore, Cruise Books, to more than 10,000 students who couldn’t afford new ones. “The store has also resold over 30,000 books, saving almost 1,900 trees,” he said.“My webstore also provides low-cost printing services all over India and makes it easy to sell and collect used books. It also promotes saving of paper by promoting reuse of books,” he added. “I am committed to providing practical solutions to the world’s most pressing issues and exploring ways to use technology to empower children to become the next generation of change-makers,” he said.Chandhary Singh Chaudhary (13), was awarded the PMRBP in the sports category for making a record of skating for 96 hours. He is a student of Delhi Public School, Aligarh. According to a PIB tweet, Chandhary created a record of 48 hours continuous roller skating practice which got mentioned in the Guinness Book of World Records.He dedicated his success to his father, Tejendra Singh Chaudhary and his coaches. His father is a hawker at a gas agency. “My father is my inspiration and hero,” said Chandhary.Chandraya has set a record twice by participating in Guinness World Records and 10 other record books.At the age of 11, he had mastered swimming, roller skating, air pistol shooting, and taekwondo. He has won many gold, silver, bronze medals at the state and national level.Winners of last year’s Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar (PMRBP) 2021 were also honoured with a certificate and cash award of ₹ 1 lakh credited in their account.A recipient of the award in 2021, Vyom Ahuja (12), for his achievements in art and culture, received the certificate by PM Modi through block chain method. He is a Class 8 student at City Montessori School, Gomti Nagar campus 1, having 35 records to his name in the field of music, general knowledge, science, and sports. He started playing flute when he was barely 2 years old and plays musical instruments like harmonica and saxophone.Mohd Shadab of Aligarh (scholastic category), Kunwar Divyansh Singh of Barabanki (bravery), Chirag Bhansali of Gautam Buddh Nagar (innovation) and Mohammad Rafey of Prayagraj (sports) were other winners of Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar-2021 from Uttar Pradesh who were also honoured on Monday.In view of the unprecedented circumstances, a virtual function was held where awardees of PMRBP 2021 and 2022 along with their parents and district magistrate concerned joined the event from their district headquarters.In all, 29 children have been conferred the PMRBP this year, selected from all regions of the country for their exceptional achievements in innovation (7), social service (4), scholastic (1), sports (8), art & culture (6) and bravery (3) categories. There are 15 boys and 14 girls among the awardees belonging to 21 states and UTs.- Faara Nadeem||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pradhan-mantri-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-2022-3-kids-from-up-make-it-to-pm-s-honours-list-101643051832108.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||32-year-old man dies as car turns turtle near Focal Point in Ludhiana||Returning after attending a party, a 32-year-old man died after his car turned turtle near Focal Point in Ludhiana on late Sunday night. According the police, the man was driving so fast that he lost control over the vehicle. The deceased was identified as Deepak Sharma, 32, of Palm court of Kohara area. He was a contractual staffer with the World Health Organisation (WHO).Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh, the investigating officer, said that around 10.30pm, Deepak was returning home in his Tata Nexon. When he reached near Sahnewal airport he lost control over his car and it overturned. He died on the spot and the car was also damaged.Some passersby had rushed him to the hospital but he was declared brought dead.The ASI added that the Focal Point police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure. Deepak is survived by his mother, wife and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32yearold-man-dies-as-car-turns-turtle-near-focal-point-in-ludhiana-101643051474575.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Don’t delay award in Airport Metro Express Line case: SC to Delhi HC||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Delhi high court not to further delay the execution of an award of more than ₹7,200 crore payable by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to a consortium headed by Anil Ambani-led Reliance Infrastructure Limited (RInfra) which operated the Delhi Airport Metro Express till 2012.The arbitration award became inevitable after DMRC’s challenge against the order was dismissed by the Supreme Court on September 9 last year.The Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL) – a consortium of Reliance Energy Limited (renamed as Reliance Infrastructure) and Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles SA –approached the Delhi high court on September 12 for execution of the award, but complained of delaying tactics by DMRC. On eight occasions, the petition was listed and on January 11, the high court posted the matter to March 29. The DAMEPL came to the top court challenging this order.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai, while disposing the petition asked the two sides to appear before the high court on January 31, and request for an early disposal of the execution proceedings. “Without commenting on the submission of either side we are of the opinion that hearing of the execution application does not brook any further delay…. We request high court to dispose of the execution application without any further delay as consequence of delay is detrimental to the petitioner and respondent (DMRC).”Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for DAMEPL informed the court that so far, only a token sum of ₹1,000 crore has been paid by DMRC on December 8, and as on January 11, the sum recoverable from DMRC is ₹6,268.87 crore. Rohatgi pointed out that his clients are not willing to settle the matter out of court with DMRC and urged that a deadline should be set for DMRC to make the payment.The bench asked DMRC, “There is an award in their favour approved by this court and now you are seeking a settlement.”Senior advocate Parag Tripathi appearing for DMRC said, “There are several issues in execution. The whole Metro operation will come to a close, not just here in Delhi but in five other cities.” He referred to a communication addressed by DMRC to DAMEPL on January 6 making an offer to consider undertaking the outstanding liability of DAMEPL and its holding company, RInfra towards banks. Tripathi informed that in this regard talks were on as DMRC will be better placed to negotiate with banks for a haircut.Rohatgi opposed saying, “I am not interested in talking to them anymore. With over ₹6000 crore hard cash in my account, I will be better placed to talk to my lenders. Let them give a plan by when they will pay. I will deal with my debtors.”Tripathi informed the court that following these negotiations, the Delhi high court had directed DMRC to place on record all our assets. “We have since disclosed to the court and they are agreeable to settle,” he said.The bench said, “Who is to benefit from the pendency of these proceedings. You cannot compel a party to compromise. Now that they have disagreed to settle, we will request the high court to take up the matter at the earliest.”Before the high court, the DAMEPL had stated that the total decree amount payable by DMRC as on September 10 was ₹7045.41 crore. Further, the DAMEPL in its petition before the top court said that delay of each single day was resulting in incremental daily interest on the decreed sum. Between September 10 and January 11, this amount cumulatively stands at ₹223.46 crore, DAMEPL stated in its petition filed through advocate Mahesh Agrawala.With the HC ordering the matter to be listed on March 29, the petition said, “The high court instead of executing the decree by attaching the funds to the tune of ₹6208.03 crore admittedly available with the DMRC and lying in its various bank accounts towards partial satisfaction of the decretal amounts payable under the Award, embarked on a journey of acting as a conciliation court.”The DMRC had filed an affidavit before the Delhi high court on January 10 making full disclosure of its funds that stood at ₹6208.03 crore.DMRC had entered into an agreement with DAMEPL in August 2008 for the design, installation, commissioning, operation and maintenance of the 22.7 km Airport Metro Express Line from New Delhi Railway Station to Dwarka Sector 21 via Indira Gandhi International Airport.. The agreement in the nature of public-private partnership required DMRC to undertake the design and construction of a basic civil structure for the project.In May 2012, the Anil Ambani-led company complained of defects in design and quality in the installation of viaduct bearing that was denied by DMRC. A joint inspection committee was set up that gave its report in July 2012. This was followed by another letter by DAMEPL, giving 90 days for DMRC to cure the defects. On completion of 90 days, DAMEPL issued a notice terminating the agreement on 8 October 2012, accusing DMRC of defaulting on the agreement. DMRC, however, said that it had carried out the required rectifications.While the dispute between the parties was pending before the arbitral tribunal, DMRC restarted the line after obtaining a certificate from the commissioner of metro rail safety on 18 January 2013.The tribunal undertook a detailed enquiry into all aspects and found as many as 1,551 cracks in 367 girders and 80 girders with twists varying between 10 to 20 mm. The tribunal was of the opinion that these defects adversely impacted the integrity of the structure. As effective steps were not taken within the cure period of 90 days, the tribunal held that DMRC was in breach of the concession agreement.The top court’s September 9 order upheld the order of the single judge of the high court, said, “It cannot be said that the view of the tribunal is perverse. Therefore, we do not concur with the high court’s opinion that the award of the tribunal on the legality of the termination notice is vitiated due to the vice of perversity.”On November 23, the Supreme Court even dismissed the review petition filed by DMRC, making the judgment final for execution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-delay-award-in-airport-metro-express-line-case-sc-to-delhi-hc-101643051471325.html
25-01-2022||Other||Magh Mela-2022: Pilgrims, seers face hardships as river waters enter camps, officials on alert||PRAYAGRAJ: As seers and pilgrims are already facing hardships in the ongoing Magh Mela due to rising water in the Ganga and the Yamuna, the bad weather conditions have further added to their woes.Though the Ganga started receding at a slow pace on Monday, the release of around 19,000 cusecs more water from the barrage at Kanpur, which is expected to reach Sangam in next 24 hours, has put the mela authorities on high alert. On Monday, the level of water in Ganga at Phaphamau was recorded at 77.52 meters. With fresh rains in parts of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, water level in rivers like Ken and Betwa too has increased, adding to the volume of water in Yamuna. Meanwhile, camps from sector 2 and 3 are being shifted to safer ground towards Phaphamau. Monday too witnessed thick cloud cover because of which the mud and sludge near the ghats and some of the roads of the tent city continued to be problematic for commuters. The belongings of many kalpwasis in a camp in Sector 3 were damaged because of the rains which occurred on Saturday and Sunday. The devotees in the camps, which were not covered with polythene, had to stay awake the whole night. The bad weather is also forcing many of the kalpwasis to return to their native places. “Although because of Covid, many of our family members were not in favour of coming this time, but we braved all odds. However, the extreme weather and river water entering our camps have complicated our stay and we have decided to return,” said Manish Mishra of Rewa. “The discharge of water in Ganga from Kanpur barrage has been reduced from 21,000 cusecs to 19,000 cusecs but at the same time, because of rains and weather, we are on high alert,” said executive engineer of the irrigation department, Brijesh Kumar Verma. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal, officiating Mela Adhikari, Arvind Kumar Chauhan and other officials inspected several sectors of the mela area and interacted with the seers and kalpwasis, providing all the necessary help required to them. “We have shifted almost all the camps from the affected areas where river water has entered. We are on high alert and hope that the weather will improve in coming days so that things become conducive for a comfortable stay of kalpwasis and seers,” said the Mela Adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/magh-mela-2022-pilgrims-seers-face-hardships-as-river-waters-enter-camps-officials-on-alert-101643051354318.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||CM Thackeray meets MSBCC; interim report on OBCs imminent||Mumbai: The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s hopes to restore political quota for the Other Backward Class (OBCs) candidates in local body elections received a fillip after it was decided on Monday that the Maharashtra State Backward Classes Commission (MSBCC) would submit its interim report to the government with recommendations on representation of social groups belonging to the OBC communities within two weeks. In a meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and members of the commission as well as other state ministers and officials on Monday, it was further resolved that the commission and the state government will draw up a comprehensive and time-bound programme to conduct a state-wide socio-economic, political and caste survey—the first of its kind in a century—to collect empirical data. Details of this programme will be submitted to the Supreme Court (SC), officials who were in the know of what transpired in the meeting, said. “The state government will submit its data collected from secondary sources to the MSBCC, which in turn, will analyse it, and will submit its report (with recommendations on the community’s representation in local body elections) to the state government within two weeks,” said an official who was present at the meeting. This report will then be presented to the SC. The commission is expected to meet on 28 January to examine the data. On December 6, 2021 the SC struck down two ordinances promulgated by the MVA government in September, which granted up to 27% political reservation to OBC candidates. The SC said that the ordinances failed to pass the triple test of reservation — the state must appoint an independent commission to collect empirical data on the nature and extent of backwardness of OBCs; the data must be used to specify the proportion of reservation required to be provisioned local body-wise according to the commission’s recommendations; and the total quantum of reservation must not exceed 50% of the seats including those reserved for Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe (SC, ST) candidates. The top court further directed that all OBC reserved seats in the upcoming local body polls — which took place in two phases on December 22 and January 18 — be re-notified as general category seats. The SC had, in its January 19 ruling stated that while no state or union territory can be permitted to hold local body elections with 27% political reservation for OBCs without empirical data, it allowed the Maharashtra state government to submit existing data on OBC communities to the commission for assessment. It further said that the commission could submit its interim report to the state within 15 days of receiving this data. The government will give existing data collected by various government departments including the school, higher and technical education and social justice departments to the 10-member commission, which was constituted in June 2021. The state will also provide data from institutions like the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics (GIPE), Pune, and the National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO), said persons in the know who were privy to the decisions taken in Monday’s meeting. The persons referred to above said that MSBCC members raised the issue of infrastructure including a well-equipped office, staff, a full-time member secretary as well as funds to conduct the survey. The CM reportedly asked chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty to tackle the administrative requirements at the earliest. On March 4, 2021, the SC stayed the 27% political reservation for OBC candidates citing the lack of fresh empirical data about the exact nature of their backwardness. This put the government on a sticky wicket as the OBC communities stood to lose 57,000 reserved seats in local bodies like municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads and panchayat samitis. Elections to 17 municipal corporations like Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik and 27 Zilla Parishads are due this year. Though the Marathas dominate Maharashtra’s politics, the OBCs, who are spread across religion, classes and castes, are considered the largest social bloc at around 53% of the population, according to the OBC community outfits. Other estimates peg their population lower; there is no scientific measurement of their numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-thackeray-meets-msbcc-interim-report-on-obcs-imminent-101643051294210.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi HC grants Centre 10 days to file its stand on martial rape||“A half-hearted reply” may affect life of several citizens, the Union government told the Delhi high court on Monday, as it sought more time to respond categorically on whether it was in favour of doing away with the exception in rape law that provides immunity to husbands from the offence of marital rape. A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar, while hearing pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape, was informed by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, that the issue should not be seen from a “microscopic angle” and several considerations would weigh with the government while formulating its stand.“Your lordships are dealing with a matter of 2015...but the central government possibly came to know about a month ago that the matter is taken up. Your lordships are not deciding just the constitutional validity of a statutory provision. It may not be looked at from that microscopic angle. Here, the dignity of a woman is at stake. There are family issues. There would be several considerations which would weigh with the government to take a position to assist your lordships. This would also perhaps need consultations with other stakeholders,” Mehta said.The SG also said it will not be possible for the Union government to respond immediately on the issue, particularly when there is no imminent threat that something is going to happen to someone. He sought 10 days to have a detailed consultation with stakeholders and place the government stand before the court.“I feel I would be doing an injustice to the citizens of India if I put the reply in a half-hearted way,” the SG submitted.The court, however, said the issue of criminalising marital rape is not going to end in the high court and whichever party felt aggrieved by its judgment, will challenge it in a superior court. “The government may have its own approach. But to keep it (the matter) hanging beyond a particular period loses meaning....for some people, every day matters for the reason that some say this abuse is happening, whether reported or not. It can’t be our answer to them that this (case) has been there for 100 years, what is the urgency now? Now that we have started, I will give you one week (to file a reply),” justice Shakdher saidResponding to this, Mehta said the very fact that the issue is important and lives are at stake was all the more reason for the central government to consider the matter in a holistic manner. He said to arrive at a conclusive answer would need a consultative process. “I can’t say “yes”, the petitioner is correct or “no”, the petitioner is wrong,” the SG said.The court finally granted 10 days to the Centre to clarify its stand.“...come back to me in 10 days. I know you can if you want. Beyond that, it would become difficult for me,” the court said.The exchange between the court and the SG took place while hearing PILs by NGO RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought the striking down of the exception in the Indian rape law, saying it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.Exception of Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) decriminalizes marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape.On Monday, senior advocate Rebecca John, the amicus curiae in the matter, completed her arguments. She submitted that 498A (domestic violence) cannot be a substitute for 375 (2) as it is altogether a different offence.“IPC 498A includes the element of cruelty. It is not anyone’s case that the rape is not a cruel act but the cruelty required for the fulfilment of [IPC] 498A … is quite different from the descriptive sexual acts without the woman’s consent given in Section 375. Each of these offences are standalone offences, different in their nuances, understanding and ingredients,” John argued.While concluding her arguments, John said she received a “lot of hate mail” in connection with the case and was even asked to recuse from the matter because she has an opinion on the subject.To this, the court said that if having a view was a ground for recusal, then judges would have to recuse themselves from every case.The hearing will continue on Tuesday.
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi schools scale up Covid jab drives to speed up reopening||With the Delhi government focusing on complete vaccination coverage of students ahead of a possible reopening of schools, private schools in the national capital have increased their efforts to scale up vaccination of their students. Last week, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said 100% vaccination of students could pave way for the reopening of schools. The government shared that around 85% students of Delhi government schools in the age group of 15-18 years have received the first dose of the vaccine till January 21; however, private schools were lagging behind. While schools said \they were focusing on inoculation, they stressed on resuming in-person classes for children of all grades, regardless of their vaccination status. Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools, a consortium of private schools, said the government has increased the number of vaccination centres in private schools over the past three days and that is expected to improve the vaccination coverage among students. “Around 40-50 more private schools are conducting vaccinations on campus now. Now, the percentage of vaccinated students is around 60%. By next week, that figure may rise to 75-80%. This will ensure that both private and government schools are able to reopen together by February,” said Arora. He said schools were collaborating with the district administration to ensure that the vaccination coverage touches 80% by the end of the month. “We are vaccinating students in the eligible category but the government should reopen schools for students of all classes; as a full reopening is the need of the hour,” said Arora.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC) that has 122 Delhi schools as members, including Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, Bal Bharati Public School, Springdales School, Sanskriti School, Delhi Public Schools, Ahlcon International School, and Amity International School, said the government has directed schools to complete the vaccination campaign soon so that a proposal for reopening could be placed before the DDMA (Delhi Disaster Management Authority). Acharya said while schools were striving to achieve maximum vaccination, it was crucial to reopen schools for children of all grades for the learning cycle to get back on track. “There are some children who contracted Covid recently. There will be a waiting period for them. Some parents might not be ready to get their children vaccinated as yet. We will be well placed if the government reopens for students of grades 9-12, but the reopening for children of other grades cannot be put off for long,” said Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka. She said it was important for the government to tighten norms regarding in-person attendance in schools for all grades to ensure uninterrupted learning. “So many states have reopened schools for children in all classes. Our children will continue to miss out unless the government takes steps to ensure in-person attendance in schools,” said Acharya. The sentiment was echoed by other stakeholders. Citing the Maharashtra government’s decision to reopen schools, Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said schools will not be able to resume classes as before as long as the government gave parents the option to opt for online classes. “After two years of the pandemic, it’s high time that schools are reopened for all children. As long as the government continues to give parents the choice between online and offline classes, it is unlikely that learning will get back on track. Over the past two years, some children have gradually gotten used to online learning. We need to come out of that inertia,” said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-scale-up-covid-jab-drives-to-speed-up-reopening-101643051111008.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Operating licence, surge pricing cap in Delhi govt’s draft cab policy||Cab aggregators operating in Delhi will have to apply for a licence to operate, register their drivers with the government, set up easily accessible customer care channels and charge a fixed a base fare, according to a draft policy proposed by the Delhi government. The proposed policy, Motor vehicle aggregators scheme, 2021, was shared on Monday in the public domain to seek suggestions from stakeholders and the general public. Estimates with the state transport department shows that Delhi has at least 150,000 vehicles plying under different cab aggregators, but it is mostly is a floating number as these vehicles keep moving between Delhi and NCR cities such as Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and so on. The policy mandates all cab aggregators to ensure that 5% to 50% of their new fleet of two-wheelers or four-wheelers are electric vehicles in phases within the time frame of six months to two years from the date of notification of the final policy. “Delhi has become the first state to announce the draft aggregator scheme which mandates electric vehicle fleets for ride aggregators and delivery services. The policy was essential as presently, there is no accountability on the part of the cab aggregators. There is no set of rules for them. Until now, we had no policy to even keep a record of such companies, their fleet of vehicles and drivers. Our aim is to maximise the safety of users and ensure ease of doing business for such aggregator companies, while also making them more responsible as stakeholders in public transportation,” said Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot. If the policy is notified, all cab aggregators who have their offices in India, and run a fleet of more than 50 vehicles will have to mandatorily get a licence from the state transport department, failing which a fine of at least ₹25,000 per vehicle will be charged. To regulate fares, which currently has no government control and often go up to five times in the name of surge pricing, the transport department has proposed to set a base fare and the maximum surge pricing could only be up to twice the base fare fixed by the government, the policy mandates. To ensure safety of passengers and the drivers, the policy proposes that all driver partners, even if they work for multiple aggregator companies, will have to be registered with the government, failing which fines will be imposed on the company. It proposes taking “appropriate action” against a driver partner within one month if there are 15% or more grievances against him/her. The policy says that remedial training should be given to drivers having a rating less than 3.5 over a period of one year. To address the issue of air pollution, the policy promotes use of electric vehicles. It mandates that all vehicles onboarded by the companies from the date of notification cannot be older than five years, and the existing fleet may not be older than 8 years. Within the first six months from the date of notification of the policy, 10% of all newly inducted two-wheelers and 5% of all new four-wheelers will have to be electric vehicles, the draft policy says. It adds that one year from notification, 25% of all new two-wheelers and 15% of all new four-wheelers have to be EVs, while two years from notification, 50% of all new two-wheelers and 25% of all new four-wheelers will have to be EVs.HT was the first to report on cab aggregator policy in 2017, and highlighted the different aspects of the rules such as mandatory licensing for all cab aggregator companies in a series of reports in the following years. However, the policy was put in abeyance in 2019 owing to the focus on the EV policy. Expert quote needed
25-01-2022||Delhi||Green tribunal paves way for wetland tag to Najafgarh jheel||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) to prepare an integrated environment management plan (EMP), which will include specific budget allocations, for the Najafgarh Jheel, virtually paving the way for the notification of the transboundary (Delhi-Haryana) water body as a wetland. Until the plan is prepared, however, the EMPs submitted by the Haryana and Delhi governments will be enforced, said a bench headed by NGT chairperson justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, directing the two states to also submit action taken reports on the enforcement of their respective EMPs by July 31, 2022.“In view of the above, further action of preparing integrated EMP by the MoEF&CC be taken and till it is done, EMPs prepared for rejuvenation and protection of the lake be enforced by the state of Haryana and the NCT Delhi,” said the bench in its order.“The EMPs of Delhi and Haryana do not make specific provision for budget, which is necessary, except saying that provision will be made immediately. Making of such a provision may be ensured by the chief secretaries of Delhi and Haryana,” the order adds.Among the provisions of the EMP listed by the Delhi government are provisions for geo-tagging the water body falling in Delhi; monitoring and maintaining the status of biodiversity including all waterbirds; commissioning of a hydrological regime assessment to determine water, sediment and nutrient fluxes; groundwater recharge; and identifying critically silted up areas needing desiltation. The Haryana government’s EMP is based on similar lines, but it has divided the plan into immediate, mid-term and long-term measures.A Delhi State Wetland Authority official, on condition of anonymity, said no work on the EMPs had commenced yet as they were awaiting the NGT’s final decision. “After this recent order, work can now begin. The suggestions made in the Delhi EMP will be followed and an action taken report on its progress will then be submitted by July 31,” the official said, adding that notifying the jheel as a wetland was still in the MoEF’s hands.According to a report submitted by a technical committee to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the problem of sewage entering the Najafgarh Jheel, estimated at nearly 350 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage entering through Gurugram and the surrounding villages of Delhi, also needs to be solved.HT had last week reported that the Delhi State Wetland Authority is working on a plan to notify 10 water bodies in the Capital as wetlands.Not only will this ensure legal protection to the water bodies, but each of the notified wetlands will see Integrated Management Plans (IMP) prepared, allowing DSWA to get funds from the Centre to protect and rejuvenate them.While Najafgarh is expected to be on the list, officials had said that the Centre may declare it as a wetland sooner, citing the NGT hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/green-tribunal-paves-way-for-wetland-tag-to-najafgarh-jheel-101643050871168.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Rain leaves its mark: Delhi gets first ‘severe cold day’ of season||The rain may have gone, but its effects lingered on Monday, with most parts of Delhi reeling under a biting chill during the day, with the city’s base station at Safdarjung recording the season’s first ‘severe cold day’ as the mercury dropped to 14.8 degrees Celsius . The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said it expects cold day conditions to remain in Delhi for the next two days, with a yellow alert in place for Tuesday and Wednesday.The minimum temperature on Monday fell to 8°C, from 10.5°C the previous day. While the maximum temperature at Safdarjung on Monday was seven degrees below normal, Narela was Delhi’s coldest spot during the day, with weather gauges clocking out at 13.5°C.The IMD declares a ‘cold day’ if the maximum temperature is more than 4.5 degrees below normal, with the minimum also below the 10-degree mark. It is meanwhile classified as a ‘severe cold day’ if the maximum is more than 6.5 degrees below normal. A yellow alert is generally issued to warn people about a particular weather event taking place.“Cold to severe cold day conditions were reported from almost all stations in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). This spell will continue over the next two days as well before wind speeds once again increase from the evening of January 26,” said RK Jenamani, stating while this was not this season’s lowest maximum , most parts of Delhi recorded cold day conditions. At 14.8°C, Monday’s was the second lowest maximum temperature recorded so far this winter, with the lowest coming at 14.7°C on Saturday. However, it was still Delhi’s first severe cold day of the season because the city did not meet the criteria for this classification on Saturday. Despite having a maximum that was seven degrees below the normal mark on Saturday, Delhi’s minimum was 11.5°C on the day, over a degree-and-a-half above the level needed to be classified as a cold day.Other than Safdarjung, the Ridge and Narela stations were also classified under the ‘severe cold day’ category, with departures of seven to eight degrees below the normal mark. Palam, Lodhi road and Ayanagar meanwhile recorded ‘cold day’ conditions with the maximum six degrees below normal.Jenamani said this cold spell is not likely to be as prolonged as the previous one earlier this month, which saw cold day conditions in the city for nearly a week.“Following the last western disturbance, we saw seven consecutive days of cold day conditions as the moisture in the air led to fog prevailing at the higher level. After this weekend’s rain, we are seeing a similar effect, but wind speeds will increase from January 26 and lead to this upper-level fog dissipating,” he added.Forecast for Tuesday shows Delhi is expected to record moderate fog in the morning, with cold day conditions expected during the day. While the maximum is expected to be around 16 degrees, the minimum will hover around the 7-degree mark. A similar high and low of 16 and 7 degrees Celsius respectively is also forecast for Wednesday.Delhi’s air quality meanwhile remained in the ‘poor’ category with an air quality index (AQI) of 241 on Monday. It was 202 on Sunday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin. Agencies forecast air quality to remain in a similar range for the next two days. “On Tuesday, the AQI is likely to remain within the ‘poor’ category and on Republic Day too, it is expected to remain the same as the impact of western disturbance has diminished,” said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a government air forecasting body||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-leaves-its-mark-delhi-gets-first-severe-cold-day-of-season-101643050575570.html
25-01-2022||Other||Three cops suspended over death of 17-year-old boy in Kheri||Lakhimpur Kheri: Superintendent of police (SP), Kheri, Sanjiv Suman on Monday suspended three cops in connection with the mysterious death of a 17-year-old boy in Sampurnanagar Kotwali area on Sunday. The family members of the deceased had accused the three cops-- sub inspector Vipin Kumar Singh, constables Mahendra Kumar and Sachin Kumar posted at Khajuriya police outpost of beating the boy on January 19, leading to his death at a hospital. During the day, Kheri SP Sanjiv Suman issued a press release informing suspension of the three cops on allegations of the family members.Meanwhile, postmortem examination of the body was carried out on Monday morning. A senior police officer, citing the postmortem report, said, “The report described the cause of death as septicaemia. No major ante mortem injuries on the body except abrasion marks on the knee and sole of a foot were found during the examination.” The deceased boy was a resident of a village under Sampurnanagar Kotwali area had died in mysterious circumstances on Sunday. Kheri SP Sanjiv Suman along with ASP Arun Kumar Singh rushed to the spot on Sunday, and talked to aggrieved family members. They assured them of impartial inquiry into the case and stern action against those found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-cops-suspended-over-death-of-17-year-old-boy-in-kheri-101643050571071.html
25-01-2022||Mumbai||89% of samples are Omicron variant: BMC||Mumbai The eighth phase of genomic sequencing conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has revealed that out of the total 280 random samples, 89% were infected with Omicron variant, 8% with Delta derivatives, 3% with Delta variants and other subtypes.According to BMC officials, these 280 samples were selected randomly from Covid positive patients after December 21, 2021.A statement added, “When the results of the eighth round of tests were analysed by age, 34% of the 280 patients, i.e. 96 patients were found in the age group of 21 to 40 years. 28% or 79 patients in the age group of 41 to 60 years. 25 % i.e. 69 patients are in the age group of 61 to 80 years.”The statement added, “8% i.e. 22 patients, are in the age group of ‘0 to 20’; 5% or 14 patients are in the age group of 81 to 100.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We can now confirm that the third wave was due to the Omicron variant, considering 89% samples have been detected with it.”However, the ratio of the Omicron variant has gone up by 33% in the eighth phase of genome sequencing compared to that of the seventh phase. In the seventh round of genomic sequencing, around 56% of the samples were found to be infected with Omicron variant.In terms of vaccination status, the BMC statement added, “When analysed on the basis of Covid preventive vaccination, seven out of 280 patients received only the first dose of the vaccine. Of these, six patients had to be hospitalised; two patients had to be admitted to the intensive care unit.”Further, out of 174 patients who took both doses of vaccine, 89 patients had to be hospitalised. Of these, two patients needed oxygen, while 15 patients had to be admitted to the intensive care unit. Out of the total patients, 99 patients did not take any vaccine. Of these, 76 patients had to be hospitalised. Twelve patients needed oxygen and five patients had to be admitted to the intensive care unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/89-of-samples-are-omicron-variant-bmc-101643050391177.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||‘Inflammatory speeches’: Court frames sedition charges against Sharjeel Imam||A Delhi court on Monday framed sedition and charges under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA ) against JNU student Sharjeel Imam for allegedly making inflammatory speeches at Aligarh Muslim University and Delhi’s Jamia area while addressing protesters against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).The court also rejected a bail plea moved by Imam.Imam made the alleged provocative speeches in Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019; and at Aligarh Muslim University on January 16, 2020. An FIR was registered against Imam on January 25, 2020 and he has been in judicial custody since January 28 last year.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat framed charges against Imam under sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity on grounds of religion), 153B (assertions prejudicial to national integration), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief), of Indian Penal Code and section 13 (punishment for unlawful activities) of UAPA. In his speech, Imam allegedly threatened to cut off Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India.A detailed copy of the order is yet to be uploaded on the district court website.Imam’s plea seeking bail was also argued by his lawyer while advancing the arguments on charge. The judge said, “Vide separate order, the application filed by Sharjeel Imam for grant of regular bail is dismissed.”The Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in July 2020, in which it claimed that Imam gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central government and instigated the people which led to the violence near Jamia Millia Islamia in December 2019.Imam’s counsel Tanveer Ahmed Mir in October 2021 contended that his client’s prosecution for alleged inflammatory speeches is the “whip of a monarch rather than a government established by law”. He said that Imam’s criticism of the government cannot be the cause of sedition.Mir also said that his client is neither a terrorist, nor associated with some terrorist outfit. He added that Imam did not have criminal antecedents or political agenda. The lawyer said that there were “many prosecutions” against Imam just because he had criticised the government’s policies.The police have also accused Imam of being the “mastermind” of the February 2020 northeast Delhi riots, which left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.Earlier in December, the court granted bail to Imam in a case of alleged violence at Jamia Millia Islamia in December 2019 during the anti-CAA protests. The FIR under which he is an accused involves offences such as rioting, conspiracy, attempt to commit culpable homicide, voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions, and assault.
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s east civic body launches online library for its schools||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Monday launched a project to set up an online resource centre for e-learning for its 225,000 students studying in 354 primary schools.EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand, who launched the repository developed with the help of Tech Mahindra, said it contains educational resources, worksheets and audio-visual learning tools for primary school students. Anand said that the e-library will help strengthen digital learning in schools. “We have launched an e-library of learning resources for teachers as well as students. E-library has been developed by education department with the help of Tech Mahindra Foundation,” he added.Nidhi Malik, director, education, said that the learning resources have been curated by the EDMC mentor teachers in collaboration with the faculty members of In-Service Teacher Education Institute. “It contains worksheets and audio-videos in the subject areas of Hindi, English, Mathematics, and Social Studies for primary classes from grades 1-5. The resources have been selected based on our experience in the 2020-21 and 2021-22 academic sessions. The e-library also contains Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) resources,” she said. A senior EDMC official said that log-in credentials are being provided to teachers and students to access the library. “ School principals, teachers and students can access these resources using the log-in credentials. The system will benefit over 225,000 students and 4,500 teachers, as well as students joining us in next sessions,” official added.Website for each schoolThe education department has also developed a separate website for each school under the newly established Management Information System (MIS) Lab. “School website has information related to the online classes, students and employee data, and information related to the infrastructure of a particular school. Any citizen can see the details of any school at any time through online services being provided by EDMC. All websites are being updated regularly. Under the MIS Lab, online class teachings are being conducted as well as recorded for future use. Departmental IDs allows us to monitor the duration and number of students joining online classes,” EDMC spokesperson Rakesh Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-east-civic-body-launches-online-library-for-its-schools-101643050031058.html
25-01-2022||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: EC seeks report on Samajwadi Party’s free power supply campaign||The Election Commission (EC) on Monday sought a report from district election officers across the state on the complaint that the Samajwadi Party (SP) allegedly violated the model code of conduct for the UP assembly polls by inviting voters to fill a form in order to avail of 300 units free electricity.Yogesh Somvanshi, lawyer of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, on January 20 had made a complaint to the EC in this regard.In the complaint, he had stated that Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, ahead of the UP assembly polls, not only made this declaration verbally about 300 units free electricity, but also proceeded to direct his party workers to approach voters door- to- door and get the “Samajwadi Form” filled up for availing of the sop Yogesh Somvanshi had also stated that no political party should be allowed to gratify voters in order to illegally influence them for voting for a political party.On January 1, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had promised to provide 300 units of free electricity to households and free power to farmers for irrigation if elected to office in the UP assembly polls.“It will be the number one promise on the Samajwadi Party manifesto,” the Samajwadi Party chief had said at a meeting at the party office in Lucknow.“On coming to power, the SP government will give domestic consumers free electricity up to 300 units. Farmers will get free electricity to irrigate their fields. This will be our top promise,” the former UP chief minister had said.“This will be the first promise in the Samajwadi Party manifesto. And everyone knows that what SP promises, it delivers,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-polls-ec-seeks-report-on-samajwadi-party-s-free-power-supply-campaign-101643049730916.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi records 20 dengue cases in January, highest in last 6 years: Civic bodies||The Capital reported five new cases of dengue in the past week, said a report issued by Delhi’s municipal corporations, taking January’s overall tally to 20 patients, the most in the month since 2016, in what is an unusual and worrying trend for the city.So far this year, Delhi added eight dengue cases in the first week of January this year, and seven infections in the week after that.The city recorded no dengue cases in the corresponding period in 2021, 2020 or 2019. It last added a dengue infection in January in 2018 (when the city recorded five cases) and three in January 2017.Delhi’s dengue season usually coincides with the monsoon, between end-June and October, since the humid, warm conditions, coupled with the abundance of stagnant water, provide the ideal breeding ground for the aedes aegypti mosquito that causes the vector-borne illness.While experts said the recurrence of dengue cases in January, when temperatures dip to their lowest in Delhi, was a cause for concern, municipal officials attributed this year’s numbers to the record rain the city has received this month.The rain in Delhi so far this month has, to be sure, broken the month’s all-time record, according to data from the Met department, which is likely to have contributed to increased breeding by the aedes aegypti mosquito.Delhi has got 88.2mm of rainfall so far in January, beating the previous record for the month (79.7mm) set in 1989, data maintained by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) between 1901 and 2022 shows.The vector borne disease report for the week ending January 22 shows that no malaria or chikungunya cases have been reported so far. The municipal corporations’ ‘action-taken’ report shows that domestic breeding checkers have so far detected 245 cases of positive mosquito breeding cases in the city, higher than 64 such instances last year and 96 cases detected in 2020. A senior public health official said instances of dengue during the height of winter may indicate that the adult aedes aegypti mosquitoes are starting to adapt to local conditions, even as the person added that detections could also be attributed to the improved sentinel surveillance system, after dengue was declared a notifiable disease last year in October. “Temperatures have, thankfully, remained low and mosquitoes need optimum [warm] conditions along with stagnant water for breeding,” a municipal official remarked. Delhi recorded 9,613 dengue cases and 23 fatalities in 2021, making it the second worst annual outbreak on record.Dr BK Tripathi, professor in the department of medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said dengue cases used to flatten out during peak winters a few years ago. “But it seems that the mosquitoes are now adapting to harsh climatic conditions, and civic bodies need to ensure that preparations and drives against controlling mosquito population should be carried out all through the year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-20-dengue-cases-in-january-highest-in-last-6-years-civic-bodies-101643049671168.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: South MCD outlines new revamp plan for Meharchand market||With a view to provide relief to 130-odd traders of Meharchand Market, a commercial hub near Lodhi Colony in south Delhi, where shops have been lying sealed since 2018 over building code violations, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has outlined a new redevelopment plan with a revised standard facade regulation, and a 2.4 metre wide verandah on the ground floor, with projections on the first and second floors allowed up to the verandah line, said civic officials. The over seven decade old market besides Lodi Art District was once known for its designer clothes and boutiques with several mid-level grocery shops wedged between them. But the quaint market place lost its growth trajectory after 135 of 153 properties were partially sealed in January 2018, on the directions of a three-member Supreme Court appointed monitoring committee. The ground floors were spared while the sealing action focussed on illegal basements and upper floors, an SDMC official said. The last attempt in August 2020 to create a redevelopment plan, according to which traders will have to demolish the existing structures and rebuild the market adhering to the new norms, has so far failed to materialise or elicit any interest, officials said, prompting the civic body to go back to the drawing board. A letter from municipal commissioner Gyanesh Bharti to the standing committee on November 12, 2021, shows that a series of joint meetings were held by municipal architects, town planners and building department officials between August and November to draw up redevelopment plan.The revised plan has limited the height of shops to 10.95 metres, instead of 10.5m proposed earlier, and shops have been divided in two categories-- 38.69 square metre (sqm) shops and 40.05sqm for corner plots. The plan also allowed basements with the entry from the front.“All the existing structures will be demolished before the start of new construction. The department will declare Meharchand Market as pedestrian shopping street due to non-availability of parking space in the vicinity of market,” the final plan moved by layout scrutiny committee (LOSC) of SDMC said. LOSC has also directed the cell overseeing parking management to explore a new parking plan for the market. For a uniform look, the facade plan envisages that the walls and columns of the market will be beige up to the signboards, with a maroon laminate cladding above it. All shop shutters will be painted silver, while the veranda and steps will be paved with ruby red granite stone, the plan proposed.Ashok Sakhuja, who heads Meharchand Market Association, said, “We had requested them to incorporate veranda and entry to basement from the front, which has been done.” Leader of the house Inderjeet Sehrawat said the matter will be taken up in the next standing committee meeting for further discussion and relief is expected to be granted to traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisouth-mcd-outlines-new-revamp-plan-for-meharchand-market-101643049551306.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest 4 cyber crooks behind 10 cheating cases in Jaipur||Four cyber criminals, who allegedly duped at least 10 people after gaining access to payment apps on their phones by offering to update their Know Your Customer (KYC) details, were arrested from Jaipur in Rajasthan by the Delhi Police.Police said they got on the trail of the accused after they allegedly duped a medical representative, Arvind (only first name), and his wife of ₹10 lakh on January 13. Police said the victim had saved the money for his mother’s cancer treatment.According to police, the cyber crooks allegedly tricked Arvind into downloading a remote access app on his and his wife’s phones in the guise of updating the KYC details of a payment app. Once downloaded, police said, the accused allegedly stole confidential details related to his bank account and the payment wallet, and used it to steal the money.Police said at least 10 online cheating cases registered in Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) have been solved with the arrests.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said that Arvind had filed a complaint on the cyber crime portal of the Union ministry of home affairs and the same was transferred to the north district’s cyber cell police station. In his complaint, Arvind alleged that he received a link on his cellphone for updating the KYC of his online wallet on January 13. He clicked the link and filled in all the required details, such as wallet number, password, OTP, debit card number, its card verification value (CVV) and the expiry date.“Arvind immediately received a call from the same mobile number... The caller identified himself as the wallet executive and directed him to download an app, which facilitates remote access of devices, on his phone and got him to share its passcode. As Arvind shared that information, money started deducting from his online wallet and bank accounts as well. When his accounts were emptied, the caller tricked him into downloading the same app on his wife’s phone and emptied her accounts too. Altogether, ₹10 lakh was stolen from their accounts,” said DCP Kalsi.The investigating team collected details of the caller’s mobile number and the accounts to which the money was transferred. Through technical investigation, investigators found that the calls were made from Jaipur but the money was withdrawn from various banks in Jharkhand, West Bengal and Maharashtra.“Further investigation revealed that some suspects were in Jaipur while at least two had gone to Jharkhand. We sent one team each to Jaipur and Jharkhand. The team in Jaipur caught Mukesh Kumar Singh (19) and Pintu Mandal from Jaipur. Their interrogation revealed that their associates Dular Mandal (21) and Chet Lal (23) had gone to Giridih in Jharkhand to withdraw the cheated money. The team in Jharkhand subsequently caught the duo,” the DCP said, adding that seven mobile phones, six SIM cards and 11 ATM cards used in the crimes were seized.DCP Kalsi said that the four suspects revealed that they originally belonged to Dhanbad in Jharkhand but had been running their racket from Jaipur, where they were living lavishly in a posh residential neighbourhood. “They had recently purchased a Venue car using the cheated money. Ten cases have been solved. We are hoping to crack more cases,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-4-cyber-crooks-behind-10-cheating-cases-in-jaipur-101643049371062.html
25-01-2022||Delhi||Three dry days a year in Delhi as part of new liquor plan||Delhi will now have only three dry days (when liquor stores are closed and bars and restaurants are not allowed to serve liquor) this year, down from the usual 21, according to an order issued by the excise department on Monday.In 2022, only Republic Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti will be observed as dry days, the order said.“In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 52 of Delhi Excise Rules, 2010, it is hereby ordered that – Republic Day (January 26), Independence Day (August 15) and Gandhi Jayanti (October 2) – shall be observed as “dry day” in the national capital by all the licensees of the excise department and vends located in Delhi for the year 2022,” the order said.At 21, the number of dry days in the Capital was among the highest across states and Union territories. A reduction in the number was a long-standing demand of liquor store owners, and bars and restaurants, and was expected to be part of the new excise policy that came into effect on October 1.Apart from the three, the Delhi government may declare any other dry day, from time-to-time, said the order.To be sure, the order added that restrictions on the sale of liquor on dry days will not apply for residents in hotels with a valid license.HT reported on January 20 that though Delhi had a new liquor policy, two of the key promises made previously -- the lowering of the legal drinking age to 21, and a reduction in the number of dry days to 3 -- remained just that for now, promises.In a press conference on March 22 last year, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also the city’s excise minister, announced that Delhi would have a new excise regime which would slash legal age of drinking to 21, and reduce the number of dry days besides introducing various reforms. Many of the changes have been implemented, and now, with the reduction in number of dry says, people expect that there could be some movement on lowering the drinking age.For this, the excise department has to issue separate order.A senior government official said on condition of anonymity that reducing the legal drinking age has the necessary approvals from all authorities concerned, but might not happen now. “The legal age will be reduced only when the government formally notifies the change. It may be that it wants to put the matter on hold for sometime considering the political implications and the municipal elections are only a few months away,” the official said. The BJP and the Congress have opposed the new excise regime and held several protests against the new liquor policy.Since the drinking age is lower in neighbouring cities, Delhi’s high legal drinking age forces young people to travel to neighbouring cities which allows drinking at 21. Delhi is now the only metropolitan city with the high drinking age – even in Mumbai, only hard liquor is barred for those under 25, while wine and beer is allowed at 21. In major global cities such as New York and London, the drinking age is 21 and 18 respectively.Kabir Suri, the president of the National Restaurants Association of India welcomed the government’s move to reduce the number of dry days. “It will lead to increase in sale and also ensure that there is not many disruptions in supply of liquor. Additionally, the revenue of the government will also increase and the move will also check black marketing of liquor on the dry days.”Suri demanded that the government should now also reduce the legal drinking age to 21.
25-01-2022||Delhi||Now, PWD sets March deadline for overdue Ashram underpass in Delhi||The Ashram underpass, which has already missed five deadlines, is likely to be opened for traffic in the first week of March, officials in the public works department (PWD), the agency working on the project, on Monday said.A senior PWD official associated with the project said that work on one section of the road, and covering the ramps with shade, will be completed by the end of February. The road will be opened for the public after trial runs by the traffic police, he added.The official, who asked not to be named, blamed unusually heavy rain in January, and the ban on construction activities imposed in November and December last year due to rising pollution levels, for delaying the work.To be sure, these reasons do not explain the saga of delays that has dogged this project, which was aimed at decluttering one of the city’s busiest intersections but ended up creating a two-year-long traffic nightmare.Work on the 750-metre underpass, which will connect Nizamuddin railway bridge and CSIR Apartments at Ashram Chowk, began in December 2019. The underpass is a key link between east, central and south Delhi, and also between Delhi and the NCR cities of Noida and Faridabad. The intersection is used by more than 350,000 vehicles every day.The project, which was originally slated to be completed in December 2020, has missed five deadlines, the last one being December 2021. Things reached a point when no formal deadline was set after that.“We are trying to cover the ramps as an additional safety measure to prevent water-logging in the underpass during the monsoon. The covers will be placed on entry and exit ramps on the Jangpura and Badarpur sides. Finishing touches to the art work on the side walls is also going on. The final date for the inauguration of the underpass will be decided by the government,” said a second official associated with the project.The first deadline for the underpass, which aims to ease traffic jams at the busy intersection, was set for December 2020. It was then revised to April 2021; then to June 2021; then shifted to August 31; and, having failed to deliver the project even then, the deadline was finally moved to December 31, 2021. But that deadline, too, was missed.Officials in the Delhi government did not respond to requests seeking comments.For more than two years, protracted construction work, poor site management, and haphazard dumping of construction material and debris has made Ashram Chowk a traffic choke point for commuters. And a decision to simultaneously start work on the extension of Ashram flyover up to Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) Flyway extended the chaos from the main intersection to the turn towards Sarai Kale Khan.S Khan, the president of Sukhdev Vihar Resident’s Welfare Association, said that passing through the Ashram intersection has become a persistent headache. “We have to count a delay of at least one hour during the evening rush hours. It is a pain point not just for regular commuters but also local residents who not only face the traffic chaos but also air pollution. Once, during an emergency, we got stuck in the jam and had to leave our vehicle mid-way and walk amid heavy traffic,” Khan said.An air pollution ban (starting November 2019), assembly polls (March 2020), pandemic-induced lockdowns (between March 2020 and June 5, 2021), and another construction ban due to severe air pollution (November and December last year) have been cited by PWD as factors that have delayed work on the underpass. But people who use the road say the story is more complicated than that, and complain of poor planning by PWD and poor management by the traffic police.Prabhat Agrawal, who uses the stretch for his daily commute, alleged that even cab drivers have started to cancel the rides around peak hours, if they need to pass through Ashram Chowk. “Are the authorities even aware of daily traffic jams that happen on all four sides of the Ashram Chowk? If they are not, they should ask any cab or auto driver who refuse to ply in this area just because they don’t want to avoid this junction at any cost,” Agrawal who was stuck in traffic at the intersection on Monday evening said.Kanan Bahl, who was waiting a few metres away from Agrawal, said that it was poor traffic management that leads to the chaos. “How many more years will they take to build this underpass? In the last one hour, I have moved just one kilometre,” he added.Delhi traffic police said they have suggested alternative routes to motorists avoid the congested intersection. “Ashram Chowk remains congested due to the ongoing construction work on the underpass and the extension of the flyover. Motorists travelling from Sarai Kale Khan to AIIMS are advised to take the Barapullah flyover, and those going from DND Flyway towards AIIMS have also been advised to use the Barapullah,” a traffic police official said.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning in the School of Planning and Architecture, said Ashram is a key intersection, and it should have been executed on top priority. “We are already a decade late in the intervention at this intersection. With other projects such as Delhi-Meerut Expressway having been completed, the traffic volume at this intersection has increased. Vehicles from east Delhi now have a free flow up to the intersection, and the agencies taking up the underpass project should have factored it in,” he said.Work on such a busy and crucial intersection should have been taken up in phases with a comprehensive alternative mobility plan, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/now-pwd-sets-march-deadline-for-overdue-ashram-underpass-in-delhi-101643048290968.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Deputy commissioner attends dress rehearsal ahead of Republic Day celebrations in Ludhiana||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday reviewed the arrangements for the upcoming district-level Republic Day celebrations during a full dress rehearsal held at the Guru Nanak Stadium.Sharma unfurled the national flag at the event, which saw participation from the Punjab police and National Cadet Corps (NCC) teams.Highlighting the enforcement of the model code of conduct and the pandemic, he said no cultural function or physical training show would be organised at this year’s celebrations.The deputy commissioner urged the government departments to show enthusiastic participation, before revealing that the administration would honour the freedom fighters by paying a visit to their families. He added that both the Republic Day and the Independence Day should be celebrated with fervour, promoting communal harmony and national integration.The function is scheduled to start at 9.58 am with the unfurling of the national flag by the chief guest, Punjab agriculture and farmers welfare and food processing minister Randeep Singh Nabha.Outlining other directions, the deputy commissioner said the officials were expected to perform their duties with utmost devotion. The Municipal Corporation officials were directed to ensure cleanliness of the entire city.Other prominent names present on the occasion included commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, additional deputy commissioner (General) Rahul Chaba and other senior officials of the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deputy-commissioner-attends-dress-rehearsal-ahead-of-republic-day-celebrations-in-ludhiana-reviews-arrangements-for-january-26-101643048052354.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana woman ends life after spat with husband||A woman on Saturday night ended her life by hanging herself at her house in Gopal Nagar of Haibowal. The victim’s husband said he had a verbal spat with her over the issue of the woman wanting to pursue a job, which he was against. He added that the victim hanged herself after the fight.Sub-inspector Harpreet Singh, station head officer (SHO) at the Haibowal police station the 26-year-old woman had been married for five years, adding that the body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem.The SHO said the police will take appropriate action after recording the statement of victims’ parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-ends-life-after-domestic-spat-over-husband-disallowing-her-to-pursue-job-101643047750818.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Firefighters douse major fire at hosiery unit in Ludhiana after six-hour-long operations, no casualties reported||A major fire broke out at a hosiery unit in New Aman Nagar, Bharti colony, Bahaduke road on Monday afternoon, when more than 70 labourers were inside the building. However, no casualties was reported.The fire fighters doused the blaze, which broke out on the second floor, after a six-hour operation. Ten fire tenders were pressed into service.The reason behind the fire incident is uncertain. Notably, the unit had no proper fire safety arrangements and the fire brigade had to arrange water from the Sundar Nagar station and a nearby factory.Sub-fire officer Atish Rai said the fire brigade received an alert at around 2.45pm, following which ten fire tenders were rushed to the spot. He said the unit suffered massive loss in terms of goods and machinery, adding that the poor condition of the road leading to the factory slowed down the firefighting operations. The situation came under control by around 9pm, but one fire tender has been deployed to stay on location until Tuesday morning as a precautionary measure. The reason behind the fire incident is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firefighters-douse-major-fire-at-hosiery-unit-in-ludhiana-after-six-hour-long-operations-no-casualties-reported-101643047450983.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||DEO finalises arrangements in Ludhiana as nominations for Punjab assembly elections to start on Jan 25||The process of filing of nominations by contesting candidates for the February 20-state assembly elections is set to begin on Tuesday with the district election officer-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma finalising the arrangements to ensure smooth filing process for the same.The DEO said as per the stipulated norms laid down by the Election Commission of India (ECI), only three persons including the candidate would be allowed to enter the returning officers (RO’s) room where the nominations for the elections would be filed, between 11am to 3pm, from January 25 to February 1. Outlining other regulations, he said the candidates would not be allowed to carry mobiles inside the RO’s room and that proper videography of the nomination process will be ensured. The DEO also assured a public address system, digital clock and other arrangements inside RO’s room to ensure complete transparency.He directed concerned officials to clearly demarcate a 100 metres periphery by displaying boards, cameras, parking area, barricading, RO’s room along with instructions of ECI. He said that elaborate arrangements would also be made to ensure that the nomination process organized in a smooth, free and fair manner, before adding that the nominations will not be accepted on January 26, 2022 and January 30, 2022 on account of public holidays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/district-election-officer-finalises-arrangements-in-ludhiana-as-nomination-process-for-punjab-assembly-polls-to-start-on-january-25-101643046490731.html
25-01-2022||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad tops e-governance index in Maharashtra, Pune second||PUNE Pimpri-Chinchwad has topped the e-governance index among cities in Maharashtra based on a report prepared by Pune-based Think Tank - Policy Research Organisation (PRO). Pimpri-Chinchwad is followed by Pune and Mira-Bhayandar among 27 municipal corporation limits assessed by the Think Tank that studied websites, mobile applications, social media handles along with 120 other sub-criterions of these civic bodies between November 1 to December 31 last year. According to the report, Pimpri-Chinchwad with 5.92 out of 10 points topped the chart followed by Pune with 5.50 points, Mira-Bhayandar (5.50), Mumbai (5) and Kalyan-Dombivli, (4.25). The parameters based on which the cities were judged included- accessibility, services and transparency. “When we decided to prepare e-governance index for various cities in Maharashtra, we had template of National e-Governance Service Delivery Assessment (NeSDA), which focuses on websites of Departments and Ministries of the Union Government and websites of State Governments. Since there was no provision for evaluating e-governance at the local level, we decided to take up the job,” said Neha Mahajan, director, PRO. The report, as claimed by Mahajan, was based on only those criteria which elicit objective responses such as ‘Ease of portal finding’, ‘Navigability,’ which are matters of opinion and cannot be determined objectively. “Therefore, in line with this reasoning, it was also decided not to consider aspects of e-Governance that could lead to subjective experiences. Consequently, the scope of this Index relates to the existence of services, information, etc., and does not consider the actual delivery of a service, reliability of the information, etc,” stated the report. This Index follows the binary evaluation methodology, also used in NeSDA, for assessing the municipal corporations across the indicators. “The explosive entry of technology into our everyday life has changed how we live, work, and how governments serve their people. Keeping this in mind, Policy Research Organisation (PRO) decided to study the state of ‘e- governance’ in all twenty-seven municipal corporations in Maharashtra. Considering municipal corporations are drivers of development at city/urban levels, it is imperative to assess the quality of e-governance provided and ensure that reform happens with the pace of development,” said Mahajan in the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-tops-e-governance-index-in-maharashtra-pune-second-101643038690000.html
25-01-2022||Chandigarh||Prime witness of Ambala gang war dies at PGI, two shooters identified||Four days after a Mohali-based gangster, Mohit Rana, was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Ambala Cantonment, his associate and prime witness, Vishal, alias Bhola, succumbed to injuries at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Monday morning. Also read: Ambala gang war: 20 bullets crossed gangster’s body, four found inside, autopsy revealsVishal was referred to Chandigarh minutes after he was brought in a critical condition with multiple bullet wounds at the civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment on January 20. Mohit, who died on the spot, had received 24 bullet injuries, while at least 10 bullets were fired at Vishal.“Vishal died at 4am on Monday due to multiple-organ failure. The body will be handed over to the Ambala police after autopsy on Tuesday,” doctors said. On January 20, the assailants, suspected to be three in number, had fired more than 30 shots within seconds, killing Mohit on the spot and leaving Vishal injured outside DAV Riverside School on Jagadhri Road. The Ford EcoSport used in the crime was recovered in Kurukshetra on Sunday.Meanwhile, police have identified two shooters in the double murder, both belonging to Rohtak. They are Aakash, alias Gitti, of Janta Colony and Pankaj Budhwar, alias Pinku, of Sunariya. They are expected to be arrested soon.Gangster Monu Rana nabbedGangster Shamsher Singh, alias Monu Rana, was arrested on Sunday for criminal conspiracy in the double murder.CIA-2 in-charge Virender Walia said police presented him before a court on Monday to seek two-day remand, but only one day was allowed.Shamsher was sentenced to life imprisonment by a court in 2019 in connection with the 2014 murder of Mohammad Mushtaq, a member of the Bhupi Rana gang that victim Mohit Rana was also associated with.The recent shootout is said to be a fallout of an enmity over the 2014 murder case. Shamsher was granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana high court in October last year on medical grounds, his counsel Maan Singh Kakran said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prime-witness-of-ambala-gang-war-dies-at-pgi-chandigarh-101643019969136.html
