26-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: Cold last hurdle between Pragati Maidan corridor, Feb 15 deadline||Construction work on the 1.2-km-long Pragati Maidan tunnel project and six underpasses under the integrated transit corridor development plan for Pragati Maidan is expected to be completed by February 15, government officials overseeing the key infrastructure project said. However, the deadline would be met only if the ongoing extreme cold conditions abate soon, they added. The officials explained that though more than 95% work on the project has been completed, they are yet to fix the road surface in the tunnel since the cold weather is not conducive for the use of bituminous construction material which is the key ingredient laying coaltar-asphalt roads. The tunnel road and six underpasses — five on Mathura Road and one on Ring Road — will decongest the roads around Pragati Maidan which is being redeveloped. The tunnel road goes beneath Pragati Maidan, starting near National Sports Club of India on Purana Qila Road and ends on the Ring Road near the Pragati power station.The project is also expected to cut traffic jams for at more than 100,000 commuters who use the key arterial roads. The Bhairon Marg section will also face less traffic congestion after the opening of this tunnel. Two of the five underpasses on Mathura Road are near Sundar Nagar and three are between Pragati Maidan and Supreme Court. The underpass on the Ring Road connects it with Bhairon Marg.A senior government official said the work on the underpasses and the tunnel “is in very advanced stage”. “The civil work in both tunnels and underpasses is complete, and an informal deadline for completion of remaining electrification/lighting, artwork and road surfacing has been fixed at February 15. We will carry out the safety audit of underpasses along with Delhi Traffic Police in the second half February,” the official said.The bitter cold that has gripped Delhi through January, leading to several weeks where the maximum temperature has been unrelenting, has caused the second coldest spell of winter recorded in the city in more than seven decades, and the coldest start to a year in 19 years, HT reported on Tuesday.Delhi is also currently also in the middle of the sixth longest spell of consecutive days since 1951 where the day temperature has been significantly below levels considered normal, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) gridded data set. A senior official of the Public Works Department said if the agency goes ahead and use hot asphalt mix to lay roads, they won’t last long. “An optimum temperature of at least 14-15 degrees Celsius is required for laying good quality bituminous surface roads. The project is in final stage, and the extremely cold condition is the last hurdle in its completion. Most of the hot mix plants are located outside Delhi and we need to factor in the travelling time and subsequent cooling of asphalt mix too,” the official explained. The project has so far missed six deadlines with the agency citing flooding of underpasses during monsoon and ban on operation of hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi NCR during November and December 2021 on account of rise in air pollution levels as some of the reasons behind the delays.PWD estimates show that the ITO-bound traffic on the stretch is around 62,000 passenger car unit (PCU) per day and Bhairon Marg users account for 57,000 PCUs per day. PCU is a vehicle unit used for expressing highway capacity.Dr. S Velmurugan chief scientist, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) said the tunnel and the underpasses are estimated to reduce the congestion in the region by at least 15%-30%. “The project will help reduction in traffic on key arterial roads that lead to the stretch from east and south Delhi. The congestion nodes at Bhairon Marg and Sunder Nagar will be relieved. The Pragati Maidan corridor is a very important project which will be helpful in reduction of traffic in central Delhi while facilitating movement from south, south east and east Delhi,” he added. Velmurugan said the agency may use cold and warm mix technologies for road laying to reduce the road construction time during winters.Prof Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning in the School of Planning and Architecture, said the project may play a key role in de-cluttering central Delhi. “The main tunnel directly provides connectivity between Ring road and Mathura Road both of which face frequent traffic snarls. The link will make for a smoother flow of vehicles on both the arterial roads. It also provides regional traffic connectivity for commuters moving from east towards central Delhi. The impact will be felt up to the end point of Barapullah where new congestion nodes have emerged near Lodhi Road and AIIMS,” he added. The construction work on the integrated corridor started in 2017 and its first deadline was March 2019, after which five more deadlines have been missed so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhicold-last-hurdle-between-pragati-maidan-corridor-feb-15-deadline-101643221487924.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi HC orders man accused of sexual assault to do community service||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has asked a man to do community service on weekends for a month and imposed a cost of ₹35,000, as the condition for quashing an FIR registered against him for groping a woman and outraging her modesty. The man had earlier reached an amicable settlement with the accused and subsequently moved the court to quash the FIR.The FIR claims that the accused allegedly groped and forcefully kissed his tenant when she went to the bathroom on July 26, 2016. The complainant said she didn’t make any noise due to fear and went to her room.The woman claimed that on July 28, 2016, the accused again allegedly misbehaved with her and tried to outrage her modesty, following which she approached the Gandhi Nagar police station.In April 2019, both the parties made an amicable settlement and moved the court seeking quashing of the FIR.On January 20 this year, the complainant told the court that the accused has sought for her forgiveness. She said she has forgiven him for his misdeeds and does not intend to proceed with the matter any further.Noting the submission, justice Subramonium Prasad, while quashing the FIR, directed the man to do some community service “to atone for his sins” and also warned not to repeat such actions in the future.“Accordingly, the petitioner is directed to do community service at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital on every Saturday and Sunday for one month i.e. from February 1, 2022 to March 2, 2022. He shall report to the Medical Superintendent, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital on February 1, 2022,” the court noted in its order.The court asked the accused to file a certificate from the medical superintendent of Lok Nayak hospital after completion of one month to show compliance of the order.“In case of any absenteeism/default or any misbehaviour on the part of the petitioner, the same shall be conveyed immediately by the Medical Superintendent, LNJP, to the concerned SHO, who shall in turn inform the counsel for the State, for bringing the same to the notice of the court and for seeking recall of the orders passed today (January 20),” the judge added.Meanwhile, on January 3, the same judge directed two persons to do community service at Safdarjung hospital änd GTB Hospital for a month in exchange of quashing an FIR where they had beaten people with wooden rods in the Punjabi Bagh area in 2016.The court said that considering that both the accused were aged 25-26 years and that they have amicably solved the matter, it would not be appropriate to keep the FIR pending.The judge, however, directed the accused to do social service “so that they can understand the pain and suffering of an injured victim and hope that they will not indulge in such activities in future”.“The petitioner No 1 is directed to report to the medical superintendant, Safdarjung Hospital, and the petitioner No 2 is directed to report to the medical superintendent, GTB Hospital, on January 15, 2022. It is directed that the petitioners shall do the work assigned to them and on completion of their one month community service from January 15 to February 15 in the concerned hospitals, the petitioners shall obtain a certificate from the medical superintendant concerned and file the same in the registry of this court to show compliance,” the judge noted in his order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-orders-man-accused-of-sexual-assault-to-do-community-service-101643221127531.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||More beds free up in Delhi, fewest admitted with Covid-19 since Jan 10||Covid-19 hospitalisations in the national capital are at a two-week low, amid an overall downturn in the city’s infection tally and active case count, shows data from the Delhi government, which doctors across the city’s health care facilities said is an indication that the fifth wave of the pandemic is well under control.Also Read | Delhi sees slight surge in daily Covid count with 7,498 new cases, positivity rate at 10.59%Delhi government data shows that while Covid-19 hospitalisations in the city started plateauing around 10 days ago, a visible fall in admissions started from January 19, when 2,734 dedicated beds in the city’s hospitals were occupied. This number dipped to 2,698 beds on January 20, then 2,656 on January 21, then 2,504 on January 22, and 2424 on January 23.The trend continued on January 24, when 2,394 hospital beds were occupied and on January 25, when 2,304 beds in the city were taken up. As on Wednesday, of the 15,420 Covid-19 beds in Delhi, just 2,137 (13.86%) were occupied, showed state data, the fewest since 1,999 on January 10.The drop in the number of occupied hospital beds between Tuesday and Wednesday, was the largest so far during the fifth wave, with 167 beds being freed up in 24 hours.Also Read | DDMA meet: Delhi govt to suggest reopening of schools as Covid crisis easesThe seven-day average of infections in Delhi fell to just over 9,000 on Wednesday, the lowest since 8,370 on January 7 this year.Data shows that in Delhi, the highest proportion of beds occupied was on January 17 when 18% of the city’s 15,505 available beds were in use.Doctors at the city’s major Covid-19 hospitals confirmed that these numbers mirrored the downward trend of infections in the Capital.Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital, the largest Covid hospital in the city run by the state government, said the facility has 98 positive patients admitted, as against 140-150 patients around a fortnight back.“Admissions are declining at a faster rate over the last three or four days. Usually, when we see a fall in infections, the consequent dip in hospitalisations lags a few days. This seems like a positive sign that we have passed the worst of this wave,” Dr Kumar said.He added, “Currently, those admitted with Covid-19 are either senior citizens or those with severe co-morbidities.”This is in line what has been observed globally in Covid-19 surges caused by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus that is fuelling India’s third – and Delhi’s fifth - wave of infections. Most patients who are infected by the variant of concern are able to recover at home without needing medical care in an institution.Further, deaths during the current surge have been a fraction of those seen during previous surges. For instance, on April 20 last year, as the fourth wave hit its crescendo, the infection claimed 277 lives. In fact, the daily death toll, even at its highest during the fifth wave so far (45 on January 22), has been lower than that during the peak of infections during the third wave of infections in November 2020. On November 11 that year, Delhi added 8,593 Covid-19 cases, which was the highest daily count at that point, but logged 85 deaths.Two sets of analyses by the Delhi government earlier this month showed that those most at risk of mortality during the Omicron surge remain the unvaccinated and those with pre-existing comorbid conditions.A senior official of Delhi government’s health department concurred and said hospitalisations were much lower compared to the previous waves.“We were prepared to deal with the worst situation, and that was initially projected to be around 70,000 to 100,000 cases per day. We have managed to avert the worst... In this wave most people have recovered at home and have not required hospitalisation. The people who needed hospital care were either unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, senior citizens and people with severe illnesses,” the health official said.At no point since cases of Covid-19 began surging in the Capital this year has the hospital bed occupancy rate been beyond 20% of capacity, data released by the Delhi government every day shows.Doctors at private hospitals also confirmed similar trends.Dr DS Rana, chairperson of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said, “There are definitely more discharges now than admissions, and this can also be attributed to greater awareness among people. In the earlier waves, people panicked more and rushed to hospitals but now they can see that they are getting better at home. We are seeing people in ICUs (intensive care units) but these are mostly people who had severe diseases like cancer, kidney problems etc. They were already in ICUs and were shifted to Covid ICUs when they tested positive.”
26-01-2022||Delhi||In a first, Delhi Police wings builds security infra for R-Day parade, tableaux||New Delhi: The physical security infrastructure for the Republic Day parade and tableaux this year was built by the Delhi Police’s own engineering wing, the Delhi Police Housing Corporation Ltd (DPHCL), for the first time, said police officials aware of the development. Until last year, the security infrastructure, such as building fences, boundaries and erecting watch towers, was built by the Public Works Department (PWD).Delhi police officers said that the force will use its own engineering wing to build the security infrastructure for the Independence Day celebrations too. The housing corporation, which has been in existence for more than a decade, is otherwise primarily involved in construction and maintenance of police buildings. The Capital was put on high alert as just weeks ago, an improvised explosive device (IED), made of RDX and ammonium nitrate, was found outside the Ghazipur flower market. It was diffused through a controlled explosion by experts from the National Security Guard (NSG). Coupled with an explosion inside a court in Ludhiana last month and recovery of RDX in Punjab’s Gurdaspur five days ago, the Delhi Police was forced to take up extra security measures.At least 27,000 police personnel were posted for the Republic Day security arrangement apart from personnel from the paramilitary forces.Special commissioner of police Jaspal Singh, who is also the managing director of the police’s housing corporation, said, “Since the work was of sensitive nature and had a direct correlation with the security of the route and that of tableaux, a high degree of planning and meticulous execution was required. The task was entrusted for the first time to DPHCL. The arrangements included the barricading and fencing of around 6km on either side of the road on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Netaji Subhash Marg (ITO to Jama Masjid), provisioning of 14 watch towers for commandos to overlook the route security, and provisioning of sand bags.” The engineers also placed water pumps at five low–lying areas along the parade route. Special commissioner Singh said that the pumps were placed to remove water in case of rain, along with a maintenance vehicle manned by 10 workers. “In the future, the corporaton will undertake similar security infrastructure work,” added Singh. 
26-01-2022||Delhi||DDMA meet: Delhi govt to suggest reopening of schools as Covid crisis eases||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will meet on Thursday to discuss easing of restrictions in view of declining cases of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in the national capital.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government will recommend reopening of schools in the capital at the meeting as it has now become necessary to prevent further damage to the social and emotional well-being of children.According to a PTI report, Sisodia also spoke about how online education can never replace offline education and that excessive caution is now harming students."In the past two years, school children's lives have been confined to their rooms. Instead of going to schools and spending time in playgrounds, all their activities now take place on mobile phones."The pandemic-induced school closures have not only affected their studies, but also their mental health. During Covid, our priority was children's safety. But since various researches have now found that Covid is not so harmful for kids, it is important to reopen the schools, as now is the time for exams and related preparations," Sisodia said.Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said schools are being reopened in several countries and even many Indian states."On this basis, the Delhi government will recommend reopening of schools in the DDMA meeting scheduled on January 27," he said."While the Covid cases and positivity rate are on the decline in Delhi, it would not be suitable to keep children away from schools. With children returning to schools, not only will the schools witness a buzz but it will also indicate lives coming back on track," he said.Meanwhile, a delegation of parents led by Chandrakant Lahariya, an epidemiologist and public policy specialist, and Centre for Policy Research president Yamini Aiyar, met Sisodia and submitted a memorandum signed by over 1,600 parents demanding that the schools be reopened."Why are we the last among major countries to decide on this? I agree with their demands. A generation of children will be left behind if we do not open our schools now," added Sisodia.Thursday's meeting will be chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and will discuss whether Covid-19 curbs should be eased in Delhi. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will also be present in the meeting that is expected to take place at 12.30pm.Apart from reopening of schools, easing of other restrictions in Delhi is likely to be discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-meet-delhi-govt-to-suggest-reopening-of-schools-as-covid-crisis-eases-101643214883869.html
26-01-2022||Ranchi||NIA files charge sheet against two for blast by CPI (Maoists) in Jharkhand||The NIA has filed a supplementary charge sheet before a special court here against two people accused of supplying explosive materials to the outlawed CPI (Maoists) that carried out a blast, killing three Jharkhand Jaguar personnel, an official said on Wednesday.Sukhram Ramtai and Jaiki Paradhi have been charged under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Explosive Substance Act and the UA(P) Act, the official of the premier investigation agency said.The case relates to an IED blast in March last year in the Lanji Forest Hill area, located in Jharkhand's West Singhbhum district in which three personnel of the Jharkhand Jaguar were killed and three others, including one CRPF ASI, were injured, the NIA official said.The Jharkhand Jaguar is a special task force (STF) set up to tackle Left-Wing Extremism.The NIA, which had re-registered the case in March last year, earlier filed a chargesheet against the 19 accused in September last year.The two accused chargesheeted on Tuesday had procured potash, which is an explosive substance, from Beohari, Shahdol district in Madhya Pradesh and supplied it to other chargesheeted accused Sukhram Ramtai and Sorto Mahali in Jharkhand, the NIA official said.Almost 700 kg of potash was procured illegally from MP and brought in several consignments for delivery to CPI (Maoists) in Jharkhand, the official said.These explosives were further supplied to the senior armed leaders of the CPI (Maoist) who used them for making IEDs and targeting security forces, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-two-for-blast-by-cpi-maoists-in-jharkhand-101643213066759.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi sees slight surge in daily Covid count with 7,498 new cases, positivity rate at 10.59%||Delhi on Wednesday saw a minor surge in its daily Covid-19 caseload with 7,498 fresh infections being logged in the last 24 hours. Further, as many as 29 people succumbed to the disease in the past 24 hours, according to updated data shared by the national capital’s health department. The current positivity rate rose marginally to 10.59 per cent.On Tuesday, Delhi had reported 6,028 new coronavirus cases and 31 deaths. The positivity was recorded at 10.55 per cent.Also, 11,164 patients recuperated from the disease in the last 24 hours with fewer than 15 per cent of the Covid beds occupied in hospitals.As many as 603 people have succumbed to Covid in the national capital so far in January.On Monday, the capital had logged 5,760 new Covid cases with a positivity rate of 11.79 per cent and 30 deaths.The number of daily cases in Delhi has been declining after touching a record high of 28,867 on January 13.The capital had recorded a positivity rate of 30.6 per cent on January 15, the highest so far in the ongoing wave of the pandemic.Delhi had on Sunday reported 9,197 new Covid cases with a positivity rate of 13.32 per cent and 34 deaths due to the infection. It took just 10 days for cases to drop below the 10,000-mark.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will hold a meeting on Thursday on the pandemic situation in the national capital. The meeting, to be chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, will be held to discuss whether Covid-19 curbs should be eased in Delhi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-slight-surge-in-daily-covid-count-with-7-498-new-cases-positivity-rate-at-1059-101643206930192.html
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Liquor bought from authorised shop claims six lives in Rae Bareli||Six people died and some others were taken ill in Paharpur village of Uttar Pradesh’s Rae Bareli district after consuming liquor, allegedly bought from an authorised alcohol-vending shop, police said on Wednesday. District Magistrate Vaibhav Srivastava said people had consumed liquor after a programme in the village on Tuesday night and their condition deteriorated after that. Lucknow’s Commissioner Ranjan Kumar who reached the village on Wednesday said six people have lost their lives in the incident. The villagers have said the liquor was purchased from an authorised liquor outlet, he added. Those who consumed liquor were taken ill and started vomiting following which they were rushed to a nearby hospital, the Commissioner said, adding the liquor samples have been collected and an investigation has been started. An FIR has been filed against the licence holder of the liquor shop, the Commissioner said, adding the excise inspector and workers of the shop have prima facie been found guilty of laxity and action will be taken against them. Further responsibility will be fixed after the probe is completed, Commissioner Kumar said. Inspector-General of Police Laxmi Singh also rushed to the village and took stock of the situation. Four of those who died have been identified as Paharpur village residents Sukhrani (65), Ramsumer (50) and Saroj (40), besides Bansi (55of Pure Chatta village. Some others who were taken ill after consuming liquor were admitted to a Community Health Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/liquor-bought-from-authorised-shop-claims-six-lives-in-rae-bareli-101643201975335.html
26-01-2022||Mumbai||One critical among nine hurt in building collapse in Mumbai's Bandra area||At least nine people were injured after a four-storied building collapsed in Mumbai’s Bandra area on Wednesday. One of injured, identified as Fakare Alam Mohd Ismail Shah, is said to be in a critical condition and is undergoing treatment at Bandra Bhabha Hospital.Earlier reports said four among the injured have been shifted to VN Desai Hospital, while some others were taken to Bandra Bhabha Hospital. Their condition is stable, the disaster management department of city’s civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Among those injured, six were rescued from the debris by personnel of the Mumbai fire department.The incident happened at Behram Nagar near Raza Masjid in Bandra East around 3.55pm.According to news agency ANI, the BMC said five fire engines, one rescue van and six ambulances have been rushed to the spot. The agency had earlier said five persons were feared trapped in the collapsed building.Further details awaited.(This is a developing story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-feared-trapped-after-building-collapses-in-mumbai-rescue-ops-underway-101643199196001.html
26-01-2022||Bangalore||Should handle third wave of Covid with 'total seriousness': Karnataka guv||Cautioning about the third wave of Covid-19, Karnataka governor Thaawar Chand Gehlot on Wednesday, called on the citizens to handle the situation with "total seriousness" and said there should be no room for negligence.Delivering his address after unfurling the national flag on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day here, he complimented the state government for succeeding in reducing the effect of Covid-19 efficiently."We are now facing the 3rd wave of Covid-19. We should handle this situation with total seriousness and negligence has no room now. We must continue to observe the SMS mantra of - Social Distancing, Masking and Sanitization for the sake of everybody's health," the governor said."My Government has worked day and night and with the support of the public we have succeeded in reducing the effect of Covid-19 efficiently. We have used this crisis as an opportunity to build on our strengths, to create additional health infrastructure and enhance production capacity of Oxygen cylinders and Ventilators," he said.This is Gehlot's first Republic Day as the governor of Karnataka. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, few of his cabinet colleagues and top government officials were among the select invitees, who attended the low-key event held at the Manekshaw Parade Ground here, by following the Covid protocols.The governor said different fields like management of Covid war room, Telemedicine, identifying the infected and quarantine observation were managed efficiently with advanced technology and this has resulted in less number of deaths in Karnataka when compared to other parts of the world."I also salute our field staff, Disaster Management Teams and the District Heads who effectively handled the challenge and mitigated the disaster of heavy rain in the North Karnataka region," he said.Noting that Karnataka, being one of the progressive States in the Country, is implementing many schemes and programmes on the occasion of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' (75th Anniversary of Independence), Gehlot said, the State has announced 14 Amrit Mahotsav programmes and has prepared an implementation roadmap with targeted outcomes till August 15, 2023.He also highlighted the government's focus on Watershed development, mobile and technology based crop survey, among others.The governor said an amount of ₹14.23 crore from the Union Government and 13.39 crore from state government has been released under the modernization scheme for procuring weapons, vehicles and scientific equipment etc. to various units of police departments.He said ₹9.14 crore from the union government and 6.09 crore from the state government has been released for procurement of wireless equipment and added that ₹30 lakh compensation has been paid to 173 families of Police personnel who died due to Covid-19.Gehlot also noted that the Forest department has planted 2.39 crore saplings of different varieties in 37,745 hectares and 1.87 crore saplings were distributed to public to grow in agricultural and private lands.Incentive of ₹4.39 crore has been distributed to the farmers under Agriculture Forest Encouragement scheme.Further, by taking action for comprehensive protection and conservation of the dwelling places of wildlife the State has 524 Tigers in its forest area and has been identified as the second State having the highest number of Tigers.As per the census of 2017 there are 6,049 Elephants in Karnataka. This covers 25 percent of the Elephants in India, and the state stands first by having highest number of Elephants, he said.The governor also said that the classes for post-matric girl students, training them in self defense skills like Karate, Judo and Taekwondo have been started in backward class hostels."My Government prioritises women centric budgets and provides nutrition based food to pregnant ladies and nursing mothers, under Matru poorna scheme. This has been implemented in all districts of the State and 9.36 lakh beneficiaries have availed this facility,"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/should-handle-third-wave-of-covid-with-total-seriousness-karnataka-guv-101643192811130.html
26-01-2022||Patna||RRB-NTPC exam row: Yogendra Yadav lists 4 demands of protesting candidates||Farmer leader Yogendra Yadav on Wednesday listed four demands of candidates who have been protesting against alleged irregularities in the Railway Recruitment Board's Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB-NTPC) exam 2021 across Bihar.Taking to Twitter, Yadav said the first demand of the candidates is suspension of officials who attacked the protesters, followed by release and treatment of those who have been detained and injured in the protests.“There should be an announcement regarding the correction of the error in the NTPC results and the students should get 20 times the vacancy,” the activist said, adding the last demand of candidates is cancellation of a two-level examination in the D-Group category.युवाओं की मांग:* युवाओं पर बर्बर हमला करने वाले अधिकारी सस्पेंड हो* हिरासत में लिए युवा छोड़े जाए,केस खारिज हों,घायलों का इलाज हो* एनटीपीसी परिणाम में गलती सुधार की घोषणा हो, वैकेंसी के 20 गुना छात्रों को मौका मिले* D ग्रुप में दो स्तरीय परीक्षा रद्द हो#Gun_तंत्र #RRBNTPC https://t.co/9aHbSeOwPqYadav's proposal comes in the wake of the Railways suspending the NTPC and Level 1 exams earlier in the day.Across Bihar, candidates have been opposing the decision to hold the exam in two stages, claiming the second stage for final selection is tantamount to "cheating" those who appeared and cleared the first stage of the RRB-NTPC for a computer-based test (CBT) that was released on January 15."CBT 2 exam date was not notified; no update on Railway exam which was notified in 2019...The result is still awaited...We demand cancellation of the CBT 2 exam and release of the exam result," one of the protesters told news agency ANI.Scores of candidates have blocked railway tracks in Bihar, which hampered train movement. In some cases, they also clashed with security forces and vandalised railway property.On Wednesday, some protesters in Gaya allegedly set a bogie of the Bhabua-Patna Intercity Express on fire. Police said the situation is under control and some of the miscreants had been identified.The Indian Railways, meanwhile, has constituted a committee to look into the concerns of the candidates over NTPC CBT-1 Result.“Candidates are given three weeks time up to 16.02.2022 to submit their concerns and the committee after examining these concerns will submit their recommendations by 04.03.2022,” an official statement read.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rrbntpc-exam-row-yogendra-yadav-lists-4-demands-of-protesting-candidates-101643188826501.html
26-01-2022||Jaipur||Cold conditions continue in parts of Rajasthan, Jaipur posts min temp of °C||Cold conditions continue in parts of Rajasthan with several places recording minimum temperature below 5 degrees Celsius. According to the Meteorological Department, the minimum temperature in Chittorgarh was recorded at 1.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night.Similarly, Fatehpur and Bhilwara recorded a minimum night temperature of 2.8 degrees, Sikar 3.0 degrees, Jalore and Karauli 3.1 degrees, Sangaria, Bikaner and Churu 4.0 degrees, Ganganagar 4.3 and Nagaur 4.9 degrees Celsius.Jaipur recorded a minimum temperature of 7.3 degrees Celsius.The Meteorological Department has predicted cold wave conditions to continue in many parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cold-conditions-continue-in-parts-of-rajasthan-jaipur-posts-min-temp-of-c-101643191779069.html
26-01-2022||Mumbai||Tracking Mumbai’s three waves: How treatment for Covid-19 has evolved||MUMBAI: Soon after the Covid-19 pandemic started in March 2020, patients occupied hospital beds right up until their Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests to detect the coronavirus were negative, which often took several days. Two years later, as we face a third wave of cases in Mumbai, the treatment protocol has changed. Today, a repeat RT-PCR is strictly disallowed, except when symptoms worsen.To track the pandemic is to understand how our treatment and hospitalisation protocols have transformed over the past two years. Doctors now know that SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19 disease, can be detected in upper respiratory tract for up to three months of the onset of illness.Also Read: Tracking three waves of Covid-19 pandemic in MumbaiHowever, the virus after a five to 10-day time period is not “replication competent” if the symptoms have subsided, which means that it is not likely to be infectious.Protocols changedIn the third wave some therapies remain significant, while others have disappeared from the protocol followed by treating physicians. There is still a lot to learn, doctors said.The earliest guidelines for clinical management of Covid-19 was issued by ministry of Health and Family Welfare in March 2020. Members of the Covid-19 task force in each state also developed treatment guidelines, based on evidence from the West, clinical practice and the Centre’s suggestions. The Indian Council of Medical Research ICMR) national Covid-19 task force has since then issued clinical guidance.“Three therapies — oxygen, steroids and anticoagulants — have stood the test of time and have made a difference when it comes to saving lives,” said infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital.Singhal said that many drugs were re-purposed for Covid-19. For instance, in the first wave, doctors commonly used the antibiotic, azithromycin and anti-malarial drug, hydroxychloroquine which is also often used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. Drugs like antibiotic doxycycline and anti-parasitic ivermectin became a part of the unspecified treatment protocol.“All these drugs have gone away from the current line of treatment,” Singhal said. Two medicines — antiviral remdesivir and an anti-inflammatory drug tocilizumab — used in the first wave, stayed on.“We have conflicting data over the past two years on these two drugs, but they are useful when administered at the right time,” she said.A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) in December 2021 showed that early Remdesivir could prevent progression to severe disease if the drug was given on an outpatient basis.Till now, the common remdesivir course has been for five days and it has been administered only to hospitalised patients. This drug was also in short supply in the second wave of the pandemic, leading the Bombay high court to order the state to procure more vials as well as monitor its sale.Some of the treatments used in the first wave were downright wrong. For instance, the use of convalescent plasma, a blood component taken from recovered patients— there was insufficient evidence to show that it worked.By the second wave, the medical fraternity was slightly more confident in dealing with patients. But the enormity of the wave, driven by the Delta variant, overwhelmed the healthcare system.“We began intubating patients much earlier in the second wave in order to reduce mortality,” said internal medicine specialist Dr Anita Mathew from Fortis Hospital. “Early oxygen therapy also played a key role in recovery,” she said.“Continuous overuse of antibiotics to deal with a virus, high doses and unwarranted use of steroids and unnecessary CT scans were some of the biggest errors we saw. We risked antibiotic resistance, allowed the spread of life-threatening fungal infections such as mucormycosis and further caused the spread of infection as crowds gathered at radiology centres. It felt like there was a lack of common sense,” Dr Sujeet K Rajan, a respiratory medicine specialist from Bombay Hospital, said.Third wave, new treatmentsIndia granted an Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) to the monoclonal antibody cocktail drug in May 2021, but by the time it came into use, the second wave had started receding.The cocktail drug gained prominence in the third wave, but data has now shown that the two monoclonal antibodies — casirivimab and imdevimab — available in India failed to neutralise the Omicron variant in a laboratory setting, according to a study published by Frankfurt-based researchers in December 2021.“Timing is everything when it comes to Covid-19,” said critical care specialist Dr Kedar Toraskar from Wockhardt Hospital, who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force.“We now know that antivirals like remdesivir, and even the new drug molnupiravir works best during the viremia phase [presence of the virus in the bloodstream]. It goes without saying that doctors should select the patients carefully considering all the contraindications. Steroids, anticoagulants, and immunomodulators drugs are to be used in the inflammatory and cytokine storm phases,” said Toraskar.Experts also said that a lot has also changed because the virus is up against a population that has vaccine-induced immunity and past infection-induced immunity. “Proper use of masks and vaccinations will continue to be the key,” said Dr Mathew of Fortis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tracking-mumbai-s-three-waves-how-treatment-for-covid-19-has-evolved-101643190944764.html
26-01-2022||Bhopal||Disquiet in Madhya Pradesh over demolitions without due process||BHOPAL: For years, Vijay Bhawsar ran a grocery shop from his home in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain. He extended it by making a temporary shed to keep more items. There were no problems till January 15 when a banned Chinese kite string ended up slitting a woman’s throat. The woman died and drew attention to shops selling the strings. The district administration soon raised three shops including that of Bhawsar over illegal constructions.“I have lost my only source of income,” said Bhawsar. He added it would now be difficult for him to feed his family of five. Zubair and Hrithik, who also lost their shops for selling Chinese strings, claimed they were unaware of the ban on them. They alleged police did not take any action against the wholesale suppliers and targeted them.At least 1,453 properties of 779 people have been raised over illegal constructions over the last year in Madhya Pradesh. The authorities have maintained this was part of action against mafias and goons and involved properties worth ₹558 crore. In 2020, the government said 2,000 hectares of land worth around ₹10,000 crores was freed from 1,271 alleged encroachers.Officials said similar action has been taken against people found involved in rape, murder, food adulteration, selling of spurious liquor, inciting communal tension, harassing tribals and Dalits, and recently for selling Chinese kite strings.A campaign against land encroachers was started in 2019 when Kamal Nath was the chief minister. It was expanded when Shivraj Singh Chouhan took over in 2020 and properties of those involved in heinous crimes such as rape and murder were also raised.Officials said district administrations take calls on demolishing illegally constructed property after registering cases. The action was accordingly taken against those involved in adulteration of milk in Chambal, murder of a tribal man in Neemuch, for inciting communal violence in Dhar, Khandwa, Ujjain, and Indore.In September, a 25-year-old man was burnt to death when he was found with a married woman in Sagar. On the complaint of his family and dying declaration of the man, four people, including the woman’s father, were arrested. A few days after their arrest, the district administration demolished their house and triggered protests from their Brahmin community. The community asked the government to reconstruct the house. As the matter escalated, the state government transferred the district collector and police superintendent for taking action in haste and handed over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation.“Without court’s judgement, police and district administration declared us guilty of murder and demolished our house. We are now living in rented accommodation in Sagar,” said a member of the family.In Dhar, a three-storey building of one Khalil Khatri was demolished after a stone was pelted from it on a procession. Police registered a case against 30 persons.Police superintendent Aditya Singh said they asked Khatri to show the building permission but he failed to do so. “The house was constructed illegally.”Khatri said the land on which the building was constructed belonged to him and he did not take the permission for constructing it. He added other houses constructed in the locality were built also without any permission. “They should have given us time but they did not listen to our plea and demolished my house.” Khatri is moving court for compensation.Rights activist Madhuri Singh said by demolishing houses, the government was punishing entire families with the person alleged to have committed a crime. “This demolition drive is unconstitutional, illegal, and a complete failure of the rule of law.”Ehtesham Hashmi, a lawyer who is researching the demolition drive, said in most of the cases, the state government says constructions were illegal but should have given prior notices for demolition. “This (demolition drive) is a violation of human rights and I will move a petition to the high court against it.”After the demolition of three houses in Ujjain, Congress leaders Digvijaya Singh and Arif Masood condemned the drive. “Shops of retailers were demolished but no action was taken against the wholesalers because he is a (ruling) BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) leader. Why? Discrimination? Be fair Mr CM you have taken oath of Constitution,” said Singh in a tweet.Masood accused the state government of targeting minorities through the demolition drive. “The government is trying to terrorise Muslims by demolishing their houses. We are making list and I am sure out of 1,400, maximum demolished houses belong to Muslims.”Home minister Narottam Mishra rejected the allegations. “Whoever does wrong, irrespective of their caste and community, lawful action is taken.”Chouhan has appreciated the action against the “mafia” and encroachments. “Action should be taken against both common encroachers and mafia.”
26-01-2022||Mumbai||Tracking three waves of Covid-19 pandemic in Mumbai||Since March 11, 2020, Mumbai has seen three waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, each one registering a higher peak than the previous. Our understanding of the virus — and how to fight against it — has also changed tremendously. From being under one of the strictest lockdowns imposed across the globe as cases hit three-digits in the initial months to cautious restrictions that ensure daily livelihood is impacted the least, even as cases touch five-digits every day, the administration’s handling of Covid-19 too, has changed tremendously.“I would say that the first wave was about learning, in the second wave we were hand to mouth for oxygen supply. Though we never ran out of oxygen, we had to shift patients due to oxygen supply issues. In the third wave, we are much more comfortable but are on alert. The second wave was the most stressful. But now, with vaccination and as two years have passed, there is more data available. We are able to get clear-cut guidelines from the state and Central government on handling of cases. Earlier, there were frequent amendments due to the evolving situation,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC said.Also Read: &lt;strong&gt;How Covid-19 treatment through Mumbai's 3 waves has evolved&lt;/strong&gt; Here’s a look at some of the most important changes over the past three years:Civic responseIn January 2020, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced that it will start screening international passengers arriving from China, Hong Kong, United Kingdom among other countries for symptoms of Covid-19 like fever, cold or cough. The first test was conducted on February 3, and the result was negative. The BMC continued to screen and trace passengers for another month, and detected the first case of Covid-19 in the city on March 11: a senior citizen couple, travelling in a group of 40, returning from Dubai tested positive for the coronavirus. The other members of the group, who travelled to other cities outside Mumbai, tested positive for the virus too. The couple was isolated in Kasturba hospital, the city’s first infectious hospital.In the first week of February, the then municipal commissioner of the BMC Praveen Pardeshi announced a sum of ₹2 crore for the upgradation of the civic-run Kasturba Hospital — and equip it with a 100-bed isolation ward to treat Covid patients. As of today, the corporation has spent close to ₹3,000 crore for Covid-19 infrastructure, with nine Covid-19 jumbo centres with 15,000 beds (ranging from isolation beds to oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds). In all, the city now has 35,000 beds, of which around 11,000 beds are in 186 private hospitals in the city.Test, trace, containIn the initial days of the pandemic, suspected cases were isolated in the civic-run Kasturba Hospital, and tested. Their close contacts were traced and tested to. ‘Test, trace and track’ became the basis of the protocol. If several cases emerged in a building or due to a super-spreader event, the civic body made containment zones around the hotspot.The BMC conducted its first test on February 3, 2020 and by March, private laboratories were given permission to conducting Reverse Transcription – Polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. Since then, more than 14.2 million tests have been conducted over two years. At first, the BMC used to send a team at suspected patients’ home to test them. Starting March 2020, only symptomatic close contacts of a positive patient were tested. Asymptomatic high-risk contacts were tested on the seventh day, and if negative, they were asked to remain in home quarantine for seven days. Low risk asymptomatic close contacts were not tested but were asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days.Mumbai became the first city in India to open up testing starting July 7, 2020 — anyone wanting to get tested could do so without a doctor’s prescription.Post this, several mild cases were home quarantined after tracing and their building, slums and chawls were sealed. By the second wave, the BMC started sealing slums, chawls or buildings only after a cluster of cases were found. In the third wave, a building is only sealed if more than 20% of the flats have Covid cases. As of now, the city has 58 sealed buildings.In terms of tracing, initially, at least five to 20 close contacts were identified and screened. However, the ratio has changed. At present, two to 18 close contacts are traced for screening. The BMC continues to fumigate the premises of a positive case.In the first wave, densely populated slum clusters and chawls including Dharavi and Worli Koliwada were among the worst-hit areas. In the second and third waves, a majority of the cases have been found in high-rises. According to BMC officials, this is because in the first wave, those living in high-rises did not mingle much on account of the lockdown. After the curbs were relaxed, socialization ensued and since then, far more cases are reported from high-rises. Even today, 80-90% of the cases in the third wave are from high-rises and the remaining is from slums and chawls.According to civic officials, this shift has also meant that the demand for beds in private hospitals went up.As daily caseload increases, the number of tests conducted increases, and in each of the waves, this has resulted in a backlog at private laboratories causing longer waiting periods for test results. At the height of the second wave, patients complained of test reports taking up to four days. The BMC guidelines make it mandatory for private laboratories to release reports in 24 hours after collection of samples, but that doesn’t always happen.Owais Mirza, a resident of Mazgaon said, “My sister was tested positive for Covid-19 last week and we had to wait for two days to get a slot for home collection of Covid-19 samples. We also ended up buying a home kit due to this, but considering they are not very reliable we went on with the laboratory reports.”Since June 2021, home test kits have been available, and in the third wave, their sales have skyrocketed. However, this has posed a problem for the BMC: many positive patients are not declaring their result to the civic body. In order to keep a tab on this, the BMC recently asked chemists to share details of the persons buying such home kits, so that the civic body can follow up with them.On January 13, a senior civic official said that at least 100,000 kits were sold on that day, and between 1 and 2% of those who tested themselves at home were positive for Covid-19.Isolation and hospitalisationBetween May and October 2020, as cases began to spiral upwards, symptomatic and high-risk age groups, and persons with co-morbidities were isolated in hospitals. The rest were advised home quarantine or isolation in government facilities.In the second wave — the demand for oxygen, ICU beds and ventilators shot up drastically resulting in patients hunting for beds. A long waiting list greeted anyone contacting the BMC ward war room in a bid to find a hospital bed, and the BMC helped admit patients on priority depending on their clinical symptoms. Several patients were advised by doctors to isolate at home with oxygen concentrators, if their situation warranted it.By comparison, in the third wave, around 80% of the beds out of the total around 35,000 beds are vacant, and the BMC has anticipated that even if the city reports double the number of cases, it is currently reporting (i.e 40,000 or more) the civic body will be able to arrange beds for everyone. This is because, starting June 2021, the BMC began to ramp up the infrastructure.Close to 80-90 % of the cases reported daily basis are asymptomatic. Those with mild symptoms are now advised seven-day home quarantine.Ward war roomsBetween March and August 2020, the bed allotment system was centralised — all calls by Covid-19 positive patients were made to a toll-free number, 1916, of the Disaster Management System. On August 10, the BMC created 24 ward war rooms and decentralised the bed-allotment system. Each war room consisted of health officers, interns and doctors who evaluated the patient’s case history — and their blood oxygen level — before taking a call on allotting a bed in a Covid-19 hospital or quarantine facility.This arrangement depended on seamless coordination between the control room and hospitals. Thousands were helped. However, as the caseload spiked, the war rooms found themselves overwhelmed. Many citizens took to social media platforms to complain; even the BMC upped its communication game. It began to tweet out ward war room information and asked citizens to trust the civic body. “Please understand that the Ward War Rooms have no reason to hold back beds if there are any vacant. If you aren’t getting a bed, it’s because beds are full. War Rooms will surely update you with an alternative arrangement as soon as they can,” its official Twitter handle posted on April 24, 2021.At present, the burden on ward war rooms is lesser. As a majority of the cases are asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic, positive cases and close contacts are mostly in home quarantine. The war rooms in each of the city’s 24 wards remain active.Vaccination programmeTowards the end of 2020 had conducted a door-to-door survey in which it had identified around three million people who were both vulnerable and senior citizens. Conducted between the first and second waves, this helped the civic body execute treatment and pandemic management protocols. It also helped in the roll out of the vaccination programme in January 2021.The second wave began in the city in February 2021 and it had reached its peak in April. This was also the time when India was rolling out its newly-launched national vaccination programme: after health care and frontline workers, whose vaccination started in January, the programme began for senior citizens starting March 1. By May 1, everyone above 18 could get their jabs.For BMC officials, the second wave surge went hand in hand with rolling out the vaccination programme. Staff management was one of the biggest challenges. By the third wave, the city has achieved over 100% first dose coverage and 90% second dose coverage.In the past few weeks, with the inclusion of booster shots for senior citizens and jabs for 15–18-year-olds, the civic body is focused on ensuring this target population is covered.Dr Madhav Sathe, Former Professor of Microbiology at Nair Hospital said, “The unvaccinated population will remain to be a concern considering they have the potential to bring further spikes in the near future. We have to ensure that the maximum number of citizens is fully vaccinated.”Dr Balkrishna Adsul, dean of civic-run Seven Hills hospital in Andheri, which was one of the first dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the city said, “We are at it (on Covid-19 duty) since two years now and let me tell you that we are the most comfortable and confident in the third wave despite the fact that caseload is much higher compared to second and first wave. Patients are getting discharged within five days, and it is easier to manage bed distribution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tracking-three-waves-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-mumbai-101643189564572.html
26-01-2022||Bangalore||Republic Day 2022: Former Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa unfurls national flag at his residence||Former Chief Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leader BS Yediyurappa unfurled the national flag at Cauvery, (his official residence) Bengaluru, on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day.Meanwhile, Karnataka Tableau, on the theme 'The Cradle of Traditional Handicrafts', was showcased at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi today.Republic Day Parade 2022 showcased India's military might and cultural diversity and many unique initiatives have been included to mark the celebration of the 75th year of Independence as part of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'.A total of 21 tableaux, 12 of various states and Union Territories, and nine of various ministries were showcased at the Republic Day parade this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/republic-day-2022-former-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-unfurls-national-flag-at-his-residence-101643185582244.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in poor category amid continuing cold weather||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality was in the “poor” category on Wednesday morning as the mercury was likely to plunge to six degrees Celsius while maximum temperature was expected to be 14 degrees Celsius.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the average hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) was 237 at 7 am. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The System of Air Quality And Weather Forecasting and Research said the air quality improved slightly but remained within “poor” category. “Prevailing foggy conditions and low temperatures as well as low mixing layer height are preventing efficient ventilation of pollutants leading to AQI to be within ‘Poor’ on the Republic Day. From 27th (Wednesday) onwards, AQI is likely to improve due to relatively clear sky and moderate wind speed enhancing ventilation of near surface pollutants.”The minimum temperature on Tuesday was six degrees Celsius and the maximum 12 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-poor-category-amid-continuing-cold-weather-101643166162062.html
26-01-2022||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari not on guest list for Republic Day celebrations at Red Road||West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari has not been invited to the Republic Day celebrations at the Red Road in Kolkata on Wednesday. Adhikari, who is the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, has been left out of the list of 60 people who will be attending the event.The attendees include Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, Speaker of the Assembly, Mayor of KMC, Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, DG and IGP, CP, Kolkata, approx 15 foreign Delegation persons, Army Official and Navy Official, according to news agency ANI.This is the first time that the West Bengal government has not invited the Leader of Opposition to the Republic Day programme in the state. Several ministers have also not been invited to the Red Road event.Notably, the Mamata Banerjee-led government has decided to parade the Netaji tableau on Red Road in Kolkata after it was rejected by the Centre for the Republic Day parade at Rajpath in Delhi.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Banerjee had expressed shock over the decision to exclude West Bengal’s tableau, which was set to focus on Netaji, from the Republic Day Parade in New Delhi.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will also be garlanding the statue of Netaji on Red Road ahead of the celebrations for the Republic Day event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/suvendu-adhikari-not-on-guest-list-for-republic-day-celebrations-at-red-road-101643163466480.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||J&K: Former BJP MLA Dina Nath joins Congress||Former BJP MLA Dina Nath Bhagat, a Dalit leader, on Tuesday joined the Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) . He called the BJP “anti-Dalit” and said he joined the Congress because he was influenced by the party leadership and its track record. In November 2020, Bhagat had resigned from the BJP and joined the Panthers Party for a short span. He was welcomed into the party fold by Pradesh Congress Committee president GA Mir and working president Raman Bhalla besides other senior party leaders at the party headquarters here. Bhagat said he had resigned from the BJP because he felt “suffocated”. He said reasons for him to quit the BJP was its “double standards, especially on the issues of Dalits and weaker sections”. Others who joined included Sham Lal, Mohammad Javed Malik, Sameer Malik, Rafia, Sahil Malik, and Tayub Malik. “Bhagat, who won from Chenani in Udhampur district in the last assembly elections on a BJP ticket, is a secular leader and a well-known personality who has always served the people. His joining the Congress is a big boost for us,” said Mir. NC, PDP leaders, prominent social activists join BJP “The BJP welcomes everyone from every region and every religion,” said J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina while welcoming prominent political and social personalities from Mendhar in Poonch, who joined the saffron party here at the party headquarters on Tuesday. The new entrants joined the BJP in the leadership of Sardar Kafeel Khan, former district president, Youth PDP, along with Sanjeev Kumar Fancy, Jagdish Chander Sharma, Om Prakash Sharma, Koshal Kumar Sharma, Kanav Narayan and Mohammad Rafiq Jatt. Raina said the BJP had successfully gained the trust of common masses with the public oriented works and policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-former-bjp-mla-dina-nath-joins-congress-101643152352621.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Cop among four hurt in Srinagar grenade blast||Ahead of Republic Day, four persons, including a police inspector, were injured in a grenade attack at Hari Singh High Street here on Tuesday afternoon. The grenade was lobbed towards a security forces’ vehicle, but it missed the target and exploded on road. Among the injured are police inspector Tanveer Hussain of the anti corruption bureau (ACB) and his wife. A police spokesperson said at 3.25pm, unknown militants hurled a grenade at a police vehicle near Hari Singh High Street, Srinagar.“In this terror incident, few civilians sustained minor splinter injuries, besides damage to the police vehicle. All the injured were immediately shifted to nearby hospital, where from they have been discharged after required treatment,” the spokesperson added. SMHS medical superintendent said that the three injured civilians were stable. The grenade attack came a day before a Republic Day parade that will be held at SK Stadium in the city. Explosives recovered in Kishtwar security forces on Tuesday recovered explosive material in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kishtwar district, officials said.During a routine search operation in Dul, a joint team of the army and police recovered 1.3 kg of commercial grade explosives, they said.The recovery included 11 sticks of commercial grade explosives (each weighing 125 grams), a detonator and detonating wire, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-cop-among-four-hurt-in-srinagar-grenade-blast-101643151872336.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Biggest daily surge in J&K as 6,570 test Covid positive||Jammu and Kashmir’s daily Covid cases on Tuesday breached all records since the pandemic started after the UT reported 6,570 infections while 14 persons lost their lives to the Covid-induced illness, highest daily fatalities since June. On Saturday, the region had reported 6,568 cases and seven deaths. The month of January so far has contributed 67,876 cases and 99 deaths with the past one week mostly adding around 5,500 to 6,500 cases every day. Before this week’s surge, the highest cases reported in the UT were 5,443 and 50 deaths on May 7 when the second wave had peaked. The first wave had peaked in September, 2020, reporting the highest surge of 1,698 cases and 10 deaths on September 12. The active cases in the UT reached 47,376 with over 46,039 such cases added in January so far. On December 31, J&K had just 1,337 active cases. Officials said 74,560 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking Tuesday’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) to 8.81%. Of the total infections on Tuesday, Kashmir saw almost 76% of the infections with 5,015 cases and seven deaths while 1,555 cases and seven deaths were reported in the Jammu division. In Kashmir, the surge was high in nine out of the 10 districts with Srinagar witnessing the highest 1,450 cases followed by 971 in Budgam, 697 cases in Kulgam, 396 in Baramulla and 395 in Kupwara. In the Jammu division, the Jammu district reported 849 cases followed by 121 in Udhampur, 114 in Doda and 112 in Samba.Srinagar is the district with the highest number of active cases at 12,617 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 8,926 and 5,942 active cases, respectively.This month has also witnessed a steep rise in cases with daily infections shooting up sharply from 169 on January 1 to 6,570 on January 25.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 3,789 with active positive cases reaching 47,376. However, of the 5,038 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 12.16% (613) are occupied in J&K. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,57,163 while the recovery rate has dropped to 87.29%. The total cases in J&K have crossed four-lakh mark to reach 4,09,166 and the death toll has climbed up to 4,627. Himachal logs 1,026 fresh infections, nine deathsHimachal logged 1,026 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday taking the state’s tally to 2,63,113 while the death toll mounted to 3,936 after nine more people succumbed to the infection. Highest 129 cases were reported from Kangra, 158 from Solan, 129 from Mandi, 125 from Sirmaur, 107 from Hamirpur, 90 from Shimla, 87 from Bilaspur, 54 from Una, 37 from Kullu, 34 from Chamba, seven from Kinnaur and one from Lahaul-Spiti.Two fatalities each were reported from Bilaspur and Shimla and one each from Kangra, Solan, Mandi and Hamirpur.Active cases have dropped to 13,260 after a record 3,298 people recuperated while recoveries have reached 2,45,890.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/biggest-daily-surge-in-j-k-as-6-570-test-covid-positive-101643151632145.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Auto driver collides with stationary truck, killed||An auto-rickshaw driver was killed and two passengers were injured after the three-wheeler they were travelling in crashed into a truck parked on the roadside near Ramgarh Bhullar village on Monday evening. The truck driver, Sukhwinder Singh of Ferozepur, has been arrested. The accused said that his truck had developed a technical snag, due to which he had parked his vehicle on the roadside.The complainant, Rajiv Kumar – the brother of the victim, Sanjeev Kumar of Ishar Nagar, Jagraon – said he was following his brother’s auto-rickshaw on his motorcycle, when he saw him crash into the stationary truck parked near a patrol pump on the Sidhwan Bet to Bhundri village stretch, which was not visible due to the dense fog. “The truck’s parking lights were not on, nor did it have any reflective tape,” he said. The road mishap took place around 7.30pm and the victim was killed on the spot. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Anwar Masih, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered against the accused under Sections 304A (death by negligence), 337 (endangering life) and 427 (damages) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sadar Jagraon police station.Fatal parking December 7: A 32-year-old man was killed, and five others were injured after the car they were travelling in crashed into a vehicle that was parked on the roadside near the national highway near Sahnewal.October 27: A biker was killed when a two-wheeler crashed into a parked tractor-trolley near Kutbewal Gujrana village on Hambran Road. September 19: A trucker rammed into another truck near Doraha. September 16: A Mohali resident was killed after his bike collided with a stationary truck in Katani Kalan.May 7: An ambulance crashed into a parked tanker in Khanna, killing the driver of the emergency vehicle on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-auto-driver-collides-with-stationary-truck-killed-101643150192139.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Lured by promise of cash reward, doctor loses ₹89,000||Offered a cash reward against air tickets she had purchased online, a city-based doctor was defrauded of ₹89,000, police officials said on Tuesday. In October 2020, the complainant, Christian Medical College and Hospital anesthesiology professor Dr Christina George received a call from the fraudsters, who were posing as bank executives, a day after she booked flight tickets to Udaipur, claiming that she had won reward points for her transaction.The accused also shared details of her transaction, and asked her to share an OTP. She did not share the OTP, but she immediately received five messages and lost ₹89,000.  Inspector Jatinder Singh, in-charge Cyber Cell, said the money was transferred via the PayU application, and was further transferred into four different bank accounts. It is suspected that while the doctor did not share the OTP, she may have used an unsafe browser or website. The accused have been identified as Shankar and Vinod Kumar of Uttar Pradesh. A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-lured-by-promise-of-cash-reward-doctor-loses-89000-101643149891715.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||1,050 cartons of illicit liquor found in locked factory in Ludhiana||A raid on a locked tile factory on the Hambran-Bhundari Road led to the recovery of 1,050 cartons of illicit liquor on Monday evening. Factory owner Balkar Singh of Detwal village, Jatinder Singh of Bhumal village and Bhagwant Singh have been booked, and are at large. Special branch in-charge inspector Prem Singh said the liquor had been smuggled from Haryana, and stored at the factory that had been closed for several months, and was being used to carry out criminal activities. On January 22, the cops had carried out a raid in Latala village and seized a cache of illegal liquor was found in vacant rooms. Seven people, including two women, had been booked for liquor smuggling. Seventy-seven cartons of illicit liquor, three scooters, a motorcycle and a car had been recovered from the accused.Intelligence officers have warned the cops about an influx of illegal liquor in the state ahead of the assembly elections. Police seize 17,000 litres of Lahan
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||SAD’s Manpreet Ayali 1st to file nomination papers in Ludhiana||Sitting Dakha MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali of the Shiromani Akali Dal was the first to file his nomination papers here on Tuesday. The 47-year-old Akali leader, who hails from Gorsian Kadar Baksh in Jagraon, owns movable assets worth ₹3.11 crore, immovable assets worth ₹26.18 crore, jewellery worth ₹ 7.8 lakh, a Toyota Fortuner worth ₹25 lakh, shares worth ₹2.26 crore, bonds and mutual funds worth ₹16 lakh. He has 53 acre agricultural land worth ₹25 crore and a house in Ayali Khurd worth ₹1.33 crore. He is a partner in PPR Associates II, PPR Construction, Nirmaan Builders and Developers and the director of Ayali Developers and Colonisers. His younger brother, Harkinder Singh, has filed his candidature as covering candidate, who will fight in his stead if he is unable to contest the polls. In 2012, Ayali had won from the Dakha constituency with 72,208 votes. However, he lost the election with a margin of 4,169 votes from AAP leader HS Phoolka in 2017. Phoolka received 58,923 votes while Ayali got 54,754 votes in the 2017 assembly polls. Ayali had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections from Ludhiana in 2014. After Phoolka’s resignation, a byelection was held for Dakha constituency in 2019, where the Aam Aadmi Party had to bite dust with their candidate Amandeep Singh Mohie securing merely 2,804 votes. Ayali won the bypoll with 66,297 votes, while Congress’ Sandeep Singh Sandhu was the runner-up with 51,625 votes.Ayali has also remained on the radar of central tax agencies. In November 2021, the income tax (I-T) department had conducted surprise searches at his house and offices. A team of 70 officials, including I-T officials and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, simultaneously raided the Akali leader’s properties, including a farmhouse, agricultural land, party office at Mullapur Dakha and an office in Golf Link Apartments, which Ayali had developed.Before submitting his papers with returning officer Jagdeep Sehgal, Ayali went to a Gurdwara in Mullanpur Dakha and paid obeisance. “ I have been fortunate to serve the people of my constituency twice. This time too we are receiving a lot of love and support,” said Ayali. The SAD leader will be slugging it out against Congress’ poll strategist Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, AAP’s candidate educationist KNS Kang, Punjab Lok Congress’ Damanjeet Singh Mohi, and Sanyuki Sangharsh Morcha (SSM) candidate Harpreet Singh Makhu.Scoreboard The SAD leader will be slugging it out against Congress’ Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, AAP’s KNS Kang, Punjab Lok Congress’ Damanjeet Singh Mohi, and Sanyuki Sangharsh Morcha’s Harpreet Singh Makhu.2012 assembly elections Party Candidate Votes SAD Manpreet Singh Ayali 72208Congress Jasbir Singh Khangura 55, 8202017 assembly elections AAP Harvinder Singh Phoolka 58, 923SAD Manpreet Singh Ayali 54,7542019 by-electionsSAD Manpreet Singh Ayali 66,297 Congress Sandeep Singh Sandhu 51,625||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sads-manpreet-ayali-1st-to-file-nomination-papers-in-ludhiana-101643149171478.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||From the pages of Hamlet||‘Crenellation’.Many of you know the meaning of this word. Some of us might not, and we can always Google it. But certainly, all of us ought to head to a particular monument in Delhi and gaze upon this word as it exists in the real world.Cambridge dictionary explains ‘crenellation’ as “a wall around the top of a castle, with regular spaces in it through which the people inside the castle can shoot”.This detail is most clearly illustrated at Dilli Gate in central Delhi. The top of the stone gateway is punctuated with large tablets of stone, which are separated from each other by vertical slits through which the warriors of old times must have aimed their guns, or spears, at the barbarians gathered outside the gate.A landmark of more than 400 years, Dilli Gate is one of the 14 gateways that punctuated the protective wall of the Walled City of Shahjahanabad. Even as most of those gateways are lost to Delhi’s violent history, along with most of the wall, this gate is not unique. Three other gateways of its kind survive. But there is something distinctive about Dilli Gate. Stranded amid the hubbub of a modern-day avenue (Netaji Subhash Marg), it is imbibed with a spirit of wilderness, and it feels far, very far.In contrast, its other cousins — Ajmeri Gate and Turkman Gate — have evolved to become a seamless appendage to Delhi’s contemporary pulse.You see neighbourhood men hanging out 24/7 in front of Turkman Gate, with a police chowki attached to it like a limpet; while snack carts abound around Ajmeri Gate. But Dilli Gate stays deserted. Maybe because it is in the middle of a busy road, where it stands aloof like a monumental divider.The gateway is always locked. From a distance, it looks like a rugged Hebridean island, with stones protruding from a stormy sea (of traffic). The stairs going towards the top are easily noticeable.Until some weeks ago, they were covered with weedy grass. At night, as the darkness descends, the gateway appears like a translucent monolith exuding mystery and gloom, and acquires the solemnity of a forgotten tragedy.Indeed, it will be a most appropriate place to stage Hamlet, arguably William Shakespeare’s greatest tragedy, with the doomed hero seeing the ghost of his murdered father dissolutely passing down the stone stairs.Naturally, the most dramatic time to view the gateway is late at night. In the day, the crenellations teem with peacetime pigeons, compromising Dilli Gate’s intimidating essence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-the-pages-of-hamlet-101643148781712.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Eight-year-old girl raped by two minor boys in Shastri Park||An eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped on Monday by two minor boys, aged 12 and 10, in northeast Delhi’s Shastri Park area, police said on Tuesday, and added that the two suspects have been apprehended.A senior officer said that the matter was reported to the police on Monday evening. He said during the initial inquiry it was found that the girl was playing near her house when the two boys who live in her neighbourhood, took her to a vacant house close by and raped her.Quoting the complaint given to the police by the girl’s mother, the officer said the girl went outside to play around 2pm and returned home around 4.30pm on Monday, and told her mother about pain in her abdominal area. When her mother asked further, she told her about the incident, the officer said.The mother went to the local police station, following which officials from Child Welfare Committee were roped in to counsel the victim.Subsequently, the girl was sent for a medical examination that confirmed sexual assault. A case under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 376 (AB) (punishment for rape by those under 12 years) of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act was registered at Shastri Park police station.The boys were apprehended on Tuesday from their houses in Shastri Park on the basis of the information given by the victim and her mother, the officer said.The girl’s mother also reported the matter to the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on the helpline number 181 on Tuesday, following which the women’s body issued a notice to the Delhi Police on Tuesday and sought details of the FIR.DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal said on Tuesday said, “The eight-year-old girl has been brutally raped and is in unimaginable pain as she is battling for her life in ICU due to severe damage to her private parts. The people gang-raping an 8-year-old are not humans. The strongest punishment needs to be given to the guilty.”A second senior district police official said they were taking all actions under appropriate sections of the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/eightyearold-girl-raped-by-two-minor-boys-in-shastri-park-101643148426299.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi reports just over 6,000 Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 10.55%||The number of daily Covid cases in Delhi rose slightly on Tuesday as the city added 6,028 new infections, but at a lower positivity rate of 10.55%, government data showed.The Capital recorded 5,760 cases on Monday amid fewer tests.The positivity rate has been sharply and consistently falling over the past 10 days.“This lowering trend is a positive sign for the city. But we are still treading with caution. We urge people to wear masks and adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour,” said a senior Delhi government official.The city also added 31 Covid deaths on Tuesday.With Tuesday’s cases, Delhi’s cumulative Covid count reached 1,803,499, at a positivity rate of 5.22%.Currently, the city has 42,010 active Covid cases.Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant (internal medicine), Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, said, “Covid cases in Delhi seem to be declining and we are in the right track, but we need to be cautious... There needs to be a balance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-just-over-6-000-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-at-1055-101643147880923.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Covid restrictions to go soon, govt mindful of impact on people: CM Kejriwal||Restrictions imposed in the Capital to contain the spread of the new wave of Covid-19 infections are likely to be lifted soon with the test positivity rate down to 10.5% and hospitalisation rates staying low, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday during his Republic Day speech at a flag-hoisting ceremony at the Delhi secretariat.Kejriwal’s remarks come at a time when multiple stakeholders, including traders, shopkeepers, schools and parents, have called for stringent curbs to be rolled back to restart business activity and get children back in classrooms. Delhi currently has weekend and night curfews, allows stand-alone shops to open on an odd-even basis, has shut all educational institutions, and allows 50% attendance in offices, among other restrictions.“Last week, a group of traders visited me and raised concerns about the Covid restrictions. I assured them that we will lift the curbs as soon as we can. We sent a few proposals to the LG (lieutenant governor) on it. He accepted a few and deferred the rest. I noticed that the people are showing resentment towards him. I want to tell them, our LG has imposed restrictions in his wise wisdom... We all gain no pleasure in imposing restrictions. I assure everyone, we are working together to find solutions. As soon as we can, we will lift these restrictions. We will work to ensure everyone’s lives come back on track,” Kejriwal said during his address.The Delhi government last week recommended to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is headed by LG Anil Baijal, that the weekend curfew be lifted, the odd-even rule for shops end, and 50% attendance be allowed in offices (which were shut until then). But last Friday, DDMA accepted only the last recommendation, and decided to wait on the other two. DDMA is now scheduled to meet on Thursday to consider lifting more restrictions.“We were forced to impose weekend curfews, night curfews and odd-even systems. All of this painfully impacts the economy. We understand how difficult it is, how it affects livelihood. But I will request everyone to have faith in us, and understand that we only impose the least of the restrictions we are bound to. We don’t want anyone to suffer. We don’t want to hurt the economy. But protecting lives is paramount,” Kejriwal said.He added that the decline in cases could be attributed to two major reasons: the Omicron variant which is driving the surge is relatively mild, and the vaccination programme run by the Delhi government on a war footing. “Vaccination significantly curbs the impact of the virus, and Delhi stands as a proof. We are now on track to vigorously administer the booster doses too,” the CM said, while underlining the contribution of doctors and front-line warriors in Covid managementDelhi added 6,028 new Covid cases, at a positivity rate of 10.55% on Tuesday. The city also added 31 deaths.Medical experts also support the lifting of curbs. “Since the test positivity rate has reduced to almost 10%, keeping the strict curbs like weekend and night curfew and restrictions on commercial activities will not help in decreasing cases. Omicron is known to be mild, so there is no point in keeping the curbs which affect the economy and livelihood,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-restrictions-to-go-soon-govt-mindful-of-impact-on-people-cm-kejriwal-101643147667942.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 50% of those who succumbed since January 1 were unvaccinated||Around 50% of those who succumbed to the coronavirus since January 1 were unvaccinated, while 32% were partially vaccinated. Of the 61 deaths reported till January 23, as many as 31 persons were not vaccinated, and 20 were partially vaccinated, while the vaccination status of 10 victims is not yet known. The fatalities include 47 men and 14 women. Of the total victims, 44 hailed from urban areas of the city. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said, “Of the victims, 36 were above the age of 60, and most of them were suffering from co-morbidities.” A study carried out by the health department, following a rise in the mortality rate in the second week of January, has revealed that many urban men remain unvaccinated. “The report has indicated that vaccination has mitigated the risk of serious infection. Thus, we urge residents to get vaccinated and senior citizens with comorbidities should take a precautionary dose,” said Dr SP Singh.Earlier, Covid task force member Dr Bishav Mohan and Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) community medicine head Dr Clarence J Samuel said there were three reasons for the surge in cases. Firstly, apart from the new Omicron variant, the lethal Delta variant was also found to be active in the state. Secondly, a large section of the population was not fully vaccinated, and thirdly, the majority of those infected were suffering from comorbidities, which was also adding to the mortality rate.District sees 4 deaths, 492 new casesThe district reported four deaths and 492 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday.Among those who succumbed to the virus were a 56-year-old man and three 69-year-old men from Tibba Road, Kidwai Nagar, Manuke village and Shimlapuri areas of the district, respectively.There are at present 6,571 active Covid cases in the district, of which 6,327 are under home isolation, while 213 are admitted at private hospitals and 13 at government hospitals.Around 26 persons were on ventilator, of which 14 were Ludhiana residents, while 12 were from other districts or states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-50-of-those-who-succumbed-since-january-1-were-unvaccinated-101643147431436.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Blow for SAD (Sanyukt) as Jaspreet Singh Hobby joins Sukhbir-led SAD||In a setback to the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), its general secretary Jaspreet Singh Hobby joined the Sukhbir Singh Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal on Tuesday.Speaking on the occasion, Badal said Hobby will be the vice-president and spokesperson of the party. SAD-BSP candidate from Ludhiana West Maheshinder Singh Grewal called Hobby a hardworking and enthusiastic worker, whose induction into SAD had strengthened the party.Besides being the general secretary of SAD (Sanyukt), Hobby was in-charge of the Ludhiana West constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blow-for-sad-sanyukt-as-jaspreet-singh-hobby-joins-sukhbir-led-sad-101643147131397.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: 5 candidates file nominations on 1st day in Ludhiana||On the first day of the nomination process for the Punjab assembly elections scheduled for February 20, five candidates from different constituencies filed their papers on Tuesday. District election officer-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said Shiromani Akali Dal’s Darshan Singh Shivalik filed his nomination papers from Gill (SC) constituency, and Paramjit Kaur filed as his covering candidate, while SAD’s Manpreet Singh Ayali ( Harkinder Singh as his covering candidate) and Aam Lok Party United candidate Davinder Singh filed their nominations from Dakha constituency. As per the Election Commission of India’s (ECI’s) guidelines only three persons, including the candidate, were allowed to enter the returning officer’s room where nominations for the polls will be filed till February 1 between 11am to 3pm. Nominations will not take place on January 26 and January 30 on account of public holidays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-5-candidates-file-nominations-on-1st-day-in-ludhiana-101643146891415.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Audio tapes leak: Sukhbir Badal demands arrest of former Punjab DGP||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday demanded the immediate arrest of former Punjab DGP S Chattopadhyay for allegedly taking orders from a proclaimed offender in the Bhola drug case. The Akali leader, who was in the city, alleged that former minister Bikram Majithia had been implicated in a false drug case by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government. “I will leave politics if a single shred of evidence is found against Majithia in the drug case,” he said. Asserting that all evidence against Chattopadhyay was in the public realm, Badal said it was surprising that the Congress government had not taken any action against him till now. “We have an audio tape of a DGP taking orders from a proclaimed offender. They are also heard talking about postings and transfers and the establishment of an illegal interrogation and detention centre,” he said, adding that the Congress was also dragging its feet in taking action against Sidhu Moosewala, a singer turned Congress leader, who is also a proclaimed offender. “Even LIP leader Simarjit Bains has not been arrested despite being booked in a rape case. In Majithia’s case, not only was false case registered against him, but Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was included to ensure he could not secure pre-arrest bail. “Pre-arrest bail has been rejected on a technical ground, but we will approach the apex court,” he said. The SAD president said that if the SAD- BSP government was voted to power, a commission headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court would be established to probe all false cases registered during the tenure of the Congress government. Later, senior leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said that Badal had been unanimously chosen as the chief ministerial candidate of the SAD-BSP alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/audio-tapes-leak-sukhbir-badal-demands-arrest-of-former-punjab-dgp-101643146591096.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab police raid Bikram Singh Majithia’s Amritsar residence||A day after his anticipatory bail was dismissed by the Punjab and Haryana high court, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia’s residence in Amritsar was raided by a Punjab Police team on Tuesday.According to Punjab Police sources, a team of the Mohali crime branch searched the former minister’s house situated at Green Avenue in Amritsar at 12 pm. The team remained at his residence for at least one hour. It was supported by the local police.Amritsar police commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill confirmed the raid, but didn’t disclose further information saying the case pertains to the crime branch. SGPC member and advocate Bhagwan Singh Sialka, who visited the residence during the raid, said, “It is police’s duty to conduct raids and searches. We helped the police team to search the residence as per their requirements. We can still approach a double bench of the high court and then the Supreme Court.”Sources said similar raids were also carried out in some other locations in Punjab related to the former minister. The high court had dismissed the anticipatory bail pea of Majithia, who is the brother-in-law of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Majithia was apprehending arrest after a case under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered at Mohali on December 20 last year. He moved the high court after a Mohali court dismissed his anticipatory bail petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-raid-bikram-singh-majithia-s-amritsar-residence-101643144431771.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Streak continues in Delhi as Tuesday’s max temperature reaches 12.1°C||The Capital’s frigid spell continued on Tuesday with the day’s maximum temperature dropping further to 12.1 degrees Celsius – 10 degrees below the normal mark, making it not only the coldest day of the season so far, but also Delhi’s coldest January day in the last nine years.The last time Delhi had recorded a lower maximum temperature in January was on January 3, 2013, when the day temperature failed to cross the 10-degree mark (9.8 degrees Celsius).The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said most parts of Delhi recorded “severe cold day” with the lowest maximum of 11.4 degrees Celsius recorded at the Jafarpur station. Cold day conditions are also expected to prevail in Delhi on Wednesday, with a yellow alert currently in place, Met officials have said.The IMD classifies a ‘cold day’ when the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees Celisus or more below normal, with the minimum settling below the 10-degree mark. It is classified as a ‘severe cold day’ when the maximum is 6.5 degrees or more below the normal mark. A yellow alert is meanwhile issued to warn about a weather event.Delhi had recorded its first ‘severe cold day’ of the season on Tuesday, when the maximum was 14.8 degrees – seven notches below the normal mark. Prior to Tuesday, Delhi’s lowest maximum of the season was 14.7 degrees Celsius, which was recorded on Saturday.While Safdarjung had a high of 12.1 degrees, it was 11.6 degrees at Palam, 12.2 at Lodhi road, 11.7 degrees at Ridge and 12 degrees at the Ayanagar station.Delhi’s minimum also remained low and was recorded at 6.2 degrees – one degree below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/streak-continues-in-delhi-as-tuesday-s-max-temperature-reaches-121c-101643142817363.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjabi folk singer Gurmeet Bawa awarded Padma Bhushan posthumously||Nearly after two months of her death, legendary Punjabi folk singer Gurmeet Bawa, known as “lambi hek di malika” (queen of singing in an extended breath), is being awarded the third-highest civilian award, Padma Bhushan.Bawa passed away on November 21 last year at 77 due to a short illness. Reacting to the honour announced posthumously, her daughter Galori Bawa said, “Due to the death of my mother and sister, we passed through a tragic period. However, the announcement of the award is a great honour for our family and a matter of pride for us, for which we are thankful to the Centre, Punjab government and those who contributed to secure this award for my mother”.“But it would have been better if she would have got it when she was alive. She should have been given this honour in view of her great contribution to the field of art. Yet, we are satisfied,” she added.Bawa was born in 1944 in Gurdaspur district, Punjab. Her mother died when she was two years old. She was married to Kirpal Bawa, a Punjabi folk singer hailing from Dera Baba Nanak. She was given the State Award by the Punjab government in 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-folk-singer-gurmeet-bawa-awarded-padma-bhushan-posthumously-101643144070529.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drug case: HC asks Punjab DGP to look into role of an inspector||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Punjab director general of police (DGP) to look into the role of an inspector, whose complicity with drugs traffickers cropped up during the hearing of the bail petition of Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a drug case.The direction was issued by bench of Justice Lisa Gill while dealing with anticipatory bail plea of the Akali leader, which was dismissed on Monday.The bench said that the statement of inspector Janpal Singh has been obtained by the Punjab Police in Majithia’s case in which the inspector had admitted to his complicity in drug trafficking. “The said official is in service. No clarity was brought forth at the time of hearing as to whether any action has been taken against him,” the bench said directing that matter be placed before the DGP who will look into the matter.The direction was passed after P Chidambaram, appearing for Punjab, had told the court that a statement of Janpal Singh was recorded in Majithia’s case on January 22, which indicates complicity of the SAD leader. Janpal had told in his statement that he interrogated Maninder Singh Aulakh in a May 2013 FIR registered in Banur and that Aulakh and Majithia remained associated from 2006 to 2010. Satpreet Singh, an accused NRI, who came to India from Canada in 2006. Satta introduced Majithia to Parminder Singh, another accused NRI and a meeting was arranged with Jagjit Singh Chahal, a pharmaceutical unit owner, on export of Pseudoephedrine. The inspector had also referred to transaction of ₹70 lakh given by Pindi, a portion of which was kept by him and pseudoephedrine was supplied in his vehicle.Besides, the inspector, the state police had also told court that summons were issued to Maninder Singh Aulakh to appear before the police, but he did not appear claiming to be COVID-19 positive. Summons were also issued to one Amarpal Singh Ajnala, who did not appear and now even his mobile phone is switched off, the police had told court. The police had also told court that recent FIR registered at the Majitha police station over theft of some property documents is also linked to Majithia’s case as the property is on his wife’s name. “This is relevant as it may provide certain links in the present investigation and is, in fact, indicative of the influence still exerted by the petitioner (Majithia),” the state had told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-case-hc-asks-punjab-dgp-to-look-into-role-of-an-inspector-101643143650620.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu’s ‘Punjab Model’ to be part of Congress manifesto: Partap Singh Bajwa||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s 13-point ‘Punjab Model’ will be part of the Congress manifesto, said Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa, who is the head of the manifesto committee of the Congress for the 2022 polls, in Jalandhar on Tuesday. Bajwa and Sidhu along with the party’s national spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill held a meeting on the party manifesto in Jalandhar. Later, Sidhu and Bajwa addressed a press conference at Jaiveer’s house in the city where Sidhu explained his 13-point agenda.Bajwa said the party would release its manifesto within a week, adding that Sidhu’s vision is the vision of the Congress, not an individual’s. He also agreed with Sidhu that there has been a need for a model to stop the “loot” of Punjab which has been going on for the past many years. “I have held a meeting with the chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and various other stakeholders for the manifesto whereas the Congress manifesto will include 13-point of Sidhu’s ‘Punjab Model’ and other few points,” said Bajwa. During the press conference, Sidhu said, “Under the Punjab Model, our government will form a ‘Jittega Punjab commission’, a think tank which will frame policies for the state and various government departments.” Similarly, he announced to form a liquor corporation and sand corporation to end the mafia rule.Sidhu announced that Jalandhar will be developed as a hub of medical tourism and sports goods. Similarly, other cities of Punjab will also be developed on similar lines.He said the ‘Punjab Model’ will generate income up to ₹1 lakh crore in the state finances by ending mafia rule. Sidhu announced populist schemes for students, women and farmers.He attacked Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal claiming that Kejriwal had not given a single penny to women in Delhi, but here in Punjab, he has promised to give ₹1,000 to women over 18 years as the ‘Punjab Model’ will empower every woman. 
26-01-2022||Delhi||#KhakiTales: Crime stories to be part of Delhi Police’s podcast||If you are one who is often intrigued to watch or hear crime stories on TV or radio, then the new podcast by Delhi Police has a lot in store for you! A first of its kind, Kissa Khaki Ka is a podcast that aims to share short audio clips of about 2 to 2.5 minutes. These are by Delhi Police, and the next theme of the next podcast is expected to be around Republic Day. But soon the force will start sharing crime stories for the listeners.“There are certain cases that have an excellent story telling element in them, which can be translated into a podcast. So subsequently, we might also pick up solved crime stories,” says the narrator of the podcast, Vartika Nanda, a media educator and prison reformer.Nanda adds, “But we will not add spice and sensation. For years I’ve worked as a journalist and then worked in prisons, which is the extreme end of crime. From these places, I’ve tried to gain sensibility, and know what is to be conveyed and how. We are also learning new things while working on the podcast. And the challenge is to keep oneself at every place, think like a cop as well as an audience member.”In fact, it’s fun to see how Delhi Police personnel are learning the nuances of podcasting, shares Nanda, adding: “I’m happy to see that they have started understanding media. This I didn’t see happening earlier. This is a huge change. All praise to the team for adapting to the new technology. The way they have picked up the vocabulary, and developed a good sense of how TV is different from radio, is commendable. This has happened under the able leadership of the commissioner (Rakesh Asthana), who has a very deep understanding of the need for communication.” Available on the Delhi Police’s Twitter, Facebook and Instagram handles, the first episode of this podcast narrated the story of constable Than Singh, who is running a school, Than Singh ki Pathshala, for the slum children. Singh, whose happiness is unparalleled since his story became the first in line to be shared as an inspirational tale for the listeners, says: “Bahut achha laga... isse badhi koi cheez ho hi nai sakti mere liye. Podcast sunke mere sare seniors ka phone aya aur woh bole ki aur achha kaam karte raho. Aur jo main kaam kar raha hun, kayi districts mein aisa aur kaam shuru bhi hua hai. Bachhon ko toh bahut acha laga apne bare mein sunkar. Unki khushi ka koi thihana hi nahi raha!” Rakesh Asthana, Delhi Police commissioner says, “The relationship between the police and the citizens is one of constant engagement. When in need, people look up to us for support, help, lending our ears to their problems, stories. Likewise, we also look up to them for suggestions and guidance. Our podcast, Kissa Khaki Ka, takes our relationship to the next level where we share our stories with people with an open heart. It helps grow more mutual trust and bonding, thereby enabling better policing. The Capital’s police is new media savvy, even as we are available through traditional communications channels. We are ever ready to rise to the new age communication needs.”Talking about the thought process and the feedback received, Nanda adds, “The response is better than what I had expected. It is very, very good. The moment we put up the promo of the podcast, we started getting phone calls and mails. The best thing is that were are able to fulfil our purpose, which is to make people understand how cops are working 24X7, to bring a difference and help out at all fronts.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/khakitales-crime-stories-to-be-part-of-delhi-police-s-podcast-101643143172584.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Law and order: BJP leader Tarun Chugh demands red alert, Central forces in Punjab||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Tuesday demanded that a red alert should be sounded in Punjab where the “law and order situation has completely collapsed”.Reacting to an incident of desecration at the Kali Mata temple in Patiala, Chugh said anti-national and disruptive forces were active in Punjab and have been trying to create a violent situation.He said recent incidents in which sacrilege attempt was made in the Golden Temple, Amritsar, a bomb blast in Ludhiana and the recovery of a huge cache of arms and ammunition in the border districts of Pathankot and Amritsar indicated that the Congress government led by Charanjit Singh Channi has “failed” completely to maintain law and order.While reiterating his demand for a white paper on the law-and-order situation in Punjab, Chugh said in view of the forthcoming elections in the state, the Central security forces should be deployed so that a sense of security could be instilled among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/law-and-order-bjp-leader-tarun-chugh-demands-red-alert-central-forces-in-punjab-101643143110462.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bail plea rejection vindicates state govt’s action against Bikram Majithia: Punjab deputy CM Randhawa||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday said that the rejection of anticipatory bail petition of Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a drug case was a vindication of the state government’s action against the former minister. Addressing a press conference along with Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla in Amritsar, Randhawa said, “After securing bail earlier, Majithia mocked the Punjab Police. He did also not cooperate with the police officials investigating the case. This was one of the grounds behind dismissal of his anticipatory bail plea.” The high court has justified the Punjab government’s action of filing FIR against Majithia. “I would like to ask Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal if he will take back the apology he tendered to Majithia on the drug issue after the court order. Both Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann had said that the case against Majithia was weak. Now, they should speak on this,” said the deputy CM who also distributed the copies of HC order to mediapersons. Aujla said tightening the noose around Majithia is a big achievement of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bail-plea-rejection-vindicates-state-govt-s-action-against-bikram-majithia-punjab-deputy-cm-randhawa-101643142992439.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Don’t fall prey to Arvind Kejriwal’s juggleries, Manoj Tiwari tells people of Punjab||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Manoj Tiwari on Tuesday cautioned the people of Punjab against supporting AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal claiming that as Delhi chief minister, he has failed miserably to deliver. Addressing a press conference here, the BJP leader claimed that whatever Kejriwal was projecting as his achievements in Delhi are core lies and the people of Punjab should not fall prey to his juggleries.“Kejriwal’s commitment to drugs and liquor has been exposed as Punjabi’s should know that he has cut the number of dry days from 21 to three. Shops selling alcohol have been opened in front of schools and religious places,” said Tiwari. Dubbing Kejriwal’s state government as “total failure”, he said the Jal Board in Delhi used to run in profit, but today it has a whopping deficit of ₹6,200 crore. He warned that Punjab should know that the health infrastructure in Delhi, touted by Kejriwal as “mohalla clinics”, is literally non-existent as even the Delhi high court in its judgment in May 2021 said the state government failed to provide basic services to Covid patients. “The clinics were recently responsible for the death of three children as they were administered a medicine which should not have been prescribed to children below four years. Unfortunately, molestation of patients has also surfaced at these clinics,” said the BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-fall-prey-to-arvind-kejriwal-s-juggleries-manoj-tiwari-tells-people-of-punjab-101643142692119.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Notice to ED, Punjab on Khaira’s plea to file nomination papers||Mohali: A Mohali court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the state of Punjab on an application filed by Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, 56, for allowing him to submit his nomination papers for the February 20 Punjab assembly polls before the returning officer. The next date of hearing has been fixed for January 27.Khaira, who is lodged in the Patiala jail in a money laundering case, has been declared the Congress candidate from the Bholath assembly seat in Kapurthala district. The Election commission has fixed February 1 as the last date for filing of nomination papers in Punjab.Last week, the ED filed a chargesheet against Khaira for allegedly laundering money in the 2017 Fazilka drug smuggling racket.Khaira was arrested by the central agency on November 11 for his links with drug smugglers and forgers making fake passports. At the time of the arrest, Khaira denied any wrongdoing and said he was being targeted by central agencies as he has been vocal against the Centre’s three new farm laws (since repealed).Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from Bholath in Kapurthala district on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket. However, in January 2019, he quit the party and formed the Punjab Ekta Party (PEP), which he merged with the Congress in June 2021.Khaira came under ED’s scanner in January 2021 in two matters -- the first pertaining to a cross-border drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka in 2015 in which 1.8 kg of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards were seized by the Jalalabad police; and a fake passport racket being run in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/notice-to-ed-punjab-on-khaira-s-plea-to-file-nomination-papers-101643142690430.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drug case: Akali leader Bikram Majithia gets protection from arrest for 3 days, approaches SC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted three days protection from arrest to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia to enable him to approach the Supreme Court for an anticipatory bail in a drug case registered the Punjab Police on December 20. The interim protection for 3 days from Monday was granted by the HC bench of Justice Lisa Gill the same day even as the bail plea was dismissed. The detailed order was released on Tuesday. Also, Majithia’s lawyers made a request for early hearing in the Supreme Court on Tuesday and got the listing date of plea for January 27, it is learnt. Majithia had moved the high court after he failed to get anticipatory bail plea from Mohali court on December 24. On January 10, the HC, giving him interim protection, asked the SAD leader to join the probe two days later. ‘Petitioner was at the helm of affairs’ The high court in its order observed that “complete and thorough investigation should not be a casualty in this political slugfest especially keeping in view grave and serious charges of drug trade”. The matter indeed calls for an in-depth investigation without being coloured by political overtones, it added. The court also observed that the allegations of “mala fides and political rivalry” are not considered to be substantial enough to consider his case for anticipatory bail. “It cannot be denied that the petitioner indeed was at the helm of affairs at the time of occurrence of alleged offence(s),” the bench said, adding that Majithia is not entitled to relief merely because no action was taken by the state government for these long years. It also took note of the fact that he was related to former deputy chief minister and former union minister. Majithia is the brother-in-law of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal who was Punjab deputy chief minister till 2017. The drug racket case was unearthed in 2013 and allegations against Majithia had cropped up by 2014. The special task force (STF) report, which became the basis of the FIR, was submitted in 2018 in the high court. “The report in question was duly handed over to the state and therefore delay in the case has occurred due to tardiness of the state machinery. The allegations that entire official machinery has been roped in to register case against him are not substantiated. Such an averment indeed appears to be far-fetched in the given circumstances,” the bench said. An effort is now being made by the state to break the nexus between the state machinery and the drug traffickers and the courts find no ground to scuttle the same at this stage, it said. The court also took serious note of the state police’s allegations of non-cooperation by Majithia when he was quizzed after interim protection on January 10. The state has successfully made a case of custodial interrogation in the face of his conduct, the court said, referring to an instance where Majithia told the police that a photo album of his marriage has got misplaced. However, his counsel told the court that he was ready to produce in court or give it to an inspector general of police or a director general of police but not to the investigating officer. “This manner and conduct of the petitioner lends credence to the assertion of learned counsel of the state that the petitioner has not extended full cooperation to the investigating agency,” the court said. The bench observed that there was no embargo on the state government from proceeding to register FIR against Majithia even as STF report is lying in a sealed cover in the high court. On the allegations of “bias” against then STF head Harpreet Singh Sidhu, who had prepared the STF report, the court said he has clarified that the inquiry was conducted in an impartial manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-case-akali-leader-bikram-majithia-gets-protection-from-arrest-for-3-days-approaches-sc-101643142570315.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Conjoined Amritsar twins Sohna, Mohna to cast ballot as separate voters||Conjoined twins from Amritsar — Sohna and Mohna Singh — will cast their ballot for the first time on the polling day in Punjab on February 20 as separate voters. Born on June 13, 2002, the twins had turned 18 in 2020 and were handed over separate “EPIC voter cards” on Tuesday by state chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju. Inmates of Pingalwara orphanage in Amritsar, the two were invited by the election officials to Chandigarh on the National Voters’ Day so as to motivate the voters in Punjab. “We will vote separately and independently and would not let each other know whom we are voting for,” said the two who were abandoned by their biological parents in a Delhi hospital after their birth. The twins have two hearts, two pairs of arms, kidneys, and spinal cords but a single liver, gall bladder, spleen and one pair of legs. “We have decided to vote for new thinking, a new Punjab,” they added over phone. They are employed as an electrical supervisor by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). CEO Raju said a special permission was taken from the Election Commission of India (ECI) to give them individual voting rights. Special arrangement will be made so that for Sohna and Mohna could vote separately so as to maintain privacy. The event was also attended virtually by deputy commissioners-cum-district election officers who handed over EPIC cards to first-time voters in the districts. Raju, who was accompanied by additional CEO DPS Kharbanda and other officials, said the EC’s theme this time was “making elections inclusive, accessible and participative”. Raju also unveiled the poster of ‘Know Your Candidate’ mobile application, using which voters can know the particulars and criminal antecedents of any candidate. He said the mobile app was developed to access criminal antecedents of contesting candidates to ensure transparent elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conjoined-amritsar-twins-sohna-mohna-to-cast-ballot-as-separate-voters-101643142210297.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 4,049 fresh Covid cases, 30 deaths||Chandigarh :Covid cases continued to decline for the second consecutive day on Tuesday in Punjab with the state registering 4,049 fresh infections against 5,778 reported on Monday. The state also reported 30 deaths from the virus. The state’s positivity rate dipped to 11.39% as against 17.86% on Monday, according to a medical bulletin. Mohali topped the list of Covid cases with 915 infections, followed by 492 in Ludhiana, 453 in Amritsar, 276 in Jalandhar, 212 in Bathinda, 208 in Fazilka, 193 in Patiala, 181 in Hoshiarpur. A total of 35,540 samples were tested on Tuesday. Of the 30 fatalities, six were reported in Gurdaspur, five in Hoshiarpur and four in Amritsar, the bulletin said. With 6,931 persons recovering from the virus, the number of cured persons has reached 6,63,404 in the state. Till now, 17,059 persons have lost their lives due to the virus in the state. The infection count in the state has reached 7,23,052, the bulletin said. The number of active cases shot up to 42,589, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-4-049-fresh-covid-cases-30-deaths-101643142150452.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Republic Day: 2 Punjab ADGPs to get President’s Police Medal||ADGPs Naresh Kumar and Amardeep Singh Rai have been selected for the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service on the occasion of Republic Day The awards have been announced by the Union ministry of home affairs. Commissioner of police, Amritsar, Sukhchain Singh Gill, DIG, special task force, Sanjeev Kumar Rampal and four PPS officers, including commandant, PRTC Jahan Khelan Harpreet Singh Mander, SP, investigation, Hoshiarpur, Ravinder Pal Singh, ACP, headquarters, Jalandhar, Subhash Chandar Arora and deputy superintendent (security), District Jail, Rupnagar, are among 15 police officers who have been selected for the Police Medal for meritorious service. The other officials are inspectors Shaminder Singh, Onkar Singh Brar, Jagpreet Singh and Balwinder Kaur, SI Arun Kumar and ASIs Sandeep Kumar, Gurmukh Singh and Amrik Chand. DGP VK Bhawra congratulated the awardees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/republic-day-2-punjab-adgps-to-get-president-s-police-medal-101643142090936.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab rice millers allege corruption in grain quality testing system||The Punjab rice millers’ association on Tuesday demanded computerised quality testing of foodgrains, alleging corruption in the manual testing system. Accusing the Food Corporation of India (FCI) of harassing rice shellers, association president Tarsem Saini said they have decided to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court if the issue was not resolved by adopting computerised quality testing of grain. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Saini said, “The quality assessment mechanism adopted by FCI for grain is flawed. For the past 4-5 years, we have been demanding computerised laboratories, but in vain. To sustain corruption in FCI, the authorities in the Punjab region are not ready to bring transparency.” “All testing is still done in manual laboratories, which give conflicting values. If the FCI management does not make its functioning transparent, our association will be constrained to move to the high court and stage protests,” he added. Union food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal, he said, had promised to streamline the functioning of FCI but on-ground situation was contrary. Association office-bearer Gurdeep Singh Cheema aid last month some FCI officials from its Punjab region office visited Ropar depot and trucks carrying rice were returned on verbal orders. FCI general manager Arshdeep Singh Thind said the modernisation was in progress. “Computerised rice analysers have been set up at different places in the state for quality tests . For redressal of grievances there is a set procedure and anyone who has any problem can opt for it,” he added. He rejected allegations of FCI officials’ involvement in corrupt practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-rice-millers-allege-corruption-in-grain-quality-testing-system-101643142031982.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Complete bandh in Patiala over sacrilege attempt at temple||A complete bandh was observed in Patiala on Tuesday on a call given by different religious organisations after a sacrilege attempt at historic Kali Devi temple in the city.Members of Hindu organisations carried out a protest march in the city where heavy police force was deployed to check any untoward incident.Also, leaders from the different political parties thronged the temple and condemned the incident.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann paid obeisance at the shrine. Talking to media, Mann said, “The desecration incident is very unfortunate. We strongly condemn this and pray for peace, prosperity and communal harmony of Punjab. Once AAP government is formed in Punjab, we will find who hatched this conspiracy and punish the culprits so that no one can dares to commit such a crime again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/complete-bandh-in-patiala-over-sacrilege-attempt-at-temple-101643141853809.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Widower of 26-year-old woman awarded ₹46-lakh compensation||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Panchkula, has awarded a compensation of ₹46 lakh to a Zirakpur resident who lost his wife in a 2020 road accident.Sherry, 25, of Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur, had filed a claim petition against Satish Kumar of Kharak Mangoli, Old Panchkula, who was the driver and owner of the tractor-trailer that hit his wife’s scooter.The complaint, which was also filed against Oriental Insurance Company Limited, Panchkula, stated that his wife, Kangna, 26, was headed from IT Park, Panchkula, to Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur, on her scooter on February 17, 2020.As she reached near the dumping ground in Sector 23, Panchkula, a speeding tractor-trailer, moving on the wrong side, hit her scooter, leaving her injured. Kangna was rushed to Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, Panchkula, but she could not survive the injuries.It was stated that Kangna was a young and well-qualified woman, working with a multi-national company. “Due to the accident, I have suffered a great loss, a loving wife and life partner,” the petitioner said.In the tribunal, Satish Kumar claimed that his vehicle was not involved in the accident, so the question of paying any compensation did not arise at all.“Present claim petition has been filed with malafide intention just to extract the compensation from the insurer of vehicle in question,” Kumar said, while praying for dismissal of the petition.The insurer, in a separate written statement, stated that Kumar was not holding a valid driving licence on the date of the alleged accident, and had thus violated the terms and conditions of the insurance policy.Considering the arguments, the tribunal in its order on January 12 awarded a compensation of ₹46.8 lakh to the claimant, to be paid jointly and severally by both the respondents, and interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of institution of the petition till realisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-widower-of-26-year-old-woman-awarded-46-lakh-compensation-101643141440046.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||R-Day merch: From mufflers to caps, warm options aplenty||Due to the reduced scale of celebrations amid the present Covid situation, and educational institutes still operating on a virtual mode, the sale of Republic Day themed accessories continues to be low. But ahead of the day, the weekend curfew and odd and even scheme seem to have further plummeted the sales, according to wholesale shopkeepers at Sadar Bazar. However, they say necessity is the mother of invention, and that has led to many shops in this market sell tricolour version of seasonal accessories, to boost their business. So from woollen caps to mufflers and jackets, a lot of variety has been added to the stock this year. “Har saal patle material ki topi aati thi, par iss saal humne thode garam kapdhe ki banwayi hai. Iss saal thand zyada hai aur humne tricolour mein thand ke hisaab se cheezein rakhi hain bechne ke liye, jaise ki earmuffs aur jackets, taaki business badhe. Inka dual function hota hai, log Republic Day par pehen sakte hain aur vaise bhi thand mein use kar sakte hain,” says Saurabh Gupta, from Anil Bhai Rakhi Wala in Sadar Bazar.The tricolour hat seems to be a hot selling item this year, alongside the tricolour mufflers, informs Hardik Arora from Muskaan Enterprises in Sadar Bazar. He adds: “Sabse zyada humare yahan caps aur mufflers bik rahe hain. Log topi bhi khareed rahe hain. Humne tricolour brooches bhi rakhe hain, jo diamond stones ke saath kafi stylish lag rahe hain.” To suit people’s needs in the Covid era, tricolour masks are also on offer, says Gaffar Bhai Jhandewale from Bharat Handloom Cloth House, adding, “Iss time pe toh sabse zyada mask bik rahe hain. Par haan, iss baar sardi ke matlab ka saaman bhi rakha hai humne jaise ki woollen muffler aur woollen topi. Yeh sab, decorative items se zyada bik raha hai.” And some sellers say that the overall sale is only marginally better. “Iss saal 10% bhi business nahi hua pichle saalon ke mukable. Odd-even ki wajah se logon ko samajh nai aa raha tha ki kab aayein khareedari karne, toh bahut se log aaye hi nahi. Aur kaafi log jo aye woh shop bandh dekh ke kahin aur chale gaye saaman khareedne,” adds Arora.Besides apparels, tricolour decorations were also sold, but in small quantity only. Vikram Singh from Vikram Enterprises, says, “Some of the varieties are new and came in this year only,” he says. But Delhiites seem to be happy stocking up these for smaller celebrations. Take for instance Yogesh Singh, a property dealer from Shahadra, who shares, “We organise a small programme for children, every Republic Day, and I usually get tricolour items for them from Sadar Bazar. This year too, I’ve bought tricolour masks and caps for the kids. These will keep them warm as well as add to their theme costumes.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-merch-from-mufflers-to-caps-warm-options-aplenty-101643141438801.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Cong names 23 nominees in 2nd list, replaces four sitting MLAs||Chandigarh : The Congress released its second list of 23 candidates for the February 20 elections in Punjab on Tuesday, replacing four of its sitting MLAs. The sitting legislators who have been replaced by the party are Amrik Singh Dhillon from Samrala, Nirmal Singh from Shutrana, Surjit Singh Dhiman from Amargarh and Satkar Kaur from Ferozepur Rural. In Amargarh, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s close aide Smit Singh has replaced Dhiman whose son Jaswinder Dhiman has been fielded from Sunam. Sidhu was pushing for Smit who has been working closely with him and coordinating with the media until recently. Ashu Bangar, the AAP candidate who switched to the Congress recently, has been given fielded from Ferozepur Rural. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had promised to get the Congress ticket for Bangar who jumped the ship after levelling allegations against the AAP leadership. Darbara Singh has replaced Nirmal Singh in Shutrana, whereas Raj Gill has been fielded in place of four-time MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon from Samrala. The Congress had also dropped four sitting MLAs in its first list of 86 candidates released about 10 days ago. With Tuesday’s list, the party has named its nominees for 109 of the total 117 constituencies in the state. Among the seats for which the party is still to name its candidates are Jalalabad, Patiala Urban, Attari, Nawanshahr, Ludhiana South, Bhadaur and Barnala seats. Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, who has launched his separate party, has announced to contest from Patiala Urban whereas SAD chief Sukhbir Badal is contesting from Jalalabad. Sekhri fielded from Batala Former MLA Ashwani Sekhri, a Hindu face, has been fielded from Batala, despite intense lobbying by cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa for his son. Bajwa initially wanted to shift from Fatehgarh Churian to Batala but then tried for his son, seeking relaxation in the “one family, one ticket” rule. Sitting MLA Joginder Pal has again got the ticket from Bhoa, despite stiff opposition from campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar. His candidature was being back by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Ramanjeet Singh Sikki and Kuldeep Vaid have been repeated from Khadoor Sahib and Gill, respectively. Sitting MLA Davinder Ghubaya was also facing opposition but has again been fielded from Fazilka. Former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal’s son-in-law Vikram Bajwa has been fielded from Sahnewal. The party has fielded AAP defector MLA Jagtar Singh Jagga, who won from Raikot in 2017, from Jagraon. However, Baldev Singh, another first-time MLA, who also defected from the AAP, has been denied ticket from Jaitu. The ticket allocation has been delayed due to differences of opinion among the state leaders. The Congress central election commission headed by party president Sonia Gandhi, which met on Monday, was unable to arrive at consensus and asked a sub-committee comprising general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal, senior leader Ambika Soni and chairman of the secretary committee for Punjab Ajay Maken to hold discussions and finalise the tickets. 
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Salaries of computer teachers of govt schools delayed again||After previously having waited for up to six months to receive their salaries, computer instructors of government schools in Chandigarh are upset as they have once again not received payment for December. There are around 150 junior and senior computer instructors in the city’s government schools.The instructors work on contract basis and due to issues with the contractor, their salaries had been delayed for three months in 2020 and six months in 2021. In 2021, they had not received payment between April and November, which they finally got in December.The instructors said, “It is unfair how this problem only happens with us, while the process is smooth for the other teachers on contract and we have to suffer even amid the pandemic. Last time also, our contracts had expired and our salaries were stopped till a new one was drawn. The authorities must sort out these issues in advance.”The instructors also alleged that the files take too long to clear. They said that members of the UT Cadre Educational Employees Union had met officials of the finance department and asked them to clear the files when their salaries had been delayed for six months.UT director of school education Palika Arora said that the department is aware of the problems and will resolve them in the next few days.The teachers also alleged that they are still being called to work daily, even as teachers have been told to come on alternate days as per instructions issued by the UT education department. However, officials said that computer teachers are required to monitor classes being conducted online and provide assistance in case any difficulties arise. The roster for attendance is prepared as per the discretion of the principal of the particular school and they may call teachers as per requirement.Further, the principals and other school heads also have to be physically present in the school daily to ensure smooth conduct of online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-salaries-of-computer-teachers-of-govt-schools-delayed-again-101643141192184.html
26-01-2022||Other||Sentinels of democracy: Centenarians who have voted in each election in UP’s Prayagraj||Despite advancing age, many nonagenarians, some centenarian and few super centenarian voters are anxiously waiting to cast their vote in the Uttar Pradesh elections. Prayagraj will go to polls on February 27. Jagannath Yadav, resident of Mansoorpur village under Baharia development block who claims to be 113 years old, is one such voter. “Till date, there has not been a single election in which I have not voted”, he recalled. “Back then, we had the responsibility of choosing our government after independence. In those days, everyone used to be in election mood. People would gather in villages and hold political discussions. Everyone appeared excited,” Jagannath recalled. “At that time people preferred to cast their vote early. Now, our grandchildren help us in reaching polling booths but back then, we used to help elders in reaching polling booths,” he added. Badri Prasad Tiwari, who claims to be 102-year-old, is a resident of Mehdauri Colony, Teliyarganj. He claims he has voted in every election since 1957. “In those days, discussions used to take place houses and outside months before the elections. We used to bring letters of the contesting parties and read them at home. Voting used to take place till evening and then at the time of counting of votes. We also helped the staff performing their national duty,” he recalled. Sudhri Devi, of Kanehti village in Phulpur development block, also claims to be 102 years old. “Voting should come before everything as it is for the betterment of the country,” she said. Her family me family members take her to polling booth now as she is unable to walk by herself. “I vote as a salute to freedom fighters, who made huge sacrifices and now if we have this right to elect our own government it is because of them,” she said. Lakhpati Devi, 105 years and Nirmala Devi, both of Baraut area of Handia development block besides Champa Devi, 103 years from Jasra development block, Ishwari Prasad, 100 years, of Sangrampurpatti village in Saidabad development block, Chandrapati Devi of Sahson development block, Bholanath Maurya and Ram Dulari from Sikandara village in Baharia development block, Premshankar Shukla, 102, of village Pawari of Koraon development block are all looking forward to cast their votes, something they have been doing for decades. Kalawati Devi, 95 of Bighiyan village of Soraon development block has been voting every election since 1957 and now inspires other women of the village and her family to vote too. “When my daughters-in-law came to the house, they were reluctant to go out to vote as they weren’t but I made sure everyone voted,” she said. “Earlier all political veterans used to come to her house,” she said. Lalit Chandra Mishra of Daraganj, who is above 90 years, he is among the first 10 voters at his booth to cast vote. 1,413 centenarian voters in Prayagraj dist With the updated voter list now published, it is now clear that as many as 1,413 individuals aged 100 and above of Prayagraj district are eligible to cast their votes in the forthcoming UP assembly elections of 2022. Phulpur assembly constituency of the district has 199 voters of 100 years. As per age-wise division, of the 46,02,812 voters of the district, another 1,92,991 voters fall in the age group of 70-79 years, 55,156 belong to 80-89 years while 10,459 are 90-99 years. 
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid surge: PU depts, affiliated colleges allowed to evaluate answersheets online||Amid the recent surge in Covid cases, Panjab University (PU) has allowed its teaching departments and affiliated colleges to evaluate answer sheets online for the odd semester exams which started on Monday.However, the departments and colleges can use their discretion regarding the mode of evaluation as per their need. Previously, the answer sheets were only evaluated physically, but the varsity is now encouraging online evaluation as well. Last week, a communication was also issued to the heads of affiliated colleges, in which they were requested to send their preferred mode of evaluation to the varsity.They were told that the submission of answersheets through speed posts leads to long queues outside the post offices, which defeats the idea of discouraging gatherings at public places.“The only viable mode of submission of answersheets is online mode. Online mode of evaluation is encouraged, which is more efficient and environment friendly,” states the communication sent to colleges.Those opting for online evaluation can go for the need-based physical evaluation with prior intimation to the varsity. However, for reappear, private and USOL candidates, only online evaluation will be conducted this time.PU’s controller of examination Jagat Bhushan said, “We are encouraging evaluation through online mode, but it is not mandatory. If a college or department feels that the previous practice of physical evaluation is more efficient for them, they can go for that as well.”“Permitting departments to use their discretion regarding the mode of evaluation is a good step in the present situation,” said president of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), Mritunjay Kumar.15,400 students appear for examMeanwhile, around 15,400 undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students appeared on the second day of the odd semester examination of PU on Tuesday, which is being held in online mode. The examinations for 47 and 18 UG and PG subjects were conducted “The examinations were conducted smoothly without any hiccups,” the university said.
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Padma Vibhushan for two, Padma Shri for nine in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW The centre announced the names of Padma awardees on the eve of Republic Day. Among other honours, those on the list from Uttar Pradesh included former chief minister Kalyan Singh and Gita Press chairman Radheyshyam Khemka who were honoured with Padma Vibhushan posthumously while Padma Bhushan was conferred upon Rashid Khan (for art) and Vashishth Tripathi (for literature and education).This year, the President approved conferment of 128 Padma Awards including 4 Padma Vibhushan, 17 Padma Bhushan -- 2 from Uttar Pradesh in each of the two categories and 107 Padma Shri Awards including 9 from the state. The nine Padma Shri awardees from UP were: Kamalini Asthana and Nalini Asthana (duo), Shivnath Mishra, Sheesh Ram and Ajita Srivastava -- all from the field of art; Seth Pal Singh for agriculture; Vidya Vindu Singh for literature and education; Sivananda for yoga; Ajay Kumar Sonkar for science and engineering and Dr Kamlakar Tripathi in the field of medicine.Kalyan Singh passed away on August 21 last year due to sepsis and multi-organ failure. Popularly known as ‘Babuji’, he became the chief minister of the state for the first time in 1991 and was seen as an icon of Hindu nationalism and torchbearer of the Ram Temple movement in the 90s. Chairman of Gita Press Trust Board and Chief Editor- Kalyan magazine, Radheyshyam Khemka, was conferred with Padma Vibhushan posthumously for his valuable contribution in the field of literature. He was editor since November 1982 and last edited the issue of April 2021.Gorakhpur’s Gita Press is known for printing and publishing largest number of Hindu religious texts including Bhagwad Gita and Kalyan magazine, published in multiple languages. Born in Bihar’s Munger on December 12, 1935, Khemka died in Varanasi nine months ago at the age of 87 on April 3, 2021 following age related illness. Prime Minister NaranModi also had paid him tribute on twitter. Padma Bhushan was announced for Prof Vashishth Tripathi, a renowned scholar of Nyay Shastra, for his contribution to the field of literature and education. He taught Nyay Shastra in Sampurnanad Sanskrit University (SSU) and retired in 2000. His pupil Prof Hareram Tripathi is vice-chancellor of SSU. Padma Shri was also announced for Pt Shivnath Mishra, a former teacher of sitar in SSU. Prolific Hindi writer Vidya Vindu Singh, known for her broad work in Awadhi language, was conferred Padma Award for her work in literature and education. “It is a moment of great honour for me to have been bestowed with Padma Shri. The award not only gives recognition for the work I have done but also provides immense motivation to continue it,” said Singh who lives in Ayodhya.Singh has written over a 100 books in Hindi touching upon every form of litrature. She retired as the secretary of Hindi Sansthan. Besides literature, she is popular in the field of social work.Padma Shri was conferred on 100-year-old yoga enthusiast Swami Sivanand, who lives in Kabir Nagar area of Kashi. His disciple Sanjay Sarvajan claimed that Baba was around 126 years old. Sarvajan said he received information about the Padma Shri award through a call from the union ministry of home.Twelve years of uninterrupted efforts on the hockey turf for India paid rich dividends to ace forward Vandana Katariya on Tuesday, as she was conferred with the Padma Shri award. She has already been given the UP government’s prestigious Rani Laxmi Bai Award. An ex-inmate of the state government-run girls’ hockey hostel in Lucknow, Katariya (who completed her 250 international caps for the country) is currently representing the Indian women’s hockey team at the prestigious Women’s Asia Cup 2022 in Muscat. The 29-year-old forward has been an integral part of the Indian team since her senior India debut in 2009 at the age of 17. Though she hails from Roshnabad in Haridwar district of Uttarakhand, Katariya has been a regular face of UP as she learnt the basics of the game in Lucknow after migrating to the state capital. She forms an experienced attacking line for the Indian team and has been part of India’s several significant feats, including the title win at the Asian Champions Trophy in 2016, Asia Cup in 2017, Asian Games bronze in 2014 and silver in 2018, among several other achievements. The double Olympian who grabbed the limelight during the Tokyo Olympics when she became the first Indian women’s hockey player to score a hat-trick of goals in an Olympic Games match, made it to the Indian junior women’s team in 2006. The versatile forward was the country’s top scorer at the FIH Hockey Junior World Cup Women 2013 in Monchengladbach, Germany where India won a bronze medal. The same year saw Katariya being a part of the team that won the bronze medal at the 8th Women’s Asia Cup in Malaysia. “It’s really a great moment for Uttar Pradesh Hockey and we wish all success to Vandana in her career. Her hat-trick was remarkable and we hope that she would continue to serve India as well as UP for long,” said UP Hockey’s secretary, RP Singh on Tuesday. Contribution to Awadhi lit recognized Author of 118 books, noted writer of Awadhi literature and folk culture Dr Vidya Vindu Singh has been given Padma Shri award. Resident of Gokhale Vihar Marg in Lucknow, Singh said, “I will try to serve Awadhi literature to the best of my ability till I am alive. I am elated that my little contribution to the Awadhi literature has been recognized.”A PhD from BHU and a former government servant, she was born on July 2, 1945. Vidya Vindu Singh is fluent in English, Hindi, Bangla and Sanskrit. Her books on Awadhi literature like Awadhi Sahitya Mein Prakriiti Pooja, Awadhi Lok Sangeet Virasat, Dholak Rani More Nit Uthi Ayu, Hiranya Garbha, Kashiwas, Shri Hari Nam Mahima, Neermati, Awadhi Vachik Katha Lok: Abhipraya Chintan etc are popular among Awadhi speaking population and these books are used as references for research in Awadhi Literature.She said, “This is not only my honour but the honour of every Awadhi speaking person whose contribution to literature was going unnoticed. If anyone asks me what I expect from the government, then I will ask them to establish an Awadhi Akademi where people can come and research for the development of the language.”Prayagraj’s pearl scientist honouredAjai Kumar Sonkar, who has been conferred Padma Shri, originally hails from the Sangam city. He has his key pearl culture and production lab in Andaman islands besides a lab in Naini, Prayagraj. He had successfully transported Pinctada margaritifera, commonly known as the black-lip pearl oyster, from Andaman and Nicobar Islands to his lab in Naini and produced pearls using his special technique here, an achievement that had earned him praise from President Ram Nath Kovind who had also invited him to Rashtrapati Bhawan on October 19, 2021. He had made a lab in Naini after Covid-19 brought activities to a halt last year.List of his achievements start with his developing and perfecting the technique to produce nucleated spherical pearls in freshwater. He then discovered an Indian shell which is most suitable for nuclei production and developed his own technique to fabricate the best quality of nuclei—essential for quality pearl. The black pearl produced in his lab in Andamans had earned praise from the then President APJ Abdul Kalam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/padma-vibhushan-for-two-padma-shri-for-nine-in-uttar-pradesh-101643140890275.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police officers promoted to boost morale||The Chandigarh police department on Tuesday gave local rank/own rank and pay promotions to six sub-inspectors (SIs), 10 assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs), nine head constables (HCs) and 162 constables. The decision was taken to address the shortage of officers at inspector rank. The six seniormost SIs will now be able to work as inspectors in various units of the police department. Meanwhile, while 10 ASIs and nine HCs have been immediately promoted to SIs and ASIs, respectively, 112 ASIs and 128 HCs would be promoted as per availability of vacancies in 2022. This will ensure there is no delay in promotions of these personnel. Further, local rank of senior constable has been given to 162 constables of the 2009 batch in order to boost their morale. Recently, 409 constables were given regular promotions to HCs. As many as 596 cops have been given the next rank this year so far. The regular promotions and the personal rank promotions are an important step in keeping up the organizational efficiency. This will not only build up the morale of police personnel but give confidence to those who were awaiting their due promotions, stated a release. Ambala gang war: Monu Rana in judicial custodyA day after being arrested for the last week’s double murder at Ambala Cantonment, gangster Shamsher Singh, alias Monu Rana, was sent to judicial custody on Tuesday. He is accused of ordering the hit on rival gangster Mohit Rana. Mohit’s aide Vishal, alias Bhola, was also killed in the shootout on January 20. Monu Rana was produced in court after completing one-day police custody on Tuesday, and was sent to the Kurukshetra jail till February 8. Meanwhile, the two shooters from Rohtak are yet to be arrested.P’kula man duped of ₹2.5 lakhA case of cheating has been registered after a Panchkula man lost ₹2.51 lakh to a fraudster. Pawan Dudi, a resident of Sector 26, said that he was duped in the name of buying the dealership of a motorcycle company last year. It all started with a call he received from an unknown number on January 25, 2021, with the proposal for a dealership. After he paid ₹2.51 lakh, the caller sought ₹5 lakh more in September. The website address provided by the caller turned out to be fake, after which Dudi approached police.Theft suspect tries to flee, caught  A man arrested for theft tried to escape from the police custody after pushing the cops escorting him, but was apprehended after a brief chase. Assistant sub-inspector Gajraj Singh, deployed at the police station in Sector 34, Chandigarh, said that suspect Sandeep, alias Kala, of Sector 52, was arrested in a theft case on January 20. He tried to escape from the parking lot of the police station after being brought from medical examination on January 24. He has been booked under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the IPC.CREST gives go-ahead for solar power plantThe Chandigarh Renewal Energy and Science & Technology (CREST) Promotion Society has been given the go-ahead by the municipal corporation to set up a floating solar power plant generating electricity worth ₹1.38 crore annually at the Sector 39 water works. The MC general House had approved it last year. The revenue will be shared between the Chandigarh administration and MC in the 70:30 ratio.Panchkula man held with heroinA resident of Sector 20, Panchkula, was arrested with 7.82-gram heroin. The accused, identified as Dilbag Singh, was arrested from a checkpost near Sector 20, where the police stopped his car for inspection. A drugs case has been registered.HP man held with 50-gm heroinThe crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested a resident of Kullu, Himachal Pradesh, with 50 gram heroin. The accused, Panna Lal, was nabbed near the Indian Oil petrol pump in Phase 2, Ram Darbar. A drugs case has been registered at Sector 31 police station.  Daria man held for gamblingThe crime branch of Chandigarh Police arrested a resident of Daria village while gambling on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Ram Sunder Sah, 45, and ₹13,040 was recovered from his possession. A case was registered under Gambling Act at Industrial Area police station. Mohali man held for snatching woman’s phoneA Mohali man has been arrested for snatching a mobile phone from a woman of Sector 38 near the Judicial Academy in Sector 43. The accused has been identified as Vikas, 21. A snatching case has been registered at Sector 36 police station.  ₹50,000 stolen from shopTheft of ₹50,000 was reported from a confectionary shop in motor market, Manimajra. The owner of the shop, Deepak Kumar of Sector 2, Panchkula, stated in his complaint that unidentified miscreants broke the locks of the shop on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday and stole the cash. A theft case has been registered at Manimajra police station. Library assistants hold protest at PUA number of library assistants held a protest at Panjab University (PU) on Tuesday after their screening for promotion was not held as per schedule.The screening of applications of 28 library assistants for promotion was scheduled on Tuesday at the senate hall of PU. However, they said it was not held without any intimation to them. The library assistants assembled outside the office of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar where they raised slogans against the varsity and demanded that the screening be held immediately. Draw of lots conducted in St Kabir for 90 seatsThe draw of lots for admissions to entry-level classes was held at St Kabir Public School in Sector 26 for 90 seats. The draw was conducted in a hybrid mode, with a cap on the number of parents present physically. Schools have till February 1 to display the final list for entry-level admissions and February 11 is the last day for submission of fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-officers-promoted-to-boost-morale-101643140834146.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sangrur: Citing ill health, Razia Sultana not to hoist flag on Republic Day||Amid ongoing controversy over former DGP Mohammad Mustafa’s ‘provocative speech’, his wife Razia Sultana, who is water supply and sanitation, social security, women and child development minister, withdrew herself from hoisting the Tricolour on Republic Day in Sangrur citing health reasons on Tuesday.However, the BJP claimed that they submitted a memorandum to Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir for disallowing Razia Sultana from presiding over the Republic Day function. Now, the DC will hoist the flag instead of Razia Sultana on Wednesday.The official letter stated that Razia Sultana’s duty was fixed for hoisting the flag in Sangrur, but due to ill health, she will not be able to perform the ceremony. Besides, a reason was also given regarding cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s not hoisting the flag in Moga where the DC will hoist the flag. Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Singh Deol said, “We welcome the move because Mustafa tried to disturb the peace. We are informed that the deputy commissioner will hoist the flag, which is a good decision.”“Razia Sultana is contesting elections from the Malerkotla segment, but her husband is openly threatening to create law and order problems for the administration by disturbing communal harmony in Malerkotla. An FIR was also registered against the former DGP. However, Razia is silent on the issue which shows she supports unjustified threats,” said Deol.On Saturday, the Malerkotla police booked Mohammad Mustafa, who is also principal strategic adviser to state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, for his alleged provocative speech, which went viral on social media.The case was registered under Section 125 of the Representation of the People Act (promoting enmity between classes in connection with election) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code at the City-1 police station, Malerkotla.
26-01-2022||Delhi||Avid birders indulge in virtual walks, series and runs to catch the action!||It might be terribly cold for the humans, but for migratory birds, this time of the year in India is a favourite. Though restricted in their movement, due to the increased Covid cases in the Capital, bird watchers are not letting their spirits get dampened. Recently, there was news of a Black Eagle being spotted in Delhi, after a span of three years. Also, there were reports of two vultures, Anya and Arys, having migrated to India from the breeding grounds in Uzbekistan. In an endeavour to get a glimpse of these birds during this migration season, the birders in Delhi-NCR are busy arranging virtual sessions, online mini series and individual walks for those interested. “We are starting our mini series as people are not comfortable to go out during this time. We are shooting at prime locations and then coming up with a mini series on identifying birds and understanding their surroundings,” says Abhishek Gulshan, founder of NINOX — Owl about Nature. A few birds that will be included in the series are the Bar-headed Goose and Gadwall, in the migratory birds category, as well as Knob-billed Duck and Black Francolin in the resident category. Gulshan adds, “These hour-long sessions will help identify birds and talk about their surroundings. We already have a lot of footage, and are also stepping out individually to shoot for the same. But yes, these will be subscription based sessions. As for the free content, we are presently in the process of upgrading our WordPress and blog, which will be our prime source of dissemination of such information.” Various social media platforms are another are also helping the bird watchers to ensure they receive all the important information. “People are sharing pictures, notes, their thoughts and ideas through our Facebook community groups. We have people posting pictures of birds from all over the country, and now there are close to 300-400 posts every day,” says Kanwar B Singh, founder, Indian Birds. He shares that contrary to the popular belief, though the outdoor movement is restricted due to the Covid situation, there is still much activity being recorded on social media. “People are digging through old notes and pictures and sharing these since they can’t go and really be out in the field. So the traffic has not decreased at all, and there is a lot of activity on various social media channels,” Singh adds. In fact, Vasant Vihar-based bird watcher Anita Mani says she is still going out, but not in a group, to get a glimpse of the birds that are usually visible around this time only. “We went out for birding a few days back, and there was no risk as it was just my son and me. Individuals are heading out as no one is organising walks, due to the Omicron fear. As a hobby, I feel it’s quite safe, as long as you don’t pursue it in a group. But yes, since we cannot go out on weekends due to the curfew, we have to take out time in the middle of the day, on weekdays, to step out for this,” says Mani, whose society WhatsApp group is another place where she is getting to see various species of birds that are being spotted of late. “There is plenty of activity in all the WhatsApp groups I’m on. Many are birding in different parts of the country, and uploading pictures for identification purposes. We also have a Nature group in our colony where people post what they spot,” she adds.Those bird watchers who are venturing out in smaller groups share how they are being careful to follow Covid compliant behaviour. “We generally used to do meet-ups every Sunday, and people would venture out in groups across Delhi-NCR. But we are not bringing people together right now because we need to act responsibly. Many enthusiasts do ask us which are the interesting birds and where they can see them, and actually turn up at those recommended spots. So we are ensuring that they get the right information,” adds Singh.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/avid-birders-indulge-in-virtual-walks-series-and-runs-to-catch-the-action-101643140530807.html
26-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Woman, 2 others booked for trying to kill husband, flee with valuables||Police booked a woman and two others in Faridabad on Monday night for allegedly attempting to kill her husband and escaping with cash, jewellery and other valuables, officials said on Tuesday.The incident took place on the intervening night of January 17 and 18, following a scuffle between the woman and her husband before dinner, according to the police.  Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said the 45-year-old victim, a resident of NIT Faridabad, told the police that he used to get into fights with his wife regularly. On January 17, he got into an argument with his wife after returning home.“The woman served dinner to the victim around 10pm on January 17, after which, Aggarwal started feeling dizzy after half an hour and fell asleep. When he woke up the next morning, his body was aching and had several injuries all over... His house was ransacked, and cash, jewellery and other valuables were missing. He raised an alarm and tried to find his wife, but she was not at home,” Kadiyan said.  Kadiyan also said that the man was admitted to a private hospital on January 18, and police recorded his statement on Monday evening. A case was registered against the suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (assault), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 506 (criminal intimidation), 379B (snatching with hurt) and 34 (common intention) at the NIT Faridabad police station on Monday.Aggarwal said in his statement that his “wife mixed sedatives in his food, and covered his face with a blanket and hit him when he was in a dizzy condition”. He could also hear voices of two men, who joined the woman later and assaulted him for nearly 20 minutes. “Three of them later tried to smother me to death, but luckily I survived as I fell unconscious and they thought I was dead. They left me there and escaped with my belongings,” Aggarwal said in his police complaint.  According to the police, the woman and the other two suspects also escaped with the victim’s gold chain and ₹10,000, which was kept in his pocket. “The victim had allegedly discovered about her illicit relationship three months ago, but pacified it, thinking everything will be fine later. He had seen her WhatsApp messages in which the other man used to write to the woman to earn quick money to pay off his debts,” Kadiyan said.  Police have launched an investigation to nab the suspects at the earliest, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugramwoman-2-others-booked-for-trying-to-kill-husband-flee-with-valuables-101643140170145.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||14 Haryana cops to get police medals today||Fourteen Haryana Police officers and personnel have been selected for police medals on the occasion of Republic Day on Wednesday.A Haryana Police spokesperson said two police officers, inspector general of police (Karnal range) Mamta Singh and superintendent of police (CID, Panchkula) Surinder Vats will be awarded with the President’s police medal for distinguished service, and 12 others will receive the police medal for meritorious service.Those selected for police medal for meritorious service include commandant 2nd IRB Bhondsi Gurugram Dharambir Singh, DSP Naraingarh Anil Kumar, DSP RTC Bhondsi Gurugram Shital Singh, DSP CID Faridabad Manish Sehgal, inspector RTC Bhondsi Gurugram Sunita Rani, sub-inspector Hisar Janak Raj, exemptee sub-inspector (ESI) Panchkula Sukh Ram Singh, ESI Faridabad Umesh Kumar, ESI telecom Panchkula Seema, ASI GRP Kurukshetra Ram Gopal, ASI CID Panchkula Vinod Kumar, and ASI police headquarters Panchkula Rajesh Kumar.Director general of police (DGP) PK Agrawal said it is a moment of pride for the police force that 14 officials have been chosen to be felicitated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/14-haryana-cops-to-get-police-medals-today-101643139810063.html
26-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj police on the heels of missing history-sheeters||The Prayagraj police has launched a massive drive against possible trouble-makers who may cause a disturbance during the upcoming assembly elections. Such elements are being identified and precautionary measures are being taken against them.During investigations, police found that 270 history-sheeters in the district are missing. It is suspected that they have left their homes fearing police action ahead of the polls. However, the police is in no mood to spare them and has intensified its search for them. Police teams are questioning their kin and aides to find possible places where they may have taken shelter. Police teams are also taking the help of Trinetra App for identification of history-sheeters and other criminals. According to police records, at least 2,071 history-sheeters were identified in the district out of whom 103 died. On the instructions of senior police officials, police is verifying their details and action is being taken against them on the basis of their present criminal activities.Under the drive, Gangsters’ Act has been slapped against 20 history-sheeters while history-sheets of many, including some members of solver gangs, have also been opened by the Shivkuti police. The police has till now sent 239 history-sheeters to jail and action has been taken under section 107/16 against 857 possible trouble-makers and they have been asked to submit bonds. Action has been taken against 504 history-sheeters under section 110 g while Gunda Act has been imposed on 76 criminals and soon they will be externed. SSP Ajay Kumar said besides action against possible trouble-makers and mischievous elements, police teams are also preparing a list of illegal liquor smugglers, drug peddlers and persons involved in other illegal activities. After verification of their present activities, action will be ensured against them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-police-on-the-heels-of-missing-historysheeters-101643139749822.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: AAP leader from Mohali joins Congress||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader from Shahimajra village, Bir Singh Bajwa, and his supporters joined the Congress on Tuesday in the presence of Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu and deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi. Bajwa had contested the Mohali MC polls last year.Speaking on the occasion, Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu said that in the 2017 assembly elections, Balbir Sidhu had broken all previous records by winning the Mohali seat by over 30,000 votes. “This was only possible due to the immense love and faith of the people of Mohali in him,” he said.He added that Aam Aadmi Party candidate Kulwant Singh is trying to mislead people by using petty tricks . “However, Kulwant was rejected so badly in the 2021 municipal elections, that he lost from his own ward by a margin of nearly 300 votes. When he was not accepted by the people of his own ward, how could he be accepted by people of the constituency,” he said.Addressing an election rally in Durali village on Tuesday, former cabinet minister and Congress candidate from Mohali, Balbir Singh Sidhu, said that the people of Punjab want Congress to form the government again in Punjab. He said,” Congress has been resolving the problems of the people for a long time and understands the problems of the country and the suffering of the common man,” the MLA said.Akali, Cong govts have cheated people of Punjab: KulwantEven after seven decades of independence, Aam Aadmi Party has emerged as the only party which has forced the country’s traditional parties to reach out to common people and work for public welfare. Kulwant Singh, AAP’s candidate from Mohali, addressed election meetings in various villages on Tuesday.He said that the previous governments of Akali Dal and Congress have cheated the people of Punjab. He added that these parties have made several promises over the past eight regarding regularisation of employees of Punjab, but only ended up misleading the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-aap-leader-from-mohali-joins-congress-101643139633491.html
26-01-2022||Lucknow||R-Day preparations done, accent on Covid-19 protocols||With all last-minute touch-ups to the tableaux for the Republic Day Parade done, the city is ready to observe the day but with all Covid-19 protocols in place.The district administration has issued special guidelines and has defined dos and don’ts for Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday. Besides, the administration has also issued strict instructions that no Republic Day tableau should carry the symbol of any political party, images or any content that violates the model code of conduct. Besides, the administration also defined anti-Covid-19 guidelines for the Republic Day celebrations.“We are all set for Republic Day preparations. However, it should be ensured that the tableaux do not violate the model code of conduct and the Covid-19 protocol is followed,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate.Other than the tableaux prepared by government departments, a few schools too have set up tableaux. The tableau prepared by the students of City Montessori School has been based on the theme of religious unity and sends a strong message of love and togetherness. “Our tableau gives the message of unity, love, and the spirit of universal brotherhood to the world,” said CMS founder and eminent educationist Dr Jagdish Gandhi.Hari Om Sharma, chief public relations officer, CMS, said that the front of the tableau gives the message of ‘Vasudhaiv Kutumbkam’ while the second portion shows unity in diversity along with a temple, mosque, church, gurudwara, Budh vihar, Baha’i temple, etc. giving the message that source of all religions is one God. SN Mishra, principal of Aminabad Inter College, said their tableau is based on the theme Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to mark the 75 years of Independence through which they have highlighted the contributions of freedom fighters. Similarly other schools too have made tableaux for the day that will be part of the Republic Day parade that will start at Ravindralaya and will culminate at KD Singh Babu Stadium. Like previous years, the day will be packed with cultural and patriotic programmes, a mushaira and kavi sammelan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rday-preparations-done-accent-on-covid-19-protocols-101643139513050.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Demanding compensation for crop loss, farmers threaten to start indefinite protest in Karnal||Demanding compensation for the crop loss due to unseasonal rains and pink bollworm in cotton, hundreds of farmers from Karnal district on Tuesday held a protest at the mini-secretariat.The protesters gathered from different parts of Haryana at Karnal mini-secretariat and they gave an ultimatum to the administration to accept their demand, on failure of which, they will start an indefinite protest from February 7.A protesting farmer Mandeep Nathwal said the untimely rains have damaged wheat and mustard crop and the pink bollworm has damaged the cotton crop in the cotton belts but the Haryana government did not announce any compensation for the aggrieved farmers.They said the Punjab government had given a compensation of ₹17,000 per acre of cotton as the crop was under the attack of pink bollworm but the Haryana government did not announce any compensation in Haryana.The farmers said they will start an agitation outside the mini-secretariat from February 7 if the government did not announce compensation for the farmers.The farmers also demanded scrapping of registration on ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Bayora’ portal to sell the produce on MSP.Karnal farm leader Jagdeep Singh Aulakh said they will make all arrangements for the protesting farmers to make the agitation a success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/demanding-compensation-for-crop-loss-farmers-threaten-to-start-indefinite-protest-in-karnal-101643139335247.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panjab University told to resolve pending issues of affiliated colleges||The higher education department of Punjab has asked Panjab University to immediately resolve pending issues of its affiliated colleges.Punjab secretary of higher education, Krishan Kumar, recently wrote to the university, where he outlined pending issues related to affiliation, admission process and faculty among others. The letter has also urged the varsity to resolve the issues and issue necessary approval or clarification to the respective colleges. PU has around 200 affiliated colleges, of which around 170 are in different districts of Punjab. Most of the issues highlighted in the letter are related to the affiliation process. It includes pending affiliation of BCom, BBA, BCA and BSc courses at government college east, Ludhiana, and physical education in degree classes of DAV College for women, Ferozepur Cantonment.Some of the issues related to examination work are – pending dated marksheet due to non-submission of SC students’ scholarship fee at MBG Government College, Pojewal, and pending remuneration of a few colleges.PU’s dean College Development Council (DCDC), Anju Suri, was not available for comments. However, a university official on condition of anonymity said that the respective branches have been informed about these pending issues.No extension of affiliation granted yetMeanwhile, PU is yet to grant extension of affiliation to colleges for 2021-22 academic session, even as almost half the session already over. Although inspections have been conducted by the varsity’s committees at around 60 affiliated colleges this year, the matter is yet to be taken up for approval. Usually, the inspection committees visit the colleges in April and May, following which reports are submitted which are later taken up by the affiliation committee. However, reportedly no such committee has been formed during this session so far.
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khattar to unfurl Tricolour in Ambala today, red zone around venue||Ahead of Republic Day celebrations in Ambala where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will unfurl the Tricolour as the chief guest, deputy commissioner Vikram has declared the area around the venue as temporary red zone.In an order made available on Tuesday, the DC said in the exercise of powers vested under Section 144 of the CrPC, areas of Police Lines and surrounding within the radius of 1km from the outer boundary of Police Lines ground will be temporary red zone on Wednesday from 5am to 4pm.“No unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) will be permitted to fly within 500m of the venue and within 1km of the airstrips/helipads and the funnel area of the same will be used for the CM’s fixed-winged helicopter. As intimated, there are possible threats by anti-social elements, extremists, etc,” the order read.Meanwhile, the final dress rehearsal was performed by artists in the presence of ADGP (CID) Alok Mittal, IGP (law and order) Sanjay Kumar, DC Vikram and other officials.Vikram said no artist or student below the age of 15 are allowed to participate in the cultural activities and only those who have taken the first dose of the vaccine between 15 to 18 years of age have been chosen.“Only fully vaccinated audience will be allowed at the venue. There will be lesser sitting arrangement and residents can watch the programme live on YouTube,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-to-unfurl-tricolour-in-ambala-today-red-zone-around-venue-101643138910408.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid claims five more lives in Chandigarh tricity area||The Covid-19 tally in the tricity remained below 2,000 for the second consecutive day, even as five more patients succumbed to the virus on Tuesday.As many as 1,935 people tested positive, an uptick from Monday’s 1,845 but 50% lower than the all-time peak of 3,907 recorded on January 16. However, the daily death toll remaining above four since January 16, when it peaked at eight, remains a concern.The positivity rate in Panchkula was nearly 30% on Tuesday, highest in the tricity. The district also reported two fatalities. Aged 56 and 87, both were unvaccinated women with comorbid conditions. The other three deaths were recorded in Mohali district. The deceased have been identified as a 61-year-old woman from Tangori and two men, aged 80 and 58, from Zirakpur and Sotal village, respectively. Even in terms of cases, Mohali led with 916, followed by 540 in Chandigarh, and 479 in Panchkula. Though, at 24%, positivity rate remained high in Mohali too, it dropped to 11.8% in Chandigarh.The tricity’s active caseload stands at 17,408, with 8,240 patients in Mohali, 7,033 in Chandigarh and 2,135 in Panchkula. However, with most patients remaining asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms, the hospitalisation rate is around just 1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-five-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101643138861921.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: No nomination filed in Mohali on Day 1||Even though filing of nominations for the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections began on Monday, no candidate turned up to submit their papers in Mohali district — which comprises three assembly segments Mohali Urban, Kharar, and Dera Bassi — on the first day. The last day for filing of nominations is February 1, while the scrutiny of papers will be held the next day. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is February 4. The polling will take place on February 20.The nominations will not be accepted on January 26 and January 30 owing to holidays. The EC has fixed 11am to 3pm as timing for filing of nominations with the returning officers concerned.In Mohali Urban, Congress’ sitting MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu is facing challenge from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)’s Parvinder Singh Sohana and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Kulwant Singh besides Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM)’s Ravneet Brar. The BJP is yet to announce its candidate.In Dera Bassi, SAD’s sitting MLA NK Sharma is up against AAP’s Kuljeet Singh Randhawa, BJP’s Sanjeev Khanna and SSM’s Navjot Saini. The congress is yet to announce its candidate.In Kharar, there is a multi-cornered fight between SAD’s Ranjit Singh Gill, AAP’s Anmol Gagan Mann, Punjab Lok Congress’ Kamaldeep Saini and SSM’s Paramdeep Singh Baidwan. The Congress is yet to declare its candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-no-nomination-filed-in-mohali-on-day-1-101643138860787.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||IMD gives cold wave warning as Chandigarh continues to shiver||There are chances of cold wave in Chandigarh in the coming days, as maximum temperature dropped to 13°C, seven notches below normal, making Tuesday a severe cold day. Even minimum temperature went down to 9.5°C, though four notches above normal. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there are chances of a cold wave in the city for the next three to four days. A cold wave is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature either goes below 4°C or is under 10°C along with 4.5°C below the season’s normal for two consecutive days.A severe cold day is declared in the plains when minimum temperature goes below 10°C and maximum temperature drops over 6.5°C below normal. Earlier this month, the city had a spell of five consecutive severe cold days from January 15 to 19. Maximum temperature had gone as low as 11°C on January 16 and 18 during this period, making them the coldest January days in six years. As per IMD officials, cold days can be expected till Thursday amid a foggy weather. Thereon, the mercury is expected to rise towards the end of the month. Even on Tuesday, visibility dropped below 500 metres in the morning and remained around 1,000-1,500 metres during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/imd-gives-cold-wave-warning-as-chandigarh-continues-to-shiver-101643138859339.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali crime: Auto driver stabbed to death at Balongi||A 35-year-old autorickshaw driver was stabbed to death by five men at Balongi in Mohali, police said on Tuesday. Even the main accused is an auto driver, and had attacked the victim over an old grudge, said police.Identified as Lal Rattan, the victim is survived by his wife and three minor children and was staying with them on rent in Badmajra. According to police, he along with his two friends Anil and Sonu was standing near his auto outside Sun Tower building in Balongi late on Monday night, when the assailants reached there on two motorcycles and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. Lal Rattan was stabbed in the chest, leaving him fatally injured. He was rushed to the civil hospital in Mohali, and then to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. His two friends suffered injuries on their legs.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harjeet Singh said the attack was due to an old enmity over money. “We have identified the attackers and will arrest them soon. One of the attackers even got admitted to the civil hospital by inflicting injuries upon himself,” he said.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the five men. After the postmortem, Lal Rattan’s body was handed over to his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-crime-auto-driver-stabbed-to-death-at-balongi-101643138857529.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh fully vaccinates 100% target adult population||Chandigarh on Tuesday achieved 100% target of vaccinating its adult population against Covid-19 with both doses.The Centre had set a target of 8.43 lakh adult people to be immunised in Chandigarh. As on Tuesday, 10,70,334 (127%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in the UT, while 8,43,011 (100%) have been fully vaccinated.In the last one week, on an average around 2,450 adults were inoculated with the first or second daily, and the number went up to 3,051 on Tuesday.The UT health department had achieved the 100% first dose vaccination target on August 15 last year, and planned to cover all adults with both doses by December 31, but the deadline was missed by a few weeks.However, the target achievement does not imply that every adult staying in Chandigarh has been jabbed. “The adults who got vaccinated in Chandigarh hospitals and vaccination centres include migrants as well. There are still some Chandigarh residents who are not fully vaccinated. In fact, it was learnt that some people who contracted the virus recently had not even taken the first dose,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh. Dr Singh said the target could have been achieved much earlier if people had not skipped their second dose despite completing the mandatory gap. “Also, some of the eligible people were isolated while some were hesitant to come forward in rainy and cold weather. We will continue the vaccination drive with the same intensity to cover all,” she said.Meanwhile, UT adviser Dharam Pal congratulated all doctors, nurses and healthcare workers for achieving the target. He said the administration is well-equipped to handle the ongoing infection surge.Dept misses target to vaccinate kidsWhile achieving the target to fully vaccinate the adult population, Chandigarh is set to miss the target to jab the eligible children with the first dose. The health department had set January 26 as the deadline.According to the Centre, about 72,000 children, aged 15 to 18, are eligible to get vaccinated in Chandigarh. Since January 3, the UT health department has vaccinated only 50,748 (70%) of them.“We were expecting to meet the target, but not many children turned up at the vaccination camps set up in schools. We have stopped holding such camps,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg, adding that bad weather also slowed the vaccination pace.Also, when it comes to precautionary doses, not many people are coming forward. Since January 10, only 2,765 healthcare workers (10% of the target), 2,685 other frontline workers (12%), and 6,624 (42%) comorbid senior citizens have taken the booster jab.On Wednesday, vaccination centres at all health and wellness centres will remain shut owing to Republic Day holiday. Only GMSH-16, GMCH-32, PGIMER and civil hospitals will remain open for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidchandigarh-fully-vaccinates-100-target-adult-population-101643138856210.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Consumer court: Insurer told to pay ₹11 lakh to Mohali man whose car fell into gorge||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Mohali has directed an insurance company to pay ₹11 lakh compensation to a Mohali resident, whose insured car got damaged after falling into a 200-foot-deep ditch.The complainant, Parmeet Singh, had filed a case against United India Insurance Company Limited, Mohali, wherein he alleged that he was a subscriber of an insurance policy for his car. On September 27, 2016, he had gone to Mata Bhangani Haripurdhar in Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh, where due to the down slope, his parked car fell into the gorge.He stated that the insurance policy was valid till September 30, 2016. In October, a spot surveyor visited the spot, observed that the vehicle is damaged and prepared the report. He stated that even after he accepted the settlement of ₹10.5 lakh, the firm did not pay anything and instead started causing harassment.Before the commission, the insurance company alleged that as per the report of the technical expert, the complainant had himself got the vehicle damaged in totality. The vehicle was such that once it is parked on electronic handbrake mode, it could not fall into the gorge.The commission observed that since the company had agreed to pay the amount to the complainant and had even taken consent along with affidavits, and that too after verification of the facts, “we feel that it was not justified to withhold the amount from the complainant”.Considering it to be an “unfair trade practice”, the commission directed the company to pay ₹10.5 lakh along with an interest of 12% per annum from the date of accident besides ₹50,000 compensation to the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/consumer-court-insurer-told-to-pay-11-lakh-to-mohali-man-whose-car-fell-into-gorge-101643138855005.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Woman escapes from Covid ward in Chandigarh, booked||A 30-year-old Mohali woman admitted to the Covid-19 ward along with her newborn child after testing positive for the virus escaped from the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, on Monday. She has been booked.Dr Abhishek, emergency medical officer, GMCH, told police that the woman from Barodhi village in Mohali was admitted to the Covid-19 ward on January 22. The woman left the hospital on January 24 along with her two-day-old son without any intimation and thus disobeying the quarantine guidelines, he said.A case has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Disaster Management Act. Theft suspect tries to flee, caughtA man arrested for theft tried to escape from the police custody after pushing the cops escorting him, but was apprehended after a brief chase. Assistant sub-inspector Gajraj Singh, deployed at the police station in Sector 34, Chandigarh, said that suspect Sandeep, alias Kala, of Sector 52, was arrested in a theft case on January 20. He tried to escape from the parking lot of the police station after being brought from medical examination on January 24. He has been booked under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the IPC.On January 21, a woman held for drug peddling had escaped from the Covid-19 ward at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, but was nabbed within two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-escapes-from-covid-ward-in-chandigarh-booked-101643138852454.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rapid antigen test rates capped at ₹100 in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday slashed the charges for Covid-19 rapid antigen tests at private hospitals and laboratories.The prescribed charges have been reduced to ₹100 from ₹350. The price of RT-PCR test remains the same, at ₹299.In case sample is collected from home, private laboratories may charge up to ₹200 per test in addition to the capped rates.Panchkula: Get lab reports onlinePeople undergoing medical tests at the Panchkula civil hospital can now download their reports online. Chief medical officer Dr Mukta Kumar said the new facility will help people avoid standing in long queues to get their lab reports. To download the report, go to the website eupchaarharyana.org.in and then to the “Diagnostic Reports” tab. Enter the UHID, click on send OTP and enter it to proceed. Post OTP verification, the reports will be available under the report list and can be downloaded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rapid-antigen-test-rates-capped-at-100-in-chandigarh-101643138851059.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Plan to replace single-storey government houses with apartments||With an aim to expand housing capacity in Chandigarh, the UT administration is considering redensification of the existing government housing. The plan is to demolish old single-storey houses, and construct multi-storey apartments in their place.The proposal for redensification recently came up for discussion in a high-level meeting on the Chandigarh Master Plan-2031, chaired by UT adviser Dharam Pal. The adviser gave the go ahead to examine its different aspects. “The housing capacity is planned to be expanded by three times of the existing capacity,” said CB Ojha, chief engineer-cum-special secretary engineering.Around 600 government houses in Sectors 19, 20, 27, 28 and 30 are being examined for redensification. From plan to implementation, the project is likely to take at least five years for completion. There is a large stock of Government housing designed by the original team of architects in Phase 1 of the city. The architects had prepared standard designs which had been replicated in various pockets and sectors. Most of the government housing is single-storeyed or at the most double-storeyed. Most of these load-bearing brick structures are more than six decades old and in a poor state of neglect, while occupying prime land in the land starved city.“Single storey houses, particularly, which are in a bad shape are to be removed, and in their place, the proposal is to construct four-storey houses. Also, multi-storey houses will come up on vacant plots. This is to meet the increased housing demand. In these single-storey units, the total plot area is generally three times the actual construction. This will allow for proper utilisation of space,” said Ojha.Ojha said the redensification exercise will be conducted so as not to disturb the socio-economic structure of the city, but rather to rectify the imbalances and make the city inclusive. “Also, first a resettlement plan for residents will be made and then only replacement of existing units will be done,” he said.The survey of the houses has started, which will assess the condition of the dwellings. This will take another three months. Thereafter, a project plan will be prepared as to exactly how many houses need to be demolished for construction of new houses, project cost and exact timelines for the project. A plan for resettlement of current residents of these houses will also be prepared. They will be adjusted in the old vacant houses and the new government houses that are to come up on the vacant land that the administration has in different sectors. Suggestion made a decade ago tooNotably, an expert committee headed by the UT administrator, around a decade ago, had also suggested redensification in several sectors, including Sectors 10, 11, 15, 19, 20, 23 and 24. Also, a report submitted by the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR) had told the administration that the repair cost of old government houses will go up in the coming years. Hence, it should consider reconstruction in a phased manner.“The basic principle of all planning which is inherent in the concept of Chandigarh also is to anticipate change so that designs that are accommodative of such change are developed regularly from time to time. Technological devices, new materials and space requirements are thus subsumed in the process of architectural design,” said a senior UT official, privy to the matter. These aspects will thus be taken care of while carrying out redensification of the proposed pockets.“It would also be essential to augment the infrastructure/services of these sectors prior to taking on the redensification exercise being proposed. The new built environment will be designed to be energy efficient, with zero discharge, adequate parking facilities and of an architectural character in sync with the Chandigarh style of architecture,” said the official cited above. 
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||10 persons get 10-yr RI for booth capturing, disrupting poll process in Nuh village||A Nuh court has sentenced 10 persons 10-year rigorous imprisonment for indulging in booth capturing and disrupting the poll process during the 2016 gram panchayat elections at Indri village in Nuh district.Additional sessions judge (ASJ) Nuh, Prashant Rana, in his January 21 order, said an incident of booth capturing is an attack on the root of democracy and holding of free and fair elections. A person who breaches the sanctity of electoral process, attacks the basic structure of democracy and the sacrosanct constitutional rights of the citizens, Rana said.Offenders, who commit such offences, do not deserve leniency from the court of law. Exemplary punishment is warranted in such cases of attack on the democratic set up so that nobody repeats such an offence in future, the ASJ added.Quoting a recent Supreme Court ruling, the Nuh court judge said the essence of the electoral system should be to ensure freedom of the voters to exercise their free choice. Thus, any attempt of booth-capturing or bogus voting should be dealt with iron hands because it ultimately affects the rule of law and democracy. Nobody can be permitted to dilute the right to free and fair election, the court said.The ASJ, quoting the apex court, said booth capturing wholly negates the election process and subverts the democratic set up which is the basic feature of our Constitution.The court awarded rigorous imprisonment to the 10 accused after 14 witnesses, including 11 presiding and polling officers and cops, proved that the accused entered the polling booth 116, 117 and 118 on January 24, 2016 and criminally intimidated and manhandled government officers.They disrupted the election process, broke three electronic voting machines (EVMs), tore up ballot papers and official documents. They also assaulted a candidate contesting for the post of sarpanch, the court order said.“All the accused were identified by two eyewitnesses, including an injured eyewitness. Also, recovery of weapons used in offences was done along with the vehicle used in the office. The election was cancelled and fresh election was held on Jan 27, 2016,” the court said.“Thus, the prosecution has proved beyond any reasonable doubt, that the accused formed an unlawful assembly and obstructed the work of government officers in the gram panchayat elections of village Indri by use of force and deadly weapons and committed dacoity and caused grievous hurt to a candidate,” the court added.“Also, they destroyed EVMs and damaged public property. Accordingly, the accused Parveen, Monty alias Mobinder, Jaggi alias Jagdish, Gulshan, Billu alias Narender, Satish, Deepak, Sachin, Deepak and Anand are hereby convicted,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-persons-get-10-yr-ri-for-booth-capturing-disrupting-poll-process-in-nuh-village-101643138669734.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Republic Day: Airport chief security officer gets President’s Police Medal||Commandant Prabhat Ranjan Mishra of the Central Industrial Security Forces (CISF), who is the chief security officer at Chandigarh International Airport, has been conferred with the President’s Police Medal for his distinguished service. During his 22-year tenure, Commandant Mishra has served in different parts of the country and even foreign missions under the United Nations. Meanwhile, two Punjab Police personnel posted in Mohali district have received the President’s Police Medal for their meritorious service.Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu, superintendent of police, headquarter, Mohali, has served for 32 years in various districts of Punjab. Onkar Singh Brar, station house officer, Zirakpur, has served for 22 years inJalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, and Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/republic-day-airport-chief-security-officer-gets-president-s-police-medal-101643138614798.html
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow’s JIM launches Phase 2 of social outreach programme||Jaipuria Institute of Management (JIM), Lucknow, organised the launch of the second phase of their social outreach programme ‘Reconnecting the disrupted learner in education mainstream’, on Tuesday.The initiative was supported by Hindustan Times.The institute gave away the first lot of refurbished smartphones collected from people of Lucknow to the 16 primary schools shortlisted by the basic education department, government of UP. A few of them were given to students of an orphanage too.In the second phase, budding managers of JIM and the students of Seth MR Jaipuria School will take online classes for disrupted learners.Kavita Pathak, director, JIM, Lucknow said “the budding managers of Jaipuria Institute have worked quite hard for the success of this campaign. I am proud of my students. This is the first lot of refurbished phones. We will be distributing more as soon as they are ready. We need to keep going to help as many children as we can”. Rajat Kumar, chief revenue officer at Hindustan Media Group, UP, Bihar, and Jharkhand said, “This initiative was started with a vision on Gandhi Jayanti. Today, we can see it turning into a reality. Millions of children are not able to get basic education due to a lack of necessary resources today. Such campaigns are essential and the need of the hour. I am happy to be a part of it”.Promini Chopra, principal, Seth MR Jaipuria School, said, “We consider it a privilege that we got this opportunity to come close to these children. Around 280 students of Seth MR Jaipuria School will provide value education through stories to disrupted learners”Ratnesh Kumar, teacher in-charge at Child Friendly School, Chaandwal village, said, “JIM has been continuously supporting our school in various ways. The institute has provided clothes for children. They are also providing online education to disrupted learners.” Sana and Fiza who are teacher in-charges of a primary school run by Vigyan Foundation (NGO) in Akbar Nagar said, “the students are facing a lot of difficulties due to lack of digital devices. This initiative is a ray of hope for us and those children. We thank the institute for their support”.Reena Agrawal, chairperson, social responsibility committee at JIM thanked the teacher in-charges of the NGO-run primary schools and the students of JIM on the success of the first phase of the campaign.“The social outreach programme by JIM, gave me an opportunity to interact with people out of my comfort zone, in the real world. It was a great experience working towards such an important social cause. The response that we received was overwhelming and I feel thankful to be a part of such an initiative,” said Aditi Rana, student at JIM.“The three day initiative of the social outreach programme was very enriching for me. I gained many experiences and memories. For this, I had to move out of my comfort zone which helped me learn a lot, and it also gave me a chance to bond with juniors,” said Aviroop Nandi, student at JIM.“It was an entirely new experience for me, to be working at the ground level for a great social cause. I am grateful to JIM for this opportunity as it helped me explore my true potential as a leader and a team player,” said Harshita Singh Behal, student at JIM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknows-jim-launches-phase-2-of-social-outreach-programme-101643138613475.html
26-01-2022||Other||AMU VC lays foundation of minority girls hostel at Kishanganj Centre||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) vice-chancellor (V-C) Prof Tariq Mansoor on Tuesday laid foundation stone of the minority girls’ hostel at the Kishanganj Centre, Bihar, via videoconferencing. The new hostel will be constructed at a cost of ₹10. 50 crore, the fund provided by the ministry of minority affairs. “I express gratitude to the ministry of minority affairs, the government of Bihar and state chief minister Nitish Kumar for their generous support. We are indebted with their favour,” said the vice-chancellor. “We have also submitted a detailed proposal to the ministry of education for the sanctioning of posts and funds for the centre, which was recently considered at a meeting of the ministry,” he said. Prof Hassan Imam (director, Kishanganj centre), AMU registrar, Abdul Hamid-IPS, Prof M Mohsin Khan (finance officer) and Prof Afifullah Khan (OSD development) also attended the online programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amu-vc-lays-foundation-of-minority-girls-hostel-at-kishanganj-centre-101643138555513.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Republic Day: 13 cops to get Chandigarh administrator’s police medal||Thirteen police officers will be conferred with the administrator’s police medal for distinguished/ meritorious service on Republic Day. Those who will be awarded for distinguished service are inspector Lakhvir Singh of the security wing, SI Satish Kumar, posted at women police station and ASI Bijender Singh, posted at the DIG’s office. Those who will be awarded for meritorious services are inspector Sher Singh, station house officer of Sector 3; SI Chander Mukhi, posted at police post, PGIMER; SI Daljeet Singh, posted at Sarangpur; inspector Mohan Lal, posted at MT Section; ASI Balram Kumar, posted at Sector 34; ASI Rajni Bala, posted at police lines; ASI Sudarshana, posted at women police station; ASI Ajmer Singh, posted in the crime branch; ASI Rajender Singh, posted in the traffic wing and head constable Nitin Singh, posted in the account branch of police headquarters. Also, constable Jasbir Singh posted in the security wing deployed in the office of DGP, will be awarded with commendation certificate by the UT administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/republic-day-13-cops-to-get-chandigarh-administrator-s-police-medal-101643138313947.html
26-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 10 people get 10-year rigorous imprisonment for poll violence in Nuh||A Nuh trial court awarded 10 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) to ten people, who were accused of disrupting gram panchayat polls at village Indri in Nuh in 2016. The accused had assaulted election officers and cops, along with indulging in booth-capturing. While giving the sentence, additional sessions judge (ASJ), Nuh, Prashant Rana in his January 21 order said, “Any person who breaches the sanctity of the electoral process, attacks the basic structure of democracy and the sacrosanct constitutional rights of citizens are bound to be punished. Booth-capturing is an attack on the root of democracy and free and fair elections. Offenders who commit such crimes do not deserve leniency from the court of law. Exemplary punishment is warranted in such cases of attack on the democratic set up, so that nobody repeats such offence in the future”. The ASJ said the accused tore official documents and took away ballot papers and official stationery. They also caused grievous injuries to a sarpanch candidate and fractured his skull. People present at the booth could not cast their votes and elections were cancelled. Highlighting the sequence of incident, the court said that the convicts not only created an atmosphere of terror, but they also deprived the citizens of their constitutional right to vote. “The convicts not only damaged valuable public properties, but also obstructed the official work of poll officers, mostly schoolteachers, and manhandled them. They also assaulted cops for simply performing their official duty and were in possession of illegal arms”, the court added. Due to the incident, the election was cancelled, and fresh polls were held on January 27, 2016. The court argued that the convicts attacked the democratic set-up of the country. “The case is not of simple loot and dacoity, but much graver in essence, since the convicts committed booth-capturing. As many as five FIRs were registered against them on the same day for similar offences. They must be granted life imprisonment”, it said. The counsel for the accused had said that they were not repeat offenders and had no cases against them previously. “They were sole bread earners of their families, and a lenient view may be taken while granting the sentence. They may be granted probation or minimum sentence”, it said. The ASJ said the entire working of the state machinery, for gram panchayat was disrupted by the convicts. “Valuable time of many government officials and funds of the public exchequer were wasted on account of the offences committed by the convicts. The election process in a democracy is sacrosanct and nobody can be permitted to disturb the same, in any manner”, the court order said. The order further stated that the convicts created a state of anarchy. It also invoked 5th Century BC Greek playwright Sophocles, who had said, “There is no greater evil than anarchy”. The trial court also asked the convicts to pay appropriate compensation to the severely injured man who had to undergo treatment for many days in accordance with provisions of the Haryana Victim Compensation Scheme, 2013.
26-01-2022||Other||Varanasi: BHU alumnus designs India-Israel friendship logo, wins cash prize||VARANASI Banaras Hindu University (BHU) alumnus Nikhil Kumar Rai has brought laurels to the university by designing a logo for the India-Israel Ties @30. The logo was unveiled by Indian Ambassador Sanjeev Singla and Israeli Envoy Naor Gilon on Monday to mark the 30-year diplomatic ties of the two nations, the BHU informed this in a press statement.The logo features the Star of David and the Ashoka Chakra--the two symbols that adorn the national flags of both the countries and forms the number 30, depicting the 30th anniversary of bilateral relations. This special logo symbolises the strong friendship, love and admiration that exist between the people of the two countries. According to Dr Rajesh Singh, BHU public relation officer, Rai completed his graduation from Banaras Hindu University in 2020. He has done bachelor in applied arts from the faculty of visual arts. At present, he is pursuing his PG from NID, Ahmedabad. On Tuesday, Rai visited his alma mater and the department of applied arts, and sought blessings of his teachers. He has won a cash prize of ₹1 lakh for designing the logo. Prof Hira Lal Prajapati, dean, faculty of visual arts, has congratulated Nikhil Kumar Rai for this major feat. He said, though Covid19 pandemic has posed many unprecedented challenges before us, the very talented students of the faculty have continued to make the institution proud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-bhu-alumnus-designs-india-israel-friendship-logo-wins-cash-prize-101643138130907.html
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Youth strangled to death in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A 22- year-old youth’s body was found near Mansaita river under Tharwai police station of trans-Ganga area on Monday night. Later, he was identified as Rahul Jaiswal of Shaligram Mandi in Muthiganj area. On the complaint of the youth’s kin, an FIR was lodged against some people and efforts were on to arrest them, police said. According to reports, Rahul Jaiswal went missing on Sunday. On Monday, Rahul’s body was found near Mansaita bridge close to the river. His kin reached the mortuary and identified the body in the night. The postmortem examination report revealed that he was strangled to death. Rahul’s brother Rajat said his brother was in contact with Himanshu Panda, Kallu, Golu Pandey and Salman who were drug addicts. They had a scuffle with Rahul around 15 days back, during which they had issued threats to him. Rahul left home in the evening in January 23 after receiving a call from them on his mobile. SP City Dinesh Kumar Singh said an FIR had been lodged on the basis of the complaint and some suspects had been detained for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/youth-strangled-to-death-in-prayagraj-101643138069472.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Nine Covid warriors among 32 Republic Day awardees in Chandigarh||As many as 32 people from various fields will be awarded with commendation certificates by the Chandigarh administration on Republic Day. This includes nine health workers from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and four special Olympic players.The health professional who will be awarded from GMCH-32 are medical social welfare officer Ravinder Yadav and professor and head of department of pulmonary medicine Dr Varinder Saini. From GMSH-16, the awardees are senior medical officers Dr Charru Singla and Dr Amarjeet Singh, senior nursing officers Pinki Martha and Munish Kumari Sharma; lady health visitor Parul Sharma, ward servant Hari Bahadur, sweeper Shankar Kumar and security guard Chaman Lal.Also, special Olympic players Tanveer Singh, Kalpana, Rupinder Singh and Jatin Kashyap will be felicitated.UT, MC officials among awardeesAwardees from the UT administration include joint director, department of animal husbandry and fisheries, Kanwarjit Singh; director of directorate of higher education, Surender Singh Dahiya; senior assistant, O/o director of higher education, Jatinder Singh; excise and taxation officer Heena Talwar; peon, labour department, Parveen Kumar; constable Jasbir Singh; senior assistant, cultural affairs department, Dinesh Singh; deputy controller (F&A), Chandigarh Transport Undertaking Department, Suresh Kumar; superintendent of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking Department Pawan Kumar Sharma; sub-divisional engineer (civil), CP Division No.3, Sarban Singh and patwari Satyavir Singh.From Chandigarh municipal corporation, the awardees are executive engineer of public health circle Vijay Kumar Premi; Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited peon Manohar Lal, and Chandigarh Housing Board senior assistant Jang Parminder Singh.In the field of social service, residents of Sector 33D Aanandita Kapoor and Sector 7 Rajiv Sharma will be awarded. PM Bal Shakti award winner among recipientsFor sports, the recipients are Tanveer Singh and Kalpana for badminton; Rupinder Singh for judo, Jatin Kashyap for athletics and Tarushi Gaur for taekwondo. While Jatin and Rupinder took part in World Games in Abu Dhabi in 2020, Tarushi recently got the Pradhan Mantri Bal Shakti award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nine-covid-warriors-among-32-republic-day-awardees-in-chandigarh-101643137891583.html
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Campaigning in Uttar Pradesh likely to gather speed from Feb 1||LUCKNOW: Campaigning in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh is likely to rev up from February 1 onwards, ahead of the first phase polling in 58 constituencies in 11 UP districts scheduled on February 10. The Election Commission of India (ECI) is likely to announce permission for public meetings with certain restrictions after January 31. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national president Mayawati has become the first to announce her party’s poll campaign launch from Agra through a public meeting on February 2. The campaigning had visibly changed after the election notification on January 8. All parties went off the streets no sooner than the model code of conduct (MCC) and Covid-19 safety protocols by the Election Commission of India (ECI) came into force, banning rallies, public meetings and road-shows, first till January 15 and then till January 31. When it came to resurfacing, the resource-rich, personality-rich Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit the streets first from January 21 onwards with door-to-door campaigning by several top saffron party leaders. The top leaders of other parties that withdrew are now planning a re-launch of their campaigns. The star campaigners of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)--national and state leaders--have hit the streets in 11 western UP districts with none other than national president JP Nadda launching a door-to-door campaign from Agra and Bareilly on January 21. The next day Union home minister Amit Shah, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, union minister Anurag Thakur, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and a few others followed suit. Almost all the rival parties had raised a red flag to the ECI complaining about the BJP leaders’ campaigns, saying that they were in contravention of the MCC and Covid-19 protocols issued by the ECI. The Samajwadi Party (SP) star campaigners withdrew their campaigns after the January 14 event at the SP state headquarters in which the ex-BJP minister Swami Prasad Maurya and Dharam Singh Saini joined the party. The Lucknow police had filed an FIR and the ECI had issued a notice to the SP over the event. “Our national president Akhilesh Yadav Ji and the heads of all the allies were doing intensive campaigning. Akhilesh Ji’s Vijay Rath Yatra was so successful that it became a talking point all over. But the SP and ally leaders withdrew from the campaign scene following the ECI’s MCC and Covid guidelines. Also, in the meantime, Akhilesh Ji had been busy strategising in the war room. The campaign would resume as and when ECI allows”, said the SP national spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said at a press conference last week: “I am waiting for the ECI. My rath yatra will resume, once permitted, even if it means me riding the rath alone”. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) national spokesperson, Anupam Mishra said: “ RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary, tentatively, is launching his election campaign from Muzaffarangar on January 27. The party will release the programme once finalised”. The Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) national spokesperson Piyush Mishra said: “Our president Omprakash Rajbhar ji was intensively busy in campaigning solo and also with the alliance chief Akhilesh ji, but withdrew post-notification. Now, he will be back in action leading the party’s ‘Ghera dalo, dera dalo; gaon chalo abhiyaan’--a village to village campaign programme.” Om Prakash Rajbhar, Mahan Dal chief Keshav Dev Maurya, Apna Dal (Krishna Patel) chief Krishna Patel and ex-BJP minister and now SP leader Swami Prasad Maurya, who had been doing the SP’s virtual rallies, will soon hit the roads again. The Congress, however, is asking the political parties and ECI to exercise caution. Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi said: “If actual campaigning is allowed once again, then once again our leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ji and other star campaigners (the list is already out will hit the roads. Priyanka ji had campaigned statewide as no single leader did. But the Congress would make an appeal to the ECI to exercise caution. Covid is very much there and rising.” UP is going to polls for its 403 assembly seats from February 10 in seven phases with March 10 as the result date.
26-01-2022||Gurugram||Manesar to get its first 2 public libraries by end of this year, says civic body||The municipal corporation of Manesar (MCM) will develop two public libraries in the city on a trial basis “by the end of this year”, said officials of the civic body on Tuesday.At present, Manesar does not have a single public library and the closest such facility is located nearly 20 kilometres away from the city, in the Civil Lines area of Gurugram. Munish Sharma, commissioner of MCM, has directed the engineering wing of the civic body to build two basic public libraries -- on a trial basis -- at community centres in the city. MCM’s superintending engineer Vijay Dhaka, who is also overseeing the project, said that libraries in Manesar will be similar to those in Gurugram, where majority of users are students preparing for competitive examinations. “We will develop two basic public libraries -- one each in the Badshahpur and Pataudi constituencies. The libraries will be constructed at community centres, and a survey at each of the constituencies for the same is underway. We want to build the facilities at a centrally located area in the constituency,” said Dhaka.Dhaka also said that the MCM will simultaneously start the process of hiring an agency, which has prior experience of both constructing and maintaining public libraries in other cities. “The two public libraries will have basic infrastructure, with nearly 8,000 books and as many e-books on competitive exams, CBSE prescribed syllabus, history, civics, geography, general knowledge, besides fiction and non-fiction literature... The MCM commissioner has directed that if the two libraries are going to be in high demand, we will have to build a larger full-fledged library in each of the civic body’s seven zones, in addition to these two basic libraries,” said Dhaka, adding that the civic body is aiming to construct the libraries by the end of this year. The MCM officials privy to the matter said that constructing and adding facilities in each library will cost around ₹30 lakh.Besides the district public library in Gurugram’s Civil Lines, there are three libraries at the community centres of DLF Phases 1, 2 and 3, under the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). It is also developing one more library in Sector 39. “These libraries will provide a venue to a large number of students in the area to study and prepare for exams together. They could discuss and resolve queries jointly. In addition to the prescribed books, it will also provide the people with books, which can help them in learning about different cultures, history, and information among others,” said Lalit Yadav, a resident of Sector 83.
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Special facilities for physically challenged, elderly and women voters in Lucknow||Lucknow In view of spurt in Covid-19 cases and to ensure voting percentage in the state assembly polls, district administration officials are busy in making special arrangements, including the facility of postal ballot, for the specially-abled, senior citizen (above 80 years) and women voters. For women, the authorities have also planned pink booths and model polling booths with crèche and children play zones in the state capital. A district administration official said, “District administration wants to increase voting percentage by providing special facilities to women, senior citizens, specially-abled and other voters. Besides, the facilities of water and electricity in order to bring them out of their homes at the same time, following Covid protocols and social distancing, on the polling day.” He said that the effort was on to post only women staff at the pink polling booths. “From polling officers to other support staff will be women. The booths at Dayanand Vidya Mandir High School in Moti Nagar, Rajkiya Balika Inter College in Singar Nagar, St Christ Public Inter College in Geetapalli, Janata Girls Inter College in Chota Barha Alambagh and Sindhi Girls Inter College in Ram Nagar Alambagh are slotted to be pink booths,” he said. According to officials, model booths are planned at Shri Guru Nanak Girls Inter College in Charbagh, Central School RDSO, Mahanagar Public Inter College Krishna Nagar, Swatantra Girls School Sneh Nagar, St Christ College in Geetapalli, Pioneer Inter College in Geetapalli, St Agnes Day School on Station Road, St Paul’s School on Subhash Marg Cantt etc. Similarly, special play area and child care zones would be created inside the polling booths. Lucknow Municipal Corporation has been directed to arrange potable water and ensure cleanliness at the polling booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/special-facilities-for-physically-challenged-elderly-and-women-voters-in-lucknow-101643137529239.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Gyms allowed to reopen at 50% capacity in Ludhiana||In a major respite to gyms, the state government has ordered opening of gyms at 50 percent capacity. However, the night curfew from 10pm to 5 am will continue till February 1 and educational institutions will continue to remain closed.It was on January 4 that gyms were closed on account of rising Covid cases. In orders issued on Tuesday, it has been said all bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, gyms, sports complexes, museums, zoos shall be allowed to operate at 50 percent capacity, subject to staff being fully vaccinated. The closure of gyms had led to a huge outcry among the gym owners, who have been ruing losses ever since the Covid pandemic began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gyms-allowed-to-reopen-at-50-capacity-in-ludhiana-101643137469411.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Gang targets people in Delhi buses; one arrested||A 31-year-old man, who robbed people at knifepoint in crowded RTV buses, has been caught in Dwarka. Police said he worked with five accomplices, who are yet to be caught. Police said that around 9.30am on January 21, they received information about an armed robbery that took place on an RTV bus in Dabri by at least five men. The complainant called the police from Dwarka around 3pm. Dabri police registered an FIR and formed a team to crack the case. The police team analysed footage from over 100 CCTV cameras in which 4-5 men were seen deboarding the RTV bus and fleeing the spot in two e-rickshaws. The team questioned the drivers of over 100 e-rickshaws and identified one of the suspects as Mohommad Kasim. The team then surveilled the suspect and conducted several raids.On Monday, the police arrested Kasim (31) from the Jeewan Park area in Dabri. Shankar Choudhary, DCP (Dwarka), said during interrogation, Kasim revealed that he met his associates During Sonu, Honey, Akash, Yeda, and Kake in 2013. By 2016, Kasim had become a history-sheeter at the Bindapur police station.“He and Sonu, Honey, Akash, Yeda, and Kake then started robbing people in RTV buses in Uttam Nagar on the Dabri to Dwarka route,” said the DCP. In 2021, he was caught with a sharp-edged weapon in Janakpuri and was bailed out on December 25 last year. On January 21, the men boarded an RTV bus and noticed one passenger with a laptop bag. They approached him and assaulted him at knifepoint. Kasim snatched his laptop bag, which contained his mobile phone and some cash, after which the men quickly deboarded the bus at Sitapuri red light and fled, police said.Police said that they are searching for the other suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gang-targets-people-in-delhi-buses-one-arrested-101643137349213.html
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Cong team in Unnao for filing nomination of its candidate||Lucknow: A Congress team, including a woman leader, reached Unnao from Madhya Pradesh last week and begun camping there to assist Asha Singh, mother of Unnao rape victim and Congress candidate for Unnao assembly seat. To note, Asha Singh is the mother of the 17-year-old girl who was gang raped in Unnao on June 4, 2017. Former BJP member Kuldeep Singh Sengar was convicted for the rape in 2019 and sentenced to life imprisonment. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) has set up a new party organisation structure in Unnao following the Congress’ statewide revamp, but the special team comprising Mahendra Singh (Bhopal) and Sonia Shukla (Indore) is responsible for preparations for filing Asha Singh’s nomination papers and also assist the candidate in strategic campaigning for the 2022 assembly polls. “As of now, work on collection of all the documents, including no objection certificates (NOCs) etc. needed for filing nomination papers is in progress. The filing of nomination papers will begin in Unnao constituency on January 27. So, we propose to file her nomination papers in the next few days. We will soon workout a final date for filing of her nomination papers,” said Sonia Shukla. On whether or not the Congress was facing any problems/hindrances in Unnao, Shukla claimed though things had improved to some extent now, a sense of some fear prevailed earlier when she reached Unnao. “A sense of fear persisted when I came here (Unnao). I faced threats as people called, asking me to go back. About two to three people came at a meeting and said bullet proof jackets will be needed for campaigning (in Unnao constituency). Things are getting better now,” she said. “Unnao is my ‘myka’ (parental place) and so I am known to the people in the area. I have been meeting people and any such threats will not matter,” she added. Asha Singh could not be reached for comments on the issue. Shukla, however, said family members of Asha Singh had urged all the political parties to support the Congress’ Unnao candidate. “Giving threat to candidates, if any, is not good practice and should be reported to the Election Commission of India. Any individual or political party is free to field any candidate. The ECI should take appropriate action to ensure free and fair elections,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department, political science, Lucknow University. Madhya Pradesh leader Mahendra Singh, who has contested elections against MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, said he had heard about the threats. “Whatever has happened is past. I am here (in Unnao) now and there should be no problem. Congress has declared tickets for three out of six assembly seats of Unnao and hope candidates for remaining three seats too will be announced soon. We are getting ready for filing of nomination papers on all the seats, though Unnao is going to be in focus,” said Singh. Unnao District Congress Committee (DCC) acting president Yusuf Faruq Khurram said Congress’ team of Unnao was getting ready for campaigning. He said DCC president Arti Bajpai was also contesting the 2022 assembly polls and so he had been given charge as acting party chief. “Nomination papers of Asha Singh will be filed once all the documents are collected,” said Khurram Asha Singh’s name figured on the Congress’ first list of 125 candidates declared on January 13, 2022. The Congress’ first list having 40 women candidates included Asha worker Poonam Pandey (Shahjahanpur), who was badly beaten up by the police and Lakhimpur Kheri’s Ritu Singh (from Mohammadi) who was disrobed in the recently concluded panchayat elections in Lakhimpur Kheri. Priyanka Gandhia Vadra had called the list “historic initiative” for implementing the party’s announcement of giving 40 percent tickets to women. She had said, “Efforts have been made to field candidates who have been struggling and fighting for a cause and who can work to bring about a new way of politics. We will give them power to fight for their cause.” 
26-01-2022||Gurugram||Forest department fines HSVP officials for cutting trees in Gurugram Sector 29||The forest department has fined a junior engineer and an executive engineer of the enforcement wing of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) for cutting and uprooting more than 20 trees in Sector 29 last week, without taking permission from the department, said officials on Tuesday.The cutting and uprooting of trees were part of the anti-encroachment drive being conducted in Gurugram for the past one week.According to the officials, they will also issue a notice to the two officials on Thursday, and the penalty amount will be decided based on their reply. Karamvir Malik, forest range officer of Gurugram, said they conducted a survey of the area on Tuesday, and found that more than 20 trees in Sector 29 were cut and uprooted without taking their permission or informing them later. “We visited the area and conducted a survey there after receiving pictures and videos of some HSVP officials using cranes to uproot the trees in the area. Some local shop owners are also responsible as they were present there when the incident took place, and they did not stop the officials from uprooting the trees. No one can uproot old trees, this is illegal. And being officials of a government agency, they cannot indulge in any such illegal activities,” Malik said. He also said that if a person plants a tree in an area in violation of rules, the HSVP cannot uproot the tree if it is 10 years old. The HSVP uprooted more than 20 trees in the last one week in Sector 29, said the officials, adding that they uprooted the trees in a drive against encroachment, as outlet owners in the area had planted those to encroach the area.We will continue to remove encroachments from the area this week too, said the HSVP officials. More than 100 trees were planted in the main complex of Sector 29 and in the backside, which connects to the main road towards Huda Metro station and National Highway 8. The complex and backyard, which was earlier covered in greenery, now is a deserted area. The HSVP also removed planters, generators and transformers kept in open during the drive, said the officials. According to the HSVP officials, they conducted the drive after they received complaints regarding encroachment in the area on a daily basis. “The outlets have placed generators, transformers and planters in open, leading to encroachment of the common area. That is why we had to take the action,” said a senior official of the HSVP, requesting anonymity. He also said that similar anti-encroachment drives are being conducted in different parts of Gurugram. Meanwhile, the pub, bar and restaurant association of Sector 29, alleged that despite their repeated requests, the HSVP officials uprooted the trees, which were more than 10 years old.Rahul Solanki, manager of a restaurant in Sector 29 , said that the trees were planted by the staff of the outlets in the area in 2000 and 2001, and they have been taking care of the trees since then. “The area was not being encroached by the trees; it was just an excuse given by the officials. We are trying hard to maintain the complex, but the place is losing its charm due to the ongoing anti-encroachment drive,” Solanki said. The staff of restaurants in Sector 29 said it took them more than eight years to develop the greenery in the area, but the HSVP officials took minutes to destroy it. We had developed a green corridor here, and placed more than 300 planters and 100 trees to attract customers, according to the staff. Restaurant owners said they have not been encroaching the area or the roads. “We had planted trees and placed planters to beautify the area so that we could attract more customers. We have not violated the rules,” said Arvind Kumar, a manager of a restaurant in Sector 29. Sandeep Lot, the junior engineer in question, said that they did not uproot or cut trees in Sector 29. The HSVP officials only removed encroachments in the area, and asked the shop and restaurant owners to move planters within their premises. “We are aware that cutting trees is an offence... Why would we do that? We have only removed illegal structures in Sector 29,” Lot said.
26-01-2022||Delhi||Work on signal-free stretch between Delhi's GT Road, NH-24 to begin in March||Work will begin this March to make the stretch between Dilshad Garden border on GT Road and Ghazipur roundabout on NH-24 signal free, a senior government official said on Friday. The project involves the construction of a six-lane 2.2km flyover between the existing Anand Vihar railway overbridge and Vivek Vihar intersection on the southern side to ease congestion.The senior official said the 60m wide corridor is located on Road Number 56 in east Delhi, which has the three busy intersections of Vivek Vihar, Raghunath Mandir and Ramprastha. Shahdara MLA and speaker of the Delhi assembly Ram Niwas Goel said the finance department has granted approval for the project and the layout has already been cleared by Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure Centre (UTTIPEC) and Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC).“We are planning to lay the foundation stone and initiate the construction work in March, before the election notification (for municipal polls) is issued,” Goel said. He added that a meeting has been called next week to review the project.Besides easing traffic flow on the busy stretch -- non-destined traffic will be able to bypass the three key intersections -- the project will also benefit residents of Anand Vihar, Ramprastha Colony, Vivek Vihar, Surajmal Vihar, Yojana Vihar and Srestha Vihar, who currently waste a considerable amount of time in traffic jams.A study commissioned by the public works department (PWD) has revealed that 70% of traffic on this 5.5km stretch is ”non-destined” -- vehicles are just passing through the area -- while 30% traffic is local. A green belt runs along the eastern side of the corridor while the Ghazipur drain runs along the western side.“Residents of colonies in the area access their complexes through the three intersections of Ramprastha, Raghunath Mandir and Vivek Vihar and all three points see heavy traffic movement and congestion throughout the day. The PWD study found that further adding to the congestion are heavy commercial vehicles, from an industrial area in the vicinity. Approximately 70% thorough traffic gets stuck at the three intersections and slows down vehicular movement on the whole stretch,” a government official associated with the project said, asking not to be named.The official said the project is estimated to cost ₹360 crore, and will provide a six-lane elevated alternative to motorists by extending the Anand Vihar railway overbridge over the three intersections. Thus, local traffic will be on the surface, or at-grade, level while non-destined traffic will go over the flyover.The PWD also plans to provide two ramps, before Ramprashtha and Vivek Vihar intersections, to facilitate local traffic, the official quoted above said.“The corridor improvement project will also include non-motorised transport (NMT) lanes and wider footpaths on the at-grade level. Other pedestrian facilities such as resting benches, tactile pavers, and modified footpath slopes to make them wheelchair friendly have also been added to the plan. Bollards will be used to block entry of vehicles on to the footpaths and NMT lanes,” the official said.The plan approved by UTTIPEC also has provision of multi-utility zones at regular intervals which will house signboards, light poles, street furniture, cycle bays and other public utilities. “The greening of the area, beautification of the space under the flyover by the creation of parks, drip irrigation for vertical greening of railings and piers of the flyover and the median, are also part of the project,” the plan stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/work-on-making-stretch-between-gt-road-and-nh-24-in-delhi-signal-free-to-begin-in-march-101643137109435.html
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Review meeting: Uttar Pradesh poised for 100% Covid vaccination, says Yogi||Lucknow: Chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that Uttar Pradesh was now poised for the 100% Covid vaccination of all the eligible age groups, and so far, 25 crore doses of the vaccine had already been administered in the state. “Now focus is on inoculating those who are left out and accomplish 100% first dose vaccination to all and double dose to 75% eligible population by January 31,” Yogi told officers concerned at the Covid-19 review meeting. Talking about Covid status, Yogi said that a total of 11,583 fresh Covid cases were recorded in the state on Tuesday while the number of total active cases was 86,563. “So far, 25.10 crore doses of Covid vaccine have been administered in the state. A total of 9.72 crore people got both doses. Thus, 66% population have received both of their doses while 98.14% have received the first dose,” Yogi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/review-meeting-uttar-pradesh-poised-for-100-covid-vaccination-says-yogi-101643136823293.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Illegal constructions in Ludhiana: Council of Engineers writes to Punjab governor seeking independent inquiry||Citing the recent report submitted by Municipal Corporation’s (MC) additional commissioner on the 57,800-plus illegal constructions in the city between 2016-2020, the Council of Engineers on Tuesday wrote to governor Banwarilal Purohit demanding an independent inquiry into the entire case through the chief secretary.They also sought transfers of the MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and senior town planner (STP) SS Bindra to ensure a fair inquiry.Accusing the local bodies department of not taking action against building branch officials, who were allegedly working in connivance with the violators, the engineers’ body said the department failed to initiate criminal proceedings against them despite the orders by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Members, including president Kapil Arora, said no action has been taken in the case even after over two months after the submission of the report, adding that it was proof of the officials being complicit.“Commercial constructions have also been allowed in residential areas which has now become a menace. A large number of buildings, for which building plans were approved, have also been constructed against the building by laws. It seems like the Commissioner is also protecting the illegal constructions by not acting on the report,” Arora alleged. “The local bodies department has been notifying one time settlement policies in the past to regularise the illegal buildings instead of taking action. This is a nexus and we have demanded that the Governor should direct the chief secretary to get an independent inquiry done in the case and criminal proceedings should be initiated against the concerned officials,” he added. The reportThe additional commissioner Rishipal Singh’s report suggests that a total of 76,770 power connections were issued by the PSPCL in the areas falling under MC’s jurisdiction during the period from 2016-2020, out of which the civic body only approved building plans for 7,467 buildings. The report added that challans were issued against 11,441 buildings, while no action was taken against the remaining 57,862 buildings.A section of the councillors and MC officials alleged instances wherein new power connections issued for pre-existing buildings were added to the list of illegal buildings, questioning the report’s merit. They further said several building owners had a sub-meter installed in the same building and that labour quarters with separate power connections in a single building.Notably, in June 2021, Bharatiya Janata Party leaders led by state vice-president Parveen Bansal had also objected to thousands of “absurd” notices issued by the civic body for illegal constructions, following which the MC later stopped issuing notices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-constructions-in-ludhiana-council-of-engineers-writes-to-punjab-governor-seeking-independent-inquiry-101643136815638.html
26-01-2022||Other||Maharashtra allows physical classes in colleges and universities from February 1||Mumbai: Fully vaccinated students will be allowed to attend offline classes as the Maharashtra government on Tuesday allowed colleges and universities to resume physical classes starting February 1 as surge in Covid-19 cases seems to be limited to only a handful of cities and districts across the state. The higher and technical education department issued an order to reopen degree colleges and universities across the state, however local administrations will take the final call based on the Covid-19 situation in their respective city or districts and in consultation with university or college administrations.“All the universities including deemed, self-financed and private universities, affiliated colleges and other educational institutions have been allowed to resume offline classes from February 1. The local administration i.e. municipal commissioner, district collector and others have been allowed to take appropriate decisions considering Covid-19 situation in their jurisdictions and issue standard operating procedure (SOP) accordingly,” the order read.On January 7, the government decided to stop physical classes in colleges and universities and return to the online study mode till February 15 in the wake of a massive spike in Covid-19 cases driven largely by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. On January 3, the state began to inoculate 15 to 18 year olds as part of the national vaccination programme. Already 50.93% of teenagers in this category have received the jab in the state.“Students who are yet to take both the doses won’t be allowed to attend physical classes. They will have to continue with online studies,” the order added.All examinations scheduled till February 15 will also be online except in three universities — Gondwana, Jalgaon and Nanded — where power supply is an issue. “The colleges and universities should also decide about physical attendance by teaching and non-teaching staff. They should also hold special campaigns with the help of local administration for students who are not fully vaccinated and ensure their teaching and non-teaching are also fully vaccinated,” the order read.Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray gave his nod to the resumption of physical classes for all standards starting Monday, after the school education department stopped physical attendance in the first week of January owing to the third wave. “Parents as well as students seem more open to the idea of physical classes now, compared to last year. We will not force any student to attend physical classes, neither will we stop anyone from attending classes,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal, KC College Churchgate.Last year, colleges were allowed to reopen for physical classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students starting October 20. Most colleges had decided to reopen post Diwali vacation in mid-November and while attendance was scarce in the beginning, slowly student numbers started increasing.“It is becoming difficult to keep the unvaccinated students from attending lectures now, and while the government has insisted on it, we are not. Students are allowed to attend lectures and social distancing as well as mask and sanitiser rules will remain the same,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-allows-physical-classes-in-colleges-and-universities-from-february-1-101643136814336.html
26-01-2022||Gurugram||HSVP’s drive to check building norms violations on; seals illegal establishments||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Monday sealed three buildings comprising shops and offices in the upscale Sector 29 market, a popular watering hole. The authority said that action was taken after a survey conducted in the last fortnight revealed several violations. HSVP officials said that sealing and anti-encroachment drives will continue in the next few weeks in Sector 29. It also stated that in several instances it was observed that rooftops and basements were converted into bars and restaurants by trespassing laws. HSVP junior engineer Sandeep Lot said that a survey was conducted in Sector 29 and a detailed report was prepared that highlighted the violations. “On the basis of the report, action was initiated against the violators. On Monday, three premises were sealed, and the drive will continue till all the buildings are restored,” he said. According to the survey, there was large-scale encroachment of public pavements and corridors, which were being used to create spaces for servicing customers. “Basements and rooftops were being used for commercial operations against set guidelines rules. Some of the sites allotted to owners for running ethnic food sites were converted into departmental stores, cloth showrooms and even a car showroom was being operated in the market”, the survey revealed. “We also observed that plants were being grown to occupy common areas. Also, generators were placed without permission from the authority. We have asked the owners to make the necessary changes, or we will be forced to take further action,” said Lot. HSVP officials further said that notices were issued to 18 proprietors for violations and encroachment. “The property owners who stick to rules will not face any action but those violating norms will not be spared. We have to understand that large crowds gather at these bars and pubs and open spaces are important for safety in case of an emergency,” said another HSVP official, seeking anonymity. Following complaints of violations on the CM Window, the HSVP had disconnected water and sewage connections of five buildings last week. It may be recalled that the last anti-encroachment drive in Sector 29 was carried out in August 2019, on the complaint of a Sainikhera resident on the CM Window. The complainant had alleged that due to widespread encroachment in the market, residents faced trouble while commuting to the adjacent Leisure Valley market. Following the complaint, HSVP had demolished 35 illegal vends. 
26-01-2022||Delhi||Consider giving ex-gratia to all doctors who died in line of duty: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Delhi government to consider compensating the kin of all doctors, including private ones, who lost their lives in the line of duty during the second wave of Covid-19, saying that any distinction is “not justified”.Remarking that a “doctor is a doctor”, a bench comprising justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, said the Delhi government needs to re-look its present policy where only the kin of those doctors who worked at government hospitals and government-requisitioned hospitals are given a compensation of ₹1 crore.The government counsel assured the court that the authorities would look into the scheme and file an affidavit in this regard.The court was hearing a plea by a doctor’s widow, whose house is about to be taken away by the bank because she is unable to repay the home loan. Her husband Harish Kumar died in June 2020 during the first wave of the pandemic. He was working at the New Life Hospital in GTB Nagar and was on Covid duty, the plea filed by his widow said.During the proceedings, when the court sought to know if the petitioner applied for and received the ex-gratia amount promised by the Delhi government to all frontline workers/doctors who died of Covid while in service, the woman said though she did apply, she did not receive the money.The counsel for the government told the court that she was not given the money because the government’s policy only extended to the kin of those doctors who worked at government hospitals or hospitals requisitioned by the government.“The late husband of the petitioner was running a nursing home with less than 50 beds and such nursing homes were not requisitioned by the GNCTD. Though the petitioner’s husband died in the line of duty while serving Covid patients during the first wave, this case is presently not covered by the Cabinet decision,” Gautam Narayan, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told the court.Taking note of this, the bench said that prima facie, the distinction of the Delhi government in awarding the ex-gratia is “not justified” because doctors and paramedic staff working in private hospitals requisitioned by the Delhi government are also covered by the Cabinet decision.“It is not that the hospital of the petitioner’s husband was not rendering services to the patients. It was the smaller hospitals…the amount of load that they were taking would together far exceed the load that the government hospitals were handling…So, therefore, is it justified for you to draw this distinction?” the court questioned the government counsel, adding that the decision needs a “re-look”.“A doctor is a doctor. There should be a rationale…Whether he is working in a private or government hospital...” the court added.The court said that just because some nursing homes may not have been requisitioned on account of their capacity, does not take away from the fact that the doctors and paramedic staff working at such nursing homes were also exposing themselves to the risk of contracting Covid and suffering death on that account.“It is a well-known fact that at the peak of pandemic during first and second waves, the small nursing homes were also providing treatment against Covid-19 to thousands of residents of Delhi; and if their numbers are put together, they may well exceed the number of beds available in government hospitals and hospitals which were requisitioned by the government for treatment of Covid-19,” the court noted in its order.The Delhi government counsel said that the decision was taken in July 2021, considering the then financial position, and the authorities would surely revisit the scheme.He also said that he will file an affidavit, not only placing on record the Cabinet decision, but also the reconsideration of the petitioner’s husband’s case for grant of ex-gratia.The court said the affidavit should be filed within four weeks and listed the matter for hearing next on March 11.
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC officials accused of illegal gratification, vigilance department seeks action||Acting on a complaint received against four municipal corporation (MC) officials for allegedly accepting illegal gratification from contractors in lieu of allowing sub standard road construction works in the city, state vigilance department has asked the principal secretary of local bodies department to take required action on the complaint.The complaint has been submitted against two superintending engineers (SE) Rahul Gagneja (Zone D) and Parveen Singla (Zone B) and two executive engineers Ramal Kaushal (Zone D) and Surinder Singh (Zone A) deputed in bridges and roads (B and R) department of MC. The officials have also been accused of making huge ‘Benami’ properties on the name of their family members and relatives and have also failed to submit their annual property returns with the concerned authorities for the year 2016 to 2019.Recently, the MC has received number of complaints regarding the poor-quality works being taken up ahead of assembly elections. The residents alleged that the hot mix material started wearing off within days or weeks after recarpeting of roads. The complaints have been received from Kitchlu Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Old GT road, Model Town-Jawaddi road, Dugri, Pakhowal road, among other areas. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the department can conduct inquiry into the allegations and even he had earlier written to the local bodies department to get the newly constructed roads checked by deputing a third party. “We are already monitoring the development work and if any anomalies are found, the contractor is directed to reconstruct the road portion or the payment to the contractor is stopped. I also conducted a meeting with the officials on Tuesday and they have been directed to keep regular check on quality of work,” said Sabharwal. The complaint was submitted with chief secretary (CS) and vigilance department by an RTI activist in August last year. After the authorities failed to act against the officials, a third reminder was sent to CS office and vigilance department on December 31. Now, the vigilance department has written to principal secretary of local bodies department to take required action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-officials-accused-of-illegal-gratification-vigilance-department-seeks-action-101643136749007.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||23 Delhi cops to get medals on Republic Day||Twenty-three Delhi Police personnel are among the 939 officers from across the country who will be awarded medals on the occasion of Republic Day this year. Among them is IPS officer Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, currently serving as deputy commissioner of police in the anti-terror squad of Delhi Police’s special cell, who is receiving his 11th award and second back-to-back police medal for gallantry -- a rare feat by an officer.On Tuesday, DCP Yadav expressed his gratitude for the award on Twitter: “With the blessings of Balaji, I am happy to share that I have been awarded my 11th President’s Gallantry Medal on the occasion of Republic Day 2022...”Apart from Yadav, two other officers of his team, namely assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Jasbir Singh, a 2011 DANIPS (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Police Service) officer, and Inspector Ravi Tushir, have also been conferred the same Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG) for displaying bravery during a shootout in Delhi that led to the arrest of two suspected members of Babbar Khalsa International, a banned terrorist organisation, in September last year. The arrested BKI members, Bhupender alias Dilawar Singh, and Kulwant Singh, had allegedly come to Delhi to collect arms and ammunition needed to carry out assassination of some politicians in Punjab. ACP Singh joined Chandigarh Police two months ago.On the occasion of Republic Day 2021, Yadav had received the Police Medal for Gallantry in connection with a shootout between special cell sleuths and members of the infamous “Kranti gang” in Mehrauli in 2018. Four members of the gang including its kingpin, Rajesh Bharti, were killed while six police personnel were also injured.Of the remaining Delhi Police personnel selected for the awards, three will receive the President’s Police Medal (PPM) for distinguished service, and the remaining 17 personnel will get Police Medal (PM) for meritorious service.Yadav, who has mostly been posted with the anti-terror unit of the special cell, has carried out several anti-terror operations in Delhi and even in Jammu and Kashmir during his tenure as ACP and DCP since 2005. He was also part of the team that probed Delhi serial blasts of 2005 and 2008, apart from other terror strikes that the city witnessed till 2011.Yadav also headed the investigating team that solved the 2008 Delhi serial blasts after arresting Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorists following an encounter at a flat in Batla House near Jamia Nagar on September 19, six days after the series of blasts rocked the city, claimed at least 25 lives and leaving 135 injured. Bollywood actor John Abraham played DCP Yadav’s character in the eponymous Bollywood movie “Batla House”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/23-delhi-cops-to-get-medals-on-republic-day-101643136629219.html
26-01-2022||Noida||Indirapuram: Voters point to lack of Metro connectivity, Ganga water supply||Having paid through their noses for a luxurious lifestyle in the opulent hub of high-rises, residents of Indirapuram now find themselves running pillar to post for basic amenities -- a government health-care facility, public transport options, Metro connectivity, and Ganga water supply, to name a few. Little wonder then that these assembly elections, they are pinning their hopes, and votes, on the candidate that will prioritise their needs.With over 65 high-rise residential societies, Indirapuram has 1.70 lakh (170,000) registered voters under the Sahibabad assembly constituency -- one of five assembly segments in Ghaziabad district and the largest one in the state of Uttar Pradesh. According to residents, some of their key demands are traffic management, public transport, government healthcare, and proper water supply and sewage system.The Sahibabad constituency is currently represented by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Sunil Kumar Sharma, who defeated Congress’s Amarpal Sharma by a margin of 150,685 votes in the 2017 elections. This year,too, the BJP is banking on Sunil Kumar for a win from the assembly segment, while Amarpal Sharma is contesting against him on the Samajwadi Party (SP)-Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) alliance ticket. The other candidates in the fray include Congress’s Sangeeta Tyagi, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)’s Ajit Kumar Pal, and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Dr Chhavi Yadav.Residents said while their neighbourhood could boast of some of the best malls in Delhi-NCR, what they needed was a proper drainage system. While there are numerous private hospitals there, what they do not have is a decent government hospital. Alok Kumar, founder of the Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (FedAOA), Ghaziabad, said the need for a government hospital was acutely felt, especially after the Covid pandemic hit.“During the second wave last year, there was a dire need for a government hospital as there were no beds to be found anywhere, and private hospitals charged a hefty amount. In fact, the demand for a government hospital is long pending and predates even the pandemic,” he said.He said a number of infrastructure projects in Indirapuram were stalled due to the handover logjam between the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA), which developed the township, and Ghaziabad municipal corporation since 2017. After several protests by local councillors, talks between the authority and the corporation commenced in 2018. While the GDA claims that it is ready to hand over the township, the corporation says the GDA first needs to fix several infrastructure deficiencies before it can take over the township.Another demand of the residents is public transport.“Indirapuram does not have any local bus service and residents rely on three-wheelers (auto-rickshaws) to commute. Residents have also demanded connectivity from Noida’s Electronic City Metro station to Indirapuram’s CISF Road. We hope that these issues are part of the candidates’ agenda,” said Anil Sharma, general secretary of FedAOA.Traffic management, or the lack of it, is also an issue, say residents, adding that driving around the swanky township is a hassle, owing to jams.“Even though the roads are wide enough, rampant encroachment has reduced the space available for traffic. Authorities have conducted several anti-encroachment drives, but the menace returns,” said Awadesh Jha, a resident of Shakti Khand-4.Residents also said the Ganga water supply to high-rise societies is erratic at best. “We are scheduled to get Ganga water for one hour each in the morning and evening. However, even that is irregular. Moreover, just two hours of water supply a day for high-rise societies is highly insufficient,” said Lalit Mohan, member of Arihant Paradiso AOA in Ahinsa Khand-2, Indirapuram.The sewage system has failed to keep up with the increasing population, said residents.“Often during monsoon, sewage starts overflowing into localities. The sewage treatment plant in Indirapuram also overflows and needs redevelopment,” said Abhishek Singh, member of ATS Advantage AOA in Ahinsa Khand-1, Indirapuram.MLA and BJP candidate Sunil Kumar Sharma said the issue of Indirapuram handover is his top agenda. “My priority is to resolve the issue of handover and it is my promise to residents that it will be resolved as soon as I am voted back to power,” he said.He said during his tenure, new sewage lines were constructed in Indirapuram.Amarpal Sharma from the SP-RLD combine said that one of his main objectives is to bring Metro connectivity to Indirapuram. “It is my agenda to bring the Noida Metro from Sector 62 to Sahibabad via Indirapuram. I will also work towards regularising Ganga water supply and construction of a government hospital and schools in the area,” he said.Congress candidate Sangeeta Tyagi added, “Residents of Indirapuram are at the mercy of private players for hospitals as well as schools. Our main objective in this area is the construction of government facilities for residents.”AAP’s Dr Chhavi Yadav said, “We will ensure that the area gets regular and sufficient Ganga water supply. Redevelopment of existing government schools is also on the agenda.”According to psephologist Sanjay Kumar from the Centre for Society and Development Studies, Delhi, people’s affiliation to a party could play a key role in deciding how Sahibabad votes.“Looking at the last elections, BJP has a large voter base in this constituency as Sunil Kumar Sharma won by the biggest margin. Civic issues also play an important role in the area. Unlike the rest of UP, caste-based politics is neutralised in Sahibabad as the main opponents from BJP and SP are both from the same caste,” he said.
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Transporters in Ludhiana decry public representatives’ indifference toward deplorable state of transport nagar||Transporters have blamed the lackadaisical attitude of public representatives and politicians, who are busy with campaigning for the upcoming state assembly elections, for the issues plaguing Transport Nagar.Highlighting the potholed roads, water logging due to choked sewers, lack of parking space, and security in the area, the near-1200-strong community of transporters said they have been demanding resolution for decades. The transporters lambasted authorities for not undertaking any structural improvement since the 114-acres area was first set up back in 1984. They complained of congestion and uncleanliness, adding that truck drivers are forced to park their trucks by the roadside. Potholes on road and unhygienic conditions due to water accumulation add to the woes and instances of carts and rickshaws turning turtle have become an everyday affair.Ludhiana Goods Transport Association (LGTA) press secretary Jagdish Singh Jassowal highlighted the delay in getting the issues resolved, saying public representatives often ignore the area due to its commercial nature and a lack of city-based voters living in the area. Jassowal said, “In the past, a governing-party MLA told the transporters that they had no power to change anything as they did not have votes in the area. Even the councillors do not visit transport nagar, the biggest in the state. It has been in a deplorable state for years.” Further highlighting the issues, he said, “Deep potholes and choked sewer lines are the major issues and a large number of vehicles are damaged on a daily basis due to the potholes. Trucks get stuck in the parking sites due to water accumulation and deep potholes and they have to hire cranes for pulling them out,”“Filth, garbage and water accumulation can be witnessed at every nook and corner of the area despite tall claims of the Swachh Bharat mission,” he added, before suggesting that the transport nagar be moved to a different suitable location. The transporters stated that the sitting MLA Surinder Dawar laid foundation stone for cemented roads in the area in July last year, claiming that ₹7 crores had been earmarked, but only a few roads had been constructed before the project was put on hold.Ludhiana Transporters Welfare Association president Janak Raj Goyal said, “The public representatives do not pay any heed to the problems being faced by the transporters as we are all tax-paying citizens. We have submitted memorandums with a large number of public representatives and authorities in the past, but to no avail.”“The parking spots are in a deplorable state, there are no green belts in the area that have been maintained properly. The sewer lines often choke, resulting in water accumulation and we are forced to work in unhygienic conditions,” he added.Transporters raise security concernsThe transporters also raised concerns about the over lack of security in the area, saying that incidents of theft and snatching are commonplace.“We fear coming here at night as a large number of snatching and theft incidents have been reported. We have been demanding that a police post be set up in the area, but our requests are hardly ever heard,” said Sarabjit Singh, a transporter.  ₹7-cr project approved: Congress councillorCongress councillor Navneet Ghayal said a projects worth ₹7 crores has been approved for constructing cemented roads, adding that work had to stop the work due to heavy rainfall, but would restart in a few days. He said the issue of choked sewers will also be resolved soon.Despite multiple attempts, Dawar remained unavailable for comments||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/transporters-in-ludhiana-decry-public-representatives-indifference-toward-deplorable-state-of-transport-nagar-101643136449136.html
26-01-2022||Gurugram||With maximum temperature at 11.7°C, Gurugram shivers on season’s coldest day||The city on Tuesday recorded the coldest day of the season so far, with the maximum temperature at 11.7 degrees Celsius, which was nine degrees below the normal mark. The minimum temperature was recorded at 7.3 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal. Gurugram witnessed a sharp drop of 3.3 degrees in the maximum temperature in the past 24 hours. On January 15, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 12 degrees Celsius, the season’s second coldest day. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), “cold” to “severe cold” day conditions will also continue across Haryana on Wednesday. IMD says that when the maximum temperature is 16 degrees Celsius or less in the plains, it is considered to be a “cold” day. “The south Haryana region, including Gurugram and Faridabad districts, will witness “cold” day conditions and dense fog on Wednesday. Cold wave will continue till Friday; however, the city is likely to witness clear weather from Thursday onwards. There will be a gradual fall in minimum temperature by three to five degrees over the next five days,” said Manmohan Singh, director of the Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh, a regional unit of the IMD. Gurugram witnessed foggy conditions throughout the day on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the air quality deteriorated to “poor” from “moderate” category on Monday. The air quality index (AQI) in the city stood at 238 on Tuesday, while on Monday, the AQI was recorded at 121.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, moderate winds and better ventilation conditions are likely to prevail for the next seven days due to which the air quality is likely to remain largely in the “poor” to “moderate” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/with-maximum-temperature-at-11-7-c-gurugram-shivers-on-season-s-coldest-day-101643136329057.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Fugitive wanted in a kidnapping case arrested by PO staff||Wanted by the police in a kidnapping and assault case, a proclaimed offender has been arrested by the PO staff of police commissionerate on Tuesday.The staff handed him over to Meharban police for further action. The accused Vishnu Goswami of New Shakti Nagar had changed his location to Prem Nagar of Tibba Road to evade police.Sub-Inspector Balwinder Singh, in-charge at PO staff said the accused was driving an auto in the city. A case under sections of IPC had been registered against the accused on May 13, 2012. After availing bail, he had started skipping hearings of the case.The court had declared him proclaimed offender on September 12, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-fugitive-wanted-in-a-kidnapping-case-arrested-by-po-staff-101643136209055.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||PWD booked for damaging trees on south Delhi stretch||The forest and wildlife department has booked the public works department (PWD) for resuming trenching work on a stretch of road in CR Park without due permission and for damaging 10 more trees in the process, officials said on Tuesday.A hearing on the matter will be held next week to determine the penalty to be imposed on the road agency, while a fresh restraining order has also been issued to prevent any further trenching work, for laying underground cables, from taking place at the site, the officials said.Mandeep Mittal, deputy conservator of forest (south) said during an inspection last Thursday, the forest department found fresh damage to around 10 trees on Bipin Chandra Pal Marg in CR Park, south Delhi. The trenching work, officials said, was restarted by the PWD despite the forest department issuing a ‘stop work’ order against the road agency in last October, after it was found digging too close to the trees and damaging them in the process.“A stay order was in place against the PWD after they dug within a metre of the trees in October. We received a complaint that work had resumed without permission and more trees have been damaged in the process. An on-ground inspection revealed that around 10 trees have been damaged in the latest trenching work,” said Mittal, stating a case had been registered against the PWD under the Preservation of Trees Act, with a hearing scheduled next week to determine the quantum of fine to be imposed.Verhaen Khanna, an environmental activist who runs the NGO New Delhi Nature Society (NDNS), filed the initial complaint in October, as well as the recent complaint last week, stating that the trenching work was in violation of the forest department’s October order, as well those of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which in 2015 directed agencies to not dig within a one-metre radius of trees.“Several trees have been damaged once again, despite a clear order by the forest department last year informing the police and the PWD to stop any further work. It is unfortunate that both agencies failed to protect trees on the stretch,” said Khanna, stating that strict penal action was required against the road agency.The PWD did not respond to calls and text messages from HT seeking comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pwd-booked-for-damaging-trees-on-south-delhi-stretch-101643136148996.html
26-01-2022||Mumbai||Fire brigade prepares notice to Tardeo building for flouting safety rules||Mumbai The Mumbai Fire Brigade was on Tuesday in the process of issuing a notice to Kamla Building in Tardeo for flouting fire safety rules. Seven people were killed and 23 were injured after a fire broke out in the 20-storey building on Saturday. Meanwhile, the cause and location of the fire remained unascertained. The fire brigade began its preliminary investigation, but officials said many eyewitnesses are in the hospital and some of them are in a critical condition. So, they are not able to record statements to determine what happened that led to the blaze.Hemant Parab, Chief Fire Officer, said, “We are in the process of drafting the notice and it will be sent by Tuesday itself. The notice will inform the housing society that its firefighting system was not working, and about the other fire safety rules it has flouted. It will direct the society to undertake measures to ensure an operational firefighting system. The society will be penalised as per due process of law.”The fire erupted on the 19th floor and gutted one flat, the common corridor of this floor, and the electric cables in the entire duct. The fire brigade received a call at 7.26 am, and after firefighters arrived at 7.29 am, they noticed the building’s firefighting system was not operational. Residents later recounted that the fire alarm did not go off and they came to know only after smoke had filled corridors on every floor. Most residents were asleep.The fire brigade confirmed that the building had not submitted its biannual fire safety audit report, which is called form B. The notice will be issued under Section 6 of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act 2006, which makes it the responsibility of the owners or occupiers of a building to ensure fire safety on the premises, and for its residents. They are also supposed to conduct regular audits of the fire safety mechanism to ensure it is in working condition by third party auditors empaneled with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, and submit the form B along with the audit report.Parab said the fire brigade has still not been able to determine if the fire started in the duct and spread to flat 1904 which was completely gutted, or it broke out in 1904 and spread to the duct. However, the duct should have been sealed with fire retardant material, but it was not done. There were doors to the duct on each floor, but these were open, which catalysed the spread of heat and flames to all 20 floors of the building.Among the seven who died, one person was rescued from the 16th floor. He had sustained burn and suffocation injuries, which baffled the fire brigade as the blaze was restricted to the 19th floor and the duct on all floors. Parab said, “It is possible that the person tried to escape through thick smoke and his visibility was hampered. The person must have entered through the first door he found open, which happened to be the duct, that led to his burn injuries. He must have rushed to his own flat in panic, and died of suffocation. This is where we recovered the body. This is the most likely explanation we can think of but investigation is on to determine the events precisely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-brigade-prepares-notice-to-tardeo-building-for-flouting-safety-rules-101643136094832.html
26-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: UP Bar Council urges political parties to include lawyers’ demands in manifestos||Lucknow: The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday put forward a set of lawyers’ demands before the major political parties and urged them to incorporate these in their poll manifestos ahead of the state assembly polls. Their demands include cashless medical facility, compensation to kin of the lawyers who died due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a housing scheme for them on ‘no- profit, no- loss basis’ and others. “Cashless medical facility of ₹10 lakh must be provided to each lawyer in case of accident or any serious illness. ₹10 lakh compensation should also be given to the kin of those lawyers who died due to the Covid-19 pandemic in last two years,” said Shirish Kumar Mehrotra, chairman of the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh, while talking to media. The council chairman also demanded a housing scheme for lawyers on ‘no- profit, no- loss basis’. “Rajasthan government is running a housing scheme for lawyers. Similar scheme must be launched in Uttar Pradesh also,” he said.The Bar Council has also demanded a pension scheme for those lawyers who have completed 40 years in legal profession. “A pension scheme of ₹25,000 per month should be launched for those lawyers who have completed 40 years in this profession,” Mehrotra said. “The practice of appointing retired judges on various posts in tribunals, commissions and regulatory authorities should be stopped. The government appoints retired judges as chairman of tribunals and other bodies. This practice must be stopped and lawyers must be appointed on these posts,” said Mehrotra. Prashant Singh ‘Atal’ and Jay Narayan Pandey, both co-chairman of the Bar Council, stressed upon the need to impellent Lawyers’ Protection Act. While Abdul Razzaque Khan, member of the Bar Council, stated that applications of 1200 family members of the deceased lawyers were still pending with the state government for compensation. “Next government must dispose of these applications on priority basis,” said Khan. Vice chairman of the Bar Council, Pradeep Kumar Singh and member of the council, Anurag Pandey, also demanded adequate security in all district courts across the state and constitution of special security force for this purpose. According to the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh, there are around four lakh registered lawyers all across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-up-bar-council-urges-political-parties-to-include-lawyers-demands-in-manifestos-101643136088998.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||DU teachers say new UG curriculum will lead to course dilution, loss of jobs||A section of teachers of Delhi University, some of whom are also members of the academic council (AC) and executive council (EC), have written to vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh on Tuesday, raising concerns over the draft undergraduate curriculum framework, released by the varsity last week, and said the proposed framework has significantly diluted coursework and contains reduced credits. Aligned with the National Education Policy (NEP), the Undergraduate Curriculum Framework 2022 (UGCF) outlines 176 credits for a four-year honours degree and offers students multiple entry/exit options throughout the course. The new draft reduced the credits to 176 from 196 outlined in the first draft of the framework, which was approved by the academic council last year. In their letter, the signatories said the framework seemed to have been drafted in a haphazard manner by the NEP cell, after bypassing the AC and EC. While outlining the perceived shortcomings of the draft, teachers said the reduction in overall credits meant that there would be a loss of teaching hours and subsequent displacement of teachers. They said the reduction in workload would lead to a dilution of the syllabus content. EC members Seema Das, one of the signatories, said besides the reduction in credits, there were apprehensions about the diversion of credits to MOOCs (massive open online courses) and SWAYAMs (the Union government’s free e-learning portal). “How is it possible to earn a maximum of 26 credits per semester, as per the draft, when a semester can only allow a maximum of 22 credits (again, as per the draft). Does this imply the introduction of MOOCs and SWAYAMs through the back door? That will lead to a reduction in workload as students will be able to secure credits from other universities,” said Das. The signatories pointed out that the draft framework did not specify the details of the practical components for science courses, while the compulsory aspect of courses such as environmental studies has been diluted. “The EVS has been made a compulsory paper, with a six-month module syllabus, as per the UGC (University Grants Commission) and the Supreme Court directives. This is not reflected in the proposed framework. Similarly, language and commerce courses have also been restructured to their disadvantage, resulting in a loss of workload,” another teacher said. While objecting to the multiple entry/exit option in courses and the credit transfer system -- a student may transfer credits from another university to the DU -- teachers said both will result in fluctuating workload while increasing the drop-out rate among students, particularly from the marginalised sections of society. They requested the V-C to defer the implementation of the proposed framework. Apart from the signatories, teacher groups have also raised concerns about the new framework. The DU teachers’ association (DUTA) will also be sending detailed feedback on the framework and has constituted a committee for the same. The university has given time till January 30 for feedback on the proposed framework, which was released on its website last week. DU registrar Vikas Gupta said the university will place the draft before the AC and EC after feedback has been collected from all stakeholders. He said the university shared two frameworks in December with colleges and other stakeholders such as DUTA and the latest one was framed on the basis of feedback thus received. “We have refined the framework to focus on holistic multi-disciplinarity. We will go through the comments and try to incorporate more feedback after which the proposal will be placed before the AC and EC,” he said. While addressing concerns regarding the reduced role of teachers, he said the V-C has repeatedly assured teachers that there will be no reduction in workload and the number of teachers will not decrease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-teachers-say-new-ug-curriculum-will-lead-to-course-dilution-loss-of-jobs-101643135911300.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panic grips Ludhiana’s Bal Singh Nagar after two men open fire at locals||Panic gripped Bal Singh Nagar after two men opened fire in the area and threatened a shopkeeper at gunpoint on Tuesday evening. Angad, a local, said they were setting up hoardings for a blood donation camp in the area when the two men turned up at the spot, asking them to stop installing the hoardings. The accused opened fire after facing opposition, later brandishing a gun at an owner of a medical store who tried to intervene. The accused damaged the glass door of a shop and also assaulted two other people before fleeing.Sub-Inspector Jasdeep Singh, station head officer, at the Daresi police station, said the police are recording statements of locals to lodge an FIR. The episode has been captured in the CCTV installed in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panic-grips-ludhiana-s-bal-singh-nagar-after-two-men-open-fire-at-locals-101643135908880.html
26-01-2022||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: Shaniwarwada as it really was!||When Bollywood film ”Bajirao Mastani” was released, many history lovers and tourists flocked Shaniwarwada, the heritage site and Peshwa residence at Pune, to experience grandeur that was depicted in the film. However, present-day remains of Shaniwarwada could not fulfil their unrealistic expectations and visitors were royally disappointed! In spite of the big production, film could not authentically recreate the glory of Shaniwarwada, but that is a discussion for another day! If one wants to visualise Shaniwarwada of the 18th century, history books and paintings come to our rescue. Like many monuments in Maharashtra, Shaniwarwada was not built in a day. Since 1730, when foundation was laid by Bajirao I, the site of castle has been built upon and renovated by subsequent Peshwas and its magnificence reached the zenith around last decades of 18th century. The original wada of Peshwa Bajirao I consisted of two private chambers of Bajirao accompanied by fountain, main Diwankhana in the front, various gateways, a drum house room on front gateway, a water tank with upper storey (bangali) and Persian wheel, wall enclosure around the wada, well, etc. The wada was two storeyed and two courtyards. The water for fountain was fetched from a well in the river through channels (paat), pumped to the tank in upper tower using Persian wheel and circulated through gravity to reach fountain spouts. The water requirement of the household was limited in early days and wells in wada and by the river were sufficient Original plan included fortification around the wada for safety, but it was met with strong disapproval from Shahu Maharaj. Shahu Maharaj thought that if such a fortified base is captured by enemies it would prove difficult to win it back and can be used against the Marathas themselves. The new buildings planned however continued to be built. Around 1745, most of the works, including the construction of an overhead tank, top storeys, Diwankhana for Mahadji Purandare and for leisurely activities were completed. The space requirements for growing household, servants and visitors were huge and allotted space for various construction activities was not enough. So, the adjoining areas were acquired time- to-time from its owners against land compensation. After the death of Shahu Maharaj, Nanasaheb Peshwa took the bold decision of building the fortification wall around the Shaniwarwada mansion which was completed by 1759. The fortification had stone masonry at the base and upper part was built using fired rectangular bricks. The handsome Delhi Darwaja facing the north was built with towering Dakhani arch flanked by octagonal bastions. The merlons of bastions effectively hid the soldiers while opening was mounted with cannons and guns. Main facade was decorated and painted in delicate floral patterns and the wooden door reinforced with iron bars and piercing spikes were installed. The sharp spikes were installed to deter any attempts of opening of doors by employing elephant power. The fortification was reinforced with nine formidable bastions in every direction. Nanasaheb constructed a beautiful garden called Chimanbaug in memory of his uncle, Chimaji Appa, to the eastern side of main wada. It had various floral beds and water pools built in ornate shaped patterns with seating platforms provided on the side. The flower garden, water pools, central fountain of 26 ft by 26 ft size, painted Diwankhana pavilion constituted a beautiful ambience. Chimanbaug is one of the better surviving structures in Shaniwarwada, today. Shaniwarwada was also known for its hazari karanje (1,000 spout fountain) which occupied a central space. This fountain of 80 feet circumference is built using petals carved in stone in two rows. It has 197 nozzles which were further fitted into four petaled lotuses bringing the count to almost thousands. One can only imagine the astounding beauty of this outstanding piece of art in operation in its hey days! There exists a misconception that Shaniwarwada was seven storeys high based on some later records which describe it as “saat majali kalsi bangla”. From the descriptions of the building in arches and references from contemporary Maratha architecture on can surmise that there existed one building called Kothi next to the main mansion with was saat-khani wada (khan is the measurable unit of space between two wooden pillars of wada). It was five storeyed high (including the ground storey) with two storey of tower crowned by domical structure. These towers were in vogue during medieval times and were used as watch towers, for skygazing or leisure. Some anecdotes claimed that shikharas/towers of temple at Alandi were visible from the seventh storey of the tower. The tower at Shaniwarwada was burned to the ground in an unfortunate fire in 1794. Most of the buildings in Shaniwarwada were either two storeyed or three storeyed. This can be easily confirmed from the British era painting of 1820 showing these comparative heights of individual building within Shaniwarwada with that of main Dilli Darwaja. During Nanasaheb’s times, this mansion Peshwas housed quarters of Peshwa family members such as Nanasaheb, Chimaji Appa, Vishwasrao, Sadashivrao Bhau, Madhavrao Peshwa, Narayanrao, women’s chambers, including chamber of Gopikabai. Darbars such as Ganesh Rangamahal, Arase Mahal (hall of mirrors), Gokak Diwankhana, Nachya Diwankhana (dance performances), Kachericha Diwankhana (office), Hastidanti diwankhana (decorate with ivory), Ganpati Rangmahal (where Ganesha idol was installed and Ganesha festival celebrated), Narayanrao Mahal, Gopikabai Rangamahal were used for hosting royal court, national and foreign dignitaries, guests, esteemed visitors, diplomats and so on. Various festivals were celebrated in these spaces with fan and fair and yet very typical to brahminised Marathi culture of medieval times. Various courtyards were referred to Fadacha chowk (office), Tak chowk (book keeping), Mudpak chowk (kitchen), Pakwanacha chowk (feasts), Savitribaicha chowk (of Savitraibai), Yamunabaicha chowk (of Yamunabai) and so on depending on function of spaces or the associations. In addition, servant quarters, Hamamkhana, Nagarkhana, horse stables, barracks for soldiers along fortification, personal Devghar (pooja house), Pothishala (manuscripts), Ratna-shala, Javahirkhana, Jamdarkhana, dining rooms, armory, Sadar (offices), Daftarkhana (archives), Janana (women’s chambers), Khalbat-khana and such spaces occupied the five acres of Shaniwarwada mansion. During Nanasaheb’s times, including around 20 odd main personalities (khashe), other relatives, guests, associates, students, teachers, helpers, servants, personal assistants, guards counting to 1,000 individuals would be present in Shaniwarwada on any given day. Alas, glory of virtual capital of India, powerful seat of Maratha Empire at its pinnacle today can only be fathomed through writing of the mundane past records! We shall witness Shaniwarwada of later Peshwas through eyes of visitors in next column. Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-shaniwarwada-as-it-really-was-101643135788945.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||132 J&K cops get President’s medals||The ministry of home affairs on Tuesday announced 132 President’s medals for Jammu and Kashmir Police personnel for gallantry, distinguished and meritorious services, said officials. As per the list, out of 189 police medals for gallantry issued by MHA, Jammu and Kashmir Police have been honoured with 115 — the highest number of medals among all states, UTs , Central Armed Police Forces and other organisations of India. Mukesh Singh, additional director general of police, Jammu Zone, and MK Sinha, ADGP, headquarters, PHQ, have been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service, while police medal for meritorious service has been awarded to 15 cops. Among the recipients of police medal for meritorious services are SSP Haseeb-ur-Rehman, SSP Swarn Singh Kotwal, SSP Rajinder Kumar Gupta, SSP Vinay Kumar Sharma, DSP Jagdev singh, DSP Jabeen Akhter, DSP Kuldeep Kumar, inspector Ashiq Hussain Malik, inspector Mehboob Hussain Banday, inspector Sanjay Kumar Pandita, inspector Sunita Handoo, SI Kripal Singh, ASI (telecom) Mohammad Maqbool Kumar, HC Parshotam Kumar, and section grade constable Mushtaq Ahmad Bhat. J&K DGP Dilbag Singh has congratulated the awardees and their families. He said the J&K Police officers and personnel have been conferred with the highest number of gallantry medals which exhibits the exemplary courage, dedication and commitment shown by the police in ensuring peace and order in Jammu and Kashmir. BSF Jammu Frontier gets 12 President’s police medals Out of a total of 53 President’s police medals to the BSF awarded this year on Republic Day, the Jammu Frontier, which guards 200km long Indo-Pak International Border and assists army on the Line of Control, has been awarded 12 medals. Bhagat Singh Tolia, DIG, Frontier Headquarter Jammu, has been conferred with President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service along with 11 officers and jawans of Jammu Frontier, who have been conferred with police medal for their meritorious services. Jammu Frontier IG DK Boora has congratulated the awardees and said that BSF has shown utmost dedication towards safeguarding of international boundary of India with professional acumen and lot of sacrifice of its men. 10 awarded DG’ Prison MedalDirector General of Police, Prisons, J&K, B Srinivas, has awarded the Director General’s Prison Medal to 10 officers of the prisons department in recognition of their outstanding performance here on the eve of Republic Day. The awardees are Dinesh Sharma, senior superintendent jail, Central Jail Jammu, Kotbhalwal; Tarseem Lal, assistant superintendent jail, District Jail Jammu; head warders Tilak Raj Kotwal, district jail Bhaderwah, Ghulam Rasool, central jail Jammu, Kotbhalwal; SG warders/warders Zaheer Abass, district jail Poonch, Shridhar, prison headquarters, J&K, Bashir Ahmad Khan, central jail Srinagar, Kamal Kishore, district jail Rajouri, Peer Farooq Ahmad, central jail Srinagar, and Farooq Ahmed Nengroo, special jail (correctional home) Pulwama. J&K DGP Dilbag Singh on Tuesday awarded a commendation certificate and reward of ₹10,000 to constable Jeevan Kumar for his excellent performance in a multi-talent TV show “Hunarbaaz-Desh Ki Shaan”. In a message, the DGP has congratulated Jeevan Kumar and his family for his excellent performance and making J&K Police proud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/132-j-k-cops-get-president-s-medals-101643135672580.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC motivates youth to cast vote||The district administration observed National Voters Day through video conferencing on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma presided as the chief guest.Motivating the youth to exercise their right to vote in the elections, Sharma urged them to vote in large numbers during the elections. He apprised them of the importance of the day, which is celebrated since January 25, 2011 every year.He said, “Casting vote is our duty and everyone should perform it sincerely as it would ensure the protection of our rights. We all feel proud to be residing in a free country like India, but all of us should also understand that India gained independence after a lot of struggle. ”Several officials were honoured for their work done in maximum registration of voters in age group 18-19 years. Samrala SDM Vikramjeet Singh Panthey was honoured with certificate of appreciation for being the best electoral registration officer of Ludhiana district; Varinder Kumar Pathak, chemistry lecturer, GSSS, Multipurpose, Ludhiana as the best nodal officer and Jaspreet Singh, Punjabi teacher, GSSS, Rupalon as the best booth-level officer in the district.Electoral Photo Identity Cards (EPIC) were handed over to first time voters namely Abhinav Prashar, Sheetal, Gurleen Kaur and Komal Sharma.DC Varinder also administered oath, for exercising right to vote in a free and fair manner, to all present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dc-motivates-youth-to-cast-vote-101643135671310.html
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Celebrated lyricist Dev Tharike Wala passes away at 83||Lyricist Hardev Singh Gill, better known by pseudonym Dev Tharike Wala, died on Tuesday of age-related illness at the age of 83. Tharike Wala had penned several famous Punjab kalian over the course of his long-standing association with singer Kuldeep Manak, most notable of which was the 1976 record Tere Tille To Na. Reacting to the news, noted Punjabi writer Gurbhajan Singh Gill said the lyricist’s passing away has left a void that could never be filled.Noted writer and critic Jagwinder Jodha, associate professor at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), also expressed his sadness at Tharike Wala’s passing, saying the 83-year-old was among the few lyricists of the post-independence era who celebrated the economic rise of Punjab following his green revolution and brought the feelings of the common man on centre stage. “Socially, he made a significant contribution to celebrate womanhood. ‘Maa hundi ae maa o duniya waleyo. Maa ae thand di chhan o duniya waleyo’, song is a classic example of it,” Jodha said.Tharike Wala’s last rites were performed on Tuesday afternoon at Thrike village. People, including celebrated names from the field of Punjab literature, attended his funeral in large numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/celebrated-lyricist-dev-tharike-wala-passes-away-at-83-101643135669760.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Marital rape hearing: Forced sex in marriage ‘abuse’ at best, NGO tells HC||Opposing a clutch of pleas that sought to criminalise marital rape in India, the counsel for NGO Hridey, an intervenor, told the Delhi high court on Tuesday that offences concerning marriage stand on a different footing and the wisdom of Parliament in retaining the marital rape exception should not be doubted.There are other sufficient provisions in the IPC (Indian Penal Code) and other statutes to redress the grievances of a woman, advocate RK Kapoor told the court.Kapoor also contended that forced sexual intercourse between husband and wife cannot be labelled rape and at worse, such an act of wrongdoing can be called “sexual abuse”, and a wife cannot compel the prescription of a particular punishment against her husband “to satisfy her ego”.Referring to the court’s earlier observation that if a sex worker who was forced to have sexual intercourse could file rape charges, why should a “wife be less empowered”, Kapoor said that to compare the two would be an “insult to the institution of marriage”.Kapoor told a bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and C Hari Shankar, which is hearing the pleas, “A perpetrator cannot claim restitution of conjugal rights against sex worker and correspondingly sex worker cannot claim regular maintenance from a perpetrator. There is no emotional relationship between sex worker and the stranger. The relationship between husband and wife is a package of a large number of mutual rights and obligations which are social, physiological, religious, economic etc. It cannot be limited to just one event of consent for sexual relationship alone.”Exception 2 of Section 375 IPC decriminalizes marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.“The legislature has classified several types of sexual offences under the IPC on the basis of a “number of incidental and collateral circumstances, the relationship between the parties and the age of the woman”, and the retention of the marital rape exception which is based on a “reasonable classification” cannot be found fault with,” Kapoor said.The bench is currently hearing PILs filed in 2015 by NGO RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought to strike down the exception in the Indian rape laws on the grounds that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.In 2017, the central government in an affidavit said that marital rape cannot be made a criminal offence as it could become a phenomenon that may destabilise the institution of marriage and an easy tool for harassing the husbands.On Monday, the Union government told the court that it was considering a “constructive approach” on the issue of criminalising marital rape and has sought suggestions from several stakeholders and authorities. Following this, the court granted it 10 days to respond on the matter.The hearing in the case will continue on January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/marital-rape-hearing-forced-sex-in-marriage-abuse-at-best-ngo-tells-hc-101643135609032.html
26-01-2022||Gurugram||Haryana deputy CM urges labour department to reach out to industry and youth||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said that he asked the labour department to ensure quicker registration of private companies on the job reservation portal, in accordance with the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act that was implemented on January 15. The Act mandates 75% reservation to job seekers from Haryana in the private sector.Firms are supposed to register themselves on the portal, and upload data and share detailed data pertaining to employees who earn upto ₹30,000 per month, including their qualifications, domicile and other background information. Industries and private firms have three months to register with the labour department portal. Chautala also urged officials of the labour department to ensure that 1,000 companies register on the portal by the end of January. He said 11 companies had registered themselves on the portal until now.Chautala, who was in Hisar to review an airport project, said that he has also directed the department to make changes in the reservation portal so that smaller firms, limited liability partnerships, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other organisations are also able to register smoothly.On Monday, the deputy chief minister held a review meeting with the labour department and asked officials to reach out to job-seekers and industry insiders to ensure greater participation of stakeholders. “I have asked the labour department to ensure that changes are made in the portal so that firms such as limited liability partnerships, NGOs and others can upload their data. Also, the department has been asked to reach out to industries and ensure faster registration and sharing of data,” said Chautala. He said that all efforts are being made for the smooth implementation of the job reservation policy. During Monday’s meeting the deputy chief minister also discussed the implementation of the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020. The Act was passed by the state assembly on March 2, 2021 and was approved by the governor. On November 6, it was notified by the state labour department and came into force from January 15, 2022.Chautala asked officials to set up yearly targets to provide jobs to locals. He also asked the labour department to carry out awareness campaigns regarding local job reservations and to hold seminars in each district next month. “Such moves will help remove apprehensions about the Act,” he said. Raja Sekhar Vundru, additional chief secretary of the Haryana labour department, said that proposed changes are already being made in order to ensure faster registration of companies. “We will also be carrying out a skill gap analysis of the youth and hold seminars with the industry and youth in different districts to ensure that the Act is implemented smoothly,” he said. Vundru also said that 25,000 persons registered on the portal till Tuesday evening since it was launched on January 15. Industry associations, however, have been opposing the job reservation in a court of law.JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association said that most of the firms in the city are waiting for the court hearing on February 2 and thereafter will adopt a future course of action. 
26-01-2022||Delhi||Notorious gang’s hitman arrested in southwest Delhi||An alleged sharpshooter from fugitive gangster Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu’s gang, two members of an interstate gunrunning racket with links to dissident modules abroad, and a man with a criminal history wanted in connection with three dacoities committed in Delhi were arrested by three teams of the special cell in separate operations between January 15 and 22, the city police said Tuesday. A total of 29 pistols and 28 cartridges were recovered from the four arrested persons, they said.In the first operation on January 15, the special cell team of the northern range (NR) arrested a gunrunner named Ravi Khan from outer Delhi’s Bawana with 15 semi-automatic pistols that he had smuggled into the city to deliver to his associates. Police said Khan is from Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh and has confessed to being a member of a firearms supply syndicate. He said he procured the weapons from his associate Rahul Singh in Madhya Pradesh’s Dhar district. The next day, the team reached Dhar and arrested Singh with 10 more weapons, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell, NR) Rajiv Ranjan Singh.“Singh supplied weapons to criminals in Delhi and other states through Khan and other gunrunners. Singh’s interrogation revealed that he has links to some modules involved in subversive and hawala activities abroad. He has received a large amount of money from such modules illegally,” added DCP Singh.The second operation was carried out on January 20 by the southwestern range (SWR) team that arrested Shekhar alias Sonu of Haryana’s Rohtak, an alleged sharpshooter of Nandu’s gang, for allegedly opening fire at the office of a property dealer in Uttam Nagar on January 11. He did so to extort the property dealer for money on the behest of Nandu, who is operating his gang from Europe, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell, SWR) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.“Shekhar disclosed that he was tasked with the job by Nandu’s key aide, Anil Podi, who is currently in jail. He was paid ₹20,000 as the token amount and promised a handsome share in the extortion money that the gang members expected to receive from the property dealer after the firing. We seized two pistols with eight bullets from Shekhar,” Yadav said.In the third operation on January 22, the special cell’s New Delhi range (NDR) team caught 33-year-old Praveen alias Parvez, who was wanted in connection with three dacoity cases registered in Delhi, with two pistols and 20 cartridges. A proclaimed offender in at least 10 cases of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Praveen was also carrying a reward of ₹50,000 by the Delhi Police in connection with an armed dacoity of ₹15 lakh from Shahdara in April 2020, said DCP (special cell, NDR) Pramod Singh Kushwah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/notorious-gang-s-hitman-arrested-in-southwestdelhi-101643135489252.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Election commission marks reserved wards for Delhi civic polls||The state election commission on Tuesday issued the list of municipal wards that will be reserved for women and Scheduled Caste category for the municipal corporation elections due to be held in April. The wards are revised before each municipal election, an election commission official said. The official who asked not to be named said that of the total 272 municipal wards in the city the North and South Delhi corporations have 104 seats each and the East MCD has 64 wards. Based on the distribution of the people belonging to the Scheduled Caste and the provisions of Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, a total of 46 wards have been put under the reserved category. Of the total 46 SC reserved seats, 24 are further reserved for the women from the community. Of these 46 wards, 20 are under the North civic body, 15 under South corporation and 11 come under the East MCD, the official said. The announcement of reserved wards is expected to pave the way for viable candidates staking their claim for tickets based on the status of the wards.The change in the status of several wards would also force several key municipal leaders to change their seats. EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal, who represents ward 27 (Raghubarpura), which was a general seat, will now be reserved for women. Aggarwal said that the seat used to a reserved for women before the 2017 elections, and it has now gone back to the same category. “Our party cadre is strong at the grassroots level and the rotation of seats should not affect our prospects. We all fight under the party election symbol, and we will be ready to contest from any seat,” he said. Similarly, the seat of former EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain (Shahadra 31-E), has been converted from a general seat to SC-Women reserved seat. Jai Prakash, former North MCD mayor who comes from Sadar Bazar ward (80N) ward but the seat has now been reserved for female candidate. Similarly, Chandni Chowk, Kamla Nagar and Civil lines will now be reserved for women.Abhishek Dutt, congress state vice-president is a sitting councilor from Andrews Ganj ward (59-S). The seat has now been reserved for women. Dutt may have to move back to his Defence colony ward which he represented in his first term. Dutt said that the party welcomes the decision made by the election commission and it will bring forward the option of alternative to AAP and BJP in the coming elections. “The real good days will be coming when the Congress comes to power,” he added. In SDMC, several prominent councillors will see a change of status of their seat. For instance, the 15-S Janakpuri west ward of former SDMC mayor Narendra Chawla will now be reserved for female candidates. Durgesh Pathak, AAP MCD in-charge, did not comment on the announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/election-commission-marks-reserved-wards-for-delhi-civic-polls-101643135430387.html
26-01-2022||Noida||Noida resident duped of ₹1.6 lakh on pretext of escort service job||A 25-year-old man was allegedly duped of ₹1.6 lakh on the pretext of a job in an escort service company in the city. The man, a resident of Noida’s Sector 49, filed a complaint at Sector 49 police station on Monday. In the FIR, he stated that he received a call from an unknown number for a job last week. “The caller told me about a job of a male escort. The suspect asked for ₹1,150 as registration fee. I paid the fee online. However, on the pretext of facilitating various processes, the suspect cheated me of ₹1.6 lakh,” he said.The victim said that he realised the fraud when the suspect demanded more money. “When I asked the person to return my money, he told me to further make a payment of ₹30,499 and then he would return the money,” he said.Anjani Kumar Singh, SHO of Sector 49 police station, said that the complainant, a graduate, has been looking for a job for some time. “He posted his resume at some job sites. Primary investigation shows that the suspect had found his information online and called him,” he said.“We registered a case against an unknown person under Section 420 (cheating) and Section 66-D of IT Act on Monday. We are scanning the transaction details and the call records to arrest the suspect involved in the racket,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-resident-duped-of-1-6-lakh-on-pretext-of-escort-service-job-101643135428815.html
26-01-2022||Delhi||Sharjeel Imam lambasted ideas of democracy, secularism in speeches: Court||JNU student Sharjeel Imam “lambasted” the Constitution, and the ideas of democracy and secularism, a Delhi court said while framing charges of sedition and under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against him for giving alleged inflammatory speeches at Aligarh Muslim University and Delhi’s Jamia Nagar area while addressing the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protesters. The order came on Monday, but a detailed copy was uploaded on the court’s website on Tuesday evening. The court said that prima facie the speeches were aimed at the Muslim audience, and seem to be “indicative of showing the worthlessness of the community and their existential crisis”.Imam has been in judicial custody since January 28, 2020. On Monday, while framing charges, the court also rejected his bail plea. Additional Sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said according to the speeches and other material produced by the prosecution, on a prima facie level, there appears to be a tendency to create public disorder and incitement to violence. He said violence indeed took place due to Imam’s alleged provocative speeches.The judge said the speech also appears to challenge the territorial integrity and sovereignty of India. It also appears to create hatred/contempt for the lawful institutions of the state and to challenge them by unlawful means.“It appears that he (Imam) is trying to convince the people that Muslims as a community have been deprived because of the Constitution and people who made the Constitution or who are required to protect it,” the judge said in the order.“The speeches appear to be completely pessimistic…The accused has made utterances not just once but many times over. It is not as if the words are spelt out in a moment of haste or anger or antagonism without intending it,” the court said.“The accused by referring to the blockage/cutoff of ‘chicken neck’ which joins mainland India to the NorthEast by seems to remind everyone that the said land belongs to Muslims and the call to do it, by certain means, is indicative of his intention,” the judge said.The Delhi Police filed a charge sheet against Imam in July 2020.Imam, through his counsel Tanveer Ahmed Mir, had contended that his client’s prosecution for alleged inflammatory speeches is the “whip of a monarch rather than a government established by law”. He had said that Imam’s criticism of the government cannot be the cause of sedition.Mir had also said that his client is not a terrorist or associated with some terrorist outfit, adding that he has criminal antecedents or any political agenda. The lawyer said that there were many prosecutions against Imam just because he had criticized the government’s policies.Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being the “mastermind” of the February 2020 riots, which left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA.Earlier in December, the court had granted bail to Imam in a case of alleged violence at Jamia Millia Islamia in December 2019, during protests against the amended citizenship law. The FIR under which he is an accused involves offences such as rioting, conspiracy, attempt to commit culpable homicide, voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions, and assault.
26-01-2022||Delhi||10k public buses in Delhi by 2023, 75% new vehicles electric: Kailash Gahlot||Delhi will have a fleet of nearly 10,000 buses for public transport, with 75% electric buses among the newly inducted vehicles, by mid next year, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Tuesday.Talking to HT, the minister said a total of 2,830 new buses are scheduled to arrive in different phases between March and mid-2023, which will take the total number of buses in the Capital to 9,724. “Of the 2,830 new buses, 2,130, or 75%, will be electric buses -- a feat which no other state probably has been able to achieve so far. It is also noteworthy that it will be the first time that Delhi will have a fleet as big as 9,730 buses...,” said Gahlot.The city currently has 6,894 buses, of which 3,761, including one electric bus, are with the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and 3,133 are operating under the cluster scheme.Transport commissioner Ashish Kundra said even the current bus fleet in the national Capital is the highest ever in Delhi. Records with the state transport department showed that the previous high was in 2010 when Delhi increased its fleet size to 6,342 as it procured new buses on a war footing ahead of the Commonwealth Games.Of the 2,830 new buses to be added until mid-2023, 700 will run on CNG, officials said, adding that 250 of these buses will start arriving from March this year, and the delivery of the remaining 450 will begin from October.The DTC will get 300 electric buses, which will also start arriving from March.On January 17 this year, the first electric bus under this lot was flagged off by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the city. It was also the first time that DTC has managed to procure a bus since 2011, after at least five failed tenders.As per various court orders in the past, Delhi should have 10,000-11,000 buses for public transport. However, senior transport officials said even a fleet of 9,000 buses will do for now since the Delhi Metro also caters to a significant number of passengers.According to data from before Covid when there were no curbs, DTC and cluster buses together catered to about 4.2 million passengers every day, and the Delhi Metro saw about 2.4 million commuters daily.“At the time of the previous court orders regarding fleet size, Delhi’s Metro was either not there at all or the network was negligible and therefore, having 11,000 buses was estimated based on the assumption that buses will be the only and primary mode of public transport. But, over the years, the passenger ridership has split between the state-run buses and the Metro,” said a senior transport official on condition of anonymity.Apart from the 300 e-buses for the DTC, the tender for another 330 e-buses, for the cluster scheme, is being drafted and the vehicles will be rolled out by end of this year, said officials.A big set of 1,500 e-buses under the Central government’s “Grand Challenge” (initiated in June last year by the ministry of power and NITI Aayog) will start arriving from July this year and the final lot is expected to arrive by June-July next year, Kundra said.On October 28 last year, HT first reported that the Delhi government has planned to only procure electric buses in the future, with an aim to increase the share of zero-emission vehicles in public transport to over 50%. For this, all existing bus depots are being upgraded with EV charging infrastructure by roping in all the three major private power distribution companies in the city.Amit Bhatt, executive director (transport), WRI India, said e-buses have low operating costs, and a capital cost higher than CNG buses. “What we need to remember is that fuel, even if it’s CNG, accounts for 40% of the operational cost of buses in our cities. With electric buses, the operational cost becomes cheaper and it also helps in the overall business planning of bus operations. The environmental benefits of e-buses are phenomenal as they have zero emissions and zero carbon footprint.”
