27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | PBA mourns demise of sporting heroes||Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) along with the fraternity of the coaches and players on Thursday mourned the demise of Om Parkash Dhull, an Arjuna Awardee (1979) in Basketball , who breathed his last after a prolonged illness.RS Gill, DGP retired, PBA president informed that Dhull who represented services in Basketball was also awarded Vashist Sewa Medal in 1985.Meanwhile, PBA also mourned the demise of a field hockey player Charanjit Singh (Padma Shri awardee), who captained the Indian hockey team that won gold medal in the 1964 Summer Olympics at Tokyo, Japan. Born in Himachal Pradesh, earlier he also was a member of Indian hockey team, which won a silver medal in the 1962 Asian Games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pba-mourns-demise-of-sporting-heroes-101643308139447.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Weekend curfew over, dining out back in city||New Delhi: There will no longer be a weekend curfew, shops can be open on all days, and restaurants, bars and cinema halls can reopen for customers at 50% of their capacity, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided on Thursday, heeding to calls to at least roll back some curbs after the Covid-19 outbreak in the city appeared to be stable.The attendance cap on weddings, too, was raised to 200 people (or 50% capacity if the event is indoors) but the night curfew for non-essential activities between 10pm and 5am will continue, and schools will stay closed until a decision next week, officials said.In markets, complexes and malls all shops and establishments dealing with non- essential goods and services will be allowed to open between 10am to 8pm without the odd-even rule. Restaurants shall be allowed to operate at 50% of the seating capacity from 8am to 10pm, while bars shall be allowed to operate at 50% of the seating capacity from 12pm to 10pm, the DDMA order issued on Thursday night stated.Also Read | Cinema hall, schools, markets: What's open, what's closed in Delhi from FridayGyms and spas will, however, remain closed.At funeral gatherings, up to 100 people will be allowed, while for marriage related gatherings, halls or banquets can function at 50% capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons. The owners of these places will be responsible for maintaining social distancing and CAB.“However, it is clarified that assembly halls and banquet halls will remain closed except for the purpose of marriage. There shall be no weekend curfew on movement of persons in the city,” the DDMA stated.“After detailed discussions with experts, in view of the decline in positive cases, it was decided to gradually ease restrictions while ensuring adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. It was agreed to revoke weekend curfew and to open markets without the odd even rule. It was also decided to open all government offices with 100% strength up to grade 1 level,” said lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal, who heads DDMA, in a tweet after the meeting on Thursday.Baijal added that the health department has been asked to improve vaccination coverage and to carry out an epidemiological analysis of hospitalised patients. “Emphasised on all agencies to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour and to continue to be vigilant without lowering the guard,” he added.An official who was at the meeting said the existing restrictions were discussed at length, and it was decided that all curbs cannot be lifted at once. “The relaxations will be allowed in a phased manner. The other restrictions will be reviewed in the next meeting, including the reopening of schools,” the official told HT, adding that instructions have been sent to district authorities to improve the enforcement of safe behaviour, such as mask-wearing and avoiding crowding.In the meeting CM Arvind Kejriwal, who received multiple representations from the traders in recent days, pushed for lifting various restrictions so that the business community gets a relief, the person added.Thursday’s decision will be implemented once the DDMA issues a formal order, which was likely late on Thursday.During the DDMA meeting, the Aam Aadmi Party government also pushed for the reopening of schools, citing among factors the growing worry that parents have expressed of the continuing learning loss for their children.Schools in the Capital have been closed since December 28 when the government sounded “yellow alert” imposing various restrictions.Sisodia on Wednesday said it was crucial to reopen schools as the pandemic-induced closure was widening the learning gap.The Delhi education minister’s comments came after a meeting with a delegation of parents led by epidemiologist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya and other public policy experts. The delegation submitted a petition, endorsed by at least 1,600 signatories, seeking the reopening of schools.Sudha Acharya, chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC), which has 122 Delhi schools as members, said that the continued closure of schools was disappointing for all stakeholders. “Schools could have been reopened from February 1 since cases are on the decline. If curbs can be relaxed for cinemas and restaurants, what is the problem with school reopening? The message being sent out is that cinema halls are safer than schools. Students are highly demotivated with the lack of a decision on reopening,” said Acharya.Cases in the Capital have been gradually falling, except for some days of spikes that were the result of increase in testing. On Thursday, the capital added 4,291 new cases with a test positivity rate of 9.56%. The new cases was the lowest since January 3 and the test positivity rate – a measure less sensitive to fluctuations in testing – was the lowest since January 4.Also Read | At 4,291, Delhi's Covid tally further dips; case positivity rate goes below 9.5%The peak of cases was on January 13, when 28,867 cases were recorded with a test positivity rate of over 30%.An audit report of Covid deaths prepared by Delhi government found more signs that this wave of infections has been significantly less damaging for the city. Among the 438 people who died between January 13 and 25, only 94 had Covid-19 as primary cause of death.In 318 deaths, a Covid-19 infection was incidental.Among the 94, 89 were eligible for a dose and of these, 57 were unvaccinated – translating to 64% of fatalities in the unvaccinated group.DDMA also asked authorities to focus on giving booster doses for those eligible as soon as possible, said a person at the meeting who asked not to be named.The Confederation of All India Traders welcomed the decisions taken on Thursday. “The withdrawal of odd-even rule and weekend curfew will ease the business environment in Delhi to a great extent and the business can be revived now though it may take a longer period for the trade to come out from the slumber caused due to restrictions,” said CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal.Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trader and Industry, an association of traders, said lifting of curbs will normalise the business conditions. A delegation of traders will soon meet Kejriwal and thank him for it, he said. “Raising the limit of persons for weddings and allowing eateries to function with 50% capacity will support livelihood,” said Goyal, adding that wedding season is round the corner.Community medicine experts supported the reopening.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said: “The government has taken the right decision to lift the curbs because the test positivity rate has been reduced to almost 10% and will further go down in few days. Keeping the strict curbs like weekend and restrictions on commercial activities was not an ideal move. Harsh curbs may further delay the drop in the curve because due to curbs there will be less movement of individuals which may slow down the infection spread. It is already proven that infection is mild with not much mortality, such curbs is more damaging particularly for school children who are suffering learning loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-curfew-over-dining-out-back-in-city-101643308140118.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||Adani, L&T in race to revamp Motilal Nagar MHADA colony||Adani Realty and Larsen & Toubro (L&T) are two players in the running to undertake redevelopment of the 142-acre Motilal Nagar MHADA colony at Goregaon. Naman Developers, the third bidder, was disqualified after it failed to fulfil the technical aspects of this bid. The winning bidder has to rehabilitate 5,300 families which include the construction of 3,700 MHADA houses and 1,600 hutments. The residents will be given 1,600 sq ft houses. Besides, the winner also has to construct a mini township with schools, dispensaries and open spaces.Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) would be the nodal agency overseeing this ₹30,000 crore project.Anil Diggikar, Vice-President and Chief Executive officer (CEO), MHADA, said the final winner would be selected on basis of the commercial bid. “We have currently shortlisted two firms. The winner of this bid will be decided on basis of the company which will offer a maximum share of the remaining built-up area (BUA) to MHADA after rehabilitating the existing residents,” said Diggikar. This means that the company which offers the maximum low-cost houses will be chosen.“We will submit this report to the Bombay High Court and then open the final commercial bids based on their direction,” he added.The project will be undertaken under 33(5) of the Development Control & Promotion Regulations (DCPR), 2034.Diggikar has called it a win-win situation. “The existing residents will move to new bigger houses while MHADA will get a huge stock of affordable houses without spending a single penny,” he added.However, resident associations are not convinced and they accused MHADA of not taking them into confidence. “We are unaware of any such tender or who is going to redevelop our colony. We are owners and not encroachers and MHADA needs to take our consent before proceeding with its plans. In addition, we should be given not less than 2,000 sq ft houses,” said Yuvraj Mohite, president, Motilal Nagar Vikas Samiti.Motilal Nagar was built in 1960 to house people belonging to the economically weak sections. Though it has 200 sq ft houses, many have illegally extended their rooms. In the last few years, several builders such as the RNA, HDIL and Vichare have been offering redevelopment proposals to the residents. Even this present tender has come under scanner as some top builders accused MHADA of deliberately adding the ₹9000 crore net worth clause to exclude them from the bidding process.
27-01-2022||Other||Amid violent protests, Railway postpones NTPC CBT-2 and Level 1 exams||The Railway Recruitment Board has postponed RRB NTPC Computer Based Test (CBT-2) examinations and Level 1 exams. “The second stage CBT that was scheduled to be conducted in a single phase from February 15 to February 19, 2022, across the country at various exam centres remains postponed amid violent protests by candidates. The Level 1 exam was scheduled to begin on February 23, 2022, according to a press release issued by the press information bureau (PIB). This comes following violent protest and allegations of anomalies in the result of the non-technical popular category (NTPC) exam conducted by Railway Recruitment Board (RRB). A high-power committee has been formed to look into the concerns and doubts raised by candidates with regard to the results of the first stage Computer Based Test (CBT) of centralised employment notification of non-technical popular categories (NTPC) issued by RRBs on January 14-15. The committee will look into issues raised by candidates —results of the first stage CBT and methodology used for shortlisting candidates for second stage CBT without affecting existing shortlisted candidates. The candidates can lodge their concerns and suggestions to the committee at the following email id — rrbcommittee@railnet.gov.in According to the press release, all chairpersons of RRBs have also been directed to receive the grievances of candidates through their existing channels and send the same to the committee. The last date to submit objections is February 16, 2022. The committee, after examining the concerns will submit its recommendations by March 4, 2022. Earlier, angry aspirants in large numbers had tried to stop trains at Prayag railway station on Tuesday. Police, government railway police (GRP), railway protection force (RPF) reached the spot along with railway officials and used mild force when the aspirants refused to disperse. Some of the protestors were also detained by the police. According to reports, the students called a meeting at Prayag junction where aspirants in large numbers assembled and then moved on to the tracks. They later staged on a dharna before Kanpur Intercity train. The protest continued for around one-and-a-half hours. Different student organisations, including Yuva Manch and Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha, participated in the protest. The CBT-1 was held in six phases between December 28, 2020, and July 31, 2021. The result of CBT-1 was declared on January 15, 2022. The CBT-2 phase of the exam was scheduled to be held between February 15 and 19. In the first phase of the examination, 80,643 candidates were declared, as successful. 
27-01-2022||Lucknow||Gulabi Meenakari products in high demand, Varanasi craftsmen earn ₹1 crore in 3 months||The demand for pink enamelled products, known as Gulabi Meenakari , has increased in the Kashi district, and craftsmen have generated business worth one crore in three months, according to craftsmen preserving the craft in Varanasi. In addition, several orders for the next two months have already been placed, they said.A craftsman Kunj Bihari believes that since the pink enamel craft got the GI tag, its artisans have acquired a new identity. More than 300 craftsmen from about 80 families are involved in the work of Gulabi Meenakari in Varanasi.Virendra Kumar, deputy commissioner, Varanasi district industries centre said that ever since PM Modi has gifted pink enamel products to the dignitaries of foreign countries and chief minister Yogi Adityanath urged people to gift GI and One District One Product (ODOP) products, the demand of these products has increased.The businessmen in the district said that the industry has resurfaced. It is worth noting that pink enamelling adds to the beauty of both gold and silver. Both the metals are considered auspicious; hence the demand for Gulabi Meenakari Ganesh Ji is high in marriage. At the same time, there is a great demand for peacocks for gifting purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gulabi-meenakari-products-in-high-demand-varanasi-craftsmen-earn-rs-1-crore-in-3-months-101643306158805.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Experts’ welcome cabinet decision on National Education Policy||PUNE The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday decided to constitute a group of ministers under the chief minister for the implementation of a report submitted by the task force headed by scientist Dr Raghunath Mashelkar on the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The task force had made a slew of recommendations, which the cabinet discussed in the meeting.Experts welcomed the government decision, calling it a step ahead for the implementation of NEP.Professor Vasudha Kamat, former vice-chancellor of SNDT University Mumbai and member of committee which formed New Education Policy said, “We interacted and discussed with many people related to higher and school education while drafting this new education policy. So, it is the country’s policy and the credit goes to all citizens who have made their contributions to it. We are glad that state cabinet ministry has taken it forward to implement in the state.”The task force had submitted its report to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in September last year. NEP 2020 was cleared by the Centre last July, but the state government did not implement it immediately. It formed an 18-member panel under Dr Mashelkar in October 2020 to study the policy and make recommendations to the state.The task force has made a slew of recommendations including migrating to four-year courses from three-year ones, provide university status to those educational institutions which have completed 50 years, establishment of Research Council for the promotion of research in higher education and decide a policy for fee regulatory authority for public and private educational institutions. First school in the city adopts NEPThe kindergarten students of The Academy School (TAS), Pune, on January 26, launched the NEP model in the school.The school had already started working on the NEP model last year. “NEP brings in a much-needed focus on international standards of applied learning, multiple learning pathways, and focus on technology-enabled pedagogy. NEP paints a positive image of learning that is built on a solid foundation of five years of activity-based learning and another three years of preparation,” said Dr Maithili Tambe, CEO, TAS, adding, “It has a wide ambit from early childhood to higher education, professional education to vocational education, teacher training to professional education.” The school collaborated with Finland education system to make students future-ready by building 21st-century skills like creativity, collaboration, developing curiosity, and communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/experts-welcome-cabinet-decision-on-national-education-policy-101643305921423.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Soon, international flights to Bangkok, Middle East and Malaysia from Pune airport||PUNE Soon, Punekars will have more international destinations to travel to as the Airport Authority of India (AAI) Pune director has requested prominent airline companies to start the service from Pune’s Lohegaon International Airport to international destinations. The AAI has sent the request letter mainly focusing on the Asia Pacific destinations like Bangkok, Middle East and Malaysia.Currently, there is only one international flight route, from Pune to Sharjah, three times a week. Earlier this flight was scheduled daily, but due to low response from the passengers, it has now come down to three days a week. “We have sent request letters to all the prominent airline companies requesting to start the services to international destinations. The development of Lohegaon airport is underway and it will soon have world class facilities and infrastructure, with this we also need connectivity to international destinations.Some of these companies have positively responded to us and as per the demand and requirement from the frequent travellers, soon new international flights will start from Pune airport,” said Santosh Doke, Pune Airport director.“Initially we will mainly focus on the Asia pacific destinations like Bangkok, Middle East and Malaysia. So accordingly, the flights will start from Pune airport once the airline companies give approval to the new destinations.” added Doke. Frequent passengers have welcomed the move to increase the international flights, Nupur Mehta a passenger said, “My sister stays in Dubai and we have to take flight from Mumbai. If the flight starts from Pune then it will be convenient for us. There are many such international destinations for which passengers from Pune have to go to Mumbai to board the flight.”Meanwhile, the ongoing surge in Covid-19 cases has brought down the daily flight movements at the city airport by almost 50 % in the last one month.The number of daily flight movements at the Pune airport was 76 which has now come down to 30-40 flights, said officials. The flights have been cancelled by the airline companies, while the passenger footfall which had gone above 20,000 in December went to below 10,000 in January 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/soon-international-flights-to-bangkok-middle-east-and-malaysia-from-pune-airport-101643305739651.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Fraudster poses as credit card employee, dupes clerk of ₹1.7 lakh||PUNE A senior clerk from the irrigation department in Pune was duped of ₹1.7 lakh while trying to cancel his credit card. He wanted to cancel his credit card and was looking for the customer care number of the issuing bank when he came across a fake number.Police sub-inspector Sangita Jadhav of Chandannagar police station who is investigating the case said, “He wanted to cancel the credit card for some reason. So he looked for a number online and called the number and followed instructions. All the money has gone to one account. We have frozen that account and we are looking into details.”During the call, the complainant was asked by the accused to download Any Desk, which is a device mirroring application that gives remote access to the accused. The accused then asked the complainant to change the password to his mobile banking application. With the updated credentials that the accused saw using the remote access application, he siphoned ₹169,000 from the complainant’s account.A case under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Chandan Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fraudster-poses-as-credit-card-employee-dupes-clerk-of-1-7-lakh-101643305498948.html
27-01-2022||Patna||In Bihar, six killed in third suspected hooch tragedy in January||Six villagers have died while three others have been admitted to hospital after consuming suspected spurious liquor in Bihar’s Buxar district late on Wednesday. According to the police, the incident took place at Amsari village under Murar police station of Buxar district. This is the third alleged hooch tragedy in Bihar since January 1. Earlier, 13 people had died in a similar incident at Nalanda on January 13 and 18 others at Saran on January 18 after consuming spurious liquor. Confirming the incident, ASP (Dumraon) Raj (one name only) told HT that at present six people had died in the incident. “The police have identified the place where they consumed the poisonous liquid. Police recovered some substance from the spot and sent it to FSL for tests,” said the ASP. He said that the police had received information about the incident around 11.30 pm after the death of the first victim Anandi Singh. According to the villagers, over a dozen people consumed liquor in a hut at around 7.30 pm, on the outskirts of Amsari village, barely two-kilometres from the local police station. The dead were identified as—Sukhu Mushar (60), Shiv Mohan Yadav (50), Bhirgu Singh (48), Miku Singh (39) Ranjit Ram and Anandi Kumar Singh (30) of Amsari village while the sixth person is said to be from another village. Three people identified as -- Bunty Singh, Munna Choudhary and Sanjay Choudhary— are undergoing treatment at the Shivratri Hospital in a critical condition. Miku’s elder brother Dharmendra Kumar Singh told HT that his brother consumed liquor and his condition deteriorated around 9.45 pm and he died at the Dumraon Sadar hospital. Sukhu’s wife Tetri Devi also admitted that her husband died after consuming liquor. “My husband returned home around 10.30 pm and he fell ill around 11.55 pm complaining of nausea, headache, vomiting and uneasiness and died on the way to hospital,” she added. On getting information Buxar SP Niraj Kumar Singh, DM Aman Samir and the excise superintendent reached the spot and inquired about the incident. Buxar DM Aman Samir said that in the preliminary inquiry, it seems that all the five people died after taking some poisonous substance. He, however, said only a forensic report would confirm whether they had consumed hooch or not. “A probe team will be constituted under the supervision of the excise superintendent,” added DM Aman Samir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-bihar-six-killed-in-third-suspected-hooch-tragedy-in-january-101643305318718.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Case registered against 4 for cheating Kharadi Agro Trading Company||PUNE A case of cheating has been registered against Hanif Somji, Sohail Somji, Alnesh Somji and Jenice Somji – all residents of Boat Club road. A complaint was filed with the Yerawada police station by Iqbal Mastan Sheikh, 37, a resident of Hadapsar who is a director of the Kharadi Agro Trading Company. The FIR was lodged on January 25 under Indian Penal Code (IPC) 420, 468, 470, 471, 120(B) and 34 while the incident occurred in survey number 30, part 07/B/03, Wadgaonsheri, between 2008 and 2013.According to the complaint, the accused were directors of Kharadi Agro Trading Company Private Limited between 2007 and 2010 and in 2008, they prepared documents bearing numbers 4527/2008 and 4528/ 2008 where 6.6 R land was bought in the name of the company and sold to one Sham Mankar and others by hatching a conspiracy in 2013 wherein another document bearing the number 623/2013 declared null and void the development rights’ agreement and power of attorney in the name of the company.The accused had no rights to sell the said land and opened a fake bank account in the name of the company and deposited money in the said account and cheated the company. The complaint further stated that the accused used fake documents and stamps in the name of the company to open the bank account. The accused took cheques in the name of the company while signing the sale deed. The complainant did not have any bank account where the accused credited the cheques.Alnesh Somji of MG Enterprises, who is accused of cheating many investors from Pune of crores of rupees by promising a 24% annual return and his wife Dimple Alnesh Somji, both residents of Koregaon Park, were arrested by the Pune crime branch’s anti-extortion cell in November last year. Later, Somji was remanded to magisterial custody and subsequently shifted to Yerawada central jail after expiry of his police custody remand. Hindustan Times reached out to the Somjis but did not get any response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-registered-against-4-for-cheating-kharadi-agro-trading-company-101643305198471.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Pune Paralympic swimmer promised lottery, duped of ₹1.5 lakh by caller||PUNE Paralympic swimmer Suyash Jadhav, 28, was duped of ₹1.5 lakh in a case of online cheating by a caller who told him that he had won a lucky draw, according to Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The complainant received a call on January 11 from a person who claimed to be working as a senior manager at the Delhi office of an online shopping website. The man identified himself as Upendra Lahre, according to the complaint.The person told Jadhav that he had been chosen for a lucky draw that would fetch him ₹ 8,80,000. In order to get access to the lucky draw lottery amount, the caller asked Jadhav to make various payments using a UPI based payment application. Jadhav made multiple transactions from two of his accounts amounting to ₹1,53,400 until January 22 before he realised that he was being duped, according to the police.“They kept asking for money under various guises of taxes like GST, intercity tax. Jadhav made four transactions before he realised that they were calling too often and there are no such taxes that can be levied. So he has lodged a complaint,” said assistant police inspector GB Kharge of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-paralympic-swimmer-promised-lottery-duped-of-1-5-lakh-by-caller-101643305018683.html
27-01-2022||Pune||25-year-old dies in accident at new Katraj tunnel||PUNE Following the accident of a tourist bus that veered off the road near Bhilarwadi on January 11, Katraj-Navale bridge saw another accident on Wednesday. A 25-year-old motorcyclist from Velu village in Bhor Taluka died while another person riding pillion, and a man travelling in an SUV were injured in an accident near the new Katraj tunnel. The incident happened at around 8.30pm on Wednesday.As per the information given by the Bharati Vidyapeeth police, a container truck heading from Satara to Pune first rammed into the SUV and then hit the motorcycle, resulting in the biker’s death due to grievous injuries. The truck did not stop at the site after hitting the vehicles, said officials.The deceased has been identified as Akash Suresh Pangare (25) and the injured victims have been identified as Amol Pangare (38), the pillion rider both from Velu village, and Ganesh Londhe (30) of Talegaon Dabhade, who was travelling in the SUV. Londhe lodged a complaint with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police early on Thursday morning.“The injured victims are undergoing treatment at a private hospital and their condition was reported by the medical authorities as out of danger,” said assistant commissioner of police Sushma Chavan. Chavan along with inspector Sangeeta Yadav of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police, inspected the accident spot, she said, “We are searching for the truck driver. The Pangares are dairy farmers and they deliver milk in Pune city. On Wednesday night, they were heading towards Pune city to deliver milk to their customers when the accident took place. Londhe and another occupant in the SUV were returning from Satara after attending some work.”Meanwhile the residents of the Ambegaon Budruk and Narhe area have now demanded to install dividers at some of the accident prone spots on the service road. Navale Bridge Chowk and the bypass highway road is accident prone. Rohan Nalawade a local resident said, “I commute from the bypass highway daily and it is risky as many accidents have taken place in the past couple of months. Due to this, some commuters have changed their routes and are now travelling a longer distance.If the dividers are installed on the service road it will be safer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/25yearold-dies-in-accident-at-new-katraj-tunnel-101643304903005.html
27-01-2022||Noida||Two Greater Noida housing societies penalized over waste management||The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) on Thursday said it has penalised two group housing societies over improper waste management on their premises.The action was taken on instructions of GNIDA CEO Narendra Bhooshan against Galaxy North Avenue and Victory One Amayra societies in Greater Noida (West) which have been slapped with ₹40,400 and ₹10,200 penalties, respectively, it said.“The penalties were imposed by the Public Health Department of the GNIDA. During inspection, the team found waste was not being properly disposed of and in violation of waste management rules,” Public Health Department in-charge Salil Yadav said.The officials have also warned that if the penalty amount is not remitted within three working days, the penalty would be doubled and legal proceedings will be initiated in the cases, he said.The officer said Solid Waste Waste Management Rules, 2016, are applicable in Greater Noida under which bulk waste generators, such as group housing societies, educational institutions, etc., have to dispose of the garbage on their own.The authority only picks up the inert waste that cannot be recycled and for that a prescribed fee has to be paid, Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-greater-noida-housing-societies-penalized-over-waste-management-101643304588744.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||22 Maha districts report Covid-19 positivity rate of 23%||Mumbai: Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra continues to be a matter of concern as the state on Thursday recorded 25,425 new cases with 22 districts reporting a weekly average positivity rate of 23.82 percent, much higher than the state average.Nagpur has reported the highest positivity rate of 44.59 percent, followed by Pune and Nashik with 42.49 percent and 40.94 percent, respectively.Besides, all 36 districts in Maharashtra have more than a 5 percent weekly positivity rate, indicating that the virus is not yet under control. State surveillance officer, Dr Pradeep Awate, said that the Covid-19 situation is improving by the day. “We had the average weekly positivity rate of 35 percent in Maharashtra a few weeks back which has now declined. It will only show a downtrend in the coming days,” said Dr Awate.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said that the situation will stabilise in the next two weeks across Maharashtra. “Nagpur and Nashik started reporting cases late and hence it will take a week or two to stabilise,” said Gilada.The state health department in its weekly report has pointed out that the new cases have declined this week compared to the previous week. It revealed that 2,79,621 new Covid-19 cases were recorded during January 20-26 which declined by 2.71 percent as 2,87,421 new cases were recorded during January 13-19.Maharashtra added 25,425 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 76,30,606. It also reported 42 fatalities due to Covid-19, pushing the death toll to 1,42,358. The positivity rate on Thursday stood at 17.46 percent as 25,425 cases were recorded of the total 1,45,573 tests. A total of 72 patients with Omicron infection have been reported in Maharashtra on Thursday. 33 of these patients are from Pune city, 19 from Aurangabad, five each from Mumbai and Osmanabad, three from Thane, two each from Yavatmal and Ahmednagar and one each from Nagpur, rural Pune and Latur. Till date, a total of 2,930 patients infected with the Omicron strain have been reported in the state of which 1,592 have been discharged following a negative RTPCR test.The active cases in the state stood at 2,87,397 in which Pune leads with 90,303 cases, followed by Thane and Mumbai with 24,164 and 18,040, respectively. The death toll stood at 1,42,358 with Pune leading with 19,941 followed by Mumbai with 16,581 and Thane with 11,711.
27-01-2022||Pune||Motorist killed after getting hit by truck,driver arrested||PUNE A truck driver was arrested and later released for causing the death of a 38-year-old motorist in Hadapsar on Tuesday evening.The deceased has been identified as Ravindra Vimanna Koli, 38, a resident of Manjri farm along Solapur road in Hadapsar, according to the police. He was riding a Royal Enfield with one of his wife’s relatives, Radhika Madnal. The arrested driver has been identified as Suresh Shivaji Rayte, 23, a resident of Mundhwa area of Pune.The two were riding towards Charholi Budrukh from Hadapsar in order to visit a relative who is the complainant in the case against Rayte.“Atop the bridge, at the Y junction which bifurcates towards Solapur and Saswad, the bike was trying to overtake from the left to go right ,while the truck was going left. The truck rammed into the bike and the rider fell and skid right under the rear tyre of the truck,” said police sub-inspector Arvind Shinde .A case was registered under Sections 279, 304(a), 427 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act at Hadapsar police station. Police sub-inspector Arvind Shinde is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/motorist-killed-after-getting-hit-by-truck-driver-arrested-101643304719208.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||HP excise department continues crackdown on illegal liquor traders||Excise department continued its crackdown on unauthorised traders in Himachal Pradesh and recovered 6,126 more boxes of illicit liquor. Separate teams have been formed by the state taxes and excise department, which raided the places with possible illegal liquor stacked in different districts of HP. Commissioner, state taxes and excise, Yunus said following the leads found from Galu bottling plant in Jogindernagar, a team led by joint commissioner US Rana recovered 2,683 boxes of pure orange liquor from nine retail outlets of the area nearby Palampur, for which vendors could not produce any bills. Apart from this, a difference of 200 boxes was found in a wholesale godown of country liquor. He said that four cases of storing illicit liquor have been detected by a team of the department during raids in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh area. During this, 22 bottles of country liquor have been recovered in two cases, he added. In another case, nine bottles of English liquor, one bottle and six pints of countrymade liquor were caught in Pirsthan (Nalagarh) during raids. In all these three cases, action was taken independently by the team and ₹ 55,000 has been recovered from the offenders as fine under Section 67 of the Himachal Pradesh Excise Act, 2011. Besides, one box of English liquor and six boxes of countrymade liquor (for sale in Chandigarh) have been recovered from an illegal storehouse near Ramlila Maidan in Nalagarh by a joint team of the department and police. An FIR has been registered in this matter. Yunus further said that apart from this, the team of Kangra district did a thorough inspection of liquor retail shops of Bairaghatta, Theel, Jambal, Nangal Chowk, Tyamal, Bhawarna, Sulah, Thural, Nagani and Alampur in Palampur area on January 25 and inspected the stock of 2,911 bottles of pure orange country liquor, 38 boxes of pint and 27 boxes. On Thursday to, the team from Kangra district inspected a local wholesale warehouse of country liquor and during the inspection, stock of 257 bottles of pure orange was found there. He said that all the licensees have been ordered that till this stock was matched with the stock and sale register according to the passes and bills, till then they should keep this country liquor in their custody and do not sell it in any way. All these cases would be thoroughly investigated and if irregularities were found, action will be taken against the guilty, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-excise-department-continues-crackdown-on-illegal-liquor-traders-101643304538721.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP govt failed on all fronts in Himachal: HPCC chief Rathore||Launching a stinging attack on the BJP-led state government, the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief, Kuldeep Singh Rathore, on Thursday termed the Jai Ram Thakur regime a utter failure on all fronts.Addressing a press conference here, Rathore challenged the state government to list at least one promise made in the ‘vision’ document during 2017 assembly polls that it has fulfilled in the last four years.“This government has done nothing for the people of the state and when general assembly elections are drawing closer, chief minister is making populist announcement without budgetary provisions and at a time when the state is under debt burden of ₹65,000 crore,” alleged Rathore. He said the announcements made by Jai Ram on the statehood day was an election stunt to project his government has “pro-people and pro-employee”.The Congress president said that the announcement of providing free electricity up to 60 units was not adequate and should be increased to 100 units as Himachal is a major power generating state. He alleged that the central government also did not provide help of a single penny to the state during the testing times.He said that the BJP never talks about rising inflation and unemployment. He said that cement which is being manufactured in the state is being sold at higher prices as compared to the neighbouring states. Rathore also questioned the quality of ration being provided at fair price shops under PDS. “This is betrayal of people of the state and the government is playing dangerously with the health of the people,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-govt-failed-on-all-fronts-in-himachal-hpcc-chief-rathore-101643304298452.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jai Ram demands expansion of rail lines in Himachal||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday met Union railways minister Ashwini Vaishnav in New Delhi and discussed ways for rail line expansion in the state. Union minister for sports and information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur was also present in the meeting. He asked the government to accelerate work on the Bhanupali-Bilaspur railway line. Himachal government for long had been demanding the Centre to expand this stretch to further extend it to strategic forward region of Leh. He said that the full-length railway survey has been completed. Jai Ram urged the Union minister to start work on the Baddi-Chandigarh railway line as well. He said the land acquisition work on the side of Himachal Pradesh has already been completed. “This would be helpful in connecting the Baddi-Amritsar-Kolkata corridor and boost industrial activities in the industrial belt of the state,” he added. He further requested for conducting a survey on the Jagadhri-Paonta Sahib railway line which would help in connecting Kala Amb industrial area to the Baddi-Amritsar-Kolkata corridor. He also urged the Railways minister for upgrading the Kalka-Shimla railway track to accelerate the speed of the train. Jai Ram asked the Union minister to replace the coaches of the Shimla-Kalka train as well. He suggested introducing state of art train on the Kalka-Shimla route to boost tourism and showcase the heritage of the state to attract more tourists. Anurag also urged for early action on the Una-Hamirpur railway line. Jai Ram later called on health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya and urged him to sanction 50 ambulances to reduce the response time within prescribed limits in hilly terrain. He also apprised the Union minister of the shortage of ASHAs in the state and requested for 58 such workers under NUHM and 176 in non-NUHM components for quality outreach in comprehensive primary healthcare in urban areas of the state. Jai Ram also requested for granting bulk drug park for the state which would strengthen the industrialisation. The CM met Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman too and requested her to provide special central assistance to the state. He also requested Sitharaman for providing special central assistance for Mandi airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-demands-expansion-of-rail-lines-in-himachal-101643304118578.html
27-01-2022||Pune||PMPML reduces buses from 35 to 10 at Pune airport||Due to the poor response to the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses from the Pune airport at Lohegaon to various routes in the city and Pimpri-Chinchwad, the PMPML has reduced the airport bus service from 35 buses to 10.In last few months, the transport body had started a special bus service for travellers coming from the airport but there is a poor response, said, officials.“We had 35 buses plying to various routes throughout the day from Lohegaon, but there is hardly any passengers travelling by these buses, so we have now reduced these buses to ten. Earlier we were plying buses all across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad on various routes from the airport. But passengers are preferring to travel by private cabs and auto-rickshaws, due to which most of our buses are plying empty,” said Dattatray Zende, PMPML traffic manager.There are electric buses given by PMPML to Pune airport at Lohegaon, and a dedicated space is given to parking the buses inside the airport premises. There are hardly any passengers taking these buses going towards Kothrud, Chinchwad, Swargate, Hadapsar and other parts of the city.“Now looking at the response by the passengers we are going to schedule more buses from the airport, as already organisation is going through financial losses. And giving more than 10 electric buses from Lohegaon to various destinations is making a loss on routes to our routine schedule,” added Zende.Vipul Alekar, a commuter, said, “As Covid cases are increasing in the city we avoid travelling by the public transport buses, recently I came from Lucknow to Pune airport. So, we preferred to travel by private cab and protect the family from getting infected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-reduces-buses-from-35-to-10-at-pune-airport-101643304058524.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal: Alcohol addict bludgeons wife to death in Kangra, arrested||A man under influence of alcohol killed his wife by hitting her on head with a blunt object in Bardam panchayat of Jaisinghpur subdivision in Kangra district, police said on Thursday.The deceased has been identified as Indira Lama, 28, a resident of Darjeeling, West Bengal. The police have charged her husband Vijay Lama, 35, with murder and arrested him.Kangra SP Khushal Chand Sharma said the couple lived in Jaisinghpur for last over a decade. “Vijay was addicted to drinking and they often fought among themselves,” the SP said, adding that the couple had a fight on Wednesday evening during which the accused hit his wife with a hammer.The crime came to light in the morning when Vijay told his relative living in the same village about her death, who then informed the landlord and the police.The police have recovered the murder weapon and further investigations in the case are on. The deceased’s body has been taken for an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-alcohol-addict-bludgeons-wife-to-death-in-kangra-arrested-101643303998604.html
27-01-2022||Pune||HEMRL demands PMC action against illegal constructions in restricted area in Pune||PUNE Although the High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) which comes under the ministry of defense has complained several times about illegal constructions on restricted areas, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) continues to keep mum about it. However, PMC officials confirmed that a drive has been planned against these constructions and that action will be taken very soon. The HEMRL wrote to the Pune municipal commissioner, Pune district collector and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and appealed that action be taken against the illegal constructions.The HEMRL letter read, “Fresh unauthorised constructions are underway in the restricted zone around HEMRL, within 50 to 100 metre of the boundary wall of HEMRL. The HEMRL is consistently following up with all civil authorities responsible for halting and demolishing of illegal unauthorised constructions. But the activity is ongoing so authorities should take necessary action.” The HEMRL also requested the PMC not to grant permission for any construction activity and include the area around HEMRL as a restricted zone.As per the notification, there are restrictions on any permanent civil activity within 500 yards of the boundary of HEMRL. HEMRL is a premier category ‘A’ lab under the DRDO and deals with the entire spectrum of high energy material. The ministry of defense has classified it as a high security zone.Meanwhile, PMC building permission department official Yuvraj Deshmukh said, “We confirmed with the junior officer from the area. The PMC recently took action against four bungalows and it has planned a drive against the remaining unauthorised constructions very soon. Instructions had been given to plan the drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hemrl-demands-pmc-action-against-illegal-constructions-in-restricted-area-in-pune-101643303939115.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Pune Covid caseload plateaued; will daily tally decline here on?||PUNE With the daily caseload in Pune district reported to be around 10,000 cases for the last few days, it seems that the district has hit a plateau. The officials said the current trend indicates that the Pune tally has plateaued even as the rise or decline of daily cases can be said only after a week.Pune district on Thursday reported 7,874 fresh cases of Covid-19 and zero infection-related deaths in the last 24 hours.The district has for the past four days reported a daily caseload lower than its peak of 16,459 on January 21. Since then, the curve is on the downward trend with Wednesday’s caseload being 10,990 while on Tuesday, the district reported 10,669 cases. According to Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, the district may have already hit the peak. While it is a little early to say that the Pune district has crossed the peak.“In the last three to four days, the number of new cases has decreased, however, it is too early to say that we are past the peak. We will have to wait at least for a week to understand the data more clearly,” he said.According to the state health department, between January 19 and January 26, Pune district has reported a rise of 35.07 per cent Covid cases. And the weekly positivity rate of Pune on January 26 was 42.49%.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said that there is not much possibility of transmission in the Pune district it seems.“In the past few days, we have seen that the daily caseload in Pune district has remained around 10,000. But the positivity rate is over 40 per cent. We also saw in Mumbai that two weeks back, the positivity rate in Mumbai was over 30 per cent and now is around 10 to 12 per cent. Similarly, after the Pune district has reached over 40 per cent positivity rate there are fewer chances of transmission to spread due to vaccination. The vulnerable population has been vaccinated which is good. And so, I think in the next one to two weeks, the overall cases for Pune will decline,” said Dr Awate.The Pune graph, According to Rao, is three weeks behind Mumbai.“If we follow the path of Mumbai, we can see that Mumbai’s caseload shot up and then saw a decline. The decline in Mumbai was quick. But our experience from the first and second wave states that this time for us, it is possible that the decline in cases is due to the plateau. We have seen a similar trend earlier and so we are more vigil,” said Rao.He added that in the weekly review meeting which will be held this Saturday, officials may discuss two important issues.“First is the question of school reopening. The decision will be based on data. Another important part is to form an expedited strategy to reach more beneficiaries for precaution dose. As of now, the response to the precautionary dose has been dull. Whereas beneficiaries between the age group of 15 and 8 years are taking the vaccine in huge numbers,” said Rao.As per the state health department, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 642,359 Covid-19 cases and 9,334 deaths by Thursday.Pimpri-Chinchwad has reported 329,505 cases so far and a total of 3,543 deaths due to Covid-19.Pune rural has reported 410,593 total cases so far and 7,064 deaths due to the infection.In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,382,457 Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 1,271,863 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,291 deaths and at present, there are 90,303 active cases in the Pune district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-covid-caseload-plateaued-will-daily-tally-decline-here-on-101643303758681.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 4,189 fresh Covid cases, 45 deaths||Chandigarh : Punjab on Thursday reported 4,189 fresh Covid cases, taking the infection count to 7,32,135, according to a medical bulletin.With 45 Covid-related fatalities reported in a day, the death toll reached 17,129, it said. The state registered a positivity rate of 11.86%. Mohali registered 724 cases, followed by 442 in Ludhiana, 439 in Jalandhar, 209 in Jalandhar, 194 in Bathinda, 171 in Muktsar, 165 in Moga, 161 in Amritsar, the bulletin said.Maximum seven deaths were reported in Patiala, followed by five each in Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur and 4 in Amritsar. With 7,426 persons recovering from the virus, the number of cured persons has reached 6,63,404. There are 36,941 active cases in the state now. As many as 321648 doses of the vaccine were administered in the state on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-4-189-fresh-covid-cases-45-deaths-101643303698650.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Covid infection among those above 71 years and above highest in Maharashtra||PUNE According to the latest report published by the Medical Education and Drug Department (MEDD), a maximum per cent of Covid-19 cases is from the age group of 71 years and above in Maharashtra.As per the report, as many as 511,323 persons in that age group have been infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus since the first wave which is 16.05 % of the overall population.Doctors and experts note that the response to precaution dose by this age group is not very good.So far, there are just 1,18,844 beneficiaries who have received the dose in the Pune district as per the CoWin dashboard till Thursday.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, assistant director, health services, Pune region, said that the response from senior citizens to the precaution dose is not as expected.“Senior citizens, frontline workers and healthcare professionals are not very keen in taking the precaution dose, as a result, the beneficiaries’ turnout is not good. We have a good vaccine supply and those getting intimation should take their precaution dose,” said Dr Deshmukh.He added that a major reason for less turnout for precaution dose is also due to the Omicron variant.“Many beneficiaries feel that there is no need to take the vaccine as the Omicron variant is not very severe. But precautions are important for high-risk beneficiaries to keep them safe as we can see community transmission of the variant,” said Dr Deshmukh.Speaking about the precaution dose for elderly citizens, Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India, said that beneficiaries should take the precaution dose as soon as they are informed.“Many frontline and healthcare professionals are not taking precaution dose. It is important to take the third precaution dose for them as they are at higher risks than others,” said Dr Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-infection-among-those-above-71-years-and-above-highest-in-maharashtra-101643303578266.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bir theft case: Ahead of Punjab polls, SIT files chargesheet against Ram Rahim, 10 dera followers||Faridkot : Ahead of the February 20 assembly elections, the Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT), probing the 2015 politically-sensitive sacrilege incidents, on Thursday filed a supplementary chargesheet against Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, three absconding dera national committee members and seven dera followers in connection with the bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) theft case. A 400-page chargesheet was filed in the court of judicial magistrate Tarjani against 11 persons, including Ram Rahim, three national committee members of dera --- Sandeep Bretta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri --- and seven dera followers. Ram Rahim has been nominated as the main conspirator in the case. The move comes a month after Ram Rahim filed a plea in the Punjab and Haryana high court demanding that the CBI be asked to continue with the probe into the sacrilege FIRs of 2015. After questioning Ram Rahim at Sunaria jail in connection with Bargari sacrilege on two occasions in November and December, the SIT was pushing for his custodial interrogation but the court asked the probe team to quiz him in the jail citing the law and order situation. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar found that the conspiracy of desecration of Sikh scriptures was hatched at the administrative block of Dera Sacha Sauda in Sirsa and that the followers never acted without the permission of sect head Ram Rahim. The “bir” was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. An FIR was registered the next day at the Bajakhana police station. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the “bir” were found scattered in front of a gurdwara in the adjoining Bargari village, resulting in an outrage across the state and the killing of two Sikh protesters in firing. The Akali-BJP government, led by Parkash Singh Badal, had handed over the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on October 26, 2015. In July 2019, the CBI filed a closure report, but withdrew it later to reinvestigate the matter. The Captain Amarinder Singh government challenged the CBI move of reinvestigation and handed over the probe to the SIT led by DIG Ranbir Singh Khatra on April 22, 2019. In July last year, the SIT named jailed dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim and national committee members Bretta, Kler and Dhuri, as accused in the “bir” theft case. The probe team also filed a chargesheet against seven dera men in the case. In January last year, the Punjab and Haryana high court asked the state government to replace the head of the SIT probing sacrilege cases, after which IG Parmar was appointed as the new chief. The HC had also directed CBI to handover all the case files and asked the SIT to file a supplementary chargesheet in “bir” theft case after taking into account the evidence filed by the CBI. Following this, a fresh chargesheet was filed against seven dera followers.
27-01-2022||Lucknow||Incomplete project: UP RERA imposes penalty on developer||LUCKNOW The UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) imposed a fine of ₹6.17 lakh on developer Parsvnath for not completing pending work on its housing project – Parsvnath Planet in Gomti Nagar. The regulatory authority also directed the developer to deposit the fine amount in the next 30 days. The fine has been imposed under Section 63 of the RERA Act. In case of non-payment of fine, ₹2,130 per day would be added to the penalty of ₹6.17 lakh, till the date of payment, pointed out the authority. Rajesh Kumar Tyagi, secretary, UP RERA, passed the order on a complaint filed by Alok Singh of Parsvnath Planet. On August 4, 2019, Singh had lodged a complaint with the UP RERA related with non-completion of the project. During this period, several hearings took place in which the regulatory authority directed the promoter to complete pending work of its housing project, the Parsvnath Planet. However, the promoter failed to comply with the orders. Issuing the order on January 11 this year, UP RERA secretary also directed the developer to submit a written explanation on non–compliance of its earlier orders related with completion of the project. The RERA also directed the developer to submit a plan for completing pending work. The developer was not available for comment despite attempts made in this regard. According to Section 63 of the RERA Act, if a promoter fails to comply with any orders of the authority, then a penalty could be levied on the basis of each day of default. The penalty could be up to 5% of the cost of the project. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/incomplete-project-up-rera-imposes-penalty-on-developer-101643302438306.html
27-01-2022||Patna||Bihar Governor slams vigilance probe in state varsities, says creating ‘fear on campuses’||Amid the ongoing vigilance probe into alleged corruption in universities in Bihar in which premises of a serving vice chancellor were also searched, Governor Phagu Chouhan, who is the ex officio Chancellor of state universities, has shot off a strongly-worded letter to the state government, accusing it of bypassing the Raj Bhawan and “creating an atmosphere of fear on the campuses”. The letter comes two months after the Special Vigilance Unit (SVU), which comes under the home department headed by chief minister Nitish Kumar himself, searched the premises of Magadh University vice chancellor Rajendra Prasad in a corruption case, the first such action against a serving vice chancellor in the state. In a letter to chief secretary Amir Subhani, Governor’s principal secretary Robert L Chongthu has written that the provisions laid down under the Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA), 1988, (amended 2018) were not being followed verbatim and that the same had been brought to the notice of the Chancellor, under whose direction he was writing the letter. “It is not only violation of the Act, but also infringement on the autonomy of universities and creating an atmosphere of fear on the campuses to derail normal functioning,” says the letter, which has been seen by HT.The letter written on Monday, the day when a special Patna court rejected Prasad’s anticipatory bail plea, follows the previous letter the Raj Bhawan had sent on December 30. The Raj Bhawan has so far not removed Prasad, who had proceeded on medical leave after the raids on his residences in Bodh Gaya and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh in an alleged ₹30-crore corruption case.“We will examine the letter,” Subhani said.“The SVU is directly approaching different universities for documents related to important decisions and financial matters, while the Act stipulates a proper channel has to be followed in such matters for prior sanction from competent authority,” Chongthu has written, adding prior sanction from a competent authority was necessary for the SVU before taking any such action.Citing the provisions, he has written, “No police officer can conduct any inquiry into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under the Act, where the alleged offence is related to any recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of his official functions or duties, without the previous approval”.“... With respect to universities, Chancellor is the competent authority. Taking action against university officials without prior sanction is not only wrong, but is also unnecessarily creating an atmosphere of fear on the campuses and hampering normal work and academic atmosphere,” he has written.Senior advocate RK Giri, who is also the counsel for the Raj Bhawan, said the provisions were clear in the amended PCA. “The insertion of Section 17 A (added in 2018) is to protect public servants in the bonafide discharge of official functions or duties. Even for any inquiry, prior sanction has to be taken. There have been court judgments also on this. How can SVU proceed with its decision to carry out searches without prior sanction? Whose sanction did it obtain?,” he said.SVU had earlier written to several universities, including Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU), JP University (Chapra) and BRA Bihar University (Muzaffarpur), seeking information on bulk purchases related to examination/ university since January 2019 and other details, including total number of students who appeared in the university exams, total number of OMR sheets and rate per OMR sheet along with copy of agreement with the suppliers/agencies. The information, the SVU stated, was being sought with reference to the confidential inquiry in the case against MU VC. Meanwhile, Pataliputra University (Patna) vice chancellor RK Singh was on Monday given additional charge of Magadh University till VC Prasad returns from his medical leave, as per a notification issued by the Raj Bhawan. 
27-01-2022||Patna||Oppn backs Bihar bandh call by rly job aspirants today, police on high alert||A high alert has been sounded across Bihar in view of the shutdown call given by the All India Students Association (AISA) and other political outfits for Friday in protest against alleged irregularities in Railway Recruitment Board’s (RRB) NTPC exam, police said.The Opposition alliance, led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), has also extended support to the bandh call after a meeting was held at RJD’s office led by the party’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh. Congress leader Rajesh Rathore, CPI (ML) leader Kunal and CPI leader Ram Naresh Pandey attended the meeting on Thursday and extended their support. “The alliance will be actively involved to make the bandh successful. However, we have urged student’s bodies not to indulge in any kind of violence even if there is provocation,” said Jagdanand.The state police headquarters, in a circular on Thursday, directed all the 38 districts to tighten security measures at vital installations and public places during the bandh. According to police, special contingents are being deployed especially in the north Bihar and Magadh division to maintain law and order. Police have also warned of action against those found spreading rumours to incite violence.The railways, which have been a soft target for agitators, have been provided with adequate security, police said.Additional director general (headquarter) Jitendra Singh Gangwar urged the public not to panic and said that a special team is monitoring the social media. “Whosoever posts controversial content propagating hate will be booked. Police are prepared to deal with any kind of violence, law and order situation. Police are assessing the situation and would ensure that everything passes off peacefully,” he said.ADG (Rail) Nirmal Kumar Azad said that they have urged aspirants not to get influenced and avoid damaging public property. “At least 10 FIRs have been registered against hundreds of student protestors across the state. Eighteen people have been in this connection so far,” Azad said.In the past three days, railway job aspirants have set on fire four empty coaches at Gaya, torched a train compartment at Ara, and set ablaze a rail track maintenance engine at Nawada. The protests started on January 24 after students claimed that there were discrepancies in the RRB recruitment process.“In Patna, an FIR has been lodged against six coaching institutes and 150 unidentified people. So far, police have arrested eight people including some functionaries of coaching institutes, for allegedly provoking students,” said senior SP, Patna, Manavjit Singh Dhillon.
27-01-2022||Patna||6 dead in Buxar in 3rd suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar this year||In yet another suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar where total prohibition on liquor was imposed in April 2016, at least six people have died and three others are battling for life after allegedly consuming spurious liquor at Amasari village in Buxar district late Wednesday, police said.This is the third suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar this year. Earlier, 13 people had died after consuming suspected spurious liquor in Nalanda on January 13 and 18 people had died in Saran on January 18.“Police have identified the place where they consumed the spurious liquor. They have recovered some substances from the spot and have sent them to the forensic science laboratory (FSL) for a test,” said Raj, additional superintendent of police (Dumraon) in Buxar district.He said police received information about the incident around 11.30 pm after the death one Anandi Singh.According to police, the other deceased have been identified as Sukhu Mushar (60), Shiv Mohan Yadav (50), Bhirgu Singh (48), Miku Singh (39), and Ranjit Ram. Three people being treated have been identified as Bunty Singh, Munna Choudhary, and Sanjay Choudhary.According to Dharmendra Singh, elder brother of deceased Miku Singh, his condition deteriorated around 9.45 pm and he died at Dumraon Sadar hospital.Tetri Devi, wife of Sukhu Mushar said, “My husband returned home around 10.30 pm and fell ill around 11.55 pm, complaining of nausea, headache, vomiting, and uneasiness. He died on the way to the hospital.”According to police, one of the deceased Ranjan Ram, a resident of Kariaj, died due to the cold wave . Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir said the preliminary inquiry showed all six died after taking some poisonous substance. He, however, said the only forensic report would confirm whether they have consumed hooch or not. “A probe team has been constituted under the supervision of excise superintendent and a detailed report has been sought”, he said.Suspected hooch deaths this yearJan 13: 13 deaths in NalandaJan 18: 18 deaths in SaranJan 27: 6 deaths in Buxar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/6-dead-in-buxar-in-3rd-suspected-hooch-tragedy-in-bihar-this-year-101643301180527.html
27-01-2022||Patna||Named in FIR, top tutor denies role in violence by rly job aspirants||Three days after the Patna police lodged cases against six coaching institutes and 150 unidentified people in connection with the widespread violence and arson during protests by candidates of examinations conducted for non-technical jobs in the railways, Faizal Khan, who runs a very popular coaching institute in the state capital, refuted allegations that he had instigated the students and urged them to maintain peace. Faizal Khan, popularly known as Khan sir, however, admitted he had started a digital movement. “Later, I came to know that students were angry by the results of the exams for non-technical popular category (NTPC) jobs conducted by the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB). I I appealed to them to stop agitating. If there is a fault from RRB side, they should also have talked to the students to find a remedy,” he said. He also released a video in which he had appealed to aspirants to keep their movement peaceful. Patna district magistrate Dr Chandrashekhar Singh said the FIR (first information report) against six coaching institutes was lodged on the statement made by four students arrested on Monday for violence. “Some WhatsApp chats and videos posted on social media were also examined,” he said.Since Monday this week, thousands of RRB aspirants have been agitating against the alleged irregularities in NTPC exam results. They have clashed with police and damaged railway properties at Gaya, Jehanabad, Bhagalpur, Sasaram, Samastipur and Chapra.On Wednesday, four bogies of an empty train were set on fire and train services disrupted in many parts of Bihar for the third consecutive day. Meanwhile, DM Singh and senior superintendent of police M S Dhillon held a meeting with owners and representatives of coaching institutes in the state capital on Thursday evening and assured them that no biased action would be taken against anybody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/named-in-fir-top-tutor-denies-role-in-violence-by-rly-job-aspirants-101643301178149.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra's Covid tally continues to dip with 25,425 cases, Mumbai sees decline too||Maharashtra on Thursday witnessed yet another decline in its daily Covid-19 case count as 25,425 people tested positive for the disease, according to the state health bulletin data. Of these, Mumbai accounted for 1,384 of the cases, down from Wednesday's 1,858. Following the latest figures, the overall case tally of the western state has reached 76,30,606.The number of new fatalities in Maharashtra also saw a sharp drop to 42 in the last 24 hours as opposed to 79 on Wednesday. Mumbai too reported one fewer death due to Covid-19 after as many as 12 patients succumbed to the disease, down from 13 the day before. The state's cumulative death toll currently stands at 1,42,358, of which, Mumbai accounts for 16,581.The only negative sign in the latest figures is the fewer number of fresh recoveries in Maharashtra. A total of 36,708 individuals recuperated from Covid-19 on Thursday, down from Wednesday's 39,857. However, the same doesn't hold true for Mumbai, which saw a massive spike in new recoveries - from 1,656 on Wednesday to 5,686 on Thursday, according to bulletin data by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Maharashtra also reported 72 new Omicron cases, with 33 of them reported from Pune, 19 from Aurangabad, five each from Mumbai and Osmanabad, three from Thane, two each from Ahmednagar and Yavatmal, and one each from rural Pune, Latur and Nagpur. Since the outbreak of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, as many as 2,930 patients have been detected with the strain in Maharashtra, of which, a total of 1,592 have already recovered.Notably, physical classes for students of grades 1 to 12 resumed in Maharashtra on Monday after the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government last week announced the resumption of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-19-tally-continues-to-decline-with-25-425-cases-101643296809547.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||As Covid-19 cases decline, demand for self-test drops||As Mumbai reports a steady decline in daily Covid-19 cases, chemists have also recorded a drop in the sales of home self-testing kits over the past week. Chemists said they have been cautious about excess ordering the kits, well aware that the demand may fluctuate suddenly. “There is no return policy for these kits, so most chemists have ordered stocks that would last for a short term,” Hakim Kapasi, who runs a chemist shop in Marol, said. “I was selling at least 100 self-test kits daily in the first two weeks of January, but now I am barely selling eight to nine a day.” “People could have also hoarded a lot of kits in the beginning,” said Kapasi, a member of the Andheri Chemist Association with over 400 members. The availability of self-test kits during the third wave of the pandemic distorted the true picture, as a large number of patients have likely tested positive but have not updated their reports on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) did take a note of this discrepancy and last week mandated the chemists to take down the names, addresses, and contact details of the people who bought the kits. However, the daily cases had already begun declining by then. “We have started sending the details to the BMC and the FDA every day. It’s easier now because the sales are very low,” said Kapasi. Vaibhav Pitalia, who runs New Empire Chemist in Vile Parle, said he was selling over 125 kits in early January and the highest sales were on January 4, 5 and 6. “Now, I am selling a maximum of 10 kits a day.” Mumbai’s test positivity rate (TPR) on January 7 was 29% and dropped to 21% on January 14. On Thursday, the city recorded 1,384 cases and its TPR further declined to 3.2%. City doctors have also seen a drop in their Covid-19 consultations, even as there is a spurt in flu cases due to the dip in temperature over the past few days. “It has been difficult to differentiate between Covid-19 and regular season flu as both have same symptoms,” said physician Dr Pratit Samdani who practises in south Mumbai. “I start patients on immediate treatment, but I prefer a RT-PCR test to confirm or rule out Covid-19,” said Samdani who was consulting over 25 Covid19-related cases in the first two weeks of January, and has now seen a 50% drop in such consultations. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also on Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, has also recorded a 10% drop in Covid19-related consultations. “There is a slight drop but many patients continue to come with a positive home test result,” he said, adding that ICU admissions have not reduced. “It’s too soon to say that the wave is waning because so much self-testing is happening in the community. It’s best to wait till February-end to analyse the situation in Mumbai,” he said. Seven self-test kits have been approved by the ICMR including Coviself by Mylab, CoviFind by Meril Diagnostics, and PanBio by Abbott. Mylab’s managing director and co-founder Hasmukh Rawal said they have not recorded any decline in the sales as of now. “The sales and the number of cases do not always have a real-time relationship. There can be a lag due to the distribution channel and many other factors such as customers wanting to purchase the kits for future use.” According to BMC officials, of the total cases being reported every day, around 2% are of those from home testing. As per data, between January 1 and 24, a total of 1,98,000 people have uploaded their test results of whom 4,397 are positive. The daily contribution of cases out of home testing kits is not much to result in a spike in the near future, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-covid-19-cases-decline-demand-for-self-test-drops-101643298123169.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||3 girls aged 3-6 years killed as truck overturns on hut in Bhiwandi||Three girls aged six, four and three years, died after a truck overturned while unloading coal and fell on their hut in Bhiwandi on Tuesday night. The Bhiwandi Taluka police have booked four accused in connection with the incident, charging them with culpable homicide not amounting to murder.According to police officials, the incident occurred at around 7.45pm on Tuesday at a brick kiln in the Tembavli village in Bhiwandi.“The coal was being removed from the truck with the help of a hydraulic crane. During this process, one of the shock absorbers of the truck suddenly gave way, causing it to tilt. Due to the load that the truck was carrying in its bed, it turned on its side and crashed onto a hut next to the kiln, trapping its occupants underneath,” an officer with the Bhiwandi Taluka police station said.The officer added that one of the kiln’s labourers, Balaram Walvi (40), used to sleep in the hut with his family at night. When the truck collapsed, Balaram, his wife and three daughters were trapped under the coal that spilled out of the truck’s bed.Other residents of the area, who had heard the crash, rushed over to help and removed the coal, after which the Walvis were rushed to the IGM Hospital in Bhiwandi. Meanwhile, the truck driver fled when people started venting their ire by pelting the truck with stones.Walvi’s daughters, Lavanya (6 years), Amisha (4) and Kirti (3) were declared dead before admission while Balaram and his wife were discharged after being treated for injuries. The Bhiwandi Taluka police subsequently registered an FIR on Wednesday.“We have booked the truck owner and driver, the kiln owner and the kiln employee who had ordered the coal. Inquiries so far indicate that Walvi had repeatedly requested the kiln owner not to unload the coal so close to his house on previous occasions, but this was not heeded,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-girls-aged-3-6-years-killed-as-truck-overturns-on-hut-in-bhiwandi-101643297577427.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||At 4,291, Delhi's Covid tally further dips; case positivity rate goes below 9.5%||Delhi on Thursday reported a dip in single-day cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 4,291 fresh infections, a decline of 3,207 from Wednesday's 7,498, according to the health bulletin data. The cumulative caseload of the national capital has now touched 18,15,288.The case positivity rate of the city witnessed a further decline to 9.56%, the health bulletin data revealed. It was 10.59% on Wednesday and 10.55% the day before.Fresh recoveries and fatalities, however, tumbled after showing positive signs on Wednesday. As per Thursday's bulletin, as many as 9,397 people recuperated from Covid-19, down from 11,164 on the preceding day. Meanwhile, a total of 34 patients succumbed to the virus in last 24 hours, compared to 29 on Wednesday. After today's figures, the total number of individuals to have recovered from the virus stands at 17,56,369, while the overall death Covid-19 death toll of the national capital has reached 25,744.Also Read | Delhi homeless shelters packed to the rafters amid record-breaking winterThe number of patients hospitalised due to Covid-19 across Delhi maintains its downward trend, with current data showing as many as 2,028 people are admitted, down from 2,137 on Wednesday and 2,304 on Tuesday.Earlier in the day, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided to lift the weekend curfew and odd-even curbs in markets and shops in wake of declining cases across the national capital.Cinema halls as well as restaurants and bars have been permitted to function with 50% capacity, while Delhi government offices handling non-essential services can operate with an upper limit of 50% attendance. The night curfew between 10pm and 5am will, however, remain in place. All educational institutions, including schools, colleges and universities, will also stay shut till further orders. A decision on the reopening of these institutions will be made at the next meeting of the DDMA.The fresh orders will come into effect in Delhi only after the DDMA issues a formal order, which is yet to be released. Till then, the existing Covid-19 restrictions will remain in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-4-291-delhi-s-covid-tally-further-dips-case-positivity-rate-goes-below-95-101643293477126.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||Activists blame concretisation of Gauripada Lake walls for death of turtles in Kalyan||Even as the official cause for the death of the turtles in Kalyan’s Gauripada Lake is still unknown, animal rescuers and activists from the city have blamed the concretisation of the lake walls in the name of beautification for the incident.While for the sixth consecutive day, dead turtles are still being pulled out of the Lake, greens claimed that the civic authorities have left no place for these turtles for basking while beautifying the lake.Experts claim that turtles usually suffer from shell deformity, low bone density and digestive issues if they do not bask enough in the sunlight.“There is no proper sunlight penetrating into the lake water and due to the concrete walls built, there is also no proper space left for the turtles for basking. If the turtles don’t bask, their health is affected. Whenever a lake is developed or preserved, it is very necessary to ensure the requirements of the species living in the water. The civic body should plan the construction along the lake side keeping this in mind,” said Suhas Pawar, secretary, Wild Animal and Reptile Rescue (WARR).As per the animal rescuers and the forest department officials, the Indian flapshell turtles have been in the lake for several years.“These turtles naturally exist in the lake. However, some exotic turtles are also released into this lake. The lake is very old and people have been fishing actively here for decades,” said Pawar.Shashim Kedar, deputy engineer of KDMC, agreed that there is no basking place for the turtles at the lake and claimed that it is a good suggestion that they can adopt in the near future.“Two years back, before the pandemic, we had built the retaining wall for the lake. Also, nullah water that was entering the lake was diverted. There is another work of drainage on the main road that will also be done once the funds are allotted. However, it is true that we had not thought of a specific place for basking for the species. Henceforth, we will take the suggestion into consideration,” said Kedar.Since the last week, 58 dead turtles were removed from the lake by the forest department, while on Thursday, three more dead turtles were removed. The department also rescued 14 turtles alive, out of which four were exotic ones.“We are still removing the dead turtles from the lake. On Thursday, three more were found dead. Meanwhile, the cause of death is yet to be ascertained as we are still awaiting the reports from the laboratory. We have also written to the civic body to clean the water and ensure no more species die due to polluted or contaminated water,” said RN Channe, forest range officer, Kalyan.Earlier, the Gauripada Lake was a source of drinking water for the residents of Gauripada. However, the lake has turned unclean since the past few years due to waste dumping activities and lack of cleaning work by the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).More than 100-year-old Gauripada Lake, sprawls in a 22,915sqm area. The lake has a temple at one side, a children’s play area, seating area for the public and the other side is where the local fishermen carry out fishing for their living. It is one of the hangout places for residents of Kalyan (W), where people go for walking, jogging and pass time during morning and evening hours.“In the last few years, the local residents have started dumping waste on the sides of the lake that has led to pollution in the water. The civic body does not clean the lake or its banks regularly. Once, a board was also put up warning of a fine to be imposed if anyone dumped waste into the lake. However, it was not effective and the dumping activity continued,” said Rajesh Mishra, 39, a local resident.“I have seen the fish and turtles in the lake since my childhood. The incident is something that needs detailed inspection and action that the authorities are neglecting,” said Ravindra Erande, a 25-year-old social activist from Kalyan.
27-01-2022||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders action against officers failing to maintain CCTVs in police stations||Mumbai: The Bombay High Court has directed the Maharashtra chief secretary to take stern action against senior police inspectors of police stations that do not comply with the Supreme Court’s order which stipulated installing CCTV systems in all police stations and maintaining the recordings with regular backups.The HC issued the directions after it was informed that CCTVs inside a Nashik police station was not functional for two months. The court had sought the footage after it was told that a notice to maintain law and order issued by the police station to a complainant was fabricated and backdated after the petitioner approached the court. The petitioner approached the HC challenging the notice issued to him by Sinnar Police Station under section 149 (for prevention of cognizable offence) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).The division bench of Justices SJ Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav, while hearing the petition filed by Somnath Giri and another through advocate JM Inamdar, was informed that the notice issued to his clients on January 8, 2022, was arbitrary. It claimed that the notice was issued after the police received a complaint against the petitioners.In an earlier hearing, the police, represented by advocate Shruti Vyas, had informed the bench that the notice was issued to complainant as well and hence, could not be termed as arbitrary. It had also placed a copy of the notice sent to the complainant before the bench.After going through the letter, the bench concluded that the notice was issued at a later date but was back-dated as the petitioner had approached the HC. It asked the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Nashik (rural), to be present before the bench on January 25. The bench sought to know why there was a difference between the letters to both parties if they were issued at the same time as claimed by the police officials.As the police officers were unable to reply, the court asked the station officer to produce the station diary and CCTV footage of the police station, to which it was told that the system was not operational for two months. On hearing the submission, the HC referred to a December 2020 order of the Supreme Court (SC) which reiterated the stipulation of a previous SC order wherein every police station in every state had to have CCTV installed and regular review of the footage was to be done by concerned officials.“Pursuant to the directions of the Supreme Court, the CCTV systems are installed in the police stations, merely by way of compliance to the Order, but the same are intentionally either not maintained properly to serve the purpose it is meant to serve, or are deliberately kept non-functional so that no evidence would be available in any matter, and no one is any the wiser as to what transpired at the police stations,” observed the bench.The bench thereafter directed the CS to prepare a report of the functional CCTVs in police stations in the state and to submit them to HC by February 15. The bench also directed the rectification of the non-functional CCTV systems and the duration for which the data is recorded, and steps taken for backing up the data. The matter was posted for hearing on January 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-action-against-officers-failing-to-maintain-cctvs-in-police-stations-101643293918246.html
27-01-2022||Pune||For property tax payers, Pune Municipal Corporation to provide accident cover of ₹5 lakh||PUNE Soon, owners of residential properties within the jurisdiction of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), who pay property tax to the civic body, would get a cover of ₹5 lakh under an insurance scheme by the PMC, for financial assistance in case of accidental deaths. The civic body has brought the scheme for 9.47 lakh property tax payers.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The PMC is implementing accident insurance scheme for 9.47 lakh property owners who are paying tax regularly. This scheme is known as Pandit Deendayal Upadyay accidental insurance scheme.”PMC brought the insurance from United India Insurance company. A total ₹4.02 crore premium will be paid. The cost of every family’s premium amount is ₹42.48. The tax payers and people living in slums and paying service fees to the PMC are liable to take benefit of the scheme, said officials.The scheme would include cover for accidental deaths, permanent total disablement as well as permanent partial disablement. For an accidental death, the family can claim ₹5 lakh compensation. Compensation of ₹2 lakh can be claimed for treatment expenditure.The insurance cover can be utilised only once in a year, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/for-property-tax-payers-pune-municipal-corporation-to-provide-accident-cover-of-5-lakh-101643293858537.html
27-01-2022||Lucknow||Maya fields Dalit party workers against Akhilesh and Shivpal||LUCKNOW The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has fielded Dalit party workers against Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle – Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) chief Shivpal Singh Yadav. BSP’s Kuldeep Narayan will contest against the SP president from the Karhal seat while Brajendra Pratap Singh will contest against the PSP chief from Jaswantnagar assembly seat.Both Karhal and Jaswantnagar are unreserved seats – considered the stronghold of the Samajwadi Party. The SP has been winning Karhal and Jaswantnagar seats in consecutive assembly elections since 1993. “Considered committed and loyal party workers, Narayan and Singh will be contesting the assembly elections for the first time. Both belong to the Jatav community and have been working for the party at the grassroots level, strengthening the support base of the party in Mainpuri and Etawah,” said a BSP leader. To give a message to the party cadre that committed workers will be given preference in the assembly elections, BSP chief Mayawati decided to field Kuldeep Narayan and Brajendra Pratap Singh against the political heavyweights. The BSP hopes to mobilise the young party cadre when several senior leaders had deserted the party, he said. Mayawati on Thursday released the party’s list of 53 candidates for the third phase of UP assembly elections where polling will be held on February 20 in 59 assembly constituencies in 11 districts. Among the 11 districts - Mainpuri, Etawah, Firozabad, Etah, Hathras, Kasganj, Kannauj, Farrukhabad and Auraiya are called the ‘Yadavland of Uttar Pradesh’. They have been a stronghold of the Samajwadi Party. Among the 53 candidates, 18 belong to the other backward classes (OBCs), 17 are Dalits, 15 belong to the upper caste and three are Muslims. The 11 districts (in which third phase assembly election will be held) have a large backward and Dalit population. Keeping caste equations in consideration, the BSP chief has fielded maximum candidates from both the communities. Under the social engineering formula, Brahmin and Rajput candidates have been fielded in the upper caste majority seats, said the BSP leader. The BSP announced candidates for six assembly seats in which election will be held in the second phase. Yusuf Khan has been given ticket from Nawabganj, Shalini Singh from Faridpur and Brahmanand Sharma from Bareilly, Chandraketu Maurya has been fielded from Shahjahanpur assembly seat, Mohammad Rizwan from Kundarki and Moolchandra Chauhan from Dhampur assembly seat. BSP chief Mayawati will launch the party’s election campaign from Agra on February 2 by addressing a public meeting. 
27-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation vaccinates 63% of target in 15-18 years age group against Covid||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has vaccinated 63% of the target population in the 15 to 18 years age group with the first dose this month.As per the KDMC, out of the 256 schools and colleges in its vicinity, the civic body has managed to cover 236 schools and colleges so far in the drive. Out of the 70,000 target for the age group of 15 to 18 years, KDMC has vaccinated 44,122 so far at its six centres.“Initially, when the vaccination for this age group began, there was less response. However, within a week, it picked up. The only hurdle we faced was collecting the data of the students from schools and colleges if they are vaccinated already. We are trying to finish as much as vaccination for this age group within a short period of time,” said Ganesh Doiphode, officer in-charge for vaccination, KDMC.In the overall vaccination category, the civic body has managed to vaccinate 10.86 lakh of the 13.59 lakh population with the first dose, covering 79.87% of the target.Meanwhile, the civic body has given the second dose to 9.46 lakh till date, which is 87 % of those who have taken the first dose and 69% of the total targeted population.“Our main focus is to reach out to those who have not taken both the doses for some reason. We are making announcements in such areas or localities. We are also taking the help of community leaders to help convince such residents,” added Doiphode.Since the civic body started giving the booster precautionary dose for the targeted 22,651 beneficiaries, the civic body has managed to give it to 9,973 of them.
27-01-2022||Mumbai||R-Day revelry turns tragic: Man rams car into tourists on Dahanu beach||Republic Day celebrations turned into a tragedy at Chinchani beach in Dahanu after a man rammed his car into a crowd of people gathered at snack stalls on Wednesday. The accident left a 68-year- old woman dead, while 11 injured were admitted to a hospital in Boisar.Instead of pressing the brake, a Boisar resident,  Sanjay Zope (54), pressed the accelerator and slammed his car into a crowd of revellers at the beach.“The car dashed against a few food carts and rammed into people who were sitting on the chairs enjoying their snacks,” said API Srikant Koli of Vangaon police station.As the injured were rushed to a nearby Primary Health Centre (PHC) for treatment, enraged locals went on a rampage and destroyed the car and thrashed the driver as well as his co-passenger.Among the injured, the condition of Khatoon Nooraluddah Mansoori (68) and her daughter Nasima (45) was serious so they had to be shifted to a Boisar hospital,15 km away. However, the ambulance driver was not available due to the public holiday so a TV journalist, Pravin Babre, who was covering the news, offered to help. After getting permission from the doctor, he drove the ambulance and rushed the two women to a Boisar hospital.At the hospital, Mansoori was declared dead on arrival, while Nasima was admitted. In the same ambulance, Babre drove Mansoori’s body to the Tarapur PHC, where a post mortem was conducted.API Koli said that Zope was arrested under Sections 304(a) (causing death by negligence),337,338 (causing hurt) of the IPC and Section 184 of MV Act based on the complaint by Mohammed Imran Mansoori, son of the victim.“We have seized the car which belongs to Liladhar Ragho Patil and the investigation is ongoing. The accused was used to driving a manual car but was not acquainted with an automatic car (as there is no clutch) and lost control while trying to avoid a biker. Instead of the brake, he pressed the accelerator twice and rammed into a few food carts,” Koli added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rday-revelry-turns-tragic-man-rams-car-into-tourists-on-dahanu-beach-101643293560303.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Cooler nights & days in Pune till January end: IMD||According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), nights will be cooler till the end of January. As per the forecast issued by the weather department, night temperatures in Pune city are likely to remain between 10 and 12 degree Celsius till January 31. Minimum temperatures as well will continue to remain in single digits. On Thursday, the city reported night temperatures as low as 9.8 degrees Celsius. A day before on Wednesday, the city reported an even lower night temperature of 9.4 degrees Celsius. On Tuesday, Pune reported the lowest minimum temperature of the season at 8.5 degrees Celsius.About the weather, Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department, said that the day temperature is likely to remain around 27 to 28 degrees Celsius. “The day temperature is likely to remain cooler than normal. The night temperature is also not expected to increase more than 12 degrees Celsius in the next few days. There is a cold wave-like situation in Vidarbha till January 28. However, other parts of the state are likely not to experience cold wave-like conditions. Days and nights might feel cooler which is usual for the month of January,” Kashyapi said.While the dust storm has passed, the air quality has not improved much in Pune city. According to scientists, the air quality index (AQI) continues to remain in the poor to very poor category in most parts of the city.B S Murthy, director of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said that Pune city has poor AQI but it is likely to improve in the next two days.“The AQI of Pune was ‘poor’ at 259 on Thursday and is likely to improve to ‘moderate’ over the next few days. The air quality deteriorated due to the dust storm not just in Pune but other parts of the state as well. However, it will improve soon,” said Murthy.As the temperature drops, the air quality also deteriorates, said officials from IITM.On Thursday evening, Shivajinagar reported very poor AQI at 322, Lohegaon reported very poor AQI at 306, Hadapsar reported poor AQI at 276, Bhosari reported very poor AQI at 304, Nigadi reported poor AQI at 273, Kothrud reported poor AQI at 280, and Bhumkar Chowk reported poor AQI at 235.Alandi, Pashan and Katraj reported moderate air quality on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cooler-nights-days-in-pune-till-january-end-imd-101643292596893.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Special ward for burn and paralysis patients at PMC’s Sonawane hospital||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to construct a speciality department for burn and paralysis patients at Sonawane Hospital, which is run by the civic body.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “It has been a long time demand to start a special facility for burn and paralysis patients. With the help of an NGO, the PMC will start the service at Chandumama Sonawane Hospital. The facility here will be cheaper than the Central government health scheme.”The Pune Municipal Corporation will provide the health infrastructure required for the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and other equipments and manpower will be provided by the NGO, said PMC officials.A few private hospitals have the facility, but the civic body did not have any special ward in the hospitals that are run by them. This facility will be helpful for the citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/special-ward-for-burn-and-paralysis-patients-at-pmc-s-sonawane-hospital-101643292298586.html
27-01-2022||Patna||‘Read our order’: SC refuses to cancel bail of 40 under Bihar prohibition law||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to entertain a plea by the Bihar government against the grant of bail to more than three dozen accused charged under the state’s liquor prohibition law.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana shot down the request made by the state government to clarify its order of January 11 when the court affirmed the bail granted to almost 40 accused booked under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016.“We are not going to recall or modify our order. Bails were granted to the accused more than two years ago and now you want us to interfere. We are not inclined to entertain any plea by the state government,” the bench, which included justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli, told senior advocate Ranjit Kumar.Also Read: 6th year into prohibition, Bihar begins a social audit of liquor ban impactKumar, appearing for the Bihar government, sought to persuade the bench that January 11 order may be cited as a precedent by other accused charged under the prohibition law and this could dilute the rigours of the Act.“There is no provision for anticipatory bail under Section 76 of the Act. We only want this court to say that there is no decision made on Section 76 of the Act,” Kumar argued.But the bench remained unimpressed. “Read our order. What did we say? We said that most of these accused were granted bail three-four years ago and therefore, there is no good ground to send them back to jail now. We also said that prosecution should rather work to prove its case and secure conviction if they are guilty,” the bench told Kumar.Also Read: Bihar considers relaxation in liquor lawThe bench added: “We are not going to say anything about the bail order any more. Also, the constitutionality of the Act is pending before some other bench. So, we are not commenting on the Act. Our order was confined to bail.”With the writing on the wall, Kumar opted to withdraw the state’s application without pressing it any further. On January 11, the bench rejected a clutch of appeals moved by the state government against bail granted to almost 40 accused.Also Read: Prohibition kept Bihar cops busy in 2021, 9 get death for hooch tragedy“Having regard to the fact that in most of the cases three/four years has passed since the bail granted to the respondents by the high court, we are not inclined to interfere with the impugned orders passed by the said court at this stage,” the SC order had said.It had further noted that there was no specific complaint of violation of the bail condition by the accused. “To achieve the object of the Act, the prosecution of the case should be made in all earnestness to secure conviction and punishment,” underscored the bench in its order on January 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/read-our-order-sc-refuses-to-cancel-bail-of-40-under-bihar-prohibition-law-101643291036847.html
27-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP’s polarisation strategy ineffective in western UP?||MEERUT Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders were doing their best to polarise voters in western UP on religious lines ahead of the UP elections but their efforts so far hadn’t yielded results, feel political observers.After the Muzaffarnagagr riots in September 2013, political polarization in the region (Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions) worked magically for the BJP. The party won all 14 Lok Sabha seats in the 2014 elections and registered victory on 51 out of 70 seats of the region in the 2017 Assembly elections though it had won only 11 seats in the 2012 elections. Polarisation in 2017 election gave them a direct benefit of 40 seats, said political observers.But, the party’s “tried and tested strategy” suffered a jolt during the 13-month-long farmers’ movement against the contentious farm laws. The agitation brought the divided farmers’ community on a single platform again, irrespective of caste and religion. The movement also facilitated harmony between Hindus and Muslims, which was hit during the Muzaffarnagar riots, they opined.The RLD’s ‘Bhaichara’ conferences also played a vital role in this direction. Late Ajit Singh organized many such conferences and fielded Samajwadi Party’s Tabassum Begum as RLD’s candidate from Kairana in the Lok Sabha bypoll after the demise of BJP MP Hukum Singh and managed victory of ganna over Jinnah’. After Ajit Singh’s demise, his son Jayant Choudhary carried forward similar ‘Bhaichara’ conferences to promote harmony among people. Under the changed political and social equations, the BJP again decided to try out its old formula of polarization in western UP. Home minister Amit Shah kick-started his party’s election campaign from Kairana and raised the issue of ‘palayan’ (exodus). He met families that migrated and thereafter returned and appreciated UP CM Yogi Adityanath for “improved law and order situation in the area, which gave people a peaceful atmosphere to live in.”But apparently, party leaders’ efforts to polarize voters seem to be coming a cropper now. Villages said: “They now understand the politics of dividing people and would not fall in this trap again.” Maulana Zulfikar, state president of All-India Imams Association, said people had understood divisive politics. He said: “When they (BJP leaders) failed to mobilise people on the issue of exodus, union minister and MP from Muzaffarnagar Sanjeev Baliyan became a sympathizer of Muslims by raising questions over the decision of SP-RLD alliance of not fielding any Muslim candidate on six seats in Muzaffarnagar.” Maulana also believes that “tolerance of Muslims” was also making the saffron party’s efforts to polarize people ineffective. “We have asked people not to react and they are urged to believe in the strength of tolerance,” said Maulana who explained that Mahendra Singh Tikait formed the BKU on the basis of communal harmony and their sons Naresh and Rakesh Tikait eventually revived it by admitting publicly that supporting the BJP in three previous elections was their “big mistake”. Rehana Adeeb who runs an NGO ‘Astitva’ in Muzaffarnagar that works for the welfare of women stated: “We (Muslims) have been told to be patient and not react. This is the key point, which has deprived the BJP of getting any issue to mobilise polarisation.” Adil Choudhary, SP candidate from Meerut seat, reportedly made a comment on Monday: “We would see them after the formation of our government.” Subsequently, saffron party leaders reported the issue to the police, demanding action against him. Tejbeer Singh, a BJP supporter and pradhan of Harshauli village in Muzaffarnagar, opined that the election in the region would eventually be contested on communal lines. He said the farmers’ movement would not have an impact on polls after the withdrawal of three farm bills and 50% reduction in electricity bills. According to him, the BJP will retain power in UP. Singh, however, admitted that the farmers’ movement succeeded in “reviving the broken communal harmony in the region to an extent.”Gulam Mohammad Jaula, a popular farmer leader who was a close aide of farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, also said that Amit Shah’s Kairana visit and his bid to raise the exodus issue won’t be effective. “They won’t be able to do their vicious politics because people have understood their divisive policies,” said Jaula, adding that Muslims will vote for the SP-RLD alliance and not for Hindus or Muslims. Rashtriya Jat Mahasangh state president Rohit Jakhar also believes that the political atmosphere had changed in western UP. He said divisive politics had been exposed and the BJP will suffer loss after three elections of 2014, 2017 and 2019. “People, especially in the rural areas, are not allowing polarisation on the lines of religion. Soon, Jat leaders would be deployed in Muslim areas to mobilise communal harmony during elections,” he added. Political analyst Jamshed Zaidi also opined that the BJP was unable to effect polarisation despite efforts to revive the ‘palayan’ issue in Kairana. He cited examples of Siwalkhas, Khatauli, Purkazi and Shamli constituencies, where BJP candidates and their supporters were chased away during campaigning. Zaidi believes that this political and social change was due to the farmers’ movement and “the ruling party’s weak governance in tackling issues of inflation and unemployment.” S Raju9412366629||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjps-polarisation-strategy-ineffective-in-western-up-101643290976757.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||Greens complain of destruction of mangroves in Thane Creek near Airoli||Environmentalists have expressed concern over destruction of a vast stretch of mangroves in the Thane Creek near the Airoli toll naka.NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan have drawn the attention of the High Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee to the strange phenomenon.NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar, said there should be a top-level investigation into the incident.“Normally, some mangroves wither due to pest attack during winter but the plants regrow on their own, but this kind of perishing of the plants is very strange,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.Environmentalists have suggested that a thorough chemical analysis of the water might give clues to the contamination or pollution, if any.The green groups have earlier brought to the notice of the authorities the dumping of medical waste along the mangroves. Meanwhile, a case of dumping debris on the main road at Ghansoli has come to the notice of environmentalists.Adarsh Reddy, District Forest Officer, Thane, and Member Secretary of the High Court-appointed Mangrove Committee, said, “This particular issue was noticed by Mangrove cell last year and our team is monitoring the area. There might be a number of reasons of which the primary reason could be a hyblaea attack that is reported post monsoon every year. Over a period of time, every season, mangroves are getting affected twice or thrice than what it was observed a decade before. But one probably good thing that is observed is that naturally the species is getting replaced by other mangrove species. The area where these Avicennia trees are found dead has now been taken over by Sonneratia apetala, which is not favoured by hyblaea moths for feeding.”Reddy said that the department is undertaking restoration of the area by planting diversity of other mangrove species that are found locally and all the efforts will be made to restore the area with mangrove vegetation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/greens-complain-of-destruction-of-mangroves-in-thane-creek-near-airoli-101643290796617.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||₹7cr in fake money seized in Mumbai, 7 arrested||Mumbai: Fake Indian currency notes with a face value of ₹7 crore were seized after cops busted an inter-state gang involved in printing and distribution of counterfeit notes.Police officers informed that four gang members were arrested when they were entering the city at Dahisar check post by a car carrying ₹4 crore whereas the other three were arrested from an Andheri hotel with ₹2 crore.The arrested accused have been identified as Wasim Salmani, 29, Sumit Sharma, 32, Pradeep Chaudhari, 28, Manoj Sharma, 39, Israr Ahmed Abdul Salam Qureshi, 42, Aftab Ahmed Ansari, 33, Vinod Vijayan, 39.They are charged for criminal conspiracy and section 489(A), (B), (C) of the Indian penal code. They were produced before a court and remanded to police custody till January 31. A team of unit 11 of the crime branch had laid a trap at Dahisar check post on Wednesday morning after a specific tip off and intercepted the suspected car.“Four people travelling in the car were taken into custody for interrogation. During the search we found a bag containing 250 bundles of counterfeit currency notes of ₹2,000 denomination with a face value of ₹5 crore”, said deputy commissioner of police Sangramsinh Nisandar of the crime branch.During interrogation, the accused revealed that they brought fake currency from Delhi to distribute in the city and a few people had already reached the city with fake notes. Based on the details given by the accused, a team went to a hotel in Andheri (West) and arrested three more persons. During the search, 100 more bundles of fake currency notes of ₹2000 denomination were found. The amount recovered from the hotel was of the face value of ₹2 crore.“Apart from fake notes, we have also seized mobiles phones, laptops and around ₹28,170 in genuine Indian currency. The gang has been operating a racket of printing fake notes and distributing them in many cities including Mumbai,” said Nisandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/7cr-in-fake-money-seized-in-mumbai-7-arrested-101643290376750.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||Bombay High Court-appointed panel refuses to accept CIDCO contention that Panje is not wetland||In a major boost to the environmentalists fighting to save the 289-hectare Panje wetland and biodiversity, the Bombay High Court-appointed Wetlands Committee has refused to accept CIDCO’s contention that the inter-tidal zone is not a wetland.Regarding the NRI and TS Chanakya wetlands in Nerul, the committee referred the issue of violations and choking of the inter-tidal water flow to the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA).At the committee meeting on Tuesday, CIDCO had maintained that Panje is not a wetland and suggested closing complaints about landfill and violations, but panel member, Stalin D, strongly objected and said the city planner cannot sit in judgement on complaints against it. “There is an expert opinion from the then Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) and the MCZMA stating that Panje falls under CRZ 1 and that it has to be conserved,” Stalin said. There is also ample evidence that Panje is a wetland and the property must be protected, he said and offered to present all evidence.The Wetlands Committee then decided not to close the series of complaints pending on violations at Panje and await expert opinion.Welcoming the “positive development,” NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar, said that Panje has all the characteristics of a wetland as defined by the Ramsar Convention. It is also an inter-tidal zone and CIDCO cannot play with it.NatConnect also recalled that the environment sub-committee report on the status of Panje is still awaited for over a year. The then Mangrove and Wetlands Committee’s head, Annasaheb Misal, called for the report in December 2020.Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said the BNHS and several experts are keen to conserve Panje.The MCZMA has said in its affidavit to Bombay High Court that Panje is CRZ 1 area, while the Environment Minister had stalled fresh constructions there.Pawar said, “It has not been notified so far. It doesn’t mean that it’s not a wetland. It’s basically a failure on the part of our system and the concerned authorities responsible for this. In fact, this is the only highly bio-diverse, surviving wetlands left in the entire Navi Mumbai.”Konkan Divisional Commissioner, Vilas Patil, who is the de facto head of both the High Court-appointed committees, also took a strong objection to the procrastination by the respective district committees in resolving complaints of environmental violations and directed them to file their reports.CIDCO refused to comment on the development stating that it is always committed to conserving the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-appointed-panel-refuses-to-accept-cidco-contention-that-panje-is-not-wetland-101643289476695.html
27-01-2022||Mumbai||2 ATS officers attend Malegaon blast trial to ‘help’ NIA; Pragya Thakur objects||MUMBAI: Two officers of Maharashtra’s Anti-Terrorism Squad turned up at a Mumbai court to attend the trial in the 2008 Malegaon bomb blast but had to leave soon after in view of objections from lawyers of some of the accused including Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bhopal MP, Pragya Singh Thakur aka Sadhvi Pragya.The surprise appearance of the two ATS officers comes a fortnight after Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil’s statement that the ATS will appoint a lawyer to assist the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the 2008 Malegaon bomb blast trialMohan Kulkarni and Dinkar Mohite, the two officers who attended Thursday’s proceedings in Mumbai’s special NIA court, investigated the case before the Centre ordered the NIA to take over the probe in 2011.The two officers told special NIA judge Prashant R Sitre that they have verbal orders from their senior officers to attend the trial on a day-to-day basis.Lawyer Jaiprakash Mishra, who is appearing for two of the seven accused in the case, Pragya Singh Thakur and Ajay Rahirkar, however, promptly objected to their presence. Mishra said the ATS officers didn’t have a locus standi in the case and might influence the witnesses if they are present in the court.Viral Babbar, counsel for another accused, Col Prasad Purohit, and other defence lawyers also objected to the presence of the ATS officers.Accused Sameer Kulkarni, however, maintained that the trial should continue in open court, in which anyone can attend the proceedings.To be sure, special judge Sitre’s predecessor, VS Padalkar, in October 2019 rejected requests by NIA to hold the trial in-camera that would have implied that no one other than the accused and their lawyers, prosecution and witnesses can be present. Pragya Thakur had supported NIA on this request but the judge made it clear that he intended to conduct the proceedings in a “transparent manner”.As the defence lawyers objected to the presence of ATS officers, NIA officers told the court that they didn’t have any instructions about the presence of ATS in court and can get back with the agency’s position only after ATS submits a written letter to the court.Thereafter, ATS officers left the court, saying that they will bring a written letter from their seniors to attend the proceedings on the next date of hearing, January 31.Home minister Dilip Walse Patil’s offer to designate lawyers to help NIA was made after multiple witnesses turned hostile in the bomb blast case.Six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped to a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon in north Maharashtra on September 29, 2008.Sayyed Nisar Ahmed, who lost his son Sayyed Azhar Nisar Ahmed, 20, in the blast, has already made a formal request to the judge through his lawyer Shahid Nadeem that NIA take help from the ATS team that once investigated the case.Of the 224 witnesses examined by the prosecution, 16 have turned hostile in the trial which started on November 2, 2018. The prosecution has submitted a list of around 286 witnesses that include doctors, police officials, forensic experts and independent witnesses.The court framed charges against the seven accused for terror, criminal conspiracy and murder under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).The accused facing trial in the case are Col Purohit, politician Pragya Singh Thakur alias Sadhvi Pragya, Major (retired) Ramesh Upadhyay, Ajay Rahirkar, Sudhakar Dwivedi, Sudhakar Chaturvedi and Sameer Kulkarni.Congress leader Arif Naseem Khan met Maharashtra ATS chief Vineet Agarwal on January 13, demanding that the ATS appoint its officers and law officers to join the trial, alleging that NIA was not prosecuting the accused with honesty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-ats-officers-attend-malegaon-blast-trial-to-help-nia-pragya-thakur-objects-101643289058166.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Money laundering case: HC grants bail to Congress leader Sukhpal Khaira||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday allowed the bail plea of Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case on November 11. Also read: Punjab elections: BJP releases second list of 27 candidatesKhaira had moved the court seeking bail on December 13. A Mohali court had dismissed his plea on December 7. The order was passed by the high court bench of justice Sureshwar Thakur. The detailed order is awaited. The central probe agency had raided his premises in March 2021. Proceedings have been initiated in connection with a first information report (FIR) registered in 2015. A court had convicted four persons and by the same order, Khaira was summoned as additional accused. Khaira claimed political vendetta In December 2017, the Supreme Court had stayed his summoning. Khaira, who joined Congress in June 2021, has all along maintained that these proceedings are a part of political vendetta. Khaira claimed that the ED’s action was a case of witch hunt as he had been vocal against the three farm laws, later repealed by the Centre. The ED had initiated proceedings under Prevention of Money Laundering Act in January, even as there was a stay from the Supreme Court in the 2015 matter, he had claimed. The ED on the other hand opposed the bail and further claimed that he was an accomplice of drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers. The ED has also been claiming that he did not cooperate during custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-case-hc-grants-bail-to-congress-leader-sukhpal-khaira-101643284556152.html
27-01-2022||Pune||Bail application of Hinjewadi waqf land case suspect rejected||PUNE A Pune court has rejected the bail application of Mohammmad Ishraq Khan alias Zarip Khan, a prime suspect in ₹9.64 crore Hinjewadi waqf land case, also being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate.Additional Sessions Judge PR Ashturkar observed in his order that the applicant had played a prominent role in the commission of offence.“The account statements filed on record clearly leaves behind every single trail of the flow of money from different accounts. Needless to say, this was as per the instructions of the present applicant only. The government deals which are used for commission of forgery are also yet to be seized. Thus, in a given set of facts and circumstances the presence of the applicant with police for custodial interrogation seems necessary. Without his custodial interrogation, the prosecution case cannot be unfurled thoroughly. Hence, order is application stands rejected,” the judge observed.According to the prosecution, Zarip is the mastermind behind the entire plan and has facilitated economical and other support to the main accused. He gave his reference for opening a new account in the bank and after creating a bogus account of Taboot Trust, Zarip siphoned huge amounts.. He transferred ₹ 27,500,000 in the account of his wife out of which ₹14,500,000 were used to purchase one flat in Privilege Society in Pune, the prosecution stated.The defence counsel argued on behalf of the applicant that he has not committed any offence as alleged. The High Court had granted protection to his wife and son. As such, in the same analogy, the present applicant is also entitled for bail. It was further argued that, applicant is a senior citizen and is ready to co-operate with the investigation. He is also ready to abide by conditions, if any imposed by court while granting bail.BOX: What the FIR statesAccording to the FIR, Taboot Inam Endowment Trust,which is registered with the Waqf board, owns eight hectares 57.1 R land at Gat no. 335/1 in Maan village in Mulshi taluka of Pune district. The state government acquired five hectares 51 R land out of the total land for the Rajiv Gandhi IT Park. The government were supposed to give around ₹9.64 crore to the trust in return and accordingly the government had released an amount of ₹7.73 crore. The amount was siphoned off by the accused who prepared bogus documents and resorted to cheating the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bail-application-of-hinjewadi-waqf-land-case-suspect-rejected-101643284435872.html
27-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP has narrow mindset of making youth sell ‘pakoras’: Mayawati||Amidst continuing unrest among railway job aspirants in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, BSP chief Mayawati on Thursday accused the BJP of having a narrow mindset of making the youth sell “pakoras”.“There has been a huge uproar in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar over UPTNT and now over Railways' RRB-NTPC results, this is a proof of the failure of the governments. Beating up poor and unemployed youths for protesting, and playing with their future is totally unjustified,” she said in a tweet in Hindi.“Due to the wrong policies of the government, poverty and unemployment have reached the peak. Government jobs and reservation facility in them have become secondary. In such a situation, it is unjust to not have the examination even for small government jobs for years. BJP should change its narrow mindset of making the youth sell ‘pakoras’ (snacks)," she added.Mayawati was apparently referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comments during an interview to a TV news channel in 2018 that selling pakoras is also a form of employment and can be seen in the light of “job creation”.Meanwhile, the railways had on Wednesday suspended its Non Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) and Level 1 exams after candidates went on a rampage in some states alleging irregularities in the process, whilst minister Ashwini Vaishnaw urged them not to destroy public property and assured redressal of their grievances.On Tuesday, the railways had issued a general notice, warning its job aspirants that those found involved in vandalism and unlawful activities while protesting would be barred from ever getting recruited in the railways. This came a day after protesters squatted on railway tracks in several places in Bihar.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had also condemned the "repression" of candidates and urged the government to find a solution to their problems through dialogue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-has-narrow-mindset-of-making-youth-sell-pakoras-mayawati-101643278415803.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: BJP releases second list of 27 candidates||The BJP on Thursday released its second list of 27 candidates for the February 20 Punjab assembly elections and decided to field National Commission for Scheduled Caste chairman and former Union minister Vijay Sampla from Phagwara.Also read: Punjab drugs case: SC stays Akali leader Bikram Majithia’s arrest till MondayTwo sitting Congress MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa and Harjot Kamal, who joined the BJP recently, were fielded from Batala and Moga assembly segments, respectively. While Kamal was representing Moga as the Congress MLA in the outgoing assembly, Bajwa is the Qadian legislator and the brother of Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa.The BJP has denied the party ticket to certain old-timers, including former minister Madan Mohan Mittal who was seeking the ticket for his son Arvind Mittal from Anandpur Sahib. Instead, the party fielded a low-profile candidate, Parminder Sharma, from the seat.The party’s active Sikh face, Harjit Grewal, was also denied the ticket from Rajpura, where the party decided to field Jagdish Kumar Jagga, who had contested the previous two elections as an Independent candidate. Jagga joined the BJP only on Wednesday evening.The BJP has given the ticket to National Commission for Minorities and former Indian Police Service officer Iqbal Singh Lalpura from Ropar.The other candidates declared on Thursday are: Seema Kumari from Bhoa, Parminder Singh Gill from Gurdaspur, Kuldeep Singh Kahlon from Dera Baba Nanak, Pardeep Singh Bhullar from Majitha, Kumar Amit Valmiki from Amritsar West, Balwinder Kaur from Attari, Narenderpal Singb Channi from Shahkot, Surinder Mahe from Kartarpur, Sarabjit Singh Makkar from Jalandhar Cantonment, Darshan Singh Shivjot from Chamkaur Sahib, Sanjeev Vashisht from Mohali, Rajneet Singh Gehlewal from Samrala, Parveen Bansal from Ludhiana North, Gurparvez Singh Sandhu from Guru Har Sahai, Vandana Sangwan from Balluana, Rakesh Dhingra from Lambi, Dyal Singh Sodhi from Maur, Dheeraj Kumar from Barnala, Randeep Singh Deol from Dhuri, Gurpreet Singh Shahpur from Nabha, and Vikas Sharma from Ghannaur.So far, the BJP has announced the names of 61 of its 65 candidates.The party is contesting the elections in alliance with Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt).
27-01-2022||Delhi||Kejriwal unfurls 115-ft high tricolour to mark 75th year of independence||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday unfurled a 115-ft high tricolour in Timarpur constituency and said such high-mast national flags were installed at 75 locations across the city to mark 75th year of India's Independence.He said he will get it examined if this qualifies for a Guinness world record.“It is a matter of pride for the country that 75 tricolours on 115-ft high flagpoles have been installed today in Delhi to mark 75th year of our independence. The target is to install total 500 in the next few months," he said at the ceremony organised near Delhi University campus in Timarpur assembly constituency."I have been told that in no city, tricolours (national flags) on flagpoles of this height have been installed on such a large scale. We will get it examined if it qualifies for a Guinness world record,  Kejriwal said.These high-mast national flags are being set up at public places like parks, big school buildings, market complexes, residential complexes, grounds, road roundabouts, among others.  Some of the locations where the 115 ft high tricolours have been installed include AIIMS roundabout, near Signature Bridge, Dhaula Kuan Enclave-2, Mall Road, Outer Ring Road, Pitampura, Delhi Cantonment, Rajiv Gandhi Stadium, near the Azadpur Metro Station, among others.Till August 15, 2021, the PWD had installed high-mast national flags at five locations in the city, that is, at East Kidwai Nagar, Rani Bagh, Patparganj, Kalkaji and Dwarka.The total number of high-mast tricolours in the city is now 80. The chief minister said the aim behind the move is that the national flag is visible to every citizen two to three times a day when they step out for work.“Many a times, we are caught up in our daily lives to an extent that we forget our country and the society. This tricolour will make us remember about those who sacrificed everything for the independence of the country. This will instil a sense of patriotism among people,” he said. The installation of high-mast national flags is being done by the Public Works Department (PWD) under Delhi government's 'Deshbhakti Budget' to celebrate India's 75 year of Independence.Under the project, installation of high-mast tricolours at 500 locations is to be done. Kejriwal said all these 500 flags were to be set up by this Republic Day, but due to ban on construction activities owing to rising pollution and coronavirus pandemic, the project was delayed. “Remaining tricolours will be set up in next few months,” he said.He said these tricolours will be erected in a way that those are visible at every 2-3 kilometres.In March last year, the Delhi government had announced its annual budget themed on patriotism and named Deshbhakti budget under which ₹45 crore were set aside to install high-mast tricolours at 500 locations across the national capital.Later in September last year, the AAP government had increased the budget and approved an amount of ₹104.37 crore for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-unfurls-115-ft-high-tricolour-to-mark-75th-year-of-independence-101643274184746.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi decides to lift weekend curfew, odd-even system for shops||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday afternoon decided to lift the weekend curfew and odd-even restrictions in marketplaces amid an improving Covid-19 situation in the Capital. Cinema halls will also be allowed to reopen with 50% capacity and the Delhi government’s offices engaged in non-essential services will be allowed to work with 50% employee attendance. Schools and educational institutions, however, will still remain closed until further orders and a decision on this front will be taken at the DDMA’s next meeting. Thursday’s decision on the partial easing of curbs in the Capital will be implemented once the DDMA issues a formal order.Also, the daily night curfew from 10pm to 5am will remain in place, but bars and restaurants will be allowed to reopen with 50% capacity, and a maximum of 200 people will be allowed to attend weddings. Experts present at the DDMA meeting suggested a phased reopening of Delhi’s schools. In the first phase, schools from classes 9-12 should be reopened, then classes 5-8 in the second phase, followed by classes 3-4 in the third phase, they advised.“The existing restrictions were discussed at length in the [DDMA] meeting, but it was decided that the government cannot let all curbs end at once. The relaxations will be allowed in a phased manner. The other restrictions will be reviewed in the next meeting, including the reopening of schools,” a source told HT. The Covid-19 test positivity rate in Delhi has been steadily climbing down for the last few days. On Wednesday, Delhi added 7,498 cases, which were 10.59% of the 70,804 tests that were conducted that day, according to the state government’s health bulletin. The DDMA’s meeting on the pandemic situation was attended by top health experts, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, health minister Satyendar Jain, DG ICMR Balram Bhargava and several top officials. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairman of the DDMA, chaired the meeting. Also Read: Canada to relax testing norms to ease travel from IndiaIt was also discussed at the meeting that the curbs come back if the pandemic situation starts deteriorating again.The Delhi government has lately been pushing for the reopening of schools while a growing number of parents are worried about their children’s education being hampered due to the curbs. Schools in the Capital have been closed since December 28. Sisodia on Wednesday said it was crucial to reopen schools as the pandemic-induced closure was widening the learning gap. In Thursday’s DDMA meeting, the Aam Aadmi Party government pushed for the reopening of schools. In Delhi, orders to close private offices were issued on January 11, a day after the city barred the last of non-essential activities, such as dining out. On January 21, the DDMA allowed private offices to reopen with 50% on-site staff, but ordered that weekend and night curfews would continue in the Capital. The DDMA order came despite a request from the Capital’s government that sought the curbs to be rolled back with the Covid-19 situation steadily improving. Traders had been opposing the DDMA’s decision and were demanding that the curbs be lifted immediately. Many trader associations have written to the LG Baijal, seeking the withdrawal of the curbs. Delhi’s BJP leaders also called upon Baijal last Tuesday and demanded that the weekend and night curfew should be withdrawn, while odd-even restrictions should also be lifted. Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trader and Industry, an association of traders, welcomed the decision of the DDMA and thanked the Delhi government for pushing for the lifting of curbs so that the business community gets a relief. “It was making it difficult for traders to survive and keep supporting their staff because many shops could not open for more than two days due to the curbs. Now that the curbs have been lifted, the business community will get relief,” said Goyal. Community medicine experts supported the decision. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said, “The government has taken the right decision to lift the curbs. Since the test positivity rate has been dipping and has reduced to almost 10%, keeping the strict curbs like weekend and night curfew and restrictions on commercial activities was not an ideal move.” During his Republic Day speech, Delhi CM Kejriwal had assured traders that the curbs would be lifted soon. 
27-01-2022||Mumbai||Marathi author, activist Anil Awachat passes away||MUMBAI: Marathi author and social activist Anil Awachat, better known as Baba, died on Thursday. He was 78. Awachat was the founder-director of the Muktangan Rehabilitation Centre in Pune and associated with several social causes.Awachat recently had a fall and fractured his femur. He was hospitalised and operated upon. “Awachat never fully recovered after the surgery and the family decided for the least invasive treatment and brought him home. He breathed his last with all his family and his people near him...,” said Anand Nadkarni, chairman, Muktangan Trust.Awachat is survived by his daughters Mukta Puntambekar and Yashoda. He was from Otur and the eldest of eight brothers. His father wished him to become a doctor.Known for his books including Purnia, Awachat regularly wrote for Marathi magazines and other publications. He also had a stint as a journalist and was known for his reportage.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari condoled Awachat’s death.Thackeray said Awachat was a classic example of creating social work through literature and journalism. “It is painful to have him no more with us.”Koshyari tweeted, “The news of the demise of social worker and founder of ‘Muktangan’ Dr Anil Awachat is saddening. Dr Awachat was an acclaimed writer and journalist who devoted his life to the cause of social transformation through ‘Muktangan’.” He added Awachat saved precious lives and their families by showing them the path of de-addiction. “Through his writings & lectures, he brought to fore the problems of poor & most neglected sections of society. Continuing his unfinished work will be a tribute to the late Dr Awachat.”Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said a multifaceted personality, Awachat lived life to the fullest. “He contributed to the society as a medical expert, journalist, author, painter, sculptor, and social activist and his departure is a big loss to the social, literary, and cultural sphere of the society.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathi-author-activist-anil-awachat-passes-away-101643272852917.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Rahul pays obeisance at Golden Temple, Akal Takht||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, accompanied by party candidates, including chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state unit head Navjot Singh Sidhu, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple before leaving for Jalandhar to address a virtual rally in the run-up to the February 20 assembly elections. Also read: Drugs case: Don’t arrest Majithia till Monday, Supreme Court tells Punjab govtRunning three hours behind schedule, Rahul was given a warm welcome by party candidates in Amritsar after he arrived from Delhi by air on Thursday afternoon. He posed for a group photo with the candidates soon after entering the Golden Temple and headed to pay obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum of Harmandar Sahib. He also prayed at the Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs. Following his visit to the Golden Temple, Rahul paid obeisance at Durgiana Mandir and Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Sthal along with the party candidates in an apparent show of strength.He left for Jalandhar by road where he would address the virtual rally, Navi Soch Nava Punjab, at White Diamond, Mithapur.His rally will be telecast live on all social media platforms from Jalandhar, a party leader said. The state unit and its social media cell have made arrangements with two-way link in 22 districts for party workers and leaders to view his address. The Congress candidates have also made preparations for live telecast of the digital rally in their constituencies. This is the first visit of Rahul Gandhi since the imposition of a ban on physical rallies by the Election Commission of India at the start of the month.Rahul was earlier scheduled to launch the party’s campaign with a public meeting in Moga on January 3 and some party leaders, including cabinet ministers, had also visited the district to select the rally spot. However, the public meeting was later cancelled. 
27-01-2022||Delhi||DDMA Covid-19 meet: No more weekend curfew, odd-even system for shops in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday decided to remove the weekend curfew and odd-even rule for shops in the national capital. The night curfew, however, will remain and schools too will be closed.The decision was taken after a meeting chaired by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to review the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. It was  discussed that the curbs will be clamped again if the situation starts deteriorating.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday decided to remove the weekend curfew and odd-even rule for shops in the national capital. The night curfew, however, will remain and schools too will be closed.The decision was taken after a meeting chaired by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to review the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. It was  discussed that the curbs will be clamped again if the situation starts deteriorating.|#+|Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was also present in the meeting. He pushed for lifting various restrictions so that the traders and business community get a relief.The changes will come into effect only after the order is out. The DDMA is expected to issue the order either by today evening, or Friday morning. Till then, the existing curbs will continue.The DDMA also decided capped the number of people who can attend wedding festivals in the national capital to 200. The bars and restaurants have been directed to operate with 50 per cent of seating capacity.The DDMA directed officials to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols like wearing of mask and following social distancing.“The experts advised to carry out genome sequencing of all samples so that the spread of the variants is known. It was also suggested that hospitalisation analysis must be carried out,” a DDMA official present in the meeting told Hindustan Times. The DDMA also asked authorities to focus on giving booster doses for those eligible as soon as possible.
27-01-2022||Patna||Bihar guv slams vigilance unit for writing to varsities bypassing his office||PATNA: Bihar governor Phagu Chouhan, who is also the chancellor of state universities, has criticised the state’s special vigilance unit (SVU) for directly writing to the universities bypassing his office. In a letter to chief secretary Amir Subhani, Chouhan’s principal secretary Robert L Chongthu cited the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and said they were not being followed. It added it has been brought to the notice of the chancellor and the letter has been written as per his directions. “It is not only violation of the Act, but also infringement on the autonomy of universities and creating an atmosphere of fear on the campuses to derail normal functioning.”The letter came a day after the rejection of anticipatory bail application of Magadh University vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad, who has been on medical leave soon since the raided his residences in Bodh Gaya and Gorakhpur in connection with ₹30-crore corruption case. The SVU is directly approaching universities for documents related to important decisions and financial matters, while the Act stipulates a proper channel to be followed in such matters to obtain prior sanction from competent authority,” the letter said.Subhani said that the letter was being examined.
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||1964 Olympics hockey gold winning team captain Charanjit Singh passes away||Charanjit Singh, the hockey legend under whose captaincy the Indian hockey team won gold medal in 1964 Tokyo Summer Olympics, passed away at his house in Una on Thursday. Also read: Don’t arrest Majithia till Monday, SC tells PunjabHe was 90 and suffering from age-related illnesses. He breathed his last at 5am. Charanjit Singh was born at Mairi in Amb subdivision of Una in Himachal Pradesh (then part of undivided Punjab) on February 3, 1931. He was an alumnus of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. Charanjit Singh was also a part of the team that won the silver medal at the Rome Olympics in 1960 besides the silver in the 1962 Asian Games. The cremation will take place late on Thursday afternoon. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed grief over the death of the legendary player. “Got the sad news of the passing away of Charanjit Singh, a former hockey player from Una and the captain of the Indian hockey team in the 1964 Olympic Games. A Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee, Singh will always inspire the young generation. May the Almighty grant the departed soul eternal peace and give strength to the bereaved family,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1964-olympics-hockey-gold-winning-team-captain-charanjit-singh-passes-away-101643268832940.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Drugs case: Don’t arrest Majithia till Monday, Supreme Court tells Punjab govt||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Punjab government not to arrest Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia in an alleged drugs case till Monday.As a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana agreed to hear Majithia’s appeal against denial of anticipatory bail by the Punjab and Haryana high court, it said the state should wait till it hears the matter on Monday.Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, representing Majithia, mentioned the matter for an urgent listing before the bench, which includes justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli.“This is a case of political vendetta. They want him to be arrested during the election fever,” Rohatgi, assisted by a team of counsel from law firm Karanjawala & Co., complained.“What election fever, Mr Rohatgi? This is election virus. Everyone is rushing to courts now, “ the bench retorted.Rohatgi sought an interim order to protect his client from arrest till the next date of hearing. He added Majithia’s petition for anticipatory bail was rejected on January 24 and he was given protection only for three days. He added it was expiring on Thursday while seeking the protection.Senior advocate P Chidambaram, who appeared for the Punjab government, alleged Majithia has been in hiding since he was refused the relief by the high court.The bench told Chidambaram the state should not take any coercive step against Majithia since the top court has agreed to list his matter for hearing. “Mr Chidambaram, tell your state not to do anything till Monday when we hear him,” said the bench.Chidambaram said he would convey the court’s message to state authorities.The dismissal of Majithia’s bail plea came a day before the filing of nomination papers was to commence in Punjab. Majithia plans to contest from Majitha constituency in Amritsar district.Majithia, who is facing a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, was earlier granted interim bail by the high court on a condition that he will cooperate in the investigation.The state government opposed the continuation of this relief before the high court contending Majithia has not extended full cooperation during the probe.Majithia claimed that the case was registered against him in view of the elections. He added the sole intention of registering it was to take him into custody and torture him.In his appeal filed before the top court, Majithia called the case a blatant abuse of power and linked it to political vengeance ahead of elections. He maintained there is no credible evidence against him and that he has been cooperating with the investigators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-arrest-majithia-till-monday-sc-tells-punjab-101643267692899.html
27-01-2022||Lucknow||UP schools to remain closed till February 15 to contain Covid spread||All schools will remain closed in Uttar Pradesh till February 15 for physical classes, to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), an official order issued by the state government said. Educational institutions were already shut till January 30 in view of the rapidly rising infections.Online classes will continue as usual in view of the upcoming secondary board examinations, announced Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Avnish Kumar Awasthi in the latest notification.Closure of schools and other educational institutions has been extended twice this month. The state government had ordered a shutdown of all schools and colleges on January 16 till January 23, which was extended till January 30.Uttar Pradesh has reported a slight decline in the recent daily numbers of Covid-19 infection, but the tally is still above the 10,000-mark. The state registered 10,937 new cases and 23 deaths, as per the latest available data.State capital Lucknow alone reported 2,096 new cases. The total number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh climbed to 80,342.The government has directed schools to organise vaccination camps in the meantime to vaccinate students of the 15-18 age group. Students will be allowed to visit school premises for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-school-reopening-up-schools-to-remain-closed-till-february-15-to-contain-covid-spread-101643264037133.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab drugs case: SC stays Akali leader Bikram Majithia’s arrest till Monday||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the arrest of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia till Monday in a drugs case registered against him by Punjab Police on December 20. Also read: Rahul Gandhi begins poll campaign in Punjab todayHis lawyers mentioned the case before an SC bench, which in the presence of senior advocate and Punjab counsel P Chidambaram, directed that Majithia will remain protected from arrest till Monday when the petition is to be taken up by the court for hearing, his counsel, Damanvir Sobti said. The development was confirmed by the counsel from the government side as well. HC dismissed bail plea on January 24 On January 24, the Punjab and Haryana high court granted three days’ protection from arrest to Majithia but dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. Majithia had moved the high court after he failed to get anticipatory bail from a Mohali court on December 24. The high court while dismissing the bail plea had observed that that “complete and thorough investigation should not be a casualty in this political slugfest, especially keeping in view the grave and serious charges of drug trade”. “It cannot be denied that the petitioner indeed was at the helm of affairs at the time of occurrence of alleged offence(s),” the high court said. Majithia is the brother-in-law of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who was the Punjab deputy chief minister till 2017. The drug racket case was unearthed in 2013 and allegations against Majithia had cropped up by 2014. The special task force (STF) report, which became the basis of the FIR, was submitted in 2018 in the high court. The drugs case was registered by Punjab Police in Mohali on December 20. He was booked under Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Poll stunt by Congress leaders: Majithia Majithia has been claiming that the FIR is an “election stunt”. He has also accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards him. On the other hand, Punjab Police, have maintained that the government machinery was used for the benefit of drug cartels during the Akali regime in the state. Majithia was a key minister in the Akali government and it was during the SAD’s term that the cartel was unearthed, the police claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-drugs-case-sc-stays-akali-leader-bikram-majithia-s-arrest-till-monday-101643265052162.html
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dense fog envelops many cities in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Thursday, with dense fog reducing visibility in Amritsar and a few other places.Ludhiana, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Adampur and Halwara in Punjab and Karnal and Ambala in Haryana witnessed fog in the morning, a Meteorological Department official here said.  In Punjab, Bathinda reeled under intense cold recording a low of 2.6 degrees C while Faridkot recorded a low of 3.2 degrees Celsius. Amritsar recorded a minimum temperature of 4.2 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological Department's weather report here.Moga experienced a cold night recording a low of 4.1 degrees Celsius while Hoshiarpur recorded a low of 5.9 degrees Celsius, Gurdaspur recorded a low of 6 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana's minimum settled at 5.7 degrees Celsius while Patiala registered a low of 8.6 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 5.2 degrees Celsius while Fatehabad recorded a low 5.3 degrees Celsius.Sirsa experienced a cold night recording a low of 5.2 degrees C while Gurugram's minimum settled at 5.5 degrees Celsius.        Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dense-fog-envelops-many-cities-in-punjab-haryana-101643263304640.html
27-01-2022||Bangalore||Bengaluru’s pollution levels higher than WHO standards: Greenpeace report||BENGALURU: All 10 air quality monitoring stations in the city of Bengaluru have recorded pollution higher than World Health Organisation (WHO) standards, environmental advocacy group Greenpeace has revealed in a grim report.The report underlined cities across India are breathing polluted air and that pollution is not limited to north Indian cities. “India’s report Airpocalypse IV highlighted that more than 80% of cities/towns had PM10 levels exceeding the 60µg/m3 limits for PM10 prescribed under National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) by CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board).”It referred to the annual average values of PM 2.5 and PM 10 at all Bengaluru’s locations and added they are higher than WHO revised standards. “Apart from that, all the stations PM 2.5 values are within the NAAQS standards, and eight stations PM 10 values are higher than NAAQS standards,” said the report titled “Are cities in South India breathing safe air?”The report comes when people in cities are preferring private vehicles to avoid the possibility of contracting Covid- 19 in public transport. It added despite the repeated lockdown on account of the pandemic, the annual average values of PM2.5 and PM10 of all studied 10 south Indian cities exceeded the WHO’s revised standards.With over 12 million population, Bengaluru has nearly 10 million vehicles in an area of around 800 square km. Bad roads, poor planning, and increasing private vehicles have led to the rapid degradation in the quality of life in Bengaluru, which was once known as India’s garden city. The vehicular movement is so slow that the city gained global notoriety when it was adjudged to have the world’s worst traffic, according to a report by the Netherlands-based TomTom index.According to the ninth edition of the Annual Traffic Index by TomTom, a global provider of navigation, traffic, and map products, Bengaluru emerged top of the list beating 415 other cities across 57 countries in 2019.“Bengaluru takes the top spot this year with drivers in the southern Indian city expecting to spend an average of 71% extra travel time stuck in traffic,” said a TomTom report.Vehicular emissions are the biggest contributor to air pollution followed by construction in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengalurus-pollution-levels-higher-than-who-standards-report-101643262711857.html
27-01-2022||Kolkata||Four members of a family killed as open cast coal mine collapses in Bengal||KOLKATA: Four members of a family were killed when a portion of an open cast coal mine collapsed near Asansol in West Bengal on Wednesday. The dead have been identified as Shyamal Bauri, Pinki Bauri, Anna Bauri and Natabar Bauri. One more villager was injured. “We received information that a portion of an open cast mine has collapsed. Later four bodies were recovered. They belong to the same family,” said Abhishek Gupta, deputy commissioner of police.The family lived in a village adjacent to the mine. Dulal Bauri, a relative of the victims, said that the family went inside the mine to extract coal to earn a living.“We got the news that the mine had collapsed and they got buried. Later their bodies were recovered,” said Dulal Bauri.Ruling Trinamool Congress legislator Narendranath Chakraborty said the mine was dangerous as it had no fencing.“It is at least 300 feet deep. It is very dangerous. The mine is located around 150-200 feet from a river where children often play,” Chakraborty said.BJP leader Jitendra Tiwari demanded the immediate arrest of the owners of the mine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/4-of-family-killed-as-coal-mine-collapses-in-bengal-101643257070457.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in ‘poor’ category, mercury likely to plunge to 5 degrees||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality was in the “poor” category on Thursday morning while the mercury was likely to plunge to five degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature was expected to be 17 degrees Celsius.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) was 263 at 7 am. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 186 in the “moderate” category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Thursday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said the foggy conditions and low temperatures, as well as low mixing layer height, were preventing efficient ventilation of pollutants leading to AQI being within the “poor” category” for the two days. “From 29th [Saturday] onwards, AQI is likely to improve due to gradual increase of day temperature enhancing vertical mixing and dilution of near-surface pollutants.”The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 5.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, and the maximum 16.4 degrees Celsius, six degrees below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-poor-category-mercury-likely-to-plunge-to-5-degrees-101643253950707.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi L-G to chair DDMA meet as active Covid caseload dips. What's on agenda?||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will meet today to discuss the further easing of curbs in view of declining cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. The active caseload in Delhi dropped by more than 50% within 12 days after it reached a peak of 94,160 on January 13. During the second Covid wave, it took 21 days for the active caseload to decline by half.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the government will recommend the reopening of schools as excessive caution is now harming students. While the Covid cases and positivity rate are on the decline, Sisodia said, it would not be suitable to keep children away from schools, reported PTI.“During Covid, our priority was children's safety. But since various researches have now found that Covid is not so harmful for kids, it is important to reopen the schools, as now is the time for exams and related preparations," Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, added.Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal will chair the DDMA meeting to discuss the reopening of schools. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will also attend the meeting expected to take place at 12.30pm.Delhi: DDMA releases ₹100 crore more for aid to Covid victims’ kinKejriwal last week proposed the lifting of weekend curfew and restrictions of markets as the national capital witnessed sustained decline but Baijal, chairperson of Delhi’s apex Covid-19 management body, rejected the proposal suggesting status quo till further improvement in the virus situation. He, however, agreed to the government's proposal to allow private offices to function with 50 per cent staff strength.Traders, meanwhile, have been protesting against the restrictions and demanding that the curbs, including the odd-even system on non-essential shops, be lifted.On Wednesday, Delhi reported 7,498 new Covid cases as the daily positivity rate hovered around 10.6%. The active caseload, as per the latest government data, stands at 38,315.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-to-chair-ddma-meet-as-active-covid-caseload-dips-what-s-on-agenda-101643242468919.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Calm in a teacup||Such a small place, but packed with so many points of interests. Delhi’s greatest poet, Mirza Ghalib, is buried here. So is the legendary poet and musician, Amir Khusro. This place is also home to the beautiful tomb of Atgah Khan, a noble in Akbar’s court. The white marble Chausath Khamba, Delhi’s only Jehangir-era architectural souvenir, is also here. Then there is the enigmatic Barakhamba monument. And, of course, the heart of Nizamuddin Basti beats in the Sufi shrine of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, from whom this central Delhi village takes its name.You might have already been to these places. But now you have to come here to have a taste of Delhi’s most amazing chai. Apologies, it is tea - it has no milk. Every evening, Mr Mukhtar walks down the Basti’s lanes with the tea thermos in his hand. Almost every shopkeeper, fakir, flower seller, ittar seller, biryani hawker, barber, labourer, butcher, veggie seller, mask seller and beggar living in the area is a fan of his tea.“It is called lemon tea,” he explains.What’s the big deal? You might wonder. The thing is, it’s not the tea per se, but it’s the crucial embellishments that Mr Mukhtar makes to the piping hot brew.This icy cold evening, while making a customary round of Mirza Ghalib Street, Mr Mukhtar parks himself on one side of the lane (outside a Covid vaccination clinic) and generously reveals his recipe. It is very simple, he says with modesty. “I start the preparation in my room.” He lives in the Basti. “I heat water in a large pan, then I add normal chai patti to it, along with sugar, some black salt, some ginger, some laung and some kaali mirch. Then I keep the whole thing on boil for some time.”The concoction is finally transferred to a thermos that keeps it hot, after which Mr Mukhtar hits the lanes. His final touch to the tea occurs at the point of serving. Right now, attending to a flower seller, he pours the tea into a paper cup — and the steam comes out instantly. He sprinkles a pinch of “jeera and kaalaa namak roasted together”. (The spices go first!)The first sip itself starts the magic. The familiar flavour of lemon tea is interlaced with a soothing whiff of spices that freshens the palate and leaves a nice, pungent sensation in the throat. A feeling of intense relaxation courses through the body. This is just what you needed, you’ll realise.Nevertheless it is astonishing that such a watery spiced tea is managing to survive in a city that celebrates the sweet milky chai, malai maar ke. “They both have their place in the world,” says Mr Mukhtar judiciously.A native of Bihar, he worked in Delhi as a labourer for more than a decade, and started his evening chai service five years ago. He operates daily from 4pm to 8pm. Walk along the Basti lanes and look out for him. He tends to pop up like a djinn from a random turning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/calm-in-a-teacup-101643230390435.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Hansraj students protest ‘cow shelter’||A cow shelter was being set up under the guise of setting up a centre for research on cow products, students of Delhi University’s Hansraj College have alleged.The students, who launched an online petition against the centre, said the college authorities have set up a “gaushala” in the name of Swami Dayanand Cow-Protection and Research Centre on the college premises. They also claimed that the land on which the centre has come up was reserved for a women’s hostel.College principal Rama Sharma refuted the allegations, and said that one cow in a shed doesn’t mean that the college has set up a gaushala.“We only have one cow at the centre for research purposes. Cow dung, cow milk, and other cow products will be used for research at the facility. If we wanted to set up a gaushala, we would have used a bigger area for the facility. We saw that the demand for cow products increased a lot during Covid. Cow dung is being used a lot in many ways nowadays. Our students could engage in cow-related research and innovation. We could start a plant to produce cow-dung rich manure in college or other new interventions,” said Sharma.Members of Students Federation of India (SFI), Hansraj unit, which initiated the online petition, however, said that there was no space for the “gaushala” on a college campus.“We, the students of Hansraj, unconditionally condemn and protest the construction of a gaushala, dubbed as a Swami Dayanand Cow-Protection and Research Centre at the very site which was reserved for a women’s hostel whose construction has been on hold for many years now,” the online petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hansraj-students-protest-cow-shelter-101643230099681.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Now, file FIRs for thefts, burglary online, say cops||In a first, the Delhi Police has started a service to allow first information reports (FIR) to be registered online in the event of house thefts and burglaries in the city.Residents can lodge their complaints under the “Citizen Services” option on the Delhi Police’s website (https://www.delhipolice.nic.in/), following which they will receive a digitally signed copy of the complaint immediately, officials said.Officials said the idea is to ensure FIRs are lodged immediately after an event, which will in turn help facilitate the investigation and speed up documentation. They also hoped it will push the timely disposal of cases.Officers aware of the matter said the FIR will be lodged at e-Police Station, established under the crime branch.“These transformations have made the life of citizens simpler through hassle free registration. It also facilitates speedy investigation and systematic documentation,” said Devesh Chandra Srivastva, special commissioner of police (crime).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/now-file-firs-for-thefts-burglary-online-say-cops-101643229397557.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi adds 7.5k cases as testing hits 12-day high, 10.6% positive||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in the Capital remained largely unchanged on Wednesday, even amid a sharp uptick in testing which pushed new cases up, showed data from the state government.Delhi on Wednesday added 7,498 cases of Covid-19, which were 10.59% of the 70,804 tests that were conducted on the day, showed the state government’s daily health bulletin. Tests picked up significantly from Tuesday, when just over 57,000 samples were collected across the city.
27-01-2022||Delhi||Warmer day, colder night for Capital; Met predicts some respite by Jan-end||A day after recording the city’s coldest January day in nine years, the maximum temperature rose by 4-5°C in most parts of Delhi on Wednesday even as “cold day” and “severe cold day” conditions prevailed in many areas.Also Read | Biting chill but familiar winter fog eludes Delhi, least since 2008Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded a maximum temperature of 16.4°C on Wednesday – six degrees below the normal mark for this time of the year.Narela was Delhi’s coldest location on Wednesday, with the temperature peaking at 14.7°C.It was the third consecutive cold day for Delhi, and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted similar conditions will persist on Thursday as well.The impact of the cold was not just limited to the daytime temperature, however, with Delhi also recording a minimum of 5.8°C on Wednesday – three degrees below the normal mark, and down from 6.2°C a day ago.While IMD has predicted that the city’s maximum temperature will gradually rise to 17-18°C over the next three days, the minimum is expected to hover around 4-5°C, with parts of Delhi still likely to record “cold wave” conditions.Also Read | Delhi homeless shelters packed to the rafters amid record-breaking winterIMD classifies a “cold day” if the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below normal, with the minimum settling below the 10-degree mark. It is a “severe cold day” if the maximum is 6.5 degrees or more below the normal mark. Similarly for “cold wave” conditions to be declared, the minimum temperature should either be 4.5 degrees or more below the normal mark, or it should be 4 degrees Celsius or lower.IMD scientist RK Jenamani said the maximum temperature is expected to rise gradually, with an active western disturbance likely to raise the temperature further from January 28.“By the end of the month, the maximum temperature will touch 19°C, but for the next three days, we may see the minimum fall to around 4-5°C. The maximum temperature may hover around 16-17°C for the next two days, with a rise expected from January 29,” he said, adding that the dip in minimum temperature was a result of colder winds from the snow-clad mountains blowing towards Delhi.Delhi’s average maximum temperature for the month has been hovering at 17.6°C – 2.4 degrees below the normal. Met officials say that at present, Delhi is on course to record its coldest January since 2003, when the average maximum temperature for the month was also 17.6°C.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of just 12.1 degrees on Tuesday, which was 10 degrees below the normal mark. This was Delhi’s coldest day of the season and the coldest January day in the last nine years, since it fell to 9.8°C on January 3, 2013. Data shared by IMD from 1951 showed Tuesday (January 25 this year) ranked as the seventh lowest maximum for January. However, the other six lows came were all recorded between January 1 and 10, making such a late drop in temperature also fairly unusual.Th forecast for Thursday shows Delhi could record a maximum of 17°C at Safdarjung, with the minimum hovering around 5°C.Delhi’s air quality remained in the “poor” category on Wednesday, with an overall 24-hour average AQI of 260, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin. It was marginally lower at 234 on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/warmer-day-colder-night-for-capital-met-predicts-some-respite-by-janend-101643228416046.html
27-01-2022||Noida||Jan 12-18 witnesses highest positivity rate in Ghaziabad||The district has reported the highest weekly test positivity rate during January 12-18 since the first week of December last year when the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic started, according to an analysis of the official records shared by the Ghaziabad health department. The week of January 12-18 had a positivity rate of 15.62% with 69,396 tests yielding 10,843 positive cases, the data shows. The first week (1-7) of December witnessed a positivity rate of just 0.03% and the rate continued to increase in following weeks with the highest recorded during January 12-18. The latest week of January 19-25 ended with lower positivity of 12.77% with 57,012 tests yielding 7,278 positive cases, according to the data. Officials from the district health department said on Wednesday that they are witnessing a declining trend. “During the previous week, the positivity remained high but it has started to decline now. We are witnessing a declining trend, but it is erratic as cases sometimes go up while they come down on other occasions. So, we need to observe the trend further for about a week or 10 days when we can actually say that there is a certain decline. We are focussing more on RT-PCR tests nowadays,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Ghaziabad recorded 504 new Covid-19 cases which took the overall tally to 80,776 since the start of the pandemic while 24,862 of them have come in January this year, according to the state health bulletin. However, the positivity rate declined to 6.54% on Wednesday from 10.83% a day earlier. Now, the district has 3,651 active cases. The district on Wednesday also recorded one more Covid-related fatality of a 51-year-old man from Nandgram locality. The officials said that the patient had comorbidities such as heart disease, hypertension and diabetes. With the death, the overall tally of the deaths has gone up to 468 which include seven in January this year. “In most of the death cases, the aggravating factors are co-morbid conditions and also people aged over 60 years. So, it is vital that this group of people get themselves vaccinated,” said the CMO. Experts said that the cases are definitely on a decline. “It seems that the peak has got over. The cases are still emerging but patients are recovering in 3-4 days with mild symptoms. Those who died were the ones who did not receive any vaccination or had comorbid conditions,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).
27-01-2022||Noida||Two kids die after concrete slab falls on them in Greater Noida||Two children were killed and another was injured after a concrete slab covering a drain collapsed on them in the Dadri area of Greater Noida, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Tuesday evening when the three children were trying to pull out iron bars of the slab from inside the drain, police said.The deceased were identified as Nitesh (11) and Akhil (13), residents of Ghodi Bachhera village in Greater Noida. The injured child has been identified as Akhilesh (12) ), also a resident of Ghodi Bachhera.“The three had come near the drain to take out iron bars from the slabs. Concrete slabs had been put over a large drain flowing along the roadside. After entering the drain, the three children were taking out the bars from a concrete slab but the slab collapsed over them,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.“A local informed police and a team from the Dadri police station reached the spot and rushed the three boys to a hospital. The two children -- Nitesh and Akhil -- succumbed to injuries during treatment. Akhilesh escaped with injuries as he had not entered the drain and was standing near the concrete slab, helping his friends. He is still getting treatment at the hospital,” Pandey said. No complaint in this regard has been received, police said, adding that the bodies have been handed over to the family members after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-kids-die-after-concrete-slab-falls-on-them-in-greater-noida-101643227968305.html
27-01-2022||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate celebrates Republic Day||The Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate on Wednesday celebrated the Republic Day at Police Lines in Surajpur, Greater Noida. A parade was held in which different departments of the force, including women safety wing, bomb squad and special commando team, participated. Addressing a small gathering at the venue, police commissioner Alok Singh enlisted the achievements of the police force and various initiatives taken by the commissionerate in the last one year.“We have started a ‘safe city’ project in the district, under which 1,500 new high resolution CCTV cameras and five drone cameras will be installed at 450 locations. On January 24, we also initiated a project called ‘Nanhe Parinde’. Under this, four vans will go different villages to provide education at the doorstep of children. As of now, 900 underprivileged children have been provided education under the initiative,” said Singh.District magistrate Suhas LY was the chief guest at the event who unfurled the national flag. Addressing the gathering, he said, “Gautam Budh Nagar is a hub of development and new opportunities as it attracts foreign investments. The police force always sets an example for the people on how to face challenges”. He also recited an inspirational poem for the audience.Later, the Uttar Pradesh Police’s Director General’s awards were accorded to police personnel for exceptional services. In Gautam Budh Nagar, additional deputy commissioner of police (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey was accorded the gold medal for gallantry by the police commissioner. Among other personnel in the district, sub-inspector Anuj Kumar, head constables Kuldeep Kumar and Sandeep Malik, and constable Sanjeev Kumar were given the DG’s silver disc for gallantry.
27-01-2022||Noida||Congress candidate hands over affidavit of promises to Greater Noida West residents||The Congress candidate from Dadri assembly seat, Deepak Bhati Chotiwala, on Wednesday handed over an affidavit to residents of Greater Noida West, promising to fulfil their demands if he wins the elections. One of the major demands of voters in this area is the resolution of homebuyers’ issues, which include delays in registration and possession of flats. According to representatives of the Noida Extension Flat Owner’s Welfare Association (NEFOWA) that comprises troubled homebuyers as well as residents of Greater Noida West, there are at least one lakh homebuyers who are either awaiting possession or registration of their flats.The residents’ association had demanded that the Dadri candidates should hand over a list of their promises on an affidavit so that later they are held accountable for it. “We have been suffering for years now. Whenever an election is held, the candidates promise to fulfil our demands but forget about their promises once they are voted to power. Hence, this time, we demanded from all party candidates in Dadri that they should mention their promises in writing on a stamp paper and give the affidavit to us,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of NEFOWA. Chotiwala became the first candidate to comply with the residents’ demand for an affidavit. The affidavit handed over by him says, “I promise to fulfil the following demands of homebuyers if I win the assembly polls. These include resolution of flat registry issues, possession of flats and other issues of the residents.” The Congress candidate said that no matter what the result of the elections is, he will continue to support and help the homebuyers. “I have had several dialogues with homebuyers and members of NEFOWA. It is sad that their issues have not been resolved so far. However, I have taken a pledge to resolve these issues once I win the elections from the Dadri seat. Even if I do not, I will still continue to help them in any capacity I can,” said Chotiwala. Tejpal Nagar of the Bharatiya Janata Party, who currently represents the constituency, was unavailable for comment.Raj Kumar Bhati, Samajwadi Party’s Dadri candidate, said, “Though I have met them, I am not aware of the residents’ demand for an affidavit. But I want to assure the residents that my promises to them are not hollow.”
27-01-2022||Gurugram||HSVP employees asked to resolve complaints, answer RTIs on time||Following complaints by several plot buyers regarding delays in the issuance of completion certificates, transfer permissions and other documents, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) issued directions to its officials to ensure that applications and other services are processed as mandated by the Right to Service Act.The Haryana Right to Service Act is meant to reduce corruption among government officials and to increase transparency and public accountability. It provides a framework for the timebound delivery of services by various government departments. Under this Act, 16 services of HSVP are to be delivered within five to 30 days. For instance, the Act mandates that HSVP should sanction building plans within 30 days, issue completion and occupation certificates within 30 days, accord transfer permissions within 30 days, sanction water supply and sewage connections within 20 days and issue water connections within five days.HSVP also asked officials to promptly reply to Right To Information (RTI) queries and service CM Window complaints timely.In a meeting held last week, Jitender Kumar, estate officer II, directed officials to track CM Window complaints everyday and also ensure that RTI replies are given within the prescribed time. Kumar also said that office work, updating of files and related activities are completed within the Right to Service timeline.During the meeting, the estate officer also directed that recovery of outstanding dues should be tracked daily and the accounts department must issue notices regularly.“Master data of all sectors with details of all plots, demarcated plans, allotted plots, vacant and clear plots, resumed, cancelled and surrendered plots should be prepared from record files,” he said.He also asked HSVP employees to ensure a high level of honesty and integrity. “Any complaint of corrupt practices or their direct or indirect involvement will be viewed seriously,” the estate officer II said in the meeting.“There have been a lot of delays in the transfer permission of properties. The updating of files is not happening and plots under quota are also stuck due to delays,” said Narender Yadav, president, Gurugram Home Developers and Plot Owners Association.Yadav said that the estate management activities of the authority should be streamlined to help allottees. “A large number of plot buyers are expecting the authority to expedite work as repeated visits to their office are not possible due to Covid-related curbs,” he said.Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said that the authority will focus on removing encroachments and clearing the land it owns in the next few months. “The problems faced by people regarding delays will also be resolved. We have been working on clearing the land from encroachments in the last few months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-employees-asked-to-resolve-complaints-answer-rtis-on-time-101643226529807.html
27-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad: Independents have tough fight on hand||As the election campaign for the five assembly seats in Ghaziabad hots up, independent candidates, as well as candidates from lesser-known parties, will face off against heavyweights from well-known political parties.  According to district records, there were only two occasions since 1976-- when the district was created-- when an independent candidate won the assembly elections. The last time was in 2007 when Rajpal Tyagi won the Muradnagar seat by a margin of 3,020 votes against his nearest rival, Wahab (referred to by his first name on the Election Commission of India website), of the Bahujan Samaj Party. Prior to that, Tyagi had won the same seat in 1989, after defeating his nearest rival, also an independent, Vivek (referred to by his first name on the Election Commission website), by a margin of 7,681 votes.Before the district was created, independents in the region had won twice. According to Election Commission records, GS Chaudhri won as an independent in the 1967 assembly elections from the Muradnagar seat, while Meghnath Singh Shishodia won as an independent from the Dasna seat in 1962.This year, Ghaziabad goes to polls on February 10 under phase 1 of the seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly election. The district has five assembly seats of Loni, Muradnagar, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Modinagar--comprising 2,899,484 eligible voters-- including a part of Dhaulana constituency in Hapur district. Before November 14, 1976, Ghaziabad was a tehsil of the Meerut district and included Hapur as well. Hapur was declared a separate district in 2011. This election, only 14 independent candidates, whose nominations were cleared during the scrutiny process on January 24, are contesting the five seats in Ghaziabad. These include one candidate each from Loni and Modinagar, two from Muradnagar, four from Sahibabad, and six from Ghaziabad. The number is a reduction from the 2017 assembly elections, when two of the six candidates contesting from Loni were independents while three of 11 candidates from Sahibabad were independents. From Ghaziabad, five of 13 contesting candidates were independent, while seven of 14 candidates who contested from Muradnagar were independents. From Modinagar, three of the nine candidates were independents.The 2007 elections had seen even more independents contest -- for the three seats in the district then-- 13 of 27 candidates contesting from Ghaziabad were independents, while five of 13 candidates from Modinagar were independents. From Muradnagar, four of 11 candidates were independents.Making the competition tougher for independent candidates is a general lack of resources, something that major parties provide their candidates with in abundance.“I decided to contest as an independent as I have been doing social work for the past seven or eight years and am connected to the people in my constituency. However, candidates from major political parties have more resources and have been in politics for years. Also, campaigning becomes difficult for people like me who have day jobs and have to go to the office every day,” said Sudhir Kumar, an independent from the Ghaziabad seat. “I did not try to seek a ticket from any political party as their candidates have to abide by party policies. On the other hand, I want to focus on my constituency’s issues such as bad roads, the need for a hospital and a degree college,” he said. “There are many reasons why independents generally do not put up a good show. It is mainly because political parties have a lot of funds and resources that independents do not have. They also invoke and utilise caste and religion to divide voters,” said Dr Sapna Bansal, a Delhi University professor and an independent candidate from Sahibabad.According to experts, apart from resources and funds, independents generally do not put up a good show as they do not have many workers at their disposal for campaigning. “In present times, a political party is successful because it has a large base of booth-level workers who canvas for the candidates. Parties or people who don’t have booth-level workers, suffer defeat in elections. Further, the trend to vote for a candidate is slowly fading away and people now generally vote for parties. Instances of independents or candidates of lesser-known parties winning a seat are few and far between,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) at MM College in Modinagar.This time around, however, the pandemic and its related curbs also played affected the chances of independent candidates. several independents who contested the 2017 elections said they would not contest this year as the pandemic-related restrictions would make it difficult to garner support, both politically and monetarily.“It is not easy to contest elections as an independent -- we have to find funds for campaigning. Further, over a period of time, independent candidates have also understood that people vote more for political parties. Not to mention the difficulty in campaigning during a pandemic. All these factors are holding back independent candidates this time,” said Rajiv Sharma, who contested the 2017 elections as an independent from Sahibabad.This year, the major candidates who cleared the scrutiny process include the candidates fielded by major political parties such as the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal combine. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is Thursday, when it is expected that some more independent candidates could pull out of the race. 
27-01-2022||Noida||Noida: SP-RLD uses Mihir Bhoj row to get Gurjar votes in Jewar||Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal (SP-RLD) alliance candidate Avtar Singh Bhadana’s supporters are using the King Mihir Bhoj issue during campaigning to unite Gurjar voters in the Jewar assembly segment. Bhadana, a Gurjar himself, is taking on incumbent MLA and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Dhirendra Singh, who belongs to the Rajput community, in what political experts believe is going to be a tough fight.In September 2021, a row was triggered after the caste name of Gurjar was removed from the plaque beneath the statue of King Mihir Bhoj that was erected at a college in Dadri, about 20km away from Jewar. The 15-foot statue of the ninth-century ruler was unveiled by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on September 22, 2021. Soon after the event, Gurjars started a series of protest after their caste name was dropped from the plaque. Later, the community formed a group to fight for the inclusion of the caste on the plaque and also decided to vote against BJP in these assembly polls. Bhadana and his supporters are raising this issue at village meetings to mobilise Gurjar voters in his favour, sources said.There are at least 50,000 Gurjar voters, of a total around 3.2 lakh (320,000) voters in Jewar. The Rajput community has about 70,000 voters and the BJP is anticipating a tough fight from the SP-RLD candidate. Bhadana supporters, meanwhile, are also banking on 20,000 Muslim voters and the 24,000 Jat voters to win the seat.“If Gurjars are united for the alliance candidate, then Bhadana will do well, provided Muslims and Jats also consolidate in his favour. Keeping Gurjar voters together is a challenging task for Bhadana, but raking up the Mihir Bhoj issue may help achieve that, especially if the BJP is unable to counter it properly,” said Tikam Singh, a political expert and a social activist.Bhadana was not available for comment despite repeated attempts to reach him.Trilok Tyagi, national general secretary, Rashtriya Lok Dal, said, “We are fighting the election on wider issues that include unemployment, injustice to farmers, inflation, injustice to weaker sections and low compensation to farmers in lieu of land acquired for the airport project in Jewar, among others. We are winning this election because of the BJP’s misrule over the last five years. It is the BJP that is using caste and religion to divide and win. We neither talk of caste during campaigning, nor do we organise caste based events the way the BJP does.” Countering him, MLA Singh said, “We are fighting this election on the issue of development for all communities unlike the SP-RLD that is using caste and religion. Voters of Jewar are wise and understand the vicious games that the opposition parties are playing these elections. All community voters are with us because we have never discriminated against people on the basis of caste, religion or place. This election will teach a lesson to opposition parties, who want to divide people for votes.” This is the second time that Singh is contesting elections from Jewar on a BJP ticket. In 2012, he contested from Jewar on a Congress ticket and lost by 9,000 votes. Fighting on a BJP ticket in 2017, Singh won by over 22,000 votes.
27-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram’s minimum temperature to drop further as cold wave continues||The Gurugram’s minimum temperature is likely to drop further over the weekend, India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted Wednesday, adding the cold wave is likely to continue till Saturday. According to IMD’s weekly forecast, Gurugram’s minimum temperature from Friday till Sunday is likely to hover around 4 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature around 16 degrees Celsius.A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal.On Wednesday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 16.2 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees below normal for this time of year, and a minimum temperature of 6 degrees Celsius, which was one degree above normal. In the past 24 hours, Gurugram’s maximum temperature increased by 4.5 degrees due to a partially sunny day. On Tuesday, Gurugram recorded its coldest day of this season so far with a maximum temperature of 11.7 degrees Celsius--nine degrees below normal for this time of year.Manmohan Singh, the director of Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, said, “Cold wave conditions are very likely to continue for the next three or four days in isolated pockets of Haryana, including districts such as Gurugram and Faridabad. During the next four days, a gradual fall in the region’s minimum temperature by three to five degrees is very likely. Dense fog conditions are also very likely in the night and morning, especially in open spaces.” The official said that a gradual rise in minimum temperature--by two or three degrees--is likely by next week. Meanwhile, Gurugram on Wednesday recorded “poor” air quality for the second consecutive day with an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 236 according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. An AQI reading between 201 and 300 is considered “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the “poor” or “moderate” categories over the next few days due to moderate winds and better ventilation conditions which are likely to prevail for the next seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-minimum-temperature-to-drop-further-as-cold-wave-continues-101643224727845.html
27-01-2022||Gurugram||Fake health officials dupe more than 500 persons across Haryana: Cops||The Haryana Police said they received over 500 complaints from people in several districts, saying they were duped by unidentified persons posing as health officials.The perpetrators would allegedly ask victims to register for a booster dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, share a one-time password (OTP) sent on their mobile phones, and then transfer money from the victims’ accounts to theirs.Police said there has been a significant rise in this booster dose scam over the last three months--the Gurugram police received 19 such complaints in November 2021, 27 in December 2021, and 33 in January so far. Similarly, Faridabad police received over 111 complaints since November 2021. Similar complaints have been filed in Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Rewari, Palwal and Nuh, said police.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that the suspects call people, pretending to be officials of the health department, ask for their vaccination status and tell them to register for a booster dose. “Once the person agrees, they send them an OTP and ask them to share it, following which money is transferred out from the victim’s account. In many cases, the perpetrators even send a registration link if the person has taken both doses, inform them of their eligibility for the booster dose and ask them to download applications for remote access and get all the details through their computers or laptops and dupe them,” he said.Rao said the suspects give the victims no time to check if the call is authentic or not and take advantage of the details they already have (of the victims’) with data of both the vaccinations.Police said gangs are majorly targeting senior citizens and people who are not tech-savvy so they can easily dupe them.Sameer Kapoor, a restaurant owner in DLF Phase 4, said that he received a call last week. The caller identified himself as a health official from Civil Hospital, Gurugram, and asked him if he was willing to register himself for the booster dose. “I checked on the Truecaller app, and it read Health Department, so I believed it, and when he sent an OTP and asked me to share it with him, I did. I was duped of ₹57,000. I have shared all details with the police,” he said.Suneel Rao, a resident of Sector 23, said that he was duped of ₹82,000 after he clicked on a link sent by the man posing as a health official. The man accessed Rao’s laptop remotely and transferred his money to other accounts. “The suspect called and shared details of both my vaccination status and my Aadhaar card. So I believed the call to be genuine.I followed his instructions then and clicked the link,” he said.On January 17, the health department had issued a statement warning people against the rise in fraudsters posing as officials from the department, calling people and asking them to get their booster doses. Officials said that the health department does not call people asking them to get vaccinated. The chief medical officer appealed to the residents to beware of such calls.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram said that such cases of fraud are being reported from different parts of the country. “No such calls are made by the health department and registration on the Co-Win portal is mandatory for the booster dose,” he said, adding that people should be careful while sharing their details and OTP with unidentified persons.
27-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram health dept to vaccinate all eligible teenagers by January 31 with first dose||The district health department aims to vaccinate all teenagers in the 15-18 age group with the first dose of the covid vaccine by January 31, before schools reopen for classes 10 to 12, said officials on Wednesday.Gurugram has 151,000 eligible teenagers, of whom 100,104 were administered the first dose since vaccination for the age group started on January 3. In the district, schools for classes 10 to 12 are scheduled to reopen from February 1.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “We are trying to vaccinate as many children as possible at the earliest. Almost 70% of teenagers in the district have been administered the first dose and we are trying to vaccinate the rest within one week. We are also waiting for revised population figures for this category from the state government, after which we will decide further action.”By January 31, several teenagers will be due for their second dose. This age group has been administeredCovaxin--there is supposed to be a gap of 28-42 days between both doses.The district health department had earlier set a target of January 10 to vaccinate all eligible teenagers with the first dose.Officials said they are hoping that the pace of vaccination increases in the next few days before schools reopen as vaccination is mandatory for students to attend classes. On January 15, Haryana health minister Anil Vij announced that children who have not taken the jab will not be allowed to enter schools across the state.On Wednesday, 686 doses were administered to beneficiaries in the district, including 152 first doses, 337 second doses and 197 booster doses. Gurugram has administered a total of 4,743,316 (over 4.74 million) vaccine doses to date. Eighteen children in the 15-18 age group received their first dose on Wednesday at private centres, as vaccination did not take place in government sites.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Gurugram reported 2,261 fresh cases of Covid-19 and one death of a Covid patient due to comorbidities. The district recorded a positivity rate of 23.35%.“A 49-year-old fully vaccinated man who was being treated at a private hospital since January 4, passed away on Wednesday due to comorbidities. He was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and cancer,” said the chief medical officer.Gurugram recorded 10,979 active Covid cases on Wednesday. At present, 179 patients are hospitalised in Gurugram. The district also recorded 3,001 recoveries on Wednesday.The health department, meanwhile, collected 9,684 samples for testing in the past 24 hours, said officials on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-health-dept-to-vaccinate-all-eligible-teenagers-by-january-31-with-first-dose-101643223949105.html
27-01-2022||Gurugram||Schools in Gurugram to reopen on February 1||Schools in Gurugram will resume offline classes from February 1 for students in Class 10 and above while adhering to Covid-19 protocols,said district education officials. They added that only vaccinated students will be allowed to attend physical classes, the others can attend them online. Attending classes offline is optional and parents’ consent is mandatory, said officials. On Tuesday, Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal had tweeted: “Haryana government has decided to open schools for classes 10th, 11th and 12th from February 1, 2022.” On January 15, Haryana health minister Anil Vij announced on social media that unvaccinated children in the 15-18 age group will not be allowed to attend classes offline when schools reopen. On Wednesday, he said that it is important for all children to get vaccinated to ensure protection from Covid. “We want all the students and staff vaccinated and safe. Vaccination is for their own protection and they should not delay the vaccination. All schools have set up camps; and vaccines are available at all centres and hospitals so parents must ensure their wards are vaccinated,” he said. A senior education officer from the district said the government will fresh guidelines this week, and schools will have to follow all Covid-19 guidelines. If anyone violates the norms, strict action will be taken against them. After the second Covid wave subsided in Haryana in September 2021, the government agreed to reopen schools in Gurugram. However, schools were closed again on November 14 due to the region’s deteriorating air quality. They were reopened on November 26 as pollution dissipated a bit, but were again shut on January 2, 2022, due to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, and are now supposed to reopen on February 1. Government schools said they have not received any letter regarding the reopening and have only read the announcement on social media. However, they are prepared to reopen.Sunil Kumar Sharma, the principal of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Jacobpura, said the school is prepared to resume classes and will follow safety measures and guidelines issued by the health department. The guidelines are still awaited. “In the meantime, we will ensure social distancing and the use of sanitiser at school. We will not allow more than 50% of the students to attend classes and will ensure all of them are vaccinated,” he said. Suman Sharma, principal, Government Model Senior Secondary School of sectors 4 and 7, said that they have not received any letter from the education department yet. “We will follow the department guidelines when they are issued and will reopen according to the directions. Ninety-nine per cent of our students has been vaccinated and 100% of our staff is vaccinated. Parents are willing to send their wards to school as their studies are suffering due to classes being confined to the online mode. For board preparation, students must attend physical classes to clear their doubts,” she said. Anju Sharma, the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Basai, said that 800 students in the 15-18 age group were vaccinated within a week in the first week of January. “We are prepared to reopen classes from February 1. We will provide students with masks at the gate in case they forget to bring them, and monitor their temperature before they enter the school premises.We will sanitise classrooms twice a day and keep sanitiser in each classroom,” she said. Officials said students want to attend in-person classes as many of them, especially those in rural areas, face issues with online classes due to lack of access to technology. Several students also feel hey concentrate better during in-person classes. Aanya Gunwal, a student of a private school, said that she was vaccinated with the first dose and is anxiously waiting for schools to reopen. “It’s been very difficult to attend online classes teachers are unable to focus on all the students and solving problems becomes an issue. There are several distractions as well,” she said. Sandeep Kumar, the father of a 15- and 17-year-old, said his children’s studies have suffered a lot due to online classes. “Children play games and chat with their friends during online classes. There is no fear of teachers and moreover they are becoming lethargic at home. They are losing interest in studies ,” he said. Meanwhile, private schools have set up vaccination camps for their students and are coordinating with parents to ensure students appearing for board exams do not miss important classes. They have not received an official notification on the reopening either.Rashmi Malik, the principal of Salwan Public School, said that they have called teachers to school on Thursday to assess the status of their health. “As the infection has affected around 30% of our staff, we want to ensure everyone’s safety. We will reopen classes for students of Class 10 and above and call only half of them to school initially. Gradually, we will reopen for other classes to prepare students for final exams and we will follow Covid-19 protocols strictly,” she said. Alka Singh, the principal of Blue Bells Model School, Sector 4, said that it is not compulsory for students to attend offline classes. “We will follow all protocols and we are not forcing students to attend school. We will sanitise the school twice a day and ensure our staff is administered their booster doses as well,” she said. 
27-01-2022||Gurugram||Customer care number turns out fake, Gurugram man duped of ₹75K||A Gurugram resident was allegedly duped of ₹74,966 after he called a number that was advertised as the toll-free customer care number of a multinational e-commerce site on the internet.The victim, Rupender Kumar (45), submitted a written complaint to the Sector 10 police, after which they registered an FIR under sections 379 (theft) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code on Tuesday evening.Kumar, a resident of Basai enclave in Sector 10, and a civil contractor, said he ordered a smartphone worth ₹17,000 online on January 13 but got a message that the order was returned to the sender on January 17 due to some technical error on the e-commerce site.“I browsed on the internet for a customer care number and called it. The person on the other side said he had attempted to refund the money for the returned cellphone twice but failed,” Kumar said.He alleged that the conman then provided him with another number to call on the pretext of a network problem.“When I called the new number, he got me to download an application which gave him remote access to my phone,” he said.“The caller hacked into my phone and transferred ₹74,966 from my account in three transactions into different accounts,” he said.A police officer privy to the case said that cybercriminals advertise their contact numbers on the internet by paying charges to display them as customer care numbers of well-known e-commerce giants or travel websites.“People search for customer care numbers on the internet instead of searching on official websites, see these fake numbers and become victims of cybercrimes,” he said.He also said people from other states have also been duped after calling the same number which Kumar found on the internet. “We suspect the same gang behind all these crimes,” he added.Naveen Kumar, station house officer of Sector 10 police station, said police are investigating to find out from where the call was made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/customer-care-number-turns-out-fake-gurugram-man-duped-of-75k-101643223347658.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Biting chill but familiar winter fog eludes Delhi, least since 2008||January is into its last week, and despite the biting chill that has enveloped the Capital, one of the staples of the month -- the dense fog that reduces visibility, causes accidents on highways surrounding the city, and disrupts flights the airport -- has largely eluded Delhi so far.According to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi has so far this month seen only 175 hours of fog (where the visibility is below 1,000 metres). This number is the lowest since 2008, when the Capital got 166 fog hours, and well below the January average of 290 fog hours.Also Read | Delhi homeless shelters packed to the rafters amid record-breaking winterEven in December 2021, Delhi recorded only 75 fog hours as compared to a monthly average of 278 hours.According to IMD data, Delhi saw 75 fog hours over 22 foggy days in December 2021 -- the lowest since December 1982, when the Capital saw a similar low of 75 hours of fog over 14 fog days.Met officials said December 2021 was largely characterised by weak western disturbances which added little moisture to the air, and January this year saw more upper-level fog, instead of fog formation at the surface –leading to cold day conditions in the Capital.IMD declares a fog when the visibility drops below 1,000 metres. When the visibility is between 500 and 1,000 metres, it is categorised as a ‘shallow fog’, between 200 and 500 metres, a ‘moderate fog’. A fog is classified as ‘dense’ if the visibility drops below 200 metres.While Delhi has seen a spate of extreme weather events every month for nearly a year-and-a-half now, which scientists have flagged as the effects of the global climate crisis, experts said the lack of fog was likely an isolated weather phenomenon.IMD scientist RK Jenamani said Delhi sees an average of 570 fog hours over 52 foggy days between December and January, when fog formation in the city is at its peak.“In comparison, we have only seen 44 fog days and 250 fog hours in these two months combined this year, making it the lowest in the last 29 years. While there are five more days still to go in January, not much fog is expected in this period, because wind speeds will pick up once again this week,” said Jenamani.He said December saw multiple western disturbances, but each remained substantially weak, unable to add enough moisture to the air.“A western disturbance generally brings some rain. But even if it doesn’t bring any precipitation, a lot of moisture gets added to the air. This did not happen in December this time and we also had strong winds after the western disturbances departed,” explained Jenamani, adding that windy conditions are unfavourable for fog formation.While Delhi’s air has seen enough moisture air in January, the surface winds are still strong, leading to formation of fog 500 to 1,000 metres over the surface.“In January, we had two significant rain spells and enough moisture was introduced but instead of fog forming on the surface, it was forming nearly a kilometre above the surface, leading to upper-level fog formation and low clouds hanging over Delhi. This has led to cold day conditions, but at the surface, visibility has been very good and has ranged from 800 to 1,200 metres,” said Jenamani.Navdeep Dahiya, an amateur weatherman who runs ‘Live Weather of India’, said factors such as adequate moisture, a certain minimum temperature and calm winds are required for fog formation.“However, wind speeds in the region have generally remained high and instead of fog forming at the surface, the Indo-Gangetic Plains are seeing upper-level fog this year,” said Dahiya.Dipankar Saha, former head of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air laboratory, said that while extreme weather events are becoming more common, uneven patterns of fog formation couldn’t be linked to the impact of the climate crisis without deeper analysis.“Some weather events such as extreme rainfall, especially in the coastal parts are becoming more frequent. However, we have seen a similar spell of a lack of fog in 1991-1992 as well. This shows that such spells can happen, albeit very rarely. A long-term trend of fog would have to be analysed to link it to the climate crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/biting-chill-but-familiar-winter-fog-eludes-delhi-least-since-2008-101643222747898.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Beneficiaries of Delhi’s two in-situ rehab projects still wait to move in||New Delhi: Sheikh Mustafa’s dream of owning a house in the national capital came close to fruition last year when the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) decided to allot flats at Kalkaji Extension to 2,700 families of nearby Bhoomiheen Camp. But the 61-year-old, who owns a shop owner in the area, says that the DDA is yet to start the allotment as construction work is still going on.“It has been a long wait. DDA’s decision got our hopes up last year, but now we don’t know when we will be able to shift to our new homes,” said Mustafa, a social worker who has been pursuing the matter with DDA. Conceived in 2011, these flats are part of DDA’s second in-situ slum rehabilitation project. Former Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit laid the foundation stone for the project in October 2013. The plan was to rehabilitate 8,461 families of three slum clusters -- Jawahar Lal Camp, Navjivan Camp and Bhoomiheen Camp -- located in Govindpuri, Kalkaji, in a phased manner. In the first phase, 3,024 flats were to be constructed on a nearby plot and the remaining were to be constructed on the land vacated by slum residents.In September last year, DDA said that the construction work is 93% complete and the allotment was expected to start in December. “The allotment process will now start in March,” said a senior DDA official.Mustafa said, “In 2013, we were told that we will get the new houses within 2-3 years. Our families have grown and our children don’t want to live in the basti (slum). But we can’t leave this place, as we all work nearby.”Around 22km away from Kalkaji extension, 2,800 residents of Kathputli Colony have been living in a transit camp for over five years now in the hope of getting a flat. Though the in-situ slum project at Kathputli Colony was conceived in 2008, it faced stiff resistance from locals. In December 2016, the DDA finally started the demolition exercise and, amid protests from locals and civil society members, they took almost a year to clear the land. The construction work started in April 2018 and the first batch of houses were to be given by March 2019.Patasi (65), a Rajasthani folk artist and local leader of Bhat community (one of the many communities at Kathputli Colony), said, “We were to get our flats within two years after demolition of our houses. But it has been over five years and we have no idea when we will be able to finally have a house of our own.”DDA officials said that the two projects have been delayed due to the ban on construction activity followed by the Covid pandemic. “The Kalkaji flats will be completed soon. The construction work there was affected due to the ban. At Kathputli colony, we got permission to clear encroachments from a large piece of land at the site in April last year. Clubbed with the restrictions due to Covid, the work got delayed further. Close to 500 residents will be allotted flats at Kathputli by March and remaining 2,300 by December-end,” said a senior DDA official, aware of the development.The years-long delay in its two pilot projects has not deterred the DDA is already planning new projects and has invited bids for construction of 10,500 flats for in-situ rehabilitation of six slum clusters -- three sectors in Rohini, Haiderpur, Dilshad Garden and Shalimar Bagh -- on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis. “The proposals for the six projects will be finalised by the end of this month (January),” said a senior DDA official.In-situ redevelopmenthas been a poll promise of all political parties in the Capital, but no in-situ project has been completed in the past so many years, says Shakeel Ahmed, convener of Basti Suraksha Manch, an organisation working for the welfare of slum dwellers.“How long can people live in transit camps? The projects should have been completed in a time bound manner. But till date, no one has got a flat under the in-situ rehabilitation projects. The concept of in-situ on PPP mode is flawed . It has failed in Mumbai. Today, slum residents are scared of giving consent to such projects as they fear they won’t get the flats on time,” says Ahmed.Land and housing rights activists say that there is a need to learn from the past mistakes and look for new solutions to address the housing problem for people in the economically weaker sections.Enakshi Ganguly, executive director of the Housing and Land Rights Network, an advocacy group, said that while in-situ redevelopment is a solution, there is a need for an area or locality specific approach. “For redevelopment of slums, there is a need to find solutions by working around the needs of the people living there. One plan can’t be replicated everywhere. For instance, Kathputli Colony residents are mostly artists and they have a specific requirement related to their profession. The project has to factor in the needs of the people of the slum,” she said.In the baseline report prepared for the Master Plan of Delhi-2041, the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) has said that there are 675 JJ clusters in Delhi occupying close to 800 hectares of land and containing over 300,000 housing units in the Capital. For their rehabilitation, housing rights activists say that there is a need to examine the provision for housing/shelter in the new master plan, which is likely to be notified this year.Housing rights activist Aravind Unni, a member of Main Bhi Dilli -- a campaign aimed at making planning in Delhi more inclusive in the Master Plan of Delhi-2041, said, “The in-situ rehabilitation on PPP basis has clearly not worked in Delhi. Now that the new master plan is being prepared, there is a need to relook the strategy. But the DDA is still continuing with the old strategy.”However, senior DDA officials said that PPP is the only way to rehabilitate and redevelop slum clusters. With close to 16 projects of in-situ redevelopment of slum clusters in various stages of planning, the land-owning agency recently has approved an amendment in the in-situ policy to “mitigate risks of prospective bidders for upcoming projects” and expedite the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beneficiaries-of-delhi-s-two-in-situ-rehab-projects-still-wait-to-move-in-101643222388423.html
27-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi homeless shelters packed to the rafters amid record-breaking winter||On Tuesday, the coldest January day in nine years, 88-year-old Chotelal Birla had just a bedsheet to ward off the chill from the cold pavement. Swathed in a thin worn blanket, he, like countless others in the national capital, is braving the harsh winter from a footpath near the Tibetan Market in Kashmiri Gate.Physically challenged, Birla relies on alms from passersby for a living and has no permanent roof over his head. Every evening around 9pm, he heads to the footpath where he retires for the night, after having been turned away by shelter homes brimming with people. “These shelters get full by 6-7pm these days, sometimes even before that. By the time I wrap up and go there, there is no space left and I’m turned away,” said the octogenarian, as he lay next to 10-15 others on the footpath in Kashmiri Gate on Tuesday night.On Tuesday, all weather stations in the national capital recorded their maximum temperatures 10 to 11 degrees Celsius below normal. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 12.1 degrees Celsius, which was the lowest on a January day, after 9.8 degrees Celsius recorded on January 3, 2013.Also Read | Biting chill but familiar winter fog eludes Delhi, least since 2008The first come, first served policy of shelter homes is a disadvantage for people like him, says Birla. “We earn ₹10-50 a day, and it is not possible to reach the shelter by early evening. Even when there is space, preference is given to those who have been using the facility for years. We have no option but to spend our nights on the footpath,” he said.Sixty year-old Lalu, a daily wage earner, shares the pavement with Birla. Those in the shelter get warm food, a blanket and bed, he says, while individuals like him, who take refuge in the open, have to pass the winter cold and hungry.“The government doesn’t provide us any food and neither is there a public washroom in the vicinity. Life is tough on the road and we don’t sleep here out of choice. When we are repeatedly turned away from shelter homes, where else do we sleep?” said Lalu.Winter this January has been particularly unyielding. Delhi is currently in the middle of the sixth longest spell (since 1951) when the day temperature has remained significantly lower than what is considered normal for time of the year, according to the India Meteorological Department data. Wednesday marked the 12th day this month when the maximum temperature has remained below 17 degrees Celsius.Sunil Kumar Aledia, executive director of the Centre for Holistic Development, an advocacy group that works with the homeless and migrant workers in the city, said a survey conducted by the organisation between January 1-24 showed that as many as 145 homeless individuals have died from the biting cold this winter.Aledia said temporary shelters were only a stop gap measure and a permanent solution was needed for the homeless. “We need permanent building structures. These tin structures (shelter homes) are neither sustainable nor equipped with clean facilities. The first come, first served policy only ensures that people are forced to sleep in the open if they are unable to reach shelters on time. The number of shelters is anyway way less than the number of homeless -- they number in their thousands,” said Aledia.The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) has set up 209 permanent shelters in the capital. In addition, temporary shelters are also set up every year. DUSIB member Bipin Rai said that while 60-70 temporary camps were set up every year, this year, 220 camps have been set up year and 30 more are on standby.“Based on need assessment, we set up temporary camps as and when required,” said Rai.He rejected claims that 145 homeless have died in the cold and called the data fake. “There is no basis to the data. Every time, the organisation comes up with shocking numbers to create “sensation”. Our rescue vans work throughout the night to take individuals to shelters,” said Rai.The government was constantly working on improving the facilities in shelters, he insisted, but some people chose to sleep on pavements, he claimed.“We cannot force people to take shelter. There are some who prefer to sleep in the open, in the expectation of donations from Good Samaritans,” he said.On Tuesday night, HT visited two shelters, in Kashmiri Gate and Sarai Kale Khan. Most inmates there said while space was limited, they were happy to have a roof over their heads when the mercury fell this low.Damyanti Devi, of Bihar, has been living in the shelter home next to Nizamuddin Metro station for the past year after arriving in Delhi with her husband, who is suffering from a kidney ailment and is getting treated at AIIMS.“We cannot afford to pay rent. I cannot complain as I have a place to rest at night. Sometimes, NGO workers also visit us and help us procure expensive medicines for the treatment of my husband,” said Devi.While meals were provided twice a day, the number of toilets was limited due to which sanitation was poor, she said.Rai said the number of individuals at the Sarai Kale Khan facility has increased lately and the government is cognizant of the need for more washrooms. “We are aware that there is some crisis, particularly during the morning hours. We are working on the addressing the shortage,” he said.Indu Prakash Singh, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed state-level shelter monitoring committee, said the DUSIB had been told to prepare more shelters this time. He said food was being provided at shelters along with other facilities such as blankets and beds. “We don’t think that there is a bias against people when it comes to admittance in shelter homes. Whenever required, the DUSIB does set up shelters,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-homeless-shelters-packed-to-the-rafters-amid-record-breaking-winter-101643222027709.html
