28-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi: A year on, little headway in Israeli Embassy blast probe||New Delhi: A year after a low intensity blast outside Israeli embassy in Delhi sent shockwaves in the security apparatus as it took place during Beating Retreat ceremony at Rajpath, the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is investigating the case, is nowhere close to cracking the case. From exploring an Iranian angle to examining the role of four Jammu and Kashmir-based students in the Capital, investigators have had little success so far. “As of now, it’s one of those cold cases in which we are looking for a concrete lead,” said an NIA official who didn’t want to be named.The low-intensity improvised device went off around 5pm near Bungalow number 5, APJ Abdul Kalam Road, near Jindal House, on January 29, 2021. Although nobody was killed or injured, the blast left a crater and damaged three cars parked nearby. Immediately after the blast, Israel said Iran was behind the attack, a claim which was confirmed by Indian intelligence agencies. Other than the fact that the blast occurred on the 29th anniversary of establishment of India-Israel diplomatic ties (on January 29, 1992), a letter found at the blast site said the attack was to avenge the killings Iran Quds Commander Qassem Soleimani, and Abu Mehdhi Al Muhandis, who were killed in a US drone attack in January 2020, and Iranian nuclear physicist Dr Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who died in a car bomb attack in Iran in November 2020, further cementing the suspicions.On June 15 last year, the Central anti-terror agency released visuals of two men suspected to be involved in the blast as they were seen roaming near the Israeli Embassy. The agency has not received any leads on the two so far.The Delhi Police’s Special Cell had arrested four Kargil-based students, all in their 20s, on June 23 last year but the Patiala House court granted them bail the next month as nothing incriminating was found against them. Even Israel sent a team of Mossad agents to Delhi to exchange leads with the NIA in April.The NIA official quoted above said that the investigations are going on, and added that they are examining all possibilities, including the role of international players. Officials said several persons who were passing by Abdul Kalam Road that day have been examined in last one year and forensic and technical evidence shared has been analysed to look for clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhia-year-on-little-headway-in-israeli-embassy-blast-probe-101643394487524.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Earth moving work in Powai lake a violation of court orders, say activists||Following complaints by activists that earth moving work inside the boundaries of the Powai lake has resumed since January 26, city-based NGO Vanashakti has written to authorities saying the work is in contravention of recent court orders. Vanashakti, also a petitioner in recently disposed NGT cases seeking protection for the water body, has also provided geo-tagged pictures of the ongoing work dated January 26 and 27.“The Hon’ble National Green Tribunal has passed a judgement on how restoration of lake and protection of the crocodile habitat should be done... Please note that all acts being done presently are contrary to the directions given by Hon’ble NGT and also the orders of the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay in PIL 87 of 2013,” Vanashakti director Stalin D wrote to the district collector, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), and the forest department on Friday. “This work is going on at night also. The committee set up by Hon’ble NGT has to approve activities proposed to be undertaken and also the court orders have to be complied with,” the letter said.“The NGT this month constituted an eight-member committee to draft an action plan for the lake, keeping the wetland rules in mind, to ensure sewage ingress into the lake is stopped, and also to suggest ways for conservation of Indian marsh crocodiles which live in the lake. Without the permission of this committee, no work can go on inside the lake. As per the NGT’s directions, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the forest department (wildlife), and the State Wetland Authority are responsible for taking action,” said Zoru Bhatena, a city-based environmentalist who has been tracking the matter.Vanashakti has also complained about the use of glyphosate-containing herbicides in the lake. On January 12, the Union environment ministry instructed the state government, via its State Wetland Authority, to act on these complaints. In a letter to the assistant municipal commissioner, S Ward, on November 2 last year, the MPCB had allowed the use of glyphosate for destruction of water hyacinths in the lake. This permission was subject to certain conditions, namely that the BMC will stop the ingress of raw sewage into the lake, and carry out regular bioaccumulation studies along with water and sediment analysis reports, and submit reports of the same to the MPCB.The BMC had in August last year floated a tender for removal of water hyacinths at Ganesh Ghat, Pawarwadi, and other areas of the Powai lake to make space for immersion during Ganesh Chaturthi. The following month, the BMC launched a pilot project as part of which drones were used to spray glyphosate on 2 per cent of the lake’s water spread area affected by water hyacinths between September 3 and 5. Based on the success of the programme, larger quantities of glyphosate are set to be used, along the lines of a similar project in Aurangabad’s Salim Ali lake, executed by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation.“The lake is a crocodile habitat. You need to seek necessary clearances from the wildlife department, which the BMC has clearly not done. Water hyacinths are invasive, but to remove them you need to first stop the entry of raw sewage into the lake, which has also not been achieved by the BMC. The effective way to tackle the issue is through arresting the pollution source, not introducing known contaminants into a natural environment,” Stalin D said.BMC officials did not respond to requests for comment. An official with the MPCB, however, said, “The NGT order should be followed as instructed. We will look into the complaint and take it up with the State Wetland Authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/earth-moving-work-in-powai-lake-a-violation-of-court-orders-say-activists-101643394486233.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Spurned youth hits girl on head with hammer, arrested in Pune||PUNE: A girl, 17, was seriously injured after being attacked with a hammer by a youth who upset with her for reporting to the Talegaon police station that he was stalking her. The girl has been admitted to Pavana hospital and her condition is reported to be critical.The incident took place near the main market at Talegaon Dabhade on Friday and the accused identified as Shivam Shelke has been arrested by the police. Shelke was produced before a local court which remanded him to police custody for five days on Friday.Chitra Kishor Wagh, state vice-president of the BJP, said, “The accused hit the girl on the head with a hammer in the market in broad daylight. This attack could have been avoided. There is a need to take immediate action against inactive police personnel which led to this gruesome and life-threatening incident.”The incident has evoked sharp reactions from women social activists, including the deputy chairperson of the Maharashtra Legislative Council, Neelam Gorhe. “It is a shocking incident which has come to light in Talegaon where a young man attacked a minor girl out of one-sided love. After lodging a complaint, the police counselled the accused and took a written bond from him stating that he will not commit any such crime again,” she said.Gorhe expressed satisfaction over the action taken by the police. However, she opined that the “Shakti Act” should be passed as soon as possible to curb such incidents. “Children also need to be nurtured by the family. If something is not given to them, the children become aggressive. At that time, parents need to cultivate restraint and conscience in their children. If this does not happen, then the law must be enacted soon,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/spurned-youth-hits-girl-on-head-with-hammer-arrested-in-pune-101643394306070.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||Flyovers, underpasses in plan to smoothen west Delhi snarl hot spot||The state Public Works Department (PWD) plans to build two one-way flyovers, two underpasses for two-wheelers, three slip roads, widen a rail overbridge, build two foot overbridges, footpaths, as well as a non-motorised vehicle lane in a series of major interventions to curb snarls around west Delhi’s Peeragarhi intersection -- identified as a congestion hot spot by a Supreme Court monitoring committee in 2020.A senior PWD official aware of the matter said a 3.6-km-long corridor on Rohtak Road (NH10) -- between Jwalapuri signal to Jwala Heri signal -- along the Metro’s Green Line is just 60 metres wide, and has four signals - at Jwalapuri, Mandir Road, Peeragarhi intersection and Jwala Heri. “The road is not wide enough to accommodate the heavy traffic on the stretch, which is surrounded by industrial areas on one side, including Udyog Nagar, Mundka and Mangolpuri, and residential areas such as Paschim Vihar on the other. Four traffic intersections on a short corridor add to the congestion,” the official said, asking not to be named.What adds to the congestion at Peeragarhi junction is heavy pedestrian movement, on-street parking, presence of multiple banquet halls, and unhindered incoming traffic on the signal-free corridor from Vikaspuri to Wazirabad joining the rush.“The corridor provides a free ride on the stretch, but the narrow Mangolpuri railway overbridge (ROB) on the northern side of the Peeragarhi junction, is a bottleneck,” said the official. The agency now plans to add three lanes on either side of the Mangolpuri ROB on Outer Ring Road to de-clutter the congestion point.The PWD official said the agency has planned interventions on all sides of the main junction to ensure a lasting solution to the area’s persistent traffic problem.At the main junction, the agency will provide slip roads for traffic heading from Mangolpuri towards Punjabi Bagh; for vehicles from Punjabi Bagh towards Vikaspuri; and from Nangloi towards Vikaspuri, the official said.Two one-way flyovers at Mandir Road-Rohtak Road intersection are on the drawing board, and two one-way underpasses for two-wheelers will be built near the Jwala Heri traffic signal.“The flyovers, each 600-metre-long and 20-metre-wide, will be built over Lakshmi Narayan Mandir Road... The two underpasses will each be 120-metres-wide, with a U-turn radius of 13 metres. Each lane would be of 6.6m width and it will only be meant for movement of light motor vehicles. Those going to Jwala Heri from NH-10 will not have to wait at the signal,” the official said.The transit corridor proposal also takes into account improving pedestrian access through two foot overbridges near Peeragarhi junction, table-top zebra crossings and 2.5-metre-wide footpaths along the 3.6km corridor.“Each FOB will land near green belts which will be separated from traffic lanes through boulders and railings. A non-motorised vehicle lane of 2.5 metres has also been proposed which will also help in prevent jaywalking,” the official added. The plan makes provision of rainwater harvesting tanks under flyover and soft-areas on traffic islands which will be used in growing greenery on metro pillars and piers. HT has seen a copy of the plan.A senior PWD official said the budgetary constraints induced by the pandemic has delayed the implementation of the plan, which is now likely to be initiated in next financial year. While the Delhi government had initially set aside ₹20 crore to start the project this year, the budget was later cut to ₹20 lakh in the revised allocation, according to a senior PWD official.The budget for PWD projects has been cut by ₹471.3 crore in 2021-22 as the government turned its attention to spending on more crucial projects to help combat the pandemic, the official said.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning in the School of Planning and Architecture, said the NH10 corridor has a mix of industrial and residential traffic due to a common access. He said the PWD should learn from Delhi-Meerut expressway, and segregate the commercial traffic, otherwise the revamp will not have he desired impact. He said since a large number of cyclists use this road, separate arrangement for non-motorised lanes should be ensured. “Segregation of industrial traffic will also lead to reduction in accidents. The stretch is nightmare during night,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/flyovers-underpasses-in-plan-to-smoothen-west-delhi-snarl-hot-spot-101643394304857.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||NITI Aayog member highlights efforts to improve doc-patient ratio||India has scarcity of specialist doctors compared to developed nations, said Dr Vinod K Paul, member, NITI Aayog on Friday. Delivering the 4th Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial Oration (online lecture), ‘Toward Adequate Medical Workforce in India: Creating opportunities by transforming capacity and regulation’ organised by King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Dr Paul highlighted the efforts of NITI Aayog in improving the scenario.He said, “In developed countries, 75% of healthcare is provided by specialists. However, in India, there is 2-5 times deficit of specialists, compared to developed nations. If we want to fill this deficit, at the current rate, it will require many decades. Therefore, more post-graduates/more specialists should be trained every day.”“Every bed (in medical institutions) should be used not only for providing care to patients but also for training doctors,” said Dr Paul. He said the NITI Aayog is making efforts to take the number of post-graduate medical seats in the country up from 55,595 to one lakh. The National Board of Examinations (NBE), which offers postgraduate training (DNB, FNB), has huge scope to fill this shortage of PG seats because DNB/FNB training is more apprentice based.He said that the current WHO norm is 1:1000 per population. “By 2024, we, in India, are near to achieving it. But we as doctors should pitch for 1.5:1000,” he said.Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri, vice-chancellor of the KGMU, thanked Dr VK Paul for delivering this oration.Sharing new attempts from NITI Aayog, Dr Paul said SRESTA (Scheme for Re-deployment of Superannuated Teachers of the AFMS) is being implemented. Under this scheme, retired medical teachers of the armed forces medical services will be registered in a pool. The officers in this resource pool will be termed as SRESTA National Medical Faculty (SNMF). Other reforms that are in the pipeline include fee fixation, national exit examination MBBS in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/niti-aayog-member-highlights-efforts-to-improve-doc-patient-ratio-101643394244402.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports close to 7k new Covid cases, 16 deaths||Pune: On Friday, Pune district reported 6,928 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths. This took the progressive count to 1.38 million of which 1.28 million have recovered, 20,307 deaths and 85,629 are active cases. Pune also saw over 30,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 1,452 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 412,045 and the death toll stood at 7,067 as three more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 3,377 new cases which took the progressive count to 645,736 and the death toll stood at 9,342 as eight more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 2,099 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 331,604 and the toll went up to 3,548 as five more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 30,611 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Friday and in total 16.57 million doses have been registered in the district. Of which 9.36 million are first doses, 7.07 million are second doses and 127,001 were precautionary doses. A total of 601 sites saw vaccination of which 447 were government centres and 154 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-close-to-7k-new-covid-cases-16-deaths-101643393884593.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||New pension scheme better than the old one: UP chief secretary||The state government on Friday sought to convince its personnel that the National Pension Scheme (NPS) was comparatively better and more remunerative than the old one. “We found that the amount of money that a government employee receives under the NPS after retirement was quite greater than the one got under the old pension scheme and one could always earn money by investing the same money in saving schemes,” said chief secretary DS Mishra in a statement issued after he held a meeting with additional chief secretary (ACS), personnel and ACS, finance, here.The meeting was held in the light of various employees’ organisations demanding restoration of the old pension scheme ahead of assembly polls in the state. “It was also found during the review meeting that the gratuity, leave encashment and group insurance scheme facilities remain intact under the NPS as before and dependants of any employee covered under the NPS have an option to choose the family pension available under the old scheme or the NPS after the pensioner’s death,” the CS said. He further said the dependants of an employee covered under the NPS were eligible for compensatory employment after the death of the employee and the NPS also did not stop one from opening a GPF account in addition to the pension account. Mishra said the employees had to contribute only 10% of their salary to the NPS as their share while the government’s share was 14% and the employees had the option to increase their contribution any time.“Also, the NPS seeks to put the investment risk at the lowest level. Of the total deposited funds, 85% are invested in government securities and 15% are invested through professional fund managers. Presently, the growth of the money deposited under the NPS is 9.5% compared to 7.1% of money under the GPF,” he said.Meanwhile, the chief secretary directed the nodal officers of 31 “sensitive” districts to visit districts allotted to them between January 31 and February 4 to review the management of stray cattle, and progress of paddy procurement and Covid-19 vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-pension-scheme-better-than-the-old-one-up-chief-secretary-101643393704733.html
28-01-2022||Pune||26K BEd seats remain vacant after first CAP round||PUNE: After completion of the Common Admission Process (CAP) round for various professional courses in the state, a total 26,376 seats for the Bachelor of Education (BEd) course and 9,513 seats for the three years’ law course are still vacant. Despite the New Year having started, the admission process of the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell for professional courses is still underway even as the response this year to courses in education has been very poor. The reasons for this include the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) certificate scam and less job opportunities in the field. Similarly, a large number of seats are still vacant for the three year and five year law courses as per the state CET cell statistics.As per the data shared by the state CET cell, the first CAP round for professional courses including education, physical education and law has been completed. The B.Ed. course has the highest number of vacant seats (26,376) followed by the three year law course (9,513) and the five year law course (7,487). As compared to the available seats in the Masters in Physical Education and Masters in Education courses, very few students have taken admission in the same.Senior education activist-professor Dnyaneshwar Bhosale said, “There are many reasons behind the low number of admissions in the B.Ed. and M.Ed. courses this year and since the last few years. Already due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many schools and colleges have removed a large number of teachers and faculty as they cannot pay their salaries. Also there are not much job opportunities in this field, so even students don’t want to opt for a career in which there is no financial stability.”About the admission process still underway, Ravindra Jagtap, Maharashtra CET cell chairman, said, “We are continuously monitoring the admission process of all professional courses and soon by next month, the other remaining rounds for the law and educational courses will be complete. But there is less number of admissions this year to the education courses.”While students are unhappy with the delayed process of admissions, Kedar Makwana, who has applied for the five years’ law course, said, “I want to pursue further studies in law for which I had given the state CET entrance examination for the law course. The New Year has started and still, the admission process for the law courses is underway. It is too much delayed now and I have not yet got admission confirmed in any of the colleges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/26k-bed-seats-remain-vacant-after-first-cap-round-101643393645702.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Fewer tests spike Pune’s positivity rate to 50% as dist depends on govt labs||Pune: Fewer tests have pushed Pune’s Covid weekly positivity rate, at 49.9%, to just double than the state average and also one of the highest in the country. Though new Covid cases are stabilising or going down, tests being conducted have been restricted due to the district administration’s limitation to test the samples only at government labs. Although thousands of samples could be collected for testing, the district administration can only test a limited number of samples at the designated government labs. The same laboratories are also responsible for genome sequencing and research work. Unlike Mumbai which started its own genome sequencing and testing laboratories in its own civic hospitals, Pune is yet to get a laboratory and is planning to get one sooner. In the week between January 20 and January 26, the district saw 161,216 RT-PCR Covid tests being conducted of which 78,763 tested positive and the positivity rate for that week stood at 48.9% while the state’s positivity rate for the same time stood at 29.9%. Although Pune has the highest number of national laboratories which also form a major part of the national Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), the labs are responsible for testing and genome sequencing while in Mumbai the civic body controls two of the labs which have the testing facilities, namely Kasturba and KEM hospital. However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is limited in its testing abilities as much as the testing abilities of these labs. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer at PMC, said, “We send samples to the three national government labs at National Institute of Virology (NIV), Indian Institute of Science and Education Research (IISER) and BJ Medical College and also the university microbiology department lab. We have a capacity of about 3,500 RT-PCR tests at these labs and about 2,000 rapid antigen tests (RAT). The remaining tests results come from private laboratories which people voluntarily get tested at.” Dr Wavare said that the civic body was planning to get a testing laboratory for its hospital with about 200 testing capacity, however, the plan to yet to be executed and is at a nascent stage. Another senior health official from the district administration said, “The sample collected in rural areas are sent to NIV, BJ Medical College and to the newly opened Baramati Medical College which totally have a RT-PCR testing capacity of about 4,500 daily for rural areas which RAT testing capacities depend on the available RAT kits.” These national testing laboratories are not just involved in testing samples from Pune and also genome sequencing the labs also have to test samples from the neighbouring districts of Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar. Despite two years of pandemic, the Pune administration has not been able to start its exclusive testing laboratories which will not only increase its testing capabilities but also get quicker result and help to improve research and get localised results and solutions. District labs The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved government labs in Pune districts are; ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), BJ Medical College, Command Hospital (SC), ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI), National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS), Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Agharkar Research Institute and Government Medical College, Baramati||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fewer-tests-spike-pune-s-positivity-rate-to-50-as-dist-depends-on-govt-labs-101643393344434.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Allahabad HC disposes of PIL seeking check on devotees’ flow to Magh Mela||The Allahabad high court disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking restriction on the number of devotees visiting the ongoing Magh Mela at Prayagraj to check Covid spread when the state government informed the court about its preparedness and the guidelines to check rush of people at one place.The bench comprising Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justi​ce Piyush Agrawal on Tuesday (January 25) disposed of the petition filed by Utkarsh Mishra and another. In the PIL, it was claimed that the religious congregations in the past two years were found responsible for spreading the deadly virus across the country.The PIL petition requested the high court to direct the state government to restrict the number of devotees who will take a holy dip in the Ganga during the ongoing Magh Mela at Prayagraj. The petition said that only seers of ‘akharas’ should be allowed to take the holy dip on the dates of the ‘”Shahi Snan” to prevent huge turnout of devotees as anticipated on those auspicious dates.During the course of hearing, the additional advocate general representing the state government submitted that the government had already issued guidelines to be followed by the devotees coming to the Magh Mela. He further submitted that a separate Prayagraj Mela Authority had been set up to monitor all arrangements and check rush of people at one place.He further submitted that to advise people to take all precautions and not to create rush at Mela areas, they will issue public notices by different means of communication apprising the devotees and the prospective devotees of the restrictions and guidelines issued by the government for the purpose. On the stand taken by counsel for the state government, the court disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-disposes-of-pil-seeking-check-on-devotees-flow-to-magh-mela-101643393284525.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||100 per cent placement for IIT-Kanpur’s MBA students||The MBA programme under the industrial and management engineering (IME) department of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, (IIT-K) recorded 100% placement for the outgoing batch of 2020-22 in the first phase of placement held in December last year. Fifty-five MBA students received a total of 61 offers from 35 visiting companies along with 11 pre-placement offers/interviews (PPOs/PPIs). It has broken all previous records set by the MBA programme of the prestigious institute.Congratulating the faculty and MBA students on the achievement, director, IIT Kanpur, prof Abhay Karandikar said, “Our 2021 placement phase I had been very uplifting for the institute across sectors as we saw trust of recruiters pouring in terms of the exponential numbers we recorded. With the MBA programme scoring a century, it just adds a feather to the cap. I congratulate the whole coordinating team along with the students and faculties for their relentless efforts in making this possible.”MBA packages at IIT Kanpur traditionally had some of the highest multiples in terms of fee to CTC ratio and this year the programme outdid itself and recorded a 1:9 average fees to CTC ratio—the highest in the country. In spite of the pandemic, the MBA programme also recorded a year-over-year (YoY) average CTC growth of 22.54%, breaking all their previous records.The MBA programme had recruiters from various sectors with 37% of the batch getting placed in the analytics domain, 24% in IT/consulting, 20% in marketing, 11% in finance and 8% in operations. IIT Kanpur’s MBA programme was ranked 16th in management category of the NIRF India rankings 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/100-per-cent-placement-for-iit-kanpur-s-mba-students-101643392924328.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Pride and Prejudice||For many years, you and your friends have dominated your building society affairs by regularly winning the elections to its managing committee; this had let you influence every decision and determine on all matters big and small in the running of your residential complex: from the hiring and firing of service -providers, to the salaries and duties of the staff, to the menu and arrangements for the much -awaited, annual, building tea party; until now, it had all been conducted according to your wishes.But this year, after having lost the last election to a new set of people, you arrive at the annual tea party and notice to your dismay, that the new secretary and his team have put paid to all the rites and rituals of the previous years, in particular, the ones you had most cherished and were attached to. For instance, instead of being greeted by the sight of your favourite flowers, subdued, artistic lighting and soft, ambient, background music, you find that the new committee has installed garish disco lights and has engaged the services of a wannabe DJ, who is belting out popular Bollywood hits even as you enter the venue. What’s worse is you notice the fresh flowers on the tables have given way to multi- coloured plastic ones, the cream tablecloths have been replaced by maroon velvet drapes and the ultimate abomination in your opinion : the elegant, bite sized asparagus and cucumber sandwiches and cheese canapés which you had so favoured, have given way to spicy samosas, chaat, chole bhature and pav bhaji.Gnashing your teeth and miserable you retreat to a corner, to find solace amongst a few other equally disgruntled erstwhile committee members, to gripe and grumble the evening away.Then, from the corner of your eye you spy a member of the new management committee bounding towards you with a smile of triumph and you begin to prepare a few choice words to convey your displeasure and criticism to deflate him. But, just as you’re about to utter something appropriately snarky and snide- something stops you in your tracks: It’s the thought that the beaming, approaching newly elected committee member –who you’ve barely deigned to notice all these years –and others like him has been suffering your tastes, preferences and decisions, mostly in silence and without much protest until now. This means accepting your insipid lighting choices when he’d longed for flashing disco bulbs, swallowing your bland asparagus canapés when he’d have much preferred spicy pav bhaji and submitting himself to hours of Yanni, when all he’d wanted was to croon along to Yo Yo Honey Singh…The thought hits you like a bolt of lightning and its realisation suddenly makes you humble. You now see yourself through the eyes of the approaching man: As arrogant, privileged entitled and self-serving; so, rather than lashing out, your disapproval you swallow your criticisms and harsh words and try to find something-anything - to appreciate in the new arrangements which he and his committee members have made.Of course, they may not be to your own taste but it appears that they appeal to a sizeable section of your neighbours who perhaps had been overlooked by you when you had been at the helm of things.Since you cannot bring yourself to compliment the choice of music picked for the occasion you are gracious enough to compliment him on the newly installed sound system which you have to admit is an improvement on the previous one.Thus, you swallow your sarcasm along with the samosa and manage a weak smile.***“We often think of peace as the absence of war, that if powerful countries would reduce their weapon arsenals, we could have peace. But if we look deeply into the weapons, we see our own minds- our own prejudices, fears and ignorance.” Said revered Zen master and peace activist Thich Nhat Hanh who died this week. “Even if we transport all the bombs to the moon, the roots of war and the roots of bombs are still there, in our hearts and minds, and sooner or later we will make new bombs.”His words are particularly significant today, when our lives appear to be awash with anger, bitterness, hatred, suspicion and extreme polarisations. Turn on any TV debate, open any social media platform, read any news report and you will encounter a surfeit of cruel and harsh words and thoughts across the board. This level of toxicity is dangerous and unhealthy and we all know that it needs addressing. But of course, none amongst us is prepared to admit that the problem starts with us. We are so convinced that ours is the only correct way of doing things; that our preferences and tastes are the only ones that matter; that we are the only ones whose motives and actions have been above board and bereft of self-interest and self-preservation, and our arrogance, pride and prejudice have made any chance of vitiating the toxicity that surrounds us- virtually impossible.Of course, this doesn’t mean that the members of your newly elected building society managing committee are paragons of virtue either; or that the same self -serving interests, dodgy motives and misguided convictions of how to go about doing things will not compel them as they had you. In fact, they might be even more inept and mala -fide than you were, who knows? It’s just that, it’s their turn now, to do things their way, you’ve had yours, so try and be sensible about it. In fact, see if there’s any common ground for constructive cooperation however flimsy and try to practice basic civility. By doing so, you just might blunt the years of resentment and suspicion you’d created when you rode your high horse over their wants and preferences. And yes, if you or some of the other members of the erstwhile committee are invited to collaborate on a project or two with the new guys, grab the opportunity, it might give you a chance to temper the more objectionable of their choices and actions in future and what do you know - might even convince them to let you choose the music for the next annual tea party...***Building society meetings are a lesson in judiciousness, discretion and human relations. Especially when you’re not on the managing committee any more. How do you replace long held hostilities, suspicions and resentments, (many of them justified) with trust, cooperation and collaboration? How do you transform your so -called ‘enemies’ into friends? How do you meet those you consider as the ‘other’ on common ground, so that they will not disregard and neglect you as you had them earlier? What else can you do, in this situation but try to be as graceful as possible? Be a good neighbour. Enjoy the pani puri, try and understand why Yo Yo is so popular; bide your time.And of course, through it all, never lose sight or determination of your goal: to win the next building society election, so that you can get on that managing committee and decide how things ought to be done once again. And hopefully, this time carrying the hopes and aspirations of more along with you.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-pride-and-prejudice-101643392805032.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Focusing on winning over 300 seats in UP under CM Yogi: Dy CM Maurya||Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya has said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will retain power in Uttar Pradesh and that Yogi Adityanath is the chief ministerial candidate of the party and will remain its face in the state. Maurya, who was in Agra on Friday to campaign for party candidates, said at a press conference that BJP will repeat its performance here by winning all nine assembly seats of the district this time too. Replying to a question, the deputy CM said, “We are focusing on winning more than 300 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh and our chief ministerial candidate is Yogi Adityanath. He will remain the face of the BJP and the party is contesting assembly elections under his leadership.” Taking at dig at the Samajwadi Party, he said, “Goonda, mafias and rioters are finding place as candidates in the lists being released by the Samajwadi Party. It is reminding the masses in UP that it is not new Samajwadi Party as claimed by its leader Akhilesh Yadav but in fact it is the same old Samajwadi Party which unleashed lawlessness, riots and ‘goondaism’ in Uttar Pradesh during its previous regime (2012-17).” On SP chief’s poll promise of providing 300 units of free electricity to the people in elected, Maurya said, “Akhilesh Yadav is making a false claim when the masses still remember that there was power crisis during the SP regime and now even villages are electrified. There was development in only five districts during the previous regime but the BJP focused on development in all 75 districts. Welfare schemes which should have been implemented after independence were in fact implemented by double engine regime of BJP.” He also said March 10 (when the counting of votes will take place) will mark the end of the Samajwadi Party. “When they all (SP, BSP and RLD) combined in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, BJP got 51% of vote. Congress is now a party of a handful of leaders interested in getting photographed and they too will leave the party by the next elections,” he claimed. Reacting to the candidature SP leader Azam Khan, Maurya said SP candidates were either on bail or were in jail and on their strength, the SP was contesting elections. “Akhilesh Yadav should stop day dreaming of coming back to power as people have decide to vote for the BJP,” he said. 
28-01-2022||Pune||Younger Covid recoveries complain of “brain fog’’; Pune docs advise counselling||Pune: City neurologists are seeing many young people who have recovered from Covid complain of memory impairment, cognitive functions affected and mental fatigue. These symptoms have been identified as “brain fog” and are more reported among those with ‘white collar’ jobs and whose work is highly dependent on cognitive skills. A recent study published in an international health journal stated that “brain fog” as described by patients could be a potential long term Covid impact which may last for months. However, city neurologists attending to such patients say that it could be treated with placebo nutritional medications and counselling. According to the study by a research team from the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), “brain fog” could be due to the virus’ effect on the spinal fluid. Brain fog is an umbrella term used to describe multiple cognitive issues especially among the Covid-recovered patients. Dr Lomesh Bhriud, city-based neurologist, said, “I am still getting patients who have recovered from the second Covid wave. I mostly get patients aged between 30-40 years of age who have not had any comorbidity. The most common symptoms are mental disturbances, low mood for about a month. The treatment includes mostly supplementary placebo medicines and counselling for a couple of weeks.” Dr Rahul Kulkarni, another neurologist, said, “The most common complaints that we get from patients are confusion, memory impairment, memory loss, difficulty to concentrate and other compromised cognitive functions. However, it is also important to note that it could not just be the virus, but multiple variables that are leading to this “brain fog”. The trauma of Covid or the mental stress could also be a cause for this. In the second wave, we saw many patients complaining of this, however, in the third wave these numbers have gone down because the fear is not as much as it was before and also the admission rate has gone down. This condition can be treated through counselling and there are no specific medications for the treatment. We are mostly getting complaints from patients aged between 30-40 years of age.” Dr Nilesh Palasdeokar said the most initial symptoms were headache, dizziness, mood swings, memory issues within 2-3 weeks since the quarantine was over. He said, “The most common factor among all the patients who complain of “brain fog” are mostly those with ‘white collar’ jobs at executive positions. The patients’ complaint that we get is that the they are unable to perform the same level of cognitive functions as earlier. They face lack of concentration, high irritability and are unable to work as efficiently as before. The initial symptoms are forgetting things, taking longer time to do things, lack of same competency. However, it is important to remember that these symptoms are temporary and with the right counselling, the patient can recover completely.” Dr Shripad Pujari, neurologist at a private city hospital who himself is suffering from “brain fog” said, “Despite being a doctor, I myself am suffering from “brain fog” and It took a few months to recover completely. While physical fatigue is well documented in ailments like dengue, swine, chikungunya; mental fatigue could be exclusively attributed to Covid. However, more study is needed to understand this. It could be at the neurological level to understand to connect between the group and the cognitive abilities of human being.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/younger-covid-recoveries-complain-of-brain-fog-pune-docs-advise-counselling-101643392447481.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||State may relax curbs in the coming weeks||Mumbai With daily Covid cases showing a gradual decline, Maharashtra is likely to ease the restrictions imposed in the backdrop of a surge in cases. The state government has already started relaxing curbs by allowing schools and colleges to resume physical classes from January 24 and February 1 respectively.Aaditya Thackeray, state environment and tourism minister, also hinted towards reopening tourist places, which were shut for the last four weeks. The state government is also expected to take a call on attendance in offices and the timing of malls and restaurants in the coming weeks.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 24,948 fresh infections taking the count to 7,655,554 cases on Friday. It has been observing a constant drop in daily cases since January 21 when 48,270 cases were recorded. It also saw 103 casualties, the highest number of fatalities since September 1, which took the toll to 142,461.The tally of active cases also reported 2,66,586. The state also reported 110 cases of Omicron variant, all of them from Pune. The total number of Omicron cases reached 3,040. So far, 1,603 cases have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, stated a release issued by the state health department.“Positivity rate is still high, that is the reason the state has not yet taken a decision on relaxing restrictions. The ongoing third wave is yet to end. There are many districts where cases are very high. Thus, we have not considered reducing the restrictions this week. It may be discussed in the coming week depending upon the situation,” said a senior minister, who wished not to be named.Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of the state health department said that there won’t be any changes immediately as the state is treading cautiously. “Restrictions are not going to be lifted immediately as the daily positivity rate is still high at most places. The drop in daily cases is in proportion to the daily testing,” he said.The average weekly positivity rate of the state is at 23.82% (till January 26), while there are 22 districts where the weekly positivity rate is higher than the state’s average. Nagpur has reported the highest positivity rate — 44.59%.On Thursday, Aaditya Thackeray said that the chief minister will review the situation next week and make a decision about the reopening of monuments and tourist places. “Daily Covid cases in Aurangabad have not yet come down much. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will review the situation next week and decide about opening the monuments and tourist places,” Thackeray said.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force, said that the state has minimum restrictions in this wave and in the coming weeks it is likely to get more reliefs. “In the coming two to four weeks, Maharashtra would be in a much better position. Transmission of infection at closed spaces and crowds is still a challenge before us,” Dr Joshi said.Mumbai clocked 1,312 cases and its tally reached a total of 1,042,141 cases to date. It also recorded ten fatalities taking the toll to 16,591.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 1,50,900 samples and had a positivity rate of 16.53%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.32%, the statement said.The state also vaccinated 3,15,816 beneficiaries on Friday and has administered a total of 1,47,627,061 doses to date, according to the data available on the Co-Win portal.Meanwhile, a delegation from Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR) met Aslam Shaikh, guardian minister of Mumbai and textile minister, requesting him to restore pre-Covid timings for hotels and restaurants on Friday. They have also requested for issuing specific guidelines for essential services such as home delivery and takeaways. The minister assured that a decision is likely to be taken by next week.
28-01-2022||Lucknow||99 per cent people have got first Covid vax dose in UP: CM Yogi||Stating that 99 per cent eligible people had been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine and 69 per cent had got both the doses in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said due to the large-scale inoculation the effect of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in the third wave had been mild. He said he hoped that the first dose would be administered to 100 percent eligible people in the state by the end of this month.Yogi expressed hope that Uttar Pradesh would be free from the effect of the third wave of Covid-19 in the coming few days. Praising health works and doctors for effectively executing Covid vaccination programme in UP, the chief minister said 25.53 crore Covid vaccine doses had been made available in the state so far. The chief minister also said the state had sufficient availability of oxygen after 551 oxygen plants were set up across UP. Of the 29 oxygen plants established in Meerut, 28 were functioning, Yogi said while addressing media persons after visiting the Covid ward of Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College and reviewing Covid situation preparations to control its spread in Meerut district on Friday.Moreover, the CM said presently night curfew was in place and schools and colleges were kept closed to ensure safety of children. “I hope life would back to normalcy in the coming few days,” he said and added that 41 lakh doses of Covid vaccines had been made available in Meerut. The CM directed health officials to ensure 100 percent vaccination of first dose in Meerut in coming days.He also flayed those who were allegedly spreading misleading information about the Covid vaccine by describing it “Modi vaccine” and “BJP ka teeka”. CM appealed to people to not be scared of the pandemic but remain cautious and united to defeat it. He asked people to spread the message of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protect lives and livelihood together.Later addressing a gathering in Hastinapur constituency, the chief minister enumerated different welfare schemes of the central and the state governments. He said the expressway between Meerut and Delhi had reduced the travel time to Delhi from 4 hours to 40 minutes. He also said the country’s first rapid rail project worth ₹30,000 crore was also under way to connect Meerut and Delhi. State’s first sports university was being set up in Meerut, the CM said.Yogi said free treatment and vaccines were provided to people during corona time and criticised opposition leaders for not coming out of their homes to help people. He said payment of ₹1.56 lakh crore of sugarcane dues was made during the BJP rule in the state which was higher than the dues cleared by the previous governments. He also spoke about farmers’ loan waiver and benefits of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi provided to the farmers. In Hastinapur alone, 54, 000 farmers were getting benefits of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, Yogi added. He appealed to people to vote BJP to power again in the state for its further development. From Hastinapur assembly constituency, the BJP has fielded its sitting MLA and minister Dinesh Khatik against Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal alliance candidate Yogesh Verma and Congress nominee Archana Gautam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/99-per-cent-people-have-got-first-covid-vax-dose-in-up-cm-yogi-101643392084702.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||EC announces biennial polls for 35 UP Legislative Council seats on March 3 and 7||The Election Commission (EC) on Friday announced the schedule for two-phase biennial polls for 35 seats of the UP Legislative Council (Vidhan Parishad) spread over local authorities’ constituencies amid the ongoing bigger battle for the assembly polls in the state.The voting for 29 UP Legislative Council seats will be held on March 3 in phase one while the remaining six seats will go to polls in the second phase on March 7, according to a press release issued by the EC.Votes will be counted on March 12. All the 35 seats for which elections have been announced will fall vacant on March 7 due to the retirement of the sitting members. The Mathura-Etah-Mainpuri local authorities ’constituency has two seats for which separate elections will be held.The EC will issue the poll notification on February 4 for the first phase and on February 10 for the second phase.“The Model Code of Conduct concerning the said election will come into force with an immediate effect in the constituencies concerned,” the EC said.“The chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh is directed to depute a senior officer from the state to ensure that the extant instructions regarding Covid-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the election,” the EC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ec-announces-biennial-polls-for-35-up-legislative-council-seats-on-march-3-and-7-101643391844403.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Marks of 7,880 candidates who had failed in TET exam were increased: Pune Police||PUNE: The cybercrime cell of the Pune police has found that scamsters increased the marks of 7,880 candidates who failed in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) of 2019-20 by charging anything between Rs50,000 and Rs60,000.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “It has been revealed during our investigation that 7,880 candidates who had failed or were ineligible for jobs were declared as eligible or as having passed the exam held in 2019. The manipulation of marks took place for these candidates and our report is being readied. More arrests will be made and the information is being shared with the government. Different rates were offered by the candidates to the accused to get through the exams and the investigation is underway. The information is also being submitted in the court.” The investigation also revealed that 16,592 candidates were declared eligible during the exam.Sukhdev Dere, former commissioner of the Maharashtra State Council of Examination (MSCE), was arrested by the cybercrime cell of the Pune police in the TET results’ manipulation case late December last year. Dere served as the commissioner of MSCE before Tukaram Supe took over in 2017. Supe was also arrested by the city police and was found in possession of gold and cash worth Rs2.5 crore. Dere had faced departmental inquiry and action in 2016 when he served as the regional head in Aurangabad. It was alleged that he appointed school teachers without following due procedure. Dere was arrested along with the former director of GA Software Private Limited, Ashwin Kumar. The current director of the company, Pritesh Deshmukh, was also arrested. The Pune police arrested Saurabh Tripathi from Lucknow, who was about to leave the country after he obtained a visa to travel to Dubai.An FIR was lodged against the accused at the cyber police station under sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and Other Specified Examinations Act. According to the police, the people from inside the department as well as GA software and agents were involved in the marks’ manipulation scam. The OMR sheets were manipulated and if unable to manipulate the OMR sheets, the accused would ask the candidates who paid to keep the sheet blank and fill it out later. Prima facie, a sum of Rs5 crore is estimated to be involved by the city police.The cyber police had registered three separate cases of malpractices in three examinations held by the state health department, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA), and TET. The links of the MHADA paper leak unearthed from the accused in the health department paper leak and the accused in the TET exam case were found from the information extracted during investigation of the MHADA case accused. Till date, as many as 24 people have been arrested in the three cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marks-of-7-880-candidates-who-had-failed-in-tet-exam-were-increased-pune-police-101643391784491.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Prof RS Verma of IIT-Madras appointed new MNNIT director||An expert of molecular biology, genomics, immunology and cell biology, Prof Rama Shanker Verma, has been appointed the new director of state’s lone NIT—Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology(MNNIT)-Allahabad.He is presently serving as a professor in the department of biotechnology of Indian Institute of Technology-Madras in Chennai. He will take up his new responsibility in the first week of February and head the institute for the next five years.Prof Verma will take charge from the present director of MNNIT Prof Rajiv Tripathi of the department of electronics and communication engineering. His five-year term as the regular director ended in November 2021. In light of this, the union ministry of education had issued an advertisement for the appointment of the new director well in time and had sought applications by May 10, 2021 in online mode and through speed post by May 20, 2021. Meanwhile, due to non-appointment of the next regular director, the ministry had extended prof Tripathi’s tenure till appointment of the new incumbent. MNNIT registrar Sarvesh Tiwari confirmed that prof RS Verma had been appointed as the new director but maintained that formal intimation from the union ministry in this regard was still awaited.Confirming his appointment, prof RS Verma said, “I have received the appointment letter and would be joining in the first week of February after competing all formalities.” He also said taking MNNIT to new heights of excellence would be his top priority.Hailing from Asothar village of Fatehpur district of Uttar Pradesh, Prof Verma did his BSc from Ewing Christian College, a constituent college of Allahabad University, in 1975 and then completed MSc in biochemistry from Allahabad University in 1977. Here he lived in Diamond Jubilee Hostel during his student days. For the first time, he was appointed as a demonstrator in MLB Medical College Jhansi in March 1978. He served as a research associate, microbiology department, Institute Gulbenkian De Ciencia, Oerias in Portugal (May 1984 to December 84) before becoming a Scientist Pool Officer, School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi (Apr 1985 to April 1986). He then was a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Division of Hematology/Oncology, School of Medicine, Indiana University Medical Center, Indianapolis, USA (May 86-Feb 91) before being appointed as a lecturer at the same place where he served from Feb 1991 to Oct 1991. Having also served in different institutions in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Pondicherry, he joined IIT-Madras in Chennai in June 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prof-rs-verma-of-iit-madras-appointed-new-mnnit-director-101643391664653.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||UP logs 14 fatalities, 7,909 fresh Covid cases||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh reported 7,909 fresh Covid cases and 14 fatalities due to the infection on Friday. A total of 1,80,883 samples were tested for Covid in the state during the past 24 hours. “At present 65,263 active Covid cases are under treatment in the state, and 63,076 among them are in home isolation. On January 17, there were 1,06,616 active cases,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement. He said, “About 1,300 are admitted to Covid health facilities. The test positivity rate has also come down from 7.78% to 4.54%.” Under the door-to-door campaign that started on January 24 to identify elderly who missed their Covid vaccine dose and children who missed their routine immunization, health workers had identified 1,61,381 senior citizens who did not take their first dose of Covid vaccine, said Prasad. “Such elderly are being motivated and they are being administered the first dose of Covid vaccine. Also, 41,658 people with symptoms have been provided with medicine by health workers under the door-to-door campaign across the state,” he added. According to state health department data, Lucknow, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Hardoi reported two deaths each while Sultanpur, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Ghazipur, Kannauj, Unnao, Ballia and Banda saw one death each. “UP’s recovery rate is 95.57%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The state’s total Covid caseload has reached 1996972, including 23,139 deaths and 1908570 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-logs-14-fatalities-7-909-fresh-covid-cases-101643390764547.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Tardeo building fire: Death toll climbs to 9||Mumbai: Death toll in Tardeo’s Kamala building fire went up to 9 on Friday, as Dhaval Salkar, 23, who was admitted to Masina hospital died at 5.15 pm on Friday. Eight others who were injured in the fire remain admitted at Bhatia hospital. Five are in critical condition, while three are stable. So far, 13 people have been treated and discharged from the hospital.On Saturday, a massive fire was reported to the Mumbai Fire Brigade at 7.26 am on the 19th floor of the 20-storey building at Nana Chowk in Tardeo named Sachinam heights, also called as Kamla building by the residents. A total of 30 people were injured in the fire, six of whom were declared dead on Saturday.Those who died on Saturday were identified as Hitesh Subodh Mistry (40), Mausmi Subodh Mistry (45), Meena Subodh Mistry (65) of flat 1904 on the 19th floor that was completely gutted in the fire, Purshottam Chopdekar (42) who lived on the 16th floor and Manjuben Kantharia who lived on 19th floor.The toll climbed to seven on Monday as Manisha Singh, 38, was declared dead at Nair Hospital at 7 am. It went up to 8 on Thursday, as Madhuri Chopdekar, 35, who was admitted to Kasturba hospital and was in a critical condition died at 12.30 am on Thursday.One more person who died in the fire remains unidentified, according to information from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tardeo-building-fire-death-toll-climbs-to-9-101643389805588.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Nadda plays farmer card in Shahjahanpur and Bareilly||LUCKNOW Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda gave momentum to the party’s election campaign in western Uttar Pradesh by organising door-to-door campaigns in Shahjahanpur and Bareilly on Friday. To win support of farmers, Nadda highlighted the pro-farmers’ schemes launched by the BJP government at the centre and in the state in the ‘Prabhavi Matdata Samvad’ organised in both the districts. Terming the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) as “anti-farmers”, Nadda said farmers were harassed under the governments of both parties whereas under the BJP government, the minimum support price of crops was increased and subsidy was given on fertilisers. Nadda also played the farmers card in Shahjahanpur that shares its border with Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including farmers, were killed on October 3 last year while they were staging a protest against the three contentious farm laws. The support of farmers will be decisive in deciding the fate of candidates in the assembly election in both the districts. “What Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done for farmers has not been done by any leader in the country. The budgetary allocation to the agriculture sector has increased under the BJP government. It clearly shows that the BJP is committed for the welfare of farmers. The recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission was implemented with the increase in minimum support price for agriculture products,” he said. Earlier, before the general elections, the Congress party used to promise loan waivers but the BJP launched PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and funds were deposited in the accounts of 10.50 crore farmers across the country. In UP, ₹41,000 crore had been deposited in the accounts of two crore farmers. The Modi government has given 140% subsidy on fertilisers, and the price of fertiliser bag was slashed from ₹2,400 to ₹1,200, added Nadda. “Over 11 crore farmers are registered under the PM crop insurance scheme in the country while 2.70 crore farmers in UP are associated with the scheme. Soil health card has been distributed among 3.70 crore farmers in UP,” he said. Nadda said 45 lakh farmers in UP were getting pension while ₹36,000 crore loans of farmers had been waived. “The Yogi government has made ₹1.40 lakh crore payments to sugarcane farmers. Under SP and BSP governments, sugar mills were sold and closed, but new sugar mills have been set up under the Yogi government and farmers are getting 50% discount in power supply. Today, UP is number one in crop production,” he said. The BJP chief said the SP was giving tickets to candidates who were in jail or out on bail. “The SP chief has extended friendship to tainted politicians but people will reject them in the election. Criminals, gangsters and mafia have been reined in under the BJP government,” he added. 
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Chopper delay from Delhi to Muz’nagar was conspiracy: Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Alleging a conspiracy by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday claimed that he was stranded in Delhi as his helicopter was not allowed to fly to UP’s Muzaffarnagar for an election programme. Over two hours later, when the chopper was allowed to fly to the destination, Akhilesh called it a “historic flight to victory.”From the tarmac in New Delhi, Akhilesh posted a picture of him standing with the helicopter and crew in the background, and tweeted in Hindi: “My helicopter has been stopped in Delhi without any reason. It is not being allowed to go to Muzaffarnagar, while a top BJP leader has just flown from here. This is a desperate conspiracy of the losing BJP. People are understanding everything...”“I was in the chopper for over 2 hours... I am hoping that EC looks into it... If someone has to go for a rally, how will they work if their chopper is stopped for so long...seems like BJP will do anything before polls...” added the SP chief. Akhilesh Yadav and his alliance partner RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary were scheduled to address a joint press conference in Muzaffarnagar ahead of the first phase of the seven-phase UP assembly polls beginning on February 10.This was Yadav’s first election trip outside Lucknow since January 14, when the Lucknow police filed an FIR and the Election Commission of India (ECI) issued a notice to the SP over the violation of model code of conduct (MCC) and Covid guidelines issued by the poll body. The January 14 event saw ex-BJP minister Swami Prasad Maurya and others joining Akhilesh’s party at the SP office where an estimated crowd of 2,000-2,500 people had gathered.Half an hour of the first tweet, Akhilesh sent another tweet in which he informed that he had got permission to fly. “Abuse of power is a sign of people losing…this day will also be recorded in the history of socialist struggle! We are going to take a historic flight of victory…,” the SP chief stated.Yadav had departed for Delhi from Lucknow’s Amausi airport at 10:30am in a private plane. He landed at Delhi airport at 11:45pm. From there, he was scheduled to leave for Muzaffarnagar around 12:15pm. However, there was a delay after his helicopter was allegedly stopped in the National Capital. He reached Muzaffarnagar two hours behind schedule.Udaiveer Singh, an SP legislator, said: “The BJP is frustrated and demoralised over its imminent defeat. With this mindset, it has been trying such tricks by misusing police, administration and government machinery. This is not the first time. Earlier, one of SP’s Vijay Yatras too was stopped on the Purvanchal Expressway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/chopper-delay-from-delhi-to-muz-nagar-was-conspiracy-akhilesh-101643388304507.html
28-01-2022||Patna||Army plane lands in field in Bodh Gaya, pilots safe||A micro-light aircraft of the Indian Army’s Officers’ Training Academy in Gaya, with two trainee pilots on board, made an emergency landing in an agricultural field on Friday shortly after take-off, a senior official said.According to Bangajeet Saha, the director of Gaya International Airport, both pilots were safe. He said the plane landed in the fields adjoining Bagdaha Bely village in Bodh Gaya block.Villagers noticed the trainer aircraft falling down, rushed to the spot and pulled the cadets out. They were taken away by Army personnel who arrived soon afterwards. Debris of the crashed plane was also collected by them.“The nature of the technical fault that might have caused the crash will be known only upon examination by experts,” the airport director said. According to Sameer Gangakhedkar, one of the public relations officers of the Army, the crew member executed a precautionary landing around 8.25 am after the aircraft developed a technical snag. “We saw the plane coming down. It was wobbling. Finally, it landed in agriculture field with wheat crops,” said Basudeo Paswan, a farmer.According to Gaya’s senior superintendent of police Aditya Kumar, police reached the spot after receiving information from Officers Training Academy (OTA) to cordon off the area so that angry farmers don’t meddle with equipment. “One of the aircraft’s wheels had been damaged so it was not in a condition to fly. It was eventually dismantled and taken to OTA,” he said. Sources in the OTA informed that this is practice landing and is part of normal procedure. 
28-01-2022||Patna||Bihar plans common database for Aadhaar-verified beneficiaries of all schemes||Bihar will develop a social registry portal having a common database of Aadhar verified beneficiaries of different welfare schemes in a bid to ensure financial discipline and ensure delivery within the stipulated time. A decision to this effect was taken by the state cabinet at its meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar here on Friday. Briefing reporters through virtual mode, additional chief secretary (cabinet) Sanjay Kumar said the finance department had been authorized to develop, institutionalize and execute the Aadhaar number verified common social registry portal so that a common database of beneficiaries of all the departments is readily available for verification. A senior finance department official there are over four crore beneficiaries of different social welfare schemes in the state. “There are nearly 2.50 crore students, who get different types of incentives from the education department. More than 80 lakh receive pension. However, the exact total number of beneficiaries is not available as different departments run their schemes on their own,” said the official. In another important decision, the cabinet approved the proposal to offer up to 25% concession in road tax against the vehicles formally declared and dismantled as per the Centre’s scrap policy notified in October last year. As per the cabinet note, the owner of non-commercial vehicles abandoned as scrap are eligible for 25% concession in road tax in case of purchase of new non-commercial vehicles. However, in case of commercial vehicles, the tax concession is 15%. The government also gave its nod to the education department’s proposal to purchase benches and desks of standard specification for 2,803 primary schools at a total cost of ₹99.75 crore. The department will also procure a pair of washable masks for each student, from class 1 to 12th, of all the government schools from Jeevika at the cost of ₹51.76 crore The cabinet also offered administration sanction for building 11 roads totalling 190 kilometres in length covering three Maoist-hit districts of Aurangabad, Banka and Gaya under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna as part of the Centre’s road connectivity project for left wing extremism affected areas. The road construction department had prepared the detailed project reports (DPRs) of the roads to be built at the cost of ₹265.36 crore. 
28-01-2022||Patna||Padma Bhushan Sharda Sinha laments hardships due to pension delay||Bihar’s famed folk singer and Padma Shri and Padma Bhushan awardee Sharda Sinha’s painful Facebook post on Thursday about the demise of her ailing friend and retired professor at Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga), Dr Isha Sinha, due to lack of pension for the last 4-5 months despite several letters from her husband to the government has gone viral on social media.“My friend is gone but how many others are struggling without pension for months is hard to tell. I am myself without a pension for the last four months and it must be affecting every retired person in equal measure. Is it the justice of the Bihar government and universities. I am ashamed that I am part of such a system,” she wrote.What Sinha has written is the agony of hundreds of retired teachers of universities. Not just LNMU, most universities in the state are struggling to pay timely pension to their retired teachers for various reasons.“We don’t have funds to disburse pension. The government had released funds for a one-month pension and three-month salary that we have paid. We don’t have university funds to distribute pension on our own in anticipation of the release of government funds. As soon as we get funds, we will release it,” said LNMU vice-chancellor (VC) SP Singh.An education department official said that LNMU had been released funds for pension up to September last year. “It is the biggest university and there was some shortfall in funds. Every university has a different requirement. There was some shortfall in the case of some universities. The LNMU will gets funds for October to February in one go soon. We have already released salary grants up to February for all universities and pension funds will also be released within a few days,” he said.JP University (Chapra) also has a pension backlog since November last year. In Magadh University, where there has been turmoil for the last three months since the Special Vigilance Unit (SVU) raids on the residence of its vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad, pension for December is due even as January is drawing to a close.“Pension up to November has been paid. As soon as we get funds for December, we will release it,” said MU finance officer Satyaratna Prasad.However, some widows, who lost their husbands to Covid 8-9 months ago, are still awaiting continuance of their revised pension in their name in MU. Besides, the retired teachers are still awaiting their 7th pay arrears, even as the Bihar government failed to get ₹383-crore reimbursement of 7th pay from the Centre due to delay in proposal submission.
28-01-2022||Patna||Buxar hooch tragedy: SHO among three cops suspended||Three policemen, including station house officer (SHO) of a police station, have been suspended in Bihar’s Buxar district in connection with the suspected hooch tragedy on Wednesday that left six people dead, including a teacher, superintendent of police Niraj Kumar Singh said on Friday. Those suspended are: Manoranjan Rai, SHO of Morar police station, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajiv Kumar posted with the same police station, and Harinarayan Yadav, police chowkidar of Amsari village where the tragedy took place.“Four persons have been arrested so far and they would be produced before the court on Saturday,” the SP said. “The viscera of five deceased has been preserved and sent for forensic test,” he said.Liquor is prohibited in Bihar since April 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/buxar-hooch-tragedy-sho-among-three-cops-suspended-101643387344164.html
28-01-2022||Patna||Teachers in dry Bihar get an addl job — to report drinking on the sly||Now, school teachers and headmasters in “dry” Bihar have an added responsibility — to keep an eye on people consuming liquor on the sly in dry Bihar and report, according to a directive issued by additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar to all the regional deputy directors (education), district education officers and district programme officers.“...such information is coming that some people are still consuming liquor on the sly and their families have to face its ill-effects. It is important to stop it. In this regard, it is directed that a meeting of the education committee be called in elementary and middle schools to disseminate necessary information about de-addiction,” read the directive issued on Friday. Besides, the letter has also asked officials to direct the headmasters, teachers of the elementary, middle and higher secondary schools and volunteers to identify the suppliers and consumers of liquor and pass the information to prohibition and excise department’s toll-free numbers. “The credentials of the informers will be kept confidential,” the ACS has written to add pace to prohibition campaign in the state. The education department’s brass has also written to the officials to ensure that the premises of educational institutions were not used for drinking liquor. There have been reports of empty liquor bottles having been recovered from school premises in the state where total prohibition on liquor was imposed in April 2016.
28-01-2022||Pune||Bio-based plasticisers less harmful to environment, says research||PUNE Synthetic plasticisers add stress to water-based and soil-based organisms, while bio-based plasticisers are less harmful to the environment, revealed recent research published in Springer -Ecotoxicology journal online.The research was conducted by Chaitali Shaha, a student of the zoology department, under the guidance of Dr Radhakrishna Pandit from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and was published on Thursday.Speaking about her findings, Shaha said that phthalates are used as plasticisers in products made of polyvinyl chloride to increase the flexibility of polymers.“Unfortunately, these are known to cause adverse effects on living organisms, and also, fast depletion of petroleum resources calls for the exploration of alternatives as replacements. Recent developments in bio-based plasticisers have led to their use as additives for various applications. In my study I found that when these bio-based plasticisers are used they harm these organisms less,” said Shaha.Phthalates are used in food packaging, medical devices, and other common products. They leach out and accumulate in the products and thus are regarded as one of the significant environmental pollutants.Shaha added that her research included the effect of these plasticisers on C. circumdatus, an insect also popularly known as the blood worms.“Blood worms are aquatic insects and live near freshwater bodies which have polluted water. These bloodworms are used to study water pollution as they are known to breed in that environment. We found that the environment of these bloodworms was stressed as synthetic plasticisers were used. Whereas the bio-based plasticisers had less stress on these organisms as they can be utilised by living organisms,” said Shaha.The bio-based plasticiser used in the research was Ethanolamine. Shaha also added that in her previous studies it was found that several synthetic plasticisers like diethyl and dioctyl have adverse effects on these organisms.“To reduce the changes mediated by these plasticisers, larvae of these insects produced certain changes in the levels of antioxidants and detoxifying enzymes. There was an increase in the enzyme activities of certain enzymes during post-exposure recovery conditions indicating that these enzymes play an important role in helping these insects to adapt to plasticiser contaminated environments,” revealed the research.Dr Radhakrishna Pandit, guide and researcher, professor at the zoology department at SPPU, said that plasticisers work differently on aquatic ecosystems.“Synthetic plasticisers creating stress on insects. This research paper highlights how these insects adapt to the stresses. From an environmental point of view, the research has important insights. We have tried to understand how these insects use antioxidants to adapt. Bio-based plasticisers are a good alternative to synthetic plasticisers. They are also cheaper to manufacture and put less stress on the environment of these insects. In the future, students can try and understand how these plasticizers can affect human beings,” said Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/biobased-plasticisers-less-harmful-to-environment-says-research-101643386930946.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Parent groups want schools buses to start plying||Mumbai After schools reopened post a two-week shutdown this month, parent groups are asking for normalcy to be restored in schools. In letters addressed to the state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and BMC chief Iqbal Chahal demanding normalcy be brought back to schools, the parent groups have asked for school buses to start plying.“Despite having SOPs in place, several private schools are resisting reopening of schools at 50% capacity and making excuses instead. We request the government to once again send a clear direction to institutes to follow guidelines,” states the letter signed by members of the Maharashtra English School Trustees Association (MESTA) and Parents Association of Mumbai (PMA). Among other demands made by parents, one is the need for schools buses to ply regularly. “Schools are running in shifts and conducting physical classes only for a few hours so without school buses, it is becoming impossible to pick up and drop children every day for parents,” added the letter.The School Bus Owners’ Association (SBOA) had for long decided not to ply buses unless the government agrees to a tax rebate for the two years that schools remained shut and buses were not used. “The state cabinet recently approved our demand for a tax rebate and we have now requested all SBOA members to start functioning normally. Bus owners might take a week to ensure Covid protocols are followed and only then we will start regular work hours,” said Anil Garg, president of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parent-groups-want-schools-buses-to-start-plying-101643386627047.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Minor daughter not a property to be given away as Daan: HC||Mumbai: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court sought the urgent intervention of a district Child Welfare Committee (CWC) after a routine bail application hearing of two men charged with sexually assaulting a 17-year-old, revealed that the minor’s father had “donated” her to a self-styled godman with a “daanpatra” or a donation deed. The CWC submitted its report to the court last week and the matter has been posted for hearing on February 4. The survivor had lodged a complaint of sexual assault against two residents of a village in Badnapur taluka of Jalna district on August 13, 2021 following which the Badnapur police station registered a first information report (FIR) under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the two accused. During the legal proceedings against the accused, an affidavit filed by the survivor’s father included a deed executed by him on August 29, 2018, that stated he offered his daughter to a self-styled godman residing in the village temple as “donation”. “When the girl as per her own statement is minor, then why does the father, who is in all respect the guardian of the girl, give the girl as daan? A girl is not a property which can be given in donation,” justice Vibha Kankanwadi observed. The single-judge bench hearing the bail applications of Shankeshwar (alias Shambhu Dhakne) and Sopan Dhanke through advocates SS Thombre and BP More respectively was told that the duo was falsely implicated. The advocates informed the bench that the duo had taken part in a Badnapur gram sabha which passed a resolution that the priest of the village temple, referred to as “baba”, and his disciples who consumed narcotics, should be asked to leave. They said that the complaint was filed against them on the behest of “baba”. The survivor lived in the temple premises with her father, along with the “baba” and other disciples, the accused stated. The court had asked the minor’s father to file an affidavit on December 8, 2021, but it was filed by the “baba” instead due to a mistake part of the survivor’s lawyers. The affidavit, however, contained a daanpatra in stamp paper, executed on August 29, 2018 between the father of the girl and the self-styled godman, which stated that the father had given his daughter in donation to him and the “kanyadan” [donation of a virgin; also a common reference to marriage] was done in “presence” of god. The affidavit further stated that after the girl’s mother died, her father had given her up for adoption to the godman in 2018, but the adoption deed was not executed. Disturbed by this the bench observed, “This court is concerned with the future of the minor girl and in view of such document coming forward, we can’t shut our eyes.” Adding that “it required to interfere” in view of the “actions taken by father of the girl in executing a daanpatra” the judge said, “this is in view of the future of the girl and she should not be driven to do any illegal activities.” Observing that the probe in the case was over and the charge sheet was filed, the bench granted bail on stringent conditions to the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/minor-daughter-not-a-property-to-be-given-away-as-daan-hc-101643386565345.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Salaries of 1,500 contractual staff of PMC pending from three months||PUNE At least 1,500 contractual staff, mostly security guards working at various gardens and offices of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have not been paid salaries for over three months.On Friday, the workers met senior PMC officials to discuss the issue and today they plan to meet deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Earlier too during the Diwali period last year, salaries of these contract staff were pending for three to four months by the contractor. After a protest was held by workers supported by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) salaries were given paid in phases.A woman security worker, on condition of anonymity, said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic we are already suffering financially and now if salaries of over three months are not given how can we live. I have borrowed money from my relatives and my husband is also jobless, in such a situation we are struggling to survive.”Vinod Pawar, secretary of NCP city wing, said, “On Friday we met senior PMC officials demanding to clear the salaries of these contract staff immediately. They have assured us to pay it and also take strict action against the contractor responsible for the salaries. Also, if needed they are going to blacklist the contractor as repeated complaints are coming against him.”The security agency was changed midway and neither the old nor the new agency is taking the responsibility to pay them.“We will be continuously taking a follow-up of the issue and strict action should be taken against the contractor. These security staff have worked day and night during the pandemic, so PMC should also clear their pending salaries immediately,” added Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/salaries-of-1-500-contractual-staff-of-pmc-pending-from-three-months-101643386564104.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai records under 2K cases, bed vacancy at 92.4%||Mumbai For the fifth day in a row, Mumbai recorded under 2,000 Covid cases in a single day on Friday at 1,312 new infections. The drop in the cases has also resulted in a drop in the occupancy of hospital beds. Of the 37,575 Covid beds available in Mumbai, 92.4% or 34,725 beds are vacant, and only 2,857 beds are occupied as of Friday.Of the 1,519 ventilator beds, 66% or 1,012 are vacant, as 507 are occupied; of the 3,091 ICU beds, 74.2% or 2,296 beds are vacant, while 795 beds are occupied. There are a total of 12,059 oxygen beds, of which 90% or 10,855 are vacant, and 1,204 are occupied, according to information from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Mumbai presently has 14,344 active Covid cases.Mumbai also reported 10 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 16,591. Of the 1,312 cases reported on Friday, 192 patients needed to be hospitalised, and 41 of them needed oxygen beds.The number of tests done by the civic body per day has been on the decline as authorities have pointed out that there is less demand for tests. For Friday, BMC conducted 27,720 Covid tests, and the positivity rate for the day has gone down to 4.7%, from the maximum recorded in Mumbai during the third wave, of around 28-29%.Starting January 24, Mumbai has been recording under 2,000 cases per day, with 1,875 cases and 34,301 tests on January 24; 1,815 cases and 34,427 tests on January 25; 1,858 cases and 42,315 tests on January 26; and 1,384 cases and 42,572 tests on January 27.Of the 10 Covid patients who died on Friday, eight had co-morbidities, nine patients were above the age of 60 years, and one patient was in the age group of 40 years to 60 years.4,990 patients recovered from Covid on Friday, and the recovery rate in Mumbai is 97%. The growth rate of Covid cases in the past week has gone down to 0.27%, the doubling rate has gone up to 259 days. The growth rate is calculated taking into consideration the increase in Covid cases for the past seven days, and the doubling rate is the number of days taken for the present number of Covid cases to double.“There are 20 sealed buildings in Mumbai at present, and no containment zones, which are chawls or slums,” according to the figures released by the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-under-2k-cases-bed-vacancy-at-924-101643385964211.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||BJP attacks govt over wine sale in supermarkets, Congress points to similar decision in MP||Mumbai: The war of words between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the government’s decision to allow the retail sale of wine in walk-in shops and supermarkets continued on Friday. On Thursday, former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the government was converting Maharashtra into ‘Madya Rashtra’ or a nation of liquor. He alleged that while liquor was being made cheaper, there was no relief in the prices of petrol and diesel. “We won’t allow Maharashtra to become ‘Madya’ Rashtra’,” he said. Congress leader Sachin Sawant said the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh under Shivraj Singh Chouhan had taken a similar decision that covered not just wine made from grapes, mead, fruits and flowers, but all kinds of liquor. “Sir, pls hv a glimpse at our neighbouring state which has already become “Madya Pradesh” under BJP CM @ChouhanShivraj,” Sawant tweeted.“To promote wine industry and help farmers in Maharashtra, permission is given for selling only wine. But in MP, all types of liquor will be sold in supermarkets. Also, home stock can be increased. Liquor shops will be called composite shops,” said Sawant, while asking if the BJP had a strategy to oppose liquor while in opposition and promote its consumption when in power.Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut on Friday said those opposing the decision are anti-farmer. “Wine is a product manufactured from the fruits cultivated by the farmers.” He said a rise in sale and export of wine would ensure good returns for the farmers who cultivated grape, chikoo, cashew nut, guava and grain. Sambhajirao Bhide Guruji, who heads the right-wing Shivaprathisthan Hindustan, attacked the government and called this decision “shameless, anti-national, anti-religion, immoral, and dangerous.” Bhide added that he would request Governor B.S. Koshyari to dismiss this government. Bandatatya Karhadkar, who is a leader of the warkari sect, sarcastically congratulated the government and urged it to introduce wine in the midday meal scheme in schools instead of nutritious food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-attacks-govt-over-wine-sale-in-supermarkets-congress-points-to-similar-decision-in-mp-101643385544205.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||72-year-old fake doctor in Murbad arrested after 5 villagers die||The Tokawade police arrested a 72-year-old quack who worked as a security guard in the Primary Health Department and started his own clinic after retirement in 2009.He allegedly prescribed medicines to tribals in the nearby areas without having any medical degree. Recently, when five persons in the village died, the police booked him.The accused was identified as Pandurang Gholap. Social organisers claim that there are many such bogus doctors in the area.Dinesh Jadhav from Adivasi Kranti Sena, an NGO, said, “In this week, five villagers, including a three-month-old pregnant woman, of Milhe Katkarwadi and Dhasai village lost their lives suddenly while they were taking treatment under Gholap. After their condition worsened, they went to other hospitals when their families realised they had initially received the wrong treatment. We have a government hospital 5km away where we only get treatment for fever, cough, and basic things, and it’s difficult for the poor to travel to Thane Civil Hospital because of which they prefer to take treatment here.”Assistant police inspector, Santosh Darade said, “We have arrested the accused, Gholap, under IPC 304A and other sections of IPC. He gave medicines to five patients after which all of them became serious in a period of two weeks and all of them lost their lives. We are investigating further in the matter and took his custody for four days.”Taluka medical officer, Bharati Mote, was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/72yearold-fake-doctor-in-murbad-arrested-after-5-villagers-die-101643385304205.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 103 Covid deaths; highest in 4 months, even as new cases drop||Maharashtra on Friday logged the highest number of single-day fatalities due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in four months after as many as 103 patients succumbed to it, according to the state health bulletin data. The last time the state recorded such record number of deaths on a day was on September 1 last year when 183 people lost their lives. The latest fatality figures are a big jump in 24 hours as the state reported 42 deaths on Thursday. With this, the death toll of Maharashtra has climbed to 142,461.As far as single-day Covid-19 cases are concerned, the tally, however, continued its declining trend with 24,948 fresh infections, down from 25,425 on Thursday. Mumbai too reported yet another drop in its daily tally after 1,312 people tested positive for the virus as opposed to 1,384 on Thursday. Maharashtra's overall coronavirus tally has now touched 76,55,554, of which, Mumbai accounts for 10,42,141, the state bulletin data revealed.Mumbai's daily death toll, however, saw a reduction to 10 on Friday from Thursday's 12. The city has reported 16,591 Covid-19 deaths since the pandemic struck, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as well as state bulletin data.Also Read | Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation records most deaths in third Covid waveIn what can be called a silver lining, fresh recoveries in Maharashtra saw a major spike after 45,648 patients recuperated from Covid-19, up from 36,708 on Thursday and 39,857 on Wednesday. The total number of recovered patients in the state has now touched 72,42,649, of which, Mumbai accounts for 10,09,374.As many as 110 fresh cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 were also recorded in Maharashtra on Friday, up from 72 detected the day before. All of today's new Omicron cases were confirmed from Pune, taking the state's tally of the new ‘variant of concern’ to 3,040. Of them, a total of 1,603 patients have recovered following a negative RT-PCR test report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-103-covid-deaths-highest-in-4-months-even-as-new-cases-drop-101643382961928.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Won’t allow any “black laws” passed by BJP to be implemented in UP: Akhilesh||MEERUT Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday promised the farmers of Uttar Pradesh that the SP-RLD alliance would not allow any “black laws” passed by the BJP to be implemented in the state.“I still don’t understand why they brought the three farm bills and thereafter scrapped them without explaining their action. It was done for votes,” stated Yadav while cautioning farmers that the BJP could bring in any law without informing people. He was addressing his first joint press conference with RLD chief and his ally in the election, Jayant Chaudhary, in Muzaffarnagar. The Samajwadi Party president said that he and Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary were “farmers’ sons”, who will fight for the farmers till the end. Yadav stated that his connection with the farmers was the reason why he always carried a “laal topi and a laal potli” in his pocket.“I carry an ‘ann sankalp’ to defeat them (BJP) and make them run away,” the SP chief added.Yadav also declared to create a corpus and revolving fund from the state budget to ensure timely payment of sugarcane dues of farmers, if his party was voted to power in the UP Assembly elections.He announced to establish a Kisan Shaheed Memorial in Meerut in memory of farmers who lost their lives during the yearlong agitation. Yadav demanded Bharat Ratna for former Prime Minister and late farmer leader Charan Singh. “This highest civilian award should be given to Charan Singh,” he said.“This UP election is for the future of farmers, youths and people should defeat negative forces in order to keep the ‘Ganga-Jamuni’ culture alive,” he said, adding that the RLD-SP alliance will come out with a spectacular victory in the election because people had made up their mind for a change. Promising 300 units of free electricity and irrigation facility to farmers, the SP chief said: “The payment of sugarcane dues has always been a major issue. After forming government, a corpus fund would be created from the budget to ensure timely payment of sugarcane dues. I will ensure payment in 15 days.”Attacking the BJP over its ‘tamanchawadi’ remark against the SP and its leaders, Yadav targeted the chief minister without naming him and said: “He is the BJP’s first CM who had so many cases against him and the deputy CM had even more cases. And they call those ‘tamanchawadi’ who don’t have a single case against them.” Taking a jibe at chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he said: “Babaji was demanding ticket from Mathura and Ayodhya, but was sent back home.”The SP chief claimed that the law and order situation had deteriorated in UP during BJP’s rule, which was evident by the fact that the state received maximum notices from the human rights commission. He also accused the BJP of raising old issues and insulting unemployed youth. “If youths are out on the roads for jobs, it is the government’s fault. This time it would be BJP’s ‘political migration’,” stated Yadav. Without naming Amit Shah who used his saliva during distribution of BJP’s pamphlets, he said: “They are distributing pamphlets to spread corona and the election commission should take note of this.” RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary raised the issue of election commission’s delay in giving permission to video vans of party candidates. He also accused government department heads of demanding voter ID cards for submission of ballot papers and cautioned employees to give completed ballot papers instead of providing ID in order to prevent bogus voting on their names. Akhilesh Yadav also supported Chaudhary’s allegations and said similar practice was adopted by officials during the panchayat elections, saying that that he would lodge a complaint in this regard with the ECI. Both the leaders appealed to the people to ensure victory of the SP-RLD alliance candidates on all six seats of Muzaffarnagar district.Reacting to Yadav’s statement, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said: “None needs to stop you Akhileshji. People are ready to stop you as they did in 2014, in 2017 and in 2019 polls. Stop this drama and brace for March 10, when people will make you see the reality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/wont-allow-any-black-laws-passed-by-bjp-to-be-implemented-in-up-akhilesh-101643384944116.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalyan court orders police to book 18 KDMC officials including 5 former commissioners for cheating||The Kalyan court has released an order asking the Kalyan Bazarpeth police to register a cheating and corruption case against 18 KDMC officials including five former commissioners for duping 136 residents of Manik Colony in the redevelopment of their building in 2004.When the permission for redevelopment was sought, the officials allegedly gave the go ahead based on fraudulent documents, which promised a different area to the residents. However, the final area was much less than promised.The residents, with the help of former independent corporator, Arun Geeth, gave a tough fight against the KDMC for over a decade, after which Civil Judge, Sonali Sashikant Raul, ordered them to file a complaint against them on January 18.The 18 includes five ex-commissioners – Govind Bodke, Govind Rathod, E Ravindran, Ramnath Sonawane and SS Bhise.Manik Colony went for redevelopment in 2004, when a permission to build a high rise was given to the developer. According to the court order, the civic officials favoured the builder (developer), violating all rules and regulations, and promising a different area to the residents than what they actually received. They allowed the developer to carry out the construction without following any rules.After Manik Colony residents received the houses with areas different from what was mentioned in the contract, they ran from pillar to post but no one listened to them. A senior officer from Bazarpeth police station, said, “We have registered a case against 18 people as per the court order. We have started our investigation, but no arrest has been made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-court-orders-police-to-book-18-kdmc-officials-including-5-former-commissioners-for-cheating-101643384044041.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||Sports fever soaring: Delhi-NCR academies report surge||It’s pretty common to think that when most places are experiencing a lull, when it comes to business, due to the ongoing wave of Covid, it might be the same case for sports centres. But, sports academies in Delhi-NCR share that they have been inundated with enquires since this Covid wave hit. Gyms in the city are closed, and it seems that residents are taking to sports to stay fit. “Not just enquiries, even bookings have increased by 50%,” says Sachin Singh, from Play Tennis Academy, adding: “People seem to have understood that the virus is here to stay for longer, and realised that sports is the only thing that they can do to continue to stay fit and build their health. Guess that’s why a lot of new queries have been coming our way, with the interest to join.” Sharad Kumar, from Progressive Tennis Academy, informs that he had closed his academy due to the sudden increase in Covid cases, but is being compelled to reopen it sooner than he had planned. “We are getting calls and messages, and people are asking, ‘Why are you not opening?’ ‘When will it open?’ Every day we would get calls and not from our old students but also from new people who want to enrol themselves with us. So we will now reopen sooner than what was planned,” he adds.Being a safe form of physical exercise, sports is also luring people to enrol themselves alongside their young ones. “My daughter goes for tennis coaching. Honestly at this point of time, there is nothing better than sports activities for kids as it helps them improve their stamina and somewhere a better immune system as well,” says Dwarka-based Vaibhav Khattar, who works in banking and insurance. He adds: “Children are still not going to school and there is a constant mental pressure at home, with so many online classes to attend. Of course we were worried to send her outside, initially when the Covid cases restarted to rise, but then we realised that sports in the open are pretty safe to pursue. And that’s what gave us the confidence to allow her to play, as she pursues her passion.” Rajan Rajpal, a coach with Apex Table Tennis Academy, says while he teaches an indoor sport for which the turn out is slow at present, but that has made many book their slots in advance. “Since this Omicron variant is mild, queries didn’t take much time to pick up. In fact, people are already booking slots with us for even for February, in the anticipation that those might get filled up with the lessening impact of the virus. Like if we used to have 25-30 players playing simultaneously in one room before Covid, now we are not allowing more than seven to eight players at a time. And if the players are adults, we are also checking their vaccination status. All this also fills up the spots faster,” informs Rajpal.And some coaches feel that overdoing isn’t the right way to go about it. “Queries have increased but there are government restrictions in place, and we feel we need to stop people from crowding the place. We cannot take too many players at the same time,” says Bhupinder Singh, a coach from Pickskills Basketball Academy, confirming that the sudden rise in requests has made them refuse quite a few bookings. “Also, the kids have become more regular as compared to earlier. And for parents, right now such physical activities have become as important as studies and they seem to be enforcing the same thought in their children as well,” he opines.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sports-fever-soaring-delhi-ncr-academies-report-surge-101643383688221.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Former defence personnel and kin of martyrs to be tax exempt by BMC||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to exempt municipal tax to former defence personnel, kin of martyrs and army officials who have won gallantry medals during their services and are residing within the jurisdiction of the Mumbai civic body. Standing committee of the civic body cleared the proposal on Friday and this will come into effect from the next financial year starting April 1. Senior officials of the BMC said that to avail the benefits, the servicemen will have to obtain certificates from the Sainik Welfare office or a domicile certificate to the local ward office, that would state that they have been living in Maharashtra for more than 15 years now.The officials also said that only one property registered under their name will be eligible for this scheme.“We don’t know how many eligible citizens will be benefited under this scheme as the registration process has not started yet. We will only come to know about the figures once citizens start registering themselves,” said Sunil Dhamane, joint municipal commissioner on Friday.The property tax has 13 components under its bracket which includes eight components of the BMC that includes the general property tax, water tax, water benefit tax, street tax and sewerage tax amongst other components. The remaining five components are various cess imposed by the state government.The proposal also pointed out that property owners will have to pay the remaining five components imposed by the state government as they have not been relaxed.Earlier in August 2021, a similar proposal was tabled in the civic standing committee. According to the earlier proposal, an exemption of general property tax was proposed for the army professionals and their kins. This proposal was referred by the committee back then and the administration was told to revise and table it again. Following which, a new proposal was tabled in the committee on Friday.According to the new proposal, former defence personnel, kin of martyrs and army officials who have won gallantry medals during their tenure of service will be exempted from paying all the municipal taxes that fall under the property tax category. The BMC’s proposal comes in effect following a state government notification of September 2020. In the notification, the government had ordered exemption of property tax for all former defence personnel. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meanwhile have demanded in the meeting that all the five components should also be exempted by the state government.Besides this, the committee also cleared a ₹70 lakh proposal for carrying out restoration and renovation works of a century old Pyau (Water Fountain) in Central Mumbai’s Prabhadevi area.The restoration works will include polishing the surface, repairing the broken and damaged components and replacing it with replicas along with landscaping the premises of the pyau and the footpath on which it has been constructed. The BMC also said that the pyau which has been lying defunct since past many years will be made operational as well.The BMC has appointed Vaastu Vidhan Project as the architect and consultant for this project and the completion is likely to take 36 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/former-defence-personnel-and-kin-of-martyrs-to-be-tax-exempt-by-bmc-101643382185136.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||With no bridge, villagers forced to use rickety path to cross dam in Kalyan||Kalyan For the people of Apati village in Kalyan, travelling to nearby cities for work is a risky affair as they have to take a broken pathway or balance on makeshift iron planks across a low head dam to reach Ambernath, Badlapur and Taloja industrial region. Some villagers even carry their bicycles and two-wheelers in groups while they cross this risky path. With the only alternative road being more than 25 km away, 2,000 villagers of Apati and 10 other villages endanger their life to earn a livelihood as the authorities failed to construct a bridge over the river.  While returning from work at night, villagers search the pathway with one hand and hold a torch on the other to see it clearly as the path submerges completely in the water. Moreover, the alternate road is over 25 kilometres away and villagers have to pay ₹200 for travelling, which most cannot afford. Whereas crossing the pathway and taking an autorickshaw to the city costs just ₹15. “Many in the village are farmers and have to visit the city to sell their produce. Students also take the same path to travel to their schools and colleges in the city,” said Shyam Shisve, 38, a resident and deputy sarpanch of Apati village. Shisve works as a plumber and travels to Badlapur for work.   The pathway was built near the weir in 2000 to control the flow of the Ulhas river water. Earlier a weir constructed in 1972, 100 metres away from the current one, was submerged in the water, prompting authorities to build a new one with increased height. A 5 feet wide pathway of 200 feet in length was also built.   “When the new weir was built in 2000, the authorities had also assured that they will build a bridge. However, they built a pathway, which is now almost submerged in the water. The villagers had tried to fix the submerged portion by supporting it with iron planks. However, that was washed away during monsoon,” said Shisve. Suresh Gaikar, former deputy sarpanch of the village and a retired teacher said, “During monsoon, some have even drowned in the river. We residents have been demanding a proper road since 2017 as the water from the weir started overflowing from the old road. However, there has been no response from the authorities.”  Since 2018, the villagers have been asking the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to build a proper bridge.    “In 2017, some part of the pathway had washed away for which we have decided to take up the repair work. However, due to the pandemic, the work got delayed. The pathway is just a part of the weir which can be used to access the weir when required, it was not for people to cross. People use this pathway as a shortcut to reach the cities daily,” said Machindra Jadhav, deputy engineer, Ambernath MIDC.  “We cannot barricade the pathway as every year during monsoon its parts are washed away. Also, we cannot stop people from using it as it is a shortcut for their livelihood. The only way is to have a bridge or flyover for which we are trying,” Jadhav added. 
28-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi's Covid tally further dips with 4,044 cases as curfew-free weekend starts||Delhi on Friday witnessed yet another drop in its daily Covid-19 tally after as many 4,044 people tested positive for the virus, according to the health bulletin data. The latest figures are 5.7% lower than Thursday when 4,291 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the national capital. The cumulative tally of Delhi has now reached 18,19,332, the bulletin data showed.The case positivity rate of the national capital has dropped below 9% in 24 hours - from 9.56% on Thursday to 8.60% on Friday.Fresh fatalities due to Covid-19 also witnessed a reduction after 25 patients succumbed to the disease as opposed to 34 on Thursday. The death toll of Delhi has now risen to 25,769, the health bulletin data revealed.New recoveries, however, dropped for the second consecutive day following 8,042 patients recuperating from the disease. On Thursday, as many as 9,397 people recovered from Covid-19, down from 11,164 the day before. The national capital has so far seen a total of 17,64,411 recovered from Covid-19, as per the health bulletin data.On Friday, more tests for Covid-19, which includes both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), were conducted in Delhi than the preceding day. As many as 47,042 tests were carried out across the city, up from 44,903 on Thursday. Moreover, hospitalisation numbers declined below 2,000 in wake of the reduction in the single-day Covid-19 cases of the city. According to Friday's health bulletin data, a total of 1,928 patients are admitted in various hospitals in Delhi, including those suspected to have contracted Covid-19, down from 2,028 on Thursday.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday lifted the weekend curfew from the city in wake of the declining Covid-19 case count. It also allowed cinemas, and restaurants and bars to function with 50% capacity. The odd-even rule for operations of non-essential shops at markets and shopping malls has also been lifted. However, night curfew between 10pm and 5am remains in place till further orders, and so does closure of educational institutions, including schools, colleges and universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-tally-further-dips-with-4-044-cases-as-curfew-free-weekend-starts-101643378568793.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||19 MMR stations to undergo theme-based makeover||MUMBAI The Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) has decided to renovate 19 suburban railway stations in Mumbai and MMR. The makeover will be localised and theme-based, with facilities including elevated passenger decks, foot over bridges, skywalks and green spaces near the premises. The 19 railway stations undergoing the makeover include Mumbai Central (local train stations), Bhandup, Mulund, Thane, Kandivali, Mira Road, Jogeshwari, Dombivli, Govandi, Ghatkopar, Mankhurd, GTB Nagar, Bhayandar, Vasai Road, Nallasopara, Virar, Shahad, Neral and Kasara railway stations. The first station with the makeover and new passenger amenities will be ready by 2023. The art makeover will be done by local artists and architects residing in the area. The art and paintings will be done on the railway stations and will include the speciality of local culture or local cuisine.The MRVC is also planning to upgrade the stations along with providing increased passenger amenities. “The makeover of the railway stations will be done keeping in mind the local theme of the area and important locations that are significant to the location,” said Ravi Agarwal, chairman and managing director, MRVC. The body has floated a tender for the improvement of the railway stations including the provision of FOBs, interconnecting decks and foot over bridges, skywalks, relocation of stalls and kiosks, improving the entry and exit to railway stations and providing green spaces. Further, outstation train terminus in the city including Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Bandra will also be redeveloped by Central and Western Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/19-mmr-stations-to-undergo-theme-based-makeover-101643381884152.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||Beating the Retreat: Meet IIT Delhi alumni, creators of 1,000 drones for light show||New DelhiOn January 29, as the centuries-old military tradition of troops retreating, from the battleground at sunset, comes alive at Vijay Chowk, the visitors to Beating the Retreat ceremony will be dazzled with something rather modern. For the first time ever, the sky above Rashtrapati Bhavan will be filled by an eight minute long light show, which will be created using 1,000 drones developed by a homegrown start-up by two 31-year-old alumni of Indian Institute of Technology Delhi. Incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, the startup named Botlab Dynamics is helmed by Tanmay Bunkar and Anuj Barnwal. Busy preparing for the show, which will mark the culmination of this ceremony, Bunkar — a 2014 batch graduate of the tech institute — shares, “We’d be celebrating all aspects of what India has achieved in the last 75 years, and how it will progress. We’ve been creating this technology since 2016, and it will definitely be a big boost to technology in India. By seeing the hard work we’ve put in, I’m sure people will take it seriously that if we invest in technology, there are returns, and certainly some light at the end of the tunnel.”Barnwal informs how the team has been practising rigorously for the big day since a month now. “It’s the first time something like this is happening. We have been testing our drones every day for the last one year,” he says, explaining, “The drones are programmed to have 16 million colours, as many as the modern laptops have. They will change colours during the show, to form artistic patterns in the sky. There will be very engaging music during the formations, which will surely make it an audio-visual delight.” Recalling how he began working on the concept of drones, Bunkar says, “I met Anuj on my very first day of college; he was my roommate. We were part of the engineering physics batch. Initially, I was trying to make these guidance computers, and I was the first person in IIT Delhi to make a drone. The most expensive part of any system is the electronics. In 2012, we flew the first such copter in the campus. Initially, these drones were very limited in what they could do, and were nothing but glorified toys. As you try to make them more capable, in terms of longer flight time or capability of carrying loads, they become prohibitive in terms of cost. We decided that a large number of these smaller, simpler systems can be networked and made more effective.”The two have largely worked with defence forces in the past. And recalling this one time when the drones completely shut down during a showcase, Bunkar says he decided to make the drones with homegrown parts. “You have to have control over your hardware. Till now we were using off-the-shelf, imported hardware. Agar aapka ek component fail ho jata hai, then the best you can do is replace it and pray that the alternate combination works. But praying is not a scientific way to find a solution! The problem is that India doesn’t have a very mature system of making hardware. But we decided that even if it’s harder and it takes longer, it’s how we will grow. So we made the flight controller and GPS modules on these, which are now designed at IIT Delhi and fabricated at Manesar.” The technophile recollects how he got in touch with people making circuit boards for phones, and for plastic injection moulding he approached people who make broom handles and fruit baskets. Bunkar says, “Those people have made the body of the drones out of plastic. There is so much untapped potential in India, we just need to show some trust. Just relying on some Chinese maker is not going to bring anything! Very soon, about 90% of the drones would be made in India, and then the world will see our tech prowess.” Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beating-the-retreat-meet-iit-delhi-alumni-creators-of-1-000-drones-for-light-show-101643381767595.html
28-01-2022||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Shootout incident in high-security zone; CM asks police to take strict action||A day after a criminal was gunned down in a shootout at high-security zone Morhabadi area here, Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday directed officials to ensure that the law and order situation was not compromised under any circumstances.The criminal, Kalu Lama, was killed in a shootout in Morhabadi area while two persons were seriously injured in the incident. Chief Minister Hemant Soren, Governor Ramesh Bais, and several senior officials reside in the vicinity of Morhabadi area. Chairing a high-level review meeting on law and order, attended by senior police and administrative officials including Director General of Police, Neeraj Sinha, Soren asked for strict action against criminals involved in the incident. "The chief minister directed the officers that the police should identify the criminals and deal with them strictly...The chief minister said that maintaining law and order is an important responsibility of the state government," a statement said. Expressing concern over the firing at Morhabadi Ground, where government functions are held from time to time, Soren directed the police officers that the criminals involved in the incident should not be spared under any circumstances and the strictest possible legal action should be taken against them. Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh, DGP Sinha, Principal Secretary of Home Department Rajiv Arun Ekka, Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Kumar, SSP Ranchi Surendra Kumar Jha, and other officers were present in the meeting.Police had said that two scooty-borne miscreants opened fire in front of the residence of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader and former chief minister Shibu Soren, injuring Kalu Lama, his brother, and another associate. Lama later succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-shootout-incident-in-high-security-zone-cm-asks-police-to-take-strict-action-101643380602896.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Meeting to discuss land acquisition for BDP soon, says Pune divisional commissioner||Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has promised to call a meeting to start the process for land acquisition for biodiversity park (BDP).Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Vandana Chavan meet Rao on Thursday and raised the issue of land acquisition for BDP which are earmarked on the hills in the city.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reserved almost 1,000 hectares of land for BDP in the city. The state government also supported it and announced zero construction on BDP land.Maximum land coming under BDP is owned by private parties and at least 250 acres of land is owned by the Maharashtra government.Chavan said, “Though the state government had taken the decision a few years before, PMC has failed to acquire land for the same. At least government land should be acquired on priority.”Rao said, “I will call a meeting with PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar and Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh soon and we would discuss the issue of handing over land to the PMC for BDP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/meeting-to-discuss-land-acquisition-for-bdp-soon-says-pune-divisional-commissioner-101643380023915.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Thane: Satellite City has a long way to go to be an independent city||Thane, known as a satellite city of Mumbai, has now expanded well in terms of population and is also creating housing and job avenues. According to urban planners and designers, it is high time that Thane is now considered an independent city as it is no more completely dependent on Mumbai for job opportunities.For example, the boundaries of Thane city comprising Bhiwandi and Rabale have become logistics and industrial hubs, respectively. The city itself has Asia’s largest industrial belt at Wagale MIDC, which provides jobs to over 60,000 people.Thane, however, is still lagging behind in providing basic amenities like good public transport, health, education and open spaces among others. Experts suggest a planned development model on the lines of Navi Mumbai for a city like Thane. This can now be possible as the old developmental plan for the city is completing 20 years in 2023 and the city needs to be re-planned.“The per square metre population within Thane city is way beyond the limits. People move cities in search of job opportunities. The overall development of any city is also on job opportunities and the facilities in the vicinity for the residents. Hence, there needs to be earmarked zones that will focus on providing job opportunities for all including those involved in daily labour and the working class,” said Pramod Nimbalkar, former Executive Engineer of Town Planning in Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). In the last two decades, Thane city has expanded and branched out in various directions. However, finding basic amenities within the vicinity of residential areas has become difficult for many.“Those who are staying in Thane and beyond have to make use of the public transport to reach their workplaces. This is because we have a concentrated development pattern in Thane city, wherein some areas are commercial while some others are demarcated as residential. Instead, if we develop a 15-minute city with all basic amenities and infrastructure within the vicinity, it will easily bring workplaces closer for people and provide increased job opportunities,” said Mayuresh Bhadsavle, Urban Development Practitioner, Thane.An ideal 15-minute city would include varied amenities and facilities like open spaces including civic-run gardens, bus and metro depots, civic and private schools, cycle avenues and tracks, public health centres, reading or recreation halls and commercial workspaces within fifteen minutes radius of one’s residence. Moreover, in a metro city like Thane, people should not be complaining about the lack of basic facilities like water supply, solid waste management and electricity supply, according to experts.MAKE PARKING SPACESWhen it comes to availability of open spaces, it includes making parking spaces available near one’s workplace, residence or utilising the ample open spaces available in the city rather than building parking plazas at random locations, suggest urban planners. Most parking projects in the city have failed to take up. The ‘Pay and Park’ did not find any takers, but authorities claim that the work of underground parking at Gaondevi ground is in the final stages. The Parking Plaza near Jupiter Hospital is spread across 1.20 lakh sqft plot but is now functional as a field hospital for Covid care.“Until the pandemic exists, this space will be utilised for the same. After that, we’ll take a call on whether it should be used as a parking facility. Currently, we have set up oxygen plants and a complete Covid care set up at the Parking Plaza,” said an officer from the TMC.“There are certain wide roads that have spaces adjacent to the footpath that can be utilised for parking. This will not only provide multifunctional ways of utilising an area but also providing more space closer to one’s residence or work place for parking. Just having essentials within a ward will not suffice. Having these within the vicinity for residents are essential,” added Bhadsavle.Areas like Majiwada-Manpada ward in Thane are well developed with many townships and well-planned housing complexes. However, there are slums and encroachments in areas within the ward. There are ample avenues for green or open space in these townships but the situation is not the same in areas like Kisan Nagar, Mumbra, Diva and some parts of Kalwa as well.“Many areas of Thane city are well developed and include planned townships. However, areas like Naupada, Mumbra, Diva and Kisan Nagar continue to be cramped up for spaces. It is essential to look at the overall development. For example, a look at Naupada Kopri ward shows us that there are open spaces and parking areas in Naupada but the same cannot be said for Kopri as it is full of informal settlements,” said Bhadsavle.LACK OF PG COURSESAs per the 15-minute city plan, availability of schools and educational institutes in one’s vicinity is a must. Thane city has a lot of schools of various boards. Also, colleges are available for graduation and other courses. However, lack of post-graduation courses, institutes or options for higher education can be noted in the city.“Neighbouring cities of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai have made use of the space to make way for institutes that focus on higher education. While Thane city has ample options for school education, there is a lack of post-graduation or higher studies-related facilities. Students are compelled to travel further towards Mumbai or Navi Mumbai. Navi Mumbai has huge campuses for such institutes, which Thane city is lacking,” said Dr Fleur D’Souza, retired professor, St Xavier’s College and a resident of Charai in Thane.Mumbai University’s sub-centre started in Balkum has teething troubles even after seven years of its inauguration. A two-storey building set up in a vast plot of land allotted to the University of Mumbai by the TMC, continues to be hardly in operation. “There is a lack of a coordinator appointed in the centre. This is one of the reasons that the campus has to get the university’s approval for every work. Moreover, the maintenance is also very poor. Proper housekeeping staff is also not appointed,” said Mahadev Jagtap, senate member of University of Mumbai.Although the university has started with law and business courses, and more than two lakh students were supposed to benefit from the two sub-centres, the university’s lackadaisical attitude has put them in a lurch. This is one of the reasons that many prefer to travel to Mumbai or Navi Mumbai for higher education.“Every year, when students fill up online admission forms for first year college, we notice that most choose to go outside Thane. Colleges within Thane are usually the second or third option for students. This could be because of the lack of appealing campuses and a holistic education facility within the city” said a professor from a college in Thane.Advait Vaidya, in-charge of the University sub-campus in Thane, said, “We currently have a strength of 242 students for both BBA and LLB courses. Till now, online classes were going on as per the State Government guidelines. We shall reopen the college in February.”WATER WOESAccording to urban planners, an ideal city would include all the basic facilities like water supply and solid waste management. However, in Thane, some residents continue to grapple with lack of water supply and solid waste management. Some areas in Thane city are facing water supply issues. These include areas like Kisan Nagar, Mumbra, Kalwa, Diva and parts of Ghodbunder Road.“While there are plans to become a Smart City, the basic issues of the people are not catered to. Water supply is a severe problem that can be solved with basic management and planning by the civic authorities. There are many parts of the city where water is illegally drawn or potable water used at construction sites. These need to be identified. Moreover, the water that we receive from the civic body is potable water that should not be used to wash cars. For example, in my society, we make use of borewell water to wash cars. Similar concepts can be implemented by other societies as well. Mostly, everyone has borewell facilities nowadays,” said Satyajit Shah, civic activist, Thane.Last year, TMC had planned to store water from the dams of the district as the irrigation department had decided to execute 14% water cut in the district. The real estate boom has also added to the acute water crisis in the city, according to activists.WASTE SEGREGATION, HEALTH CENTRES“TMC is yet to strictly implement waste segregation in the city. It needs to be percolated in the minds of children as well in schools in order to ensure families implement the same. The corporation is hardly taking efforts in this direction. An announcement regarding single-use plastic was also made but no efforts were taken to ensure its implementation. Most big housing societies have a solid waste plant. Is the civic body involved in recycling of e-waste and plastic? Also, is the civic body ensuring that the solid waste plant in societies is functional? Through CSR and Smart City Projects involved in marketing, the compost prepared by societies can easily generate revenue,” said Vaibhav Satam, RTI activist, Thane.Thane city is spread over 127sqkm while the population of the city is 22 lakh. As per the norms of the National Urban Health Mission (NUHM), there should be one primary health care centre for a population of 50,000. The city at present has 27 primary healthcare centres. Thus, each centre caters to a population of over 1 lakh – double its capacity. As per the health department, around 52% of Thane’s population reside in the slums of Mumbra, Kausa, Diva, Kisan Nagar, Srinagar, Warlipada, Kokanipada, Ambika Nagar, Lokmanya Nagarpada Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4. These are also the areas that lack access to health care.Considering the current pandemic situation, for the Thane civic body, managing funds for any kind of development would be an issue. In the current pandemic situation, the main focus of any civic body would be to maintain the health infrastructure, if not creating new ones. If the complete focus is on maintaining the healthcare facilities, it will lessen the focus on other developments.“Not necessarily to build new health systems but maintaining the existing facilities will definitely be the focus. For the next few years, the civic body will definitely give priority to the healthcare system. This will leave the corporation with fewer funds for other developmental plans. Lack of funding will be an issue for TMC in the next few years,” added Nimbalkar.TMC COMMISSIONER REACTSMeanwhile, Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, did not comment on speculations about TMC not having ample funds. He said that TMC is already in the process of converting Thane Global Hospital to a cancer centre. This is a part of improving health infrastructure and medical facilities within Thane city.“We are augmenting health services in the last two years. With the pandemic, the medical facilities at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa and Thane Civil Hospital have improved. Even the private health facilities in the city have increased the number of beds and services. All of this will definitely be beneficial as it has added to the health infrastructure in the city. Development is a gradual process that will take place over a period of time,” said Sharma.He also denied that Thane has a lack of open spaces. With the creek on one side and hills on the other, Thane city has natural greenery available, according to Sharma. “Moreover, many lakes have been beautified such that people can enjoy the natural beauty that the city has been endowed with,” said Sharma.He added, “We are also keen on having bigger institutions like IIM or MBA colleges in the city. These will not only provide quality education but also provide job facilities in the city. We are open to such institutes and are also trying to provide such opportunities for the youngsters. TMC has already provided a substantial amount of land to the University of Mumbai to conduct courses.”The main focus for the new Developmental Plan would be to plan the city in such a manner that the real estate boom and the increasing population within the city are also taken into consideration while improving the civic and transport infrastructure, Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-satellite-city-has-a-long-way-to-go-to-be-an-independent-city-101643379965414.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Residents of Peth area in Pune irked over slow pace of road work; PMC sets Feb 15 deadline ahead of civic polls||The work of road restoration is underway in Peth areas in the city amid growing disenchantment from locals complaining of the inconvenience they are facing for months. As the roads were dug up for the 24x7 water scheme and later repaired with temporary measures, the residents of the Peth areas have had to suffer from irregular water supply, stagnant traffic, and dust.Taking note of complaints from locals in her constituency, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Kasba peth Mukta Tilak criticised the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration and standing committee for lack of coordination. According to Tilak, despite sanctioning money, which could have been used for road repair, the PMC did not pay heed.“Shivaji road is extremely busy and it needs to be repaired as soon as possible. So, I had allotted ₹1.30 crore to fill the potholes and restore the road, but the standing committee has opposed the resolution,” said Tilak.She had initially proposed a flyover on Bajirao road, but the project could not be carried out because the road is too narrow. She then changed her focus to restore the Shivaji road, to which the administration opposed, according to Tilak.Most Peth areas under Kasba peth constituency is considered to be BJP stronghold. However, party leaders have started facing the wrath of people due to dug up roads. The BJP now wants PMC to quickly fix it before the city goes for local body polls mostly in March this year.The PMC had given the deadline till the end of last year, then postponed it to January 2022 for completing the road works. Now the deadline is extended to February 15 and citizens continue to suffer.The roads in Peth areas are narrow but see heavy traffic. Road construction which has been going on for months has made it difficult for elderly people to catch the buses.“People have complained about the lack of parking space due to the construction. Buses cannot stop for more than a few seconds and the elderly find it difficult to board the buses. This has caused a couple of accidents as well,” said Sourabh Amrale, a restaurant owner and a local from Shivaji road, Shukrawar peth.Young locals have to handle the traffic at times, to facilitate the old people in commuting, he said.The ambitious 24x7 water supply project was one of the reasons why roads were dug in the Peth areas, but the work of replacing and installing pipes has caused irregular water supply in the area. The prolonged construction has also caused dust pollution.“Due to the construction, many houses are not getting water. Children are falling sick because of the dust,” Sourabh said.The corporation has failed in taking care of the people, believes Sourabh. “The construction is extremely slow-paced and that is the reason it is taking so long to complete the work,” he said.“People have been complaining about these issues, but the corporators are not ready to take responsibility,” Sourabh added.Mahesh Meghani, a wholesale dealer of agricultural tools, equipment, and machinery on Shivaji road, said, “The entire area in front of my shop has been filled with dust all day since the construction began three weeks ago. The road is jammed, traffic is slow and the smoke coming from vehicles makes it worse. Breathing is becoming difficult.”Large water pipes have filled the footpaths in various parts of Tilak road and Bajirao road, due to the ongoing construction. “The workers have put the pipes right in front of my shop. I have been telling them to remove them but nothing has changed,” said Anand Juju, a medical shop owner at Tilak road. He also complained about the dust pollution. “My shop is filled with a layer of dust. There’s no point cleaning because within a few hours it is back to the same,” he added.Hemant Rasne, standing committee chief, said the work is in progress and will complete soon. “It’s true that people are being inconvenienced. However, the work is underway with rapid speed and will finish it by February 15,” Rasne said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-of-peth-area-in-pune-irked-over-slow-pace-of-road-work-101643379723962.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab launches portal to maintain records of MGNREGA employees||The Punjab rural development and panchayat department has launched a human resource management (HRMS) portal for streamlining and digitising records of employees working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. Rahul Bhandari, the secretary of the department, said that the portal will improve transparency in the scheme. “This portal will help in maintaining records of nearly 1,900 employees working at various positions under the scheme at the state headquarters, district and block levels in a digital mode. Employees will be able to see their service record since their joining date online.” Overall, the HRMS portal will eliminate manual intervention in HR-related matters. Bhandari said that the MGNREGA staff had been seeking the timely release of salaries besides transparency in recruitment and transfer of employees. With the help of this digital mode, all employees will get their salaries on time. This will create a sense of discipline as attendance is also being captured online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-launches-portal-to-maintain-records-of-mgnrega-employees-101643379183816.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Police arrest 10, recover stolen gold, cash worth ₹7.12 cr||Mumbai As many as 10 people have been arrested from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan for stealing 17.4 kg of gold ornaments and ₹ 8.57 lakh from a jewellery store. The Mumbai police claimed to have recovered 89 per cent of the stolen booty worth ₹ 7.12 crore from the accused.According to police, Ganesh Devashi, the 21-year-old main accused, was hired by the jeweller six months ago. According to the police, the complainant Khushal Rashiklal Tamaka’s (48) office is in Bhuleshwar, while his jewellery making unit is in Goregaon. He had brought the latest designs for an exhibition and kept the ornaments at his office locker. Subsequently, the exhibition was cancelled due to Covid and his father also died, because of which he could not come to the office for a week. Due to this, he gave a key to the jewellery locker to Ganesh. Police said that Devashi was aware of the jewellery and he discussed it with his friend Ramesh Prajapati and they allegedly hatched a plan. Ramesh was planning to marry as his family members had found a suitable girl for him. He required the money and hence, wanted to be a part of the theft. The officers said at about midnight on January 14, Prajapati, Devashi, Turibhat and two other accused opened the locker and kept 17.4 kilograms of gold jewellery, cash ₹ 8.57 lakh in a bag. They also removed the CCTV camera, the DVR and left the office at about 1:30 am.The incident came to light when Tamaka went to the office the next morning. On the basis of a complaint, a case was registered in the LT Marg police station. “We made six teams from LT Marg and other police stations in zone 2. Five accused were captured in the CCTV footage installed at the neighbouring shop. We got a link and on the basis of technical evidence, we managed to arrest the first person - Prajapati. We recovered gold ornaments worth ₹ 4.15 crore and some cash from him,” said joint commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre Patil. Prajapati then confessed to the crime and based on the leads given by him, the others were arrested. Two accused are still wanted in the case and police teams are trying to track them as well. “We will nab them soon and will recover the rest of the booty,” said additional commissioner of police Dilip Sawant of the south region. “The police teams worked continuously for 10 days to solve the case. It was a well-coordinated effort between the teams on fields in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh and the technical support team in Mumbai,” added Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-arrest-10-recover-stolen-gold-cash-worth-7-12-cr-101643378763983.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Tribal couple rides 40 km on scooter with son’s body as pillion||A tribal couple were forced to travel 40 km with their deceased son on a two-wheeler after three ambulance drivers refused to carry the body to their village in Mokhada, Palghar. All three drivers were dismissed for the lapse. Ajay Pardhi, a Class 1 student, died due to acute pneumonia at Cottage Hospital, Jawhar, on Tuesday. His father, Yuvraj Pardhi, who works as a farm labourer, tried to hire an ambulance to transport their son’s body back home at the remote Sadakwadi village, about 40 km for the funeral. But at least three ambulance drivers available at the hospital refused.Ultimately, the couple wrapped their child’s body in blankets and travelled on a scooter to reach their hut in Sadakwadi village.Dr Ramdas Marad, CMO, Cottage Hospital, said that government ambulances are not allowed to transport the dead. “To help the Pardhi family, I even summoned a private ambulance but the driver was charging a huge amount as it was night and Pardhi could not afford the cost,” Marad said, adding that the hospital did not have a hearse van and no alternative transport was available.“We suggested to the family to wait till daybreak but Pardhi feared that a post mortem may be conducted of the body. We assured him that since the boy died due to natural causes, no autopsy was needed but the parents insisted on taking the body to their village,” Marad added. We have dismissed the three drivers, said Marad.According to a health department official, the state government will soon order the deployment of a hearse van in each rural hospital so that such incidents are not repeated.Vivek Pandit, ex MLA of Vasai and president of Shramjeevi Sanghatana, a tribal welfare outfit, said that such incidents are common in Palghar, Nandurbar and other tribal belts where there are no health facilities. “In hilly areas, there are no medicos, gynaecologists, nurses, ambulances, medicines but the state government is ignoring the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tribal-couple-rides-40-km-on-scooter-with-son-s-body-as-pillion-101643378354588.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Docs bank on clinical signs to differentiate between Omicron and Delta||Mumbai: Short incubation period, high fever lasting for fewer days, no lung involvement, no loss of smell or taste- these are some of the significant characteristics of the patients infected with the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2. However, in absence of quicker genome sequencing or the wide-scale unavailability of S-gene target failure tests used to indirectly detect Omicron, doctors have been using clinical signs to differentiate between the Omicron and Delta in order to decide the course of treatment. Omicron is now the predominant variant in circulation in Mumbai. The latest round of genome sequencing carried out by the civic body has shown that nearly 88% of samples sent for sequencing had the Omicron variant, while the remaining were Delta (0.8%), Delta derivatives (8%) and other variants. “There is very little Delta in circulation,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Vasant Nagvekar from the Lilavati Hospital. “We know this because a small number of patients have some lung infection, which is typical of Delta. But the majority of the cases are of Omicron which presents with an upper respiratory infection,” informed Nagvekar, who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. Doctors said that a clinical differentiation between Omicron and Delta is crucial in terms of planning the treatment. Most importantly, it also helps in deciding if the patient should be considered a candidate for the expensive monoclonal antibody cocktail drug, as the cocktails currently available in India have failed to neutralise Omicron in a laboratory setting. The cocktail drug costs nearly ₹1.2 lakh and can be shared between two patients which brings the cost to around ₹60,000 each. Nagvekar said that in Omicron when one family member develops the infection, others typically have it within three days. “In Delta, this incubation period is about five to seven days. In Omicron, we typically see high fever, severe sore throat and headaches, but no changes in the chest scans, unlike Delta which speedily impacted the lungs,” he said, adding that when he suspects Omicron, he generally prefers waiting for 48 to 72 hours by administering only symptomatic treatment. “If I suspect Delta, I go ahead with Remdesvir or monoclonal antibody cocktails depending on the patient’s prognosis,” he said. Dr Khusrav Bhajan, a physician and intensivist at the PD Hinduja Hospital said that the oropharyngeal or upper respiratory symptoms are the biggest indicators of Omicron. “Nearly 99% cases that we are seeing now are Omicron, but an occasional Delta has to be watched out for as it causes significant life-threatening problems. Some of the city hospitals such as Lilavati and PD Hinduja are already in the process of procuring the Omisure kits that can detect Omicron within four hours. “The kits will definitely be helpful when it comes to quickly detecting Omicron, and taking a call on whether the patient can be a candidate for a monoclonal antibody cocktail,” said internal medical specialist Dr Anita Mathew from Fortis Hospital in Mulund. “But we must remember that the cocktail is not a drug for the masses and must be used only for patients with the risk of progressing to severe disease,” she said. Mathew added that most Covid-19 cases are self-limiting now. “This is not simply because we have Omicron in circulation, but also because the vaccine immunity is helping. When we suspect an Omicron, we prefer sitting tight and closely monitoring the patients, whereas, in Delta, we tend to quickly start an oral anti-viral or Remdesivir which comes in an injectable form,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/docs-bank-on-clinical-signs-to-differentiate-between-omicron-and-delta-101643377623743.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||19-year-old arrested for killing roommate, dumping body on railway tracks||Mumbai A 19-year-old has been arrested after he allegedly killed his roommate and disposed the body on railway tracks near Borivali to make it look like an accident.At 11.30 pm on Thursday, the Borivali GRP received a call from the station master that a man’s body was found on the railway tracks and they presume that he died due to trespassing. When police reached the spot, they found the 22-year-old deceased also had stab injuries on his stomach and chest.As the police was filing a spot punchnama, they heard a phone ringing close to the body. The officer answered it to find out it was from his roommate.The police later learnt that the deceased, Ganesh Mukhiya, was staying with five others and working as a cook in a restaurant. Ganesh had come to the city a month ago from his village in Madhubani, Bihar.The police later called all his roommates for questioning. When asked about his whereabouts on the previous night, Ashok Mukhiya (19) failed to give a satisfactory answer and the police found that his mobile location was close to the murder spot.Ashok, subsequently, confessed to the murder saying that he was frustrated due to frequent teasing by Ganesh, who said he was having an affair with Ashok’s mother.A police officer said that since he came to Mumbai, Ganesh had been speaking to Ashok’s mother over the phone. When Ashok questioned him about it, Ganesh teased him saying that he was having an affair with his mother.“Ganesh had taunted Ashok at least three times saying that he had been dating his mother,” said a police officer from Borivali GRP.Frustrated by this, Ashok decided to kill him. On Thursday, Ashok invited Ganesh for a drink near the railway tracks. When Ganesh was inebriated, Ashok stabbed him with a knife and later dumped it on the railway tracks, where goods train crushed it.“We have arrested Ashok on the charge of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/19yearold-arrested-for-killing-roommate-dumping-body-on-railway-tracks-101643377507295.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Share broker arrested for kidnapping investor||Mumbai A share broker was arrested for allegedly kidnapping a 25-year-old and demanding a ransom of ₹11 lakh. Police are on the lookout for three of his accomplices. The victim, a resident of Borivali, was dragged into a car by the accused Akshat Churana and his accomplices and taken to a lawyer’s office, where he was allegedly assaulted and forced to sign an agreement before the victim’s partners were called and told to pay the ransom for his release.According to Borivali police, the victim and his friends had started dealing in the share market and had also opened an office. In November 2021, the victim met his friend who told him to invest money with the accused, a share broker. The victim discussed this with his partners and decided to invest ₹1.75 lakh with Churana.In January, Churana reported that the investment of victim was suffering a loss and ₹11 lakh was needed to keep the account going. They decided not to invest more money.“When the victim declined to pay him, Churana began threatening the three men and demanded the money,” said a police officer from Borivali police station.On Thursday, when Churana made death threats against the family of the victim, the three partners decided to meet their acquaintance who had introduced them to Churana. At 7.15 pm when the three reached their meeting point in Borivali west, Churana approached the victim and assaulted him, demanding the money. When the victim tried to resist, Churana’s accomplices assaulted the victim and pushed him inside an i20 car.The victim’s partners tried to rescue him, but they too were assaulted. Later, the partners received a ransom call. At 10 pm, Churana took the victim to the ground in IC Colony in Borivali and asked his partners to get the ransom money there if they wanted to free their friend. The victim’s partners then revealed the incident to his father who approached the Borivali police.At 10.30 pm, the officers from the Borivali police station along with the victim’s father and friend reached the JS Turf and football ground at IC Colony.“We reached the spot in casual clothes and kept a watch on Churana and the victim. As Churana approached victim’s father, we found a chance and apprehended Churana, but his accomplices fled,” said the officer.The police said that they rescued the victim and arrested Churana for kidnapping, extortion, assault and threatening. “We have recorded the statements of the victim and are now on the lookout for Churana’s accomplices,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/share-broker-arrested-for-kidnapping-investor-101643375223857.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Two arrested for allegedly molesting woman in Pune||PUNE The Bharati Vidyapeeth police have arrested two youths for allegedly molesting a 30-year-old woman and passing lewd remarks against her.Both the accused are residents of Ambegaon, while the complainant is a resident of Shivane.The victim was sitting along with her friend at a tea stall when the accused, who were loitering in the area, came near her and allegedly touched her inappropriately.They threatened her with dire consequences as she objected to their obscene behaviour.Jagannath Kalaskar, Bharati Vidyapeeth police station in-charge, said, “Strict action has been taken based on the complaint lodged by the victim.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-allegedly-molesting-woman-in-pune-101643375043626.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Canteen manager, son held in Lucknow for duping job aspirants||LUCKNOW UP Police Special Task Force (STF) on Friday arrested a father-son duo from Lucknow’s Thakurganj area for allegedly running a job racket and duping over 100 aspirants on the pretext of providing jobs in different government departments and corporations, said officials. The two accused were identified as Rajesh Gupta, 56, and his son Abhishek Gupta, 30, residents of Madhavpuri colony in Dubbaga locality of Lucknow. Rajesh Gupta works as a manager at the canteen of Lucknow General Post Office in Hazratganj, stated the press note issued by the STF.A senior STF official said the duo had duped people by promising jobs in the Food Corporation of India, different banks, Metro services, power sector, education department, 108 ambulance service, community health centres as well as the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). He said they had even issued fake admit cards, recruitment letters and identity cards to job aspirants to take money from them. The official said the STF team recovered four forged appointment letters, 97 bio-datas of job aspirants and many other incriminating evidences from their possession. The two had been arrested in connection with an FIR of fraud, forgery, criminal breach of trust lodged by one Tribhuvan Singh at Refinery police station of Mathura on August 27, 2021. He said they had duped the complainant of ₹25 lakh, assuring that his son and daughter would be recruited in the CRPF. The two accused even handed them two forged admit cards for the recruitment process at CRPF Ajmer centre in Rajasthan. They disappeared after taking money from the complainant and were at large since then. The official said some more victims turned up to register their complaint against the father and son, after their arrest. Similarly, the accused had duped a Kanpur resident Shubham Chauhan of ₹2.5 lakh, a Siddharthnagar resident Shibbu Pandey of ₹4 lakh, Etawah resident Sushil Yadav of ₹2.7 lakh and one Rama Shankar Shukla of ₹50,000, he added. He said the key accused Rajesh Gupta’s service record was also tainted. Gupta joined the GPO canteen in 1989, but was terminated in 2002 due to some reasons and was reinstated after 17 months. He was again suspended in 2005 and his suspension was revoked in 2006. But he was demoted to a primary scale. Subsequently, Gupta started operating this job racket with the help of his son around 5-6 years ago, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/canteen-manager-son-held-in-lucknow-for-duping-job-aspirants-101643372163966.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation records most deaths in third Covid wave||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has witnessed the highest number of deaths during the third wave across Thane district.Thane district overall has recorded 112 Covid deaths in January, out of which 92 deaths were reported since January 15. KDMC itself has recorded 34 deaths after January 15. In December 2021, there were 29 Covid deaths in the entire month across Thane district. While the number of cases has declined, the deaths are on the rise in the aftermath of the third wave.According to the KDMC health department, the deaths involved senior citizens with comorbidities. The civic body has appealed to residents and general practitioners to recommend hospitalisation if senior citizens with severe comorbidities tested positive for Covid.Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “Almost each of the deaths that occurred during the third wave was a comorbid senior citizen. Although they had mild symptoms, their immunity was low due to comorbidities. There were a few patients who were admitted for other illnesses but as Covid tests during hospitalisation are mandatory, we conducted their tests and they ended up being positive. A few bedridden patients who did not get vaccinated due to the fear of their existing illnesses have also lost their lives. Hence we recommend even asymptomatic Covid patients among senior citizens to seek medical help.”As per the State government figures, close behind KDMC is Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation at 22 deaths in the last 12 days. Rural areas of the district have witnessed 13 deaths and Thane Municipal Corporation has recorded 11 deaths since January 15.“Most of the deaths that occurred in the last few days involved senior citizens or incidental Covid cases. There is hardly anyone with pure Covid complications in this wave. The increase in deaths during a downward decline of the third wave across the district shows that these are mostly instances where the deceased are under hospitalisation for a long period,” said a senior officer from district health department, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-municipal-corporation-records-most-deaths-in-third-covid-wave-101643371384065.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body considering idea to use recycled water for constructions, non-potable purposes||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is examining a suggestion to supply increased quantities of recycled water for construction and non-potable purposes to residential colonies.NMMC has planned to supply 40 million litres a day (MLD) of recycled water to Trans Thane Creek (TTC) industrial units. The corporation generates 400 MLD of sewer water and recycles it. This water can be put to good, non-potable use, NatConnect director, BN Kumar, pointed out and called for a one-time investment.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, has asked his team of officers at ward levels to see how best the recycled water can be used.Bangar said, “NRI Seawoods already gets treated water. This process can be extended to other colonies.”Kumar appreciated the commissioner for his “quick, positive and pro-environment response”. Kumar pointed out that considering the city will see a massive construction in view of the redevelopment projects and infrastructure works, recycled water could ideally be used for these.Moreover, the use of precious drinking water for washing cars, two-wheelers, terraces and parking pots should be discouraged forthwith and the recycled water should be used.“And, till we have a dedicated pipeline, recycled water may be supplied to housing societies by tankers,” Kumar said. The societies must invest in separate internal pipelines and storage.NMMC can offer discounts in regular water tariff for the societies taking recycled water, Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-considering-idea-to-use-recycled-water-for-constructions-non-potable-purposes-101643368269760.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||After SC squashes suspension of 12 BJP MLAs from Maha assembly, Sena’s Raut says ‘speaker will decide’||Following the Supreme Court’s decision to revoke the suspension of the 12 MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from the Maharashtra assembly earlier on Friday, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that a decision regarding the matter will be taken by the state assembly and the speaker.The MLAs were suspended back in July 2021 on the first day of the assembly’s monsoon session for alleged misbehaviour towards the speaker.The Rajya Sabha MP also said that the BJP and the suspended MLAs also should introspect about their actions. “This decision (suspension) was taken by [the] Speaker in view of the situation at that time. The action was taken after the scuffle at his chamber. I think it is his right. Decisions are taken as per law and constitution. Suspended MLAs and their party need to self-introspect,” news agency ANI quoted Raut as saying.“I think the decision has not been taken yet. The decision will be taken by the assembly and the speaker,” he further said.Also read | Supreme Court revokes suspension of 12 BJP lawmakers in MaharashtraThe Supreme Court on Friday noted that the suspension should not have extended beyond one session of the assembly and said the decision of the assembly was “substantially illegal” and “irrational”.Meanwhile, the BJP welcomed the top court’s decision with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and called it “yet another tight slap on the face” of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition government in Maharashtra.“This decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court will save the democratic values and it is yet another tight slap on the face of the MVA Government for its unconstitutional, unethical, unfair, illegal and undemocratic actions and activities. I congratulate our BJP Maharashtra 12 MLAs for getting justice,” ANI quoted him as saying.JP Nadda, BJP’s national president, said that the SC’s decision was a “victory of truth” against the MVA government’s actions against “Constitution and democracy”.“I congratulate all the 12 MLAs. The BJP will continue to raise its voice against the unconstitutional activities of the Maharashtra government,” he tweeted in Hindi.As many as 12 members – Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawat, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia – were suspended from the state assembly earlier.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-sc-squashes-suspension-of-12-bjp-mlas-from-maha-assembly-sena-s-raut-says-speaker-will-decide-101643367462321.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||3 arrested in Bhiwandi for smuggling barking deer fawn||The Padgha unit of the Maharashtra Forest Department busted an animal smuggling racket earlier this week by arresting three accused for smuggling the fawn of a barking deer in Bhiwandi.Also known as a muntjac, the barking deer is a protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act and is often hunted for its meat.According to the forest officials, the arrests were made on Monday on the basis of a tip off received last week.“We learned that certain people were offering to sell a live barking deer fawn. We verified this information by getting in touch with the accused through a dummy customer and a trap was laid. On Monday, the accused were picked up from near the Paramount Hotel in the Kasne village on the Mumbai-Nashik Highway, and the fawn was rescued from their custody,” Range Forest Officer, SB Deore, said.The three arrested, identified as Ramesh Walimbe, Bakru Hilam and Ganesh Wagh, are all residents of Alyani village in Shahapur. They were placed under arrest and charged under the Wildlife Protection Act.“Inquiries conducted so far indicate that they had caught the fawn from the forest area in Shahapur. Barking deer is not usually smuggled internationally and has more demand at a local level,” Deora said.The forest department is now investigating whether the trio has similarly caught and sold barking deer or any other endangered or protected species of wildlife in the past. Inquiries are also under way to find out if any other accused are involved in the racket, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-arrested-in-bhiwandi-for-smuggling-barking-deer-fawn-101643366824341.html
28-01-2022||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Knock knock... who’s there? Covid. Now the first 48 hours||January 24, 2022, 12.39 pm: Teevr is the word on my mind at the moment. And if I dwell upon it, it’s the teekshan level of teevrata that I am experiencing. Mercury rising, sharply: 100.3 Fahrenheit to be precise. If I had more fever in school, I would have done so much better in my Hindi papers. I am inside a warm room wrapped in a warm blanket but there’s a chill snaking its way, randomly, through my limbs and testing my joints. That’s how I know it is a fever. It all started Sunday morning on the terrace with my morning mug of ginger chai. It was misty with a chill merrily searing through the cityscape. I enjoyed the winter breeze for 10 minutes and then throughout the day was wearing a hooded fleece jacket. But I guess ten minutes was enough. 1.27 pm: Have isolated myself. Leaving my better half to deal with everything. There’s a lot written about the virus, governance … but not much about the physical workload and psychological impact of quarantine on family members. This is one of the reasons we decided not to send the children back to school till next year - no sense in subjecting them to endless cycles of restricted freedom, infection, quarantine, closures because that’s what living with the virus really means. The lower back, knees, elbows and knuckles are paining. I feel warm like someone has just lit a tiny spark inside me and the twigs are starting to catch. No breathing problems. A minor cold, a little cough occasionally, but I am getting up and clearing my throat. It’s less than an hour and I already can’t get out of bed. That was quick. Salute SARS-CoV-2. 3.36 pm: Spoke to physician Dr Narendra Kulkarni and took Dolo 650 as advised (as a rule, I do not self-medicate). Took a Covid antigen self-test from Abbot and tested positive. Yay! Now on to RT-PCR. 4.39 pm: RT-PCR sample given. Just had Maggi noodles - taste and smell are fine. There’s something about Maggi noodles that makes a great meal when am ill. Body-ache is persisting accompanied by a headache. We also called our trusted family paediatrician Dr Anand Pandit, a wise grandfatherly gentleman, and he told us he’s also got Covid and advised us to do exactly what he’s doing: nothing. Just wait out the seven days and take fever controlling medication as required. 6.15 pm: In the 22 months from January 2020 (when I first heard of Covid) till November 2021, I have been to office, hospitals (several times), clinics, had surgery, been on walks, generally been out and about with proper precautions and did not contract Covid. I got my vaccine second dose end of November and now I have Covid with very little interaction with the world. Does the vaccine make the body more amenable to the new variants? Hmm? Have been walking around the room, sometimes singing, sometimes checking in on work, writing stuff, playing the odd game of chess. Activity really helps in dealing with the pain. 7.43 pm: We are not very different - the virus and I. We are both trying to survive in a hard world. It has the advantage of being able to mutate fast. It is a dynamic organism that is evolving with every passing day, picking up new survival skills in true Darwinian prophecy, adapting faster to human contingencies, getting better at fulfilling its destiny: to infect and kill more humans. I can adapt but my response time is affected by government, non-government, medical, local, family and work decision protocols. I think this new Omicron variant has learned to penetrate the vaccine defences by sacrificing lethal effect. Who knows what skills and capabilities the next variant of concern will combine (Omicron’s penetration and Delta’s firepower)? January 25, 1.54 am: Just woke up after a fitful sleep. Dozed off around 10 pm. I can feel the illness snaking its way through my digestive system. The joints are the main target - feels as if someone is pressing on the knees, shoulders, knuckles, waist … and then trying to pull them apart. 9.39 am: Just woke up after a good sleep. No body-ache. No headache. No fever. It’s just gone. RT-PCR test result came in at 2.38: am positive for Covid. The test result does not tell me what variant. 10.15 am: Informed colleagues that I will take the day off. Had hot ginger chai and now pacing the room. 11.26 am: Had breakfast and realised that the virus generates a lot of phlegm. Have to keep throwing it out else it accumulates in throat and then makes me choke. Dehydration seems to be a by-product as is fatigue from the body fighting the infection. I think the body-ache and fever are distractions - the phlegm is the real problem since it can easily lead to congestion. But when you have aches and fever, you tend not to get up and just give in to the pain. It’s tiring. 11.55 am: Just touched a kilometre of walking. It’s ridiculously difficult racking up kilometres inside a tiny room. The number of rounds I walk makes me think I am walking a lot but after 10 minutes it’s just 100 meters. Bolt did it in under 10 seconds. A friend just Whatsapped to ask if I had stepped out of doors recently. So, I replied: “Nope, we don’t really step out of the house. Aaj kal Covid home delivery de raha hai. Service improve ho gaya.” 1.30 pm: Spoke to Dr Madhuwanti Abhayankar of AG Diagnostics. She explained that all positive test samples are sent to the state government and they then run genome sequencing tests to accurately determine the variant. That information is not available to individual patients but it becomes part of clinical research data for the state and nation. 3.30 pm: No new adverse symptoms at the moment except for heaviness in the head and a cough-like feeling in the chest (no cough). If I take a deep breath, I feel sharpness down my windpipe. 6.20 pm: Finally had a long chat with my childhood friend, Dr Sandeep Khurana, MD, certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine in Gastroenterology and Transplant Hepatology. He also serves as Professor of Medicine at Geisinger Commonwealth School of Medicine, Pennsylvania. “Omicron is marching through the population.” He said and asked several questions on symptoms, reports, current state. “Don’t do anything, don’t take any medicines. At those CT levels, and with your fever already broken, you’ll be out of the difficult part in a day. Stay isolated, vigilant, keep mind and body active.” January 26, 1 am: Having difficulty falling asleep. No major aches, but a slight and constant stomach discomfort and a mild headache. A cold has suddenly developed. Actually, whenever I touch cold water or anything cold, symptoms of cold appear quickly but then subside if I clear my nose and throat. 11.30 am: Constant vigilance is required, not just a desire, but a will to adapt, fight and do the hard work to survive and live despite of the virus. I have never taken any vaccines, except for polio when I was a kid. But I took the Covid vaccine because my logic was: if my body can build immunity against diseases, it will also know how to address any risks from vaccines. But if I stay unvaccinated, I may put others with less immunity in danger. I have realised that we don’t have to abandon logic and prudence nor take refuge in logic and prudence only. A prescription that works for some may not for others. There does not seem to be any specific medication approved as a blanket treatment of Covid anyway. It is therefore important for individuals and families to make decisions based on their doctor’s advice after informing them about the specific symptoms, medical history, and health. 1.30 pm: Today is the third day. Am feeling better. Some Covid affected don’t have any hardships on any day. Some have difficult symptoms for days, weeks. Others have different experiences. I intend to focus on what Khurana said as we wrapped our call: “If you are healthy, vaccinated and maintain activity, you’ll be fine. People with co-morbidities and those who are obese, overweight or have chronic health concerns run the main risk with Covid. So, we have to treat our lives with more respect and reimagine our lifestyle with more responsibility and care.” Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-knock-knock-who-s-there-covid-now-the-first-48-hours-101643366703786.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||Post-wedding shoot: New normal amid Covid?||You may have heard of weddings getting postponed due to the Covid-19 scare. But now, pre-wedding shoots are being pushed to after the ceremony for couples in Delhi-NCR, say wedding photographers. “January is the peak time for pre-wedding shoots. But, couples kaafi confused hain ki shaadi kab hogi, pre-wedding shoot kitni pehle karein,” says photographer Karandeep Rana from Dee Photography. Azad Ali, a photographer from The Video Junction, says: “Mere paas do post-wedding shoots lined up hain. Pehle inka pre-wedding shoot final hua tha, but they cancelled the idea because 20 guests mein pre-wedding video chalayenge kahan, kisko dikhayenge.” Witnessing similar sentiments from clients is photographer Mayur Khanna from Video Tailor. He says, “Weddings par restriction ki vajah se kaafi problems hain. A lot of couples are now going for post-wedding shoots, as they don’t find it feasible to go out of town before their wedding, due to the Omicron scare.” Many who had planned to shoot abroad are abandoning that thought due to the risk involved. “Couples who had originally wanted to shoot in places like Italy, Thailand and Bali are now looking for places that are at a drivable distance from Delhi,” says wedding photographer Arjun Kartha from Twogether Studios. Foreign locales aside, shooting at popular cities like Jaipur, Jodhpur and Manali also seems risky. Jasmine from Photo Rachna Studios says, “Abhi outdoors mein safety concerns hain. There are travel restrictions, and pre-wedding shoot sets are sanitised, so it’s a win-win for couples to shoot at nearby locations.”Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
28-01-2022||Kolkata||Fishing cats: Is Bengal doing enough to protect its state animal?||KOLKATA: On January 20, conservationist Chitrak Pramanik was told that at least three fishing cats have been found dead at Bagnan in West Bengal’s Howrah district. Pramanik rushed to the spot and found they had been poisoned a few days earlier. The carcasses were dumped near a paddy field with the legs of the cats tied with ropes. “They were all females,” said Pramanik.The killings shocked conservationists seeking to protect the state animal of West Bengal. “Earlier too fishing cats have been killed in the state or their bodies were found on highways after being run over by speeding vehicles. But this is for the first time that we found three animals being killed and their bodies dumped,” said Pramanik.The state forest department started an inquiry and found the involvement of local residents Prabhas Patra and Pratap Patra. Their houses were raided but both were absconding. An arrest warrant has been issued against them and the police are looking for them.In 2009, the fishing cat was declared the state animal. It is also included as a Schedule I species in Wildlife (Protection) Act and hence enjoys the highest level of protection equal to that of tigers, lions, and elephants.“Imagine the hue and cry we would have seen had it been three tigers or lions being killed. But when it comes to the state animal, there has been hardly any concerted effort to protect it, barring a few local NGOs, conservationists or researchers working to save these smaller cats,” said Tiasa Adhya from the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)’s Species Survival Commission, which has been researching on the cats for over a decade.According to a study conducted by The Fishing Cat Project as part of a WWF grant, at least 27 cases were reported from Howrah and Hooghly alone wherein fishing cats were found dead. Most of the cases pertained to retaliatory killings.According to a recent report published in CATnews, a biannual newsletter of the IUCN-SSC Cat Specialist Group, between January 2019 and February 2021, 11 such cases were reported. In February 2020, villagers at Shyampur in Howrah allegedly skinned a dead fishing cat for meat and even sold a portion of it.About twice the size of a typical house cat, the fishing cat primarily preys on fish in wetlands and marshy lands. In India, fishing cats are mainly found in the mangroves of the Sundarbans, on the foothills of the Himalayas along the Ganga and Brahmaputra river valleys, and the eastern coast up to Andhra Pradesh.Even though cats living in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries are protected, a huge population of the fishing cats in marshes and wetlands outside the parks along the floodplains of the Ganga are vulnerable and under threat.To date, there has been no proper estimation of the animal’s population outside protected areas despite being the state animal. “We are not doing enough to protect it. An animal listed under Schedule I... denotes that its population is on the decline. Loss of habitat is its primary threat... The land mafias are after wetlands... Only a handful of local NGOs and local conservationists are working on them even as the entire focus of the administration and big NGOs still remains on larger animals and key species such as tigers, elephants, and lions among others,” said Biswajit Roy Chowdhury, secretary of Nature Environment and Wildlife Society, an NGO.Experts want the government to play a more proactive role to protect and conserve the fishing cat and its habitat as it is listed as an endangered species on the IUCN’s Red List.“The animal is protected but its habitat is not. Unlike the US, where a law prevents changing the nature of land with protected species, we do not have such laws in India. The disappearance of the habitat of the fishing cat is the main reason behind the decline in population. ...some animals such as leopard, elephant, wolf, fishing cat live in areas which overlap with human habitat and increases their vulnerability,” said Debal Deb, chief wildlife warden, West Bengal.The report of a West Bengal Biodiversity Board study on fishing cats last year identified the threats to the animal even as it has faced criticism. “During the study, only 28 camera traps were placed across 80 locations. From such a low data set, the study concluded that Murshidabad district has the highest relative abundance of fishing cats. This is wrong because they are extrapolating site-specific results to the level of the district. Secondly, jungle cat kittens were misidentified as fishing cat kittens which casts doubt on the survey results,” said Adhya.Forest officials and researchers said the only way to conserve these animals is to protect their habitat, wetlands, and marshy areas, with a socio-ecological approach. Generating awareness, liaisoning with local conservationists for stricter enforcement of the law is necessary, they say.Experts said one way of protecting their habitats is by tagging them as Biodiversity Heritage Sites under the Biological Diversity Act. This can be done because there are many local practices endemic to that region that helps to protect the cat’s habitat. A reed locally called khari is found in their habitat. Khari is cultivated to support betel leaf cultivation. Another plant named hogla is used to pack vegetables and fruits. Both of these provide habitat to the cat.“It is difficult to estimate their numbers outside protected areas but through satellite mapping we can always estimate the areas of wetlands and marshy lands. An estimation of their habitat would be a good enough indicator of the status of their populations,” said Adhya.
28-01-2022||Jaipur||Rajasthan to reopen open schools? Here’s what health minister has to say||Rajasthan health minister Parsadi Lal Meena on Friday said the Covid-10 pandemic situation is normal in the state with only a few deaths and hospitalisations being registered across districts.Meena further said a decision on reopening of schools will be taken soon, while stating that strict action could be taken in future against those who do not get themselves vaccinated against the virus.“The Covid-19 situation is normal. There are fewer deaths and hospitalisations. We will take stricter action in the coming days, including barring the entry of unvaccinated people into government offices. We will also take a decision soon on the reopening of schools,” the health minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Thursday, Rajasthan registered 9,227 fresh cases of coronavirus disease and 20 deaths. As many as 16,087 people recovered from the infection during the day. At present, 87,268 people are under treatment in the state, according to a health department bulletin.The state government had earlier ordered the closure of schools till January 30 amid the latest resurgence in cases, driven by the Omicron variant of the virus. According to the government’s orders issued, online classes will continue up to class 12 till January 30.The government has also imposed a weekend curfew and capped the number of guests at weddings at 50 from the earlier 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-reopen-open-schools-here-s-what-health-minister-has-to-say-101643357416046.html
28-01-2022||Punjab||Punjab polls: Kejriwal pitches ‘very honest’ CM, cites Bhagwant Mann’s record||Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said Punjab needs a chief minister who is very honest. Punjab is set to see a high-stakes assembly battle next month and AAP, which is one of the key challengers to the ruling Congress regime, has named Bhagwant Mann as its chief ministerial candidate.Addressing a town-hall in the border state's Phillaur town, Kejriwal said, “Across Punjab, the AAP has fielded honest candidates so that an honest state government is formed. Our CM candidate does not have any money. Mann is very honest.”Also Read| 'Free hand to police, addiction-free Punjab': Bhagwant Mann makes poll pitchIn a jibe aimed at leaders of ruling Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and other parties, Kejriwal said Mann has been an MP for seven years but still stays in a rented house.“When a person becomes an MLA in Punjab, he can acquire big cars and houses. But Mann has been an MP for seven years and still stays in a rented house,” Kejriwal said.Today #Punjab needs a very honest CM. On one hand, we've people with allegations of drugs sale against them, who have allegations of sand mining against them.On the other hand there's a very honest man who never took even 25 paise from anyone: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal in Phillaur pic.twitter.com/8RBy8GB6kPThe Delhi CM further said that while on one hand, there are politicians with allegations of sale of drugs or illegal sand mining against them, there are others who have not even taken a pie from others. “Here is an honest politician who never took even 25 paise from anyone,” Kejriwal said, while referring to Mann, who will fight the upcoming election from the Dhuri constituency.Also Read| Punjab elections: AAP CM candidate Bhagwant Mann to fight from DhuriHitting out chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Kejriwal said the latter did wonders in 111 days. “Huge piles of notes were found in the Enforcement Directorate's (ED's) raid. Can your children and the state of Punjab have a better future if the government of the sand mafia comes into power?” the AAP national convener added.Channi has been in the eye of the storm over the ED's raids on his nephew Honey as a part of its probe against the sand mafia. The AAP has been one of the harshest criticis of the Congress-led government in Punjab regarding these raids.Kejriwal further said that he and Mann had extensively discussed ways to change Punjab in the areas of industry, farming, education, employment and drug problem among others, while accusing the Congress and the SAD of looting the border state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/punjab-assembly-election/punjab-polls-kejriwal-pitches-for-very-honest-cm-at-phillaur-town-hall-101643355219612.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Supreme Court revokes suspension of 12 BJP lawmakers in Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday set aside the suspension of 12 Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers from the Maharashtra assembly for a year, saying it should not have extended beyond one session of the House.A three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar held any suspension beyond that period is “substantially illegal”, “irrational” with no basis in law. The bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, said the lawmakers shall be entitled to all consequential benefits after the conclusion of the session in July.The lawmakers challenged the suspension calling it a deliberate attempt to suppress dissent in the House and dangerous for democracy. Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, Mahesh Jethamalani, Neeraj Kishan Kaul, and Siddharth Bhatnagar represented them. Senior advocate CA Sundaram, who appeared for the state, argued that once it is recognised the legislature has the power to suspend its members, the court could not review the quantum of punishment.The lawmakers were suspended for “unruly behaviour”. The court noted the assembly’s power to suspend is not doubted. But it added the period of suspension could not be such that it keeps a constituency unrepresented for a period beyond a session and in no event beyond six months within which any vacant seat must be filled.The lawmakers argued the resolution for their suspension was malafide and brought by the parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab. They added it was passed with a majority voice vote without giving them an opportunity of hearing. The resolution accused the lawmakers of misbehaving in the House and using “abusive language” against the presiding officer, Bhaskar Jadhav.The lawmakers argued the only means to punish an unruly act of a member of a House is by suspension for not beyond 60 days or expulsion, in which event the seat has to be filled by a fresh election.A seat can be declared vacant due to a member’s absence without permission for 60 days. The lawmakers submitted that keeping a member suspended beyond this period has a detrimental impact on democracy.The Speaker was not represented in the proceedings. The court observed the action of the House was dangerous for democracy. “Absolute power doesn’t mean unbridled power. Who knows this can be a precedent for experimentation. Today it is 12, tomorrow it may be 120. Is it not hitting the basic structure of the Constitution?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/screvokes-suspension-of-12-maharashtra-bjp-lawmakers-101643357942930.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Wine is not liquor, Sanjay Raut rebuts Fadnavis’ ‘Madya-rashtra’ remark||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday defended the Maharashra government's decision to allow sale of wine in supermarkets and walk-in stores saying that wine cannot be equated with liquor. Raut’s comment comes amid criticism from former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis that the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in the state wants to turn Maharashtra into “Madya-rashtra (liquor state)”.“Wine is not liquor. If wine sales increase (in the state), farmers will benefit from it. We have done this to double farmers' income. The BJP only opposes moves, but does nothing for farmers,” Raut hit out at Fadnavis' remarks.Accusing the Uddhav Thackeray government of prioritising liquor sale over other critical issues, Fadnavis has said, “We will not allow Maharashtra to become a Madya-rashtra. He said the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government did nothing to help people during the two years of the pandemic, and their “priority is promoting the sale of liquor”.The Maharashtra cabinet on Thursday cleared a proposal to sell wine in supermarkets and walk-in stores across the state at a flat annual licensing fee of ₹5,000. The move aims to ensure a more accessible marketing channel for Indian wineries.Wine bars, which already sell wine for consumption, but only on their premises (using what is called the E-2 license) will also be allowed to sell wine in sealed bottles for off consumption.The two-decade tax holiday for wine produced in Maharashtra came to an end on December 31, 2021.Maharashtra has 72 of the 110 wineries across the country. Of these, around 40 to 45 are operational. However, only 15 to 20 units are into direct marketing, while the rest are involved into contract manufacturing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wine-is-not-liquor-sanjay-raut-rebuts-fadnavis-madya-rashtra-remark-101643350199491.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||BSF recovers 58 kg of heroin after encounter in Gurdaspur||The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered 58kg of heroin and a cache of arms after an encounter with Pakistani smugglers near Chandu Wadala outpost in poll-bound Punjab’s border district of Gurdaspur on Friday morning. During the encounter, a BSF personnel, identified as head constable Gyan Singh, received a bullet injury in the head and has been hospitalised in Amritsar, an official said. The incident took place at 5.15am when BSF personnel noticed suspicious movement across the barbed-wire fence. They found suspects trying to push in something into Indian territory and challenged them. “The suspects did not stop following which our jawans opened fire. The suspects retaliated. One of our personnel got a bullet injury but the smuggling bid was foiled,” said a senior BSF official, requesting anonymity. He said the condition of the BSF jawan is stable. When the area was searched, 47 packets of heroin wrapped in plastic covers weighing 58 kg, seven packets of opium weighing 1.17 kg, 44 rounds of 0.30 caliber, a Chinese pistol and two magazines, a Beretta pistol, and four magazines of AK series rifles were recovered from the spot. The BSF also recovered a shawl, a muffler and a winter cap suspected to be of the smugglers from across the border. On January 11, the BSF recovered 22 kg of heroin in Tarn Taran district besides seizing 7.5 kg of heroin along with arms and ammunition from the Pakistan border in three operations in Amritsar and Ferozepur sectors on January 12, a BSF official said. In the Ferozepur sector, the incident was reported early in the morning when troops observed suspicious movement ahead of the barbed-wire fence. On searching the area, six packets of the contraband, suspected to be heroin wrapped in a yellow packet, along with a pistol, a magazine and 50 rounds were recovered. In another incident, during a search in the Ferozepur sector, the BSF recovered a 1-kg packet of contraband suspected to be heroin. In the third incident, a pistol, a magazine and five rounds of ammunition were recovered after a search in the Amritsar sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-recovers-47kg-of-heroin-after-encounter-in-gurdaspur-101643350802754.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||‘Promote grassroots research’: Padma awardee Bawaskar to government||MUMBAI: In 2013, Dr Himmatrao Bawaskar received a ₹1,200 cheque from a laboratory after one of his patients went there for a CT scan. Bawaskar, 71, returned the cheque and filed a complaint against the lab with the Medical Council of India, exposing the system of “cut practice”.Bawaskar, who runs a hospital in Maharashtra’s Mahad, is also known for his research on the management of scorpion stings and snake bites for over four decades. He has also highlighted the threats of polluted drinking water in rural areas. Bawaskar’s work was recognised when he was awarded India’s fourth-highest civilian award Padma Shri this week.“It is important to understand the challenges and problems faced by people at the grassroots. The government has to promote research, especially directed at the grassroots to identify the issues. I have been doing just that for years and will continue to do so,” said Bawaskar.Born in Jalna, Bawaskar did his MBBS from Nagpur and then pursued an MD in medicine from Pune. In the late 1970s, when he was posted at a Primary Health Centre in Raigad, he focussed on the high mortality due to scorpion bites.“I was perplexed, and wondered how an animal bite was causing so many deaths,” he said. He added the higher mortality prompted him to research the subject. In a research paper, Bawaskar highlighted the use of the hypertension drug Prazosin for the management of cardiovascular manifestations of scorpion sting. He researched another hypertension drug Nifedipine in combination with Prazosin. Bawaskar’s work on Prazosin was recognised internationally and replicated in many parts of the world.Over the past few years, Bawaskar has focussed on snakebite deaths. He wants the government to make snakebite deaths notifiable like HIV and TB. He has published research papers on snakebite deaths and envenoming and the lack of knowledge among doctors about the right dosage of anti-snake venom (ASV) and its rampant shortage.“In India, there is always a short supply of ASV. Medical officers are untrained and usually have never examined or managed a snake bite case before,” Bawaskar wrote in 2014 in the Indian Journal of Critical Care Medicine. “To reduce the crisis of ASV supply medical officers should be given training regarding dose and indication of ASV.”Social activist Dr Abhay Bang said Bawaskar, who was his junior at the Nagpur medical college, has come up despite a lot of financial hardships. “He did odd jobs to fund his education. He also battled mental health issues and rose as a grassroots doctor finding solutions to the problems faced by the rural poor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/govt-must-promote-grassroots-research-padma-awardee-101643347983068.html
28-01-2022||Patna||Bihar: Most passports issued in Siwan, Gopalganj, Saran and Patna last year||PATNA: Siwan, Gopalganj, Saran, and Patna topped the list in the issuance of passports in Bihar in 2021 even as applications for the travel documents have declined over the last two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to data from the regional passport office, 33,155 passports were issued while 34,899 applicants applied for them in Siwan. In Gopalganj, 28,589 passports were issued even as 30,697 people applied for them. As many as 13,269 passports were granted while 14,028 applications were submitted in Saran. In East Champaran, 14,141 passports were issued while there were 14,970 applicants. As many as 22,925 passports were issued in Patna while there were 23,820 applicants.In 2020, 21,642 passports were issued in Siwan, followed by Gopalganj (18,483), Saran (9,822), and Patna (20925). As many as 169,000 passports were issued in 2020 in the state compared to 326,000 in 2019 and 298,000 in 2018. In 2021, 270,000 passports were.Regional passport officer (Patna) Tavishi Behal Pandey said the higher number of passports issued in Siwan, Gopalganj, Saran indicates people were going abroad for employment.A large number of people from the region have been going abroad for employment especially to West Asia.“Siwan, Gopalganj, and Saran not only have linkages with employers in cities in India but over the past few decades have become a hub for getting semi-skilled people for employment be it for UAE or other nations. This is why the passport applications are high from this area even in these pandemic times,” said Rakesh Tiwary, a social scientist.Krishna Kumar Singh, an educationist from Siwan, said the trend of people going to West Asia has increased over the last decade and continued during the pandemic as skilled and semi-skilled persons from all communities are keen to work in places such as Dubai.Districts such as Katihar, Purnea, Kishanganj, Madhepura, Saharsa, and Khagaria, which have a high rate of migration of labourers to other states, do not have a higher volume of passport issuance.In 2021, 3333 passports were issued in Katihar, 6790 in Purnea, 910 in Madhepura, and 1637 in Sarharsa.
28-01-2022||Delhi||Omicron detected in 79% of Covid samples sequenced in Delhi in Jan: Govt data||The Omicron variant of Covid-19 has been detected in 79 per cent of the samples sequenced in the national capital from January 1 till January 23.Delhi reported its first case of the fast-spreading variant on December 5 last year. The patient was a 37-year-old man who arrived here from Tanzania and was fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi decides to lift weekend curfew, odd-even system for shopsSince then, Omicron has been the dominant variant behind the spike in daily infections in Delhi and elsewhere.According to government data, of the 863 samples sequenced between December 25 and December 31, 2021, around 433 samples carried Omicron, while 293 had the Delta variant that was responsible for the second Covid-19 wave of the pandemic in April last year that had wreaked havoc across the country, including Delhi.A report said, in the first week of January this year, 65 per cent of all Covid-19 infections had the Omicron variant. The percentage further surged to 81 in the samples sequenced the following week.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government introduced a slew of restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19 fuelled by Omicron. These included weekend and night curfew, the opening of shops on an odd-even basis, closure of cinema halls, restaurants among others.Also Read| At 4,291, Delhi's Covid tally further dips; case positivity rate goes below 9.5%However, amid a steady decline in daily cases, the government has now relaxed some of the above restrictions. The weekend curfew has been scrapped, shops can remain open on all days of the week between 10am to 8pm, restaurants and bars can function at 50 per cent of their seating capacity.Till now, Delhi has reported 18,15,288 cases, 17,56,369 recoveries, 33,175 active cases and 25,744 deaths. On Thursday, the national capital saw another low of 4,291 cases, while 34 more patients died and 9,397 recuperated. The case positivity rate has declined to 9.56 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-detected-in-79-of-covid-samples-sequenced-in-delhi-in-jan-govt-data-101643344095476.html
28-01-2022||Other||Concerns over railway recruitments will be addressed, says Vaishnaw||NEW DELHI: Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Sushil Modi has said railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has assured him that concerns over recruitments will be addressed amid protests over them.Sushil Modi said he apprised Vaishnaw about the problems and demands of candidates. He added Vaishnaw told him that the government was in agreement with the students and a decision would be taken soon as per their demand.Sushil Modi appealed to the police against taking any coercive action against the students. “Students are not criminals,” he said in a statement on Thursday.He also appealed to the students to exercise restraint so that the Railway Board can complete the investigation into the matter and make a decision in the interest of the examinees.Vaishnaw on Wednesday urged job aspirants against destroying public property and assured them that their grievances would be resolved as candidates went on a rampage over alleged irregularities in a recruitment exam.The candidates are opposing the railway ministry’s decision to hold the exam in two stages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/concerns-over-railway-recruitments-will-be-addressed-says-vaishnaw-101643341321250.html
28-01-2022||Patna||RRB NTPC exam violence: Four held, teachers booked for vandalism in Bihar||At least four persons were arrested for pelting stones and vandalising property at the Rajendra Nagar Terminal in Bihar's Patna during a protest against alleged discrepancies in the Railway Recruitment Board's Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) stage 1 exam results.According to reports, popular YouTuber ‘Khan Sir’, who runs a coaching centre in Patna, was among those named.Speaking to the reporters in the Bihar capital, Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said, "Four people have been arrested for pelting stones and vandalism at Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patna on January 24."So far, six coaching institute teachers have been named for provoking students who appeared for the RRB NTPC exam, while at least 22 people for violence. Videos of coaching institute teachers inciting the aspirants to take law into their own hands have also reportedly gone viral.A probe is on to find the teachers who have been named by those arrested during interrogation.Meanwhile, Left-associated All India Students' Association (AISA) and other youth organisations have called a "Bihar bandh" on Friday.Terming the formation of a committee by the railways ministry to look into the concerns of the aspirants as a "hoax" and "conspiracy", the youth organisations, led by AISA, in a press statement said the panel is “under the pressure” to postpone the matter till the election next month in Uttar Pradesh."There is no doubt on the questions being raised by the candidates. This massive movement of the student youth, who are facing extreme unemployment, has arisen at a time when there is an election in UP. Under the pressure of this, this proposal of the government and the railways has come and a conspiracy is being hatched to postpone the matter till the elections," they said.Thousands of students took to streets earlier this week to protest against the alleged irregularities in Railway Recruitment Board's exam and clashed with police, leading to a huge ruckus.Agitating students blocked rail tracks, pelted stones and even set a passenger train on fire in Arrah district of Bihar. Police carried out baton-charge and fired shots in the air to disperse the protesters.The RRB NTPC CBT 2 exam that was scheduled to be conducted in a single phase from February 15 to February 19 across the country at various exam centres remains postponed as a result of the violent protests. The Level 1 exam which was scheduled to begin on February 23, has also been postponed until further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rrb-ntpc-exam-violence-four-held-for-vandalism-in-bihar-101643332136191.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two truckers held with 2kg opium||The CIA Staff 2 of Ludhiana police commissionerate arrested two truck drivers with 2kg opium on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Davinder Singh alias Binda, 34, of Tallewala village of Ferozepur and his brother Gurbinder Singh, 38, had hidden the opium in their truck cabins. Police have seized the two trucks used for smuggling opium. Sub-inspector (SI) Yashpal Sharma, in-charge of CIA Staff-2, said police arrested the accused near Grain Market, Gill Road, following a tip-off. He added that the accused had made hidden compartments in the cabins of their trucks to hide the contraband.The accused told the police that they had bought the opium from Guwahati, where they had delivered some material. The SI added that the accused have been into drug peddling for a long time but were never arrested by the police.A case under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused at Shimlapuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-truckers-held-with-2kg-opium-101643320560403.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn hikes NHM, NAS staff’s salaries by up to 10%||Fulfilling their demand for pay hike, the UT administration has increased the salaries of National Health Mission (NHM) and National Ambulance Service (NAS) staff with retrospective effect from January 1, 2022.All NHM staff, whose salary is less than the current DC rates, will be given up to 10% rise in salary, provided that the increased pay does not exceed 90% of the DC rates. Also, if the salary is less than 70% of the minimum wages even after the 10% hike, it will be brought up to 70%.UT will meet the additional annual expenditure from the state budget. The decision comes after the executive committee, NHM, conducted a meeting under the chairmanship of the UT health secretary on December 31 last year.It will benefit around 81% of the NHM and NAS staff in Chandigarh. The 19% staff, who will not get any financial benefit, are either already getting salary more than the DC rates or their pay is more than 90% of the DC rates.The NHM staff will also be given annual increment as per the Union government. In case of changes in the DC rates, there will not be any automatic revision in the salaries.Notably, in October 2021, 178 NHM employees were terminated after they went on strike without prior intimation to press for salaries at DC rates. Despite termination, the staff went on indefinite strike until they were reinstated on December 7.Around 500 NHM employees are working under the Chandigarh health department as doctors, paramedical staff, managerial employees, nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Group-4 staffers. But their salaries have been lower than the approved minimum wages since 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-hikes-nhm-nas-staff-s-salaries-by-up-to-10-101643320512149.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Days become warmer, but nights get chillier||Even as the city’s maximum temperature rose on Thursday, the minimum temperature dropped by over two notches from 10.6°C on Wednesday to 8.3°C on Thursday. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature is likely to stay on the lower side for the next two to three days. After this, a feeble western disturbance is expected to affect the region, which will lead to cloudy weather and increase in the night temperature.The maximum temperature, which had stayed low due to rain and fog over the past week, went up to 16.9°C on Thursday, but was still 3.5 degrees below normal. It was the highest day temperature since 19.5°C on January 21.While light to moderate fog is again likely on Friday, it will start dissipating from Saturday onwards. Over the next three days, the day temperature will remain between 16°C and 18°C, while the minimum temperature may reduce further to 7°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhdays-become-warmer-but-nights-get-chillier-101643320510703.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||HC puts stay on Panjab University syndicate polls||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday stayed the proposed elections of Panjab University (PU) syndicate. On January 8, the senate, varsity’s apex governing body, had authorised the vice-chancellor to decide on a date for the syndicate elections. The high court bench of justice Rajbir Sehrawat acted on the plea of some PU teachers, who are demanding that election of six senate members – from the faculty constituency – be notified by the varsity. Syndicate members are elected from among the senate. It is the executive arm of the PU senate and responsible for day to day functioning of the varsity, but its elections have not been held for two years now. Of the 91 members in the senate, 36 are nominated by the Vice-President of India, two from the Punjab Assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected from the eight constituencies. The elections took place last year in August after a period of two years, primarily due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing, the petitioners informed the court that they had been duly declared as elected senate members from the faculty constituency by the returning officer appointed by the university. However, the university authorities had not issued the necessary subsequent statutory notification in this regard.On the other hand, varsity’s counsel told the court that under the statutory provisions, the election of the senate members is subject to the approval of the varsity chancellor and in the case of these members, some petitions had been received challenging their election. Accordingly, they have been issued show-cause notices, but they have not filed any response. As the petitioners told the court that they did not get copies of the said petitions, the court directed that they be supplied the petitions within a week and thereafter, they should file their responses within 10 days. The court was assured that a decision on the petitions will be taken within two weeks thereafter.“Keeping in view the above situation and as an ad interim measure, it is ordered that the election of the syndicate members will remain stayed till the next date of hearing,” the HC bench ordered, posting the matter for hearing on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-puts-stay-on-panjab-university-syndicate-polls-101643320509441.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Hotel owner duped of ₹9.9 lakh in KYC update fraud||Online fraudsters duped a city-based hotelier of ₹9.99 lakh after getting his bank details on the pretext of a KYC update. The victim, Hira Lal Mahajan, owns a hotel in Industrial Area, Phase 2, and lives in Sector 21. In his complaint, Mahajan told the police that he had received a phone call from a man claiming to be an employee of HDFC Bank, where he held an account. The caller told him that the KYC for his account was not updated and sent him a link to do the needful in this regard on December 28. Mahajan said as he clicked on the link, he received three OTPs and later realised that ₹9.99 lakh were withdrawn from his bank account through three transactions. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on his complaint.In another case in Panchkula, Lalit Mohan of Sector 10 lost ₹35,855 through a fraudulent credit card transaction.Mohan complained to the police that the amount was debited for a transaction on a website on January 25, even though he made no such purchase. On the basis of his complaint, a case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 was registered at the Sector 5 police station in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hotel-owner-duped-of-9-9-lakh-in-kyc-update-fraud-101643320506832.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Men hunting for wild boar shoot farmer in chest in Mohali||A farmer was shot in the chest while a group of men were hunting for a wild boar in Tarapur village, Mullanpur, on Wednesday night. The victim, Soma Singh, is battling for life at PGIMER, Chandigarh.Police have arrested Manjeet Singh, who is a forest guard, and have recovered a double-barrel gun that fired the shot that hit the victim.Three other men in the hunting group, identified as Nirmal Singh of Tarapur, Arunjit Singh of Khairpur and Narendra Rao of Chandpur, are at large.In his statement to the police, Soma said he was guarding his farm on Wednesday night, when he spotted the men on the prowl for a wild boar. On being stopped by him, they left, but returned around 2.30am. As one of the men took aim at a boar and opened fire, the bullet hit him instead. His friend rushed him to the Kurali civil hospital, where doctors referred him to PGIMER.Kharar-2 DSP Amanpreet Singh said the other accused have been booked and will be arrested soon. “We are also verifying how the gun was not deposited ahead of the elections in Punjab,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/men-hunting-for-wild-boar-shoot-farmer-in-chest-in-mohali-101643320505403.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Seven more lose battle to virus in Chandigarh tricity||Even as the tricity has been witnessing a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, fatalities due to the virus continue to multiply.On Thursday, the tricity recorded seven more Covid-related deaths, after three on Wednesday.Both Chandigarh and Panchkula logged three fatalities each, while one person died in Mohali.Those who died in Chandigarh comprised a 90-year-old woman from Sector 33, and two men, aged 73 and 34, from Sector 44 and Sector 28, respectively.According to the health department, the nonagerian patient was hypertensive, and had suffered acute ischemic stroke and subarachnoid haemorrhage. She had received only the first dose of Covid vaccine.The elderly man was fully vaccinated against the virus, but had diabetes, hypertension and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, and suffered a cardiac arrest.The youngest deceased was brought dead at GMSH, Sector 16, and later found positive for Covid. His vaccination status is not known.In Panchkula, a 15-year-old girl from Sector 20 was among the latest casualties. She was under treatment for chronic kidney disease and muscular dystrophy.Another deceased, an 88-year-old man from Sector 11, was not vaccinated, and had diabetes and chronic kidney disease. The third patient, a 68-year-old woman from Pinjore, was fully vaccinated, but was diabetic and hypertensive.On Wednesday, one each person had died due to the virus in all three jurisdictions.Daily case tally below 2,000 for 4th straight dayTricity’s daily Covid-19 cases remained below the 2,000 mark for the fourth consecutive day, but there was no major decline in the positivity rate.While 1,770 people were found positive on Republic Day, a day later, the number came down to 1,545, a 60% drop since the peak of 3,907 cases on January 16.Among Thursday’s cases, 724 were detected in Mohali, 565 in Chandigarh and 256 in Panchkula.At the same time, the positivity rate in Mohali and Panchkula was still considerably high at 37% and 30%, respectively. At 15.5%, Chandigarh’s proportion of positive samples was relatively lower.With more recoveries, tricity’s active caseload came down to 14,019 on Thursday, compared to 21,142 a week ago. Currently, Mohali has 7,143 positive patients, Chandigarh 5,420 and Panchkula 1,456. But hospitalisations remain low at around 1.7%.With even people from neighbouring cities and states admitted in Chandigarh’s government and private hospitals, at present, 336 of the total 1,274 oxygen beds are occupied and 40 of the 239 ventilator or ICU beds are also taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-more-lose-battle-to-virus-in-chandigarh-tricity-101643320501041.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Money exchanger robbed of ₹70,000||Three armed robbers took away ₹70,000 cash from a money exchanger, at gunpoint on Rahon Road, on Wednesday. The FIR has been registered on the statement of Ram Anjor of Iqbal Nagar. He told the police that he runs a money exchange shop, near Meharban Octroi Post.He said that on Wednesday, three men came to shop and pointed a gun at him, before fleeing with ₹70,000 cash and his two phones. After the robbers left the place, he informed the police.ASI Surjan Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons. Posing as customers, four men rob liquor, ₹5,000 cash from vendPosing as customers, four car-borne miscreants robbed a liquor vend employee of ₹5,000 cash and a carton of liquor at gunpoint in Birmi village on Tuesday night. Rai Bhan, the victim, said that on Tuesday night, a car stopped in front of the vend and four people walked up to him and asked him for a carton of liquor. After handing over the liquor to them, the victim asked the four men for payment. But instead of paying up, the accused took out a gun and told him to keep mum as they took away the cash and liquor carton. Once the accused left the place, Bhan informed the police.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Amrik Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Sections 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified accused. Police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras to trace the accused. The ASI added that the complainant was not able to note down the registration number of the vehicle used by the robbers, but he told them that it was a white-coloured car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-money-exchanger-robbed-of-70000-101643320320318.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: NIA grants bail to one of seven accused in extortion case||The Special National Investigating Agency (NIA) court of Mohali on Thursday granted bail to one of the seven accused, Mohammad Asif Ali, 32, in an extortion case of Punjab businessmen, for not having a direct link with other accused. Special judge, NIA, Mohali, Karunesh Kumar while allowing the bail stated that Asif Ali, who has been in custody since July 10, 2021, has been simply charge-sheeted for the commission of offense under Section 120-B of the IPC and Section 25 (1-A) of the Arms Act. He has neither been charge-sheeted under the UA (P) Act nor any sanction under the UA (P) Act has been obtained against him. Therefore, the bar of Section 43 (D) (5) of UA (P) Act, 1967, is not attracted. Except for the alleged recovery of two weapons, nothing has been brought on record that he has any connection with any of his co-accused or supplied any arms to them. He is ordered to be released on bail on his furnishing personal bond of ₹1 lakh and submit his passport in court and would not leave the country. The case dates back to May 22, 2021, when a case was registered against the accused in extortion of prominent businessmen of Punjab in a police station in Moga. However, later, the investigation of the case was transferred to the NIA. Counsel for Asif Ali contended the claim of the NIA that during the custodial interrogation of co-accused Gagandeep Singh, the role of his client emerged, and a search was conducted at the house of the applicant/accused, where two country-made pistols were reportedly recovered. Even on perusal of the connectivity chart prepared in the report, the name of the present applicant does not figure anywhere to show his involvement or association with other co-accused and no useful purpose would be served by keeping his client in jail, who may be released on regular bail. NIA public prosecutor averred that during the investigation, it has been revealed that the accused persons namely Arshdeep Singh, Charanjit Singh and Ramandeep Singh, had formed a gang and were threatening and extorting money from people and on the directions of accused Hardeep Singh Nijjer, chief of the Khalistan Tiger Force, Punjab-based shooters from the gang targeted prominent persons of other faiths to create a sense of fear and disharmony in society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-nia-grants-bail-to-one-of-seven-accused-in-extortion-case-101643319900438.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Covid update: 442 new infections, 5 dead in district||The district reported 442 Covid cases and five casualties on Thursday. The fatalities include a 93-year-old woman of Nurpur Bet, an 82-year-old woman of Model Town Extension, a 65-year-old woman of New Akash Nagar, a 63-year-old man of Mundian Kalan and a 60-year-old woman of Prakash Colony on Pakhowal Road.The latest fatalities have taken the district’s toll to 2,199. The active case count stands at 5,278, of which 5,033 are in home isolation while 233 are admitted at private hospitals and 12 at government hospitals. The district has 17 active micro-containment zones at present.40% eligible residents have not taken 2nd dose of vaccineAround 40% eligible residents in Ludhiana have not taken the second jab of Covid vaccine, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said while addressing the residents through social media on Thursday. A study carried out by the health department, amid rising Covid mortality rate, had showed that of the 61 deaths recorded till January 23, as many as 31 persons were not vaccinated, and 20 were partially vaccinated, while the vaccination status of 10 victims is not yet known. Sharma said all residents of the city have received their first dose of the vaccination but around 40% have not turned up for the second dose. Sharma appealed to residents to get fully vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-covid-update-442-new-infections-5-dead-in-district-101643319660623.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Angry locals thrash 2 ‘snatchers’, torch bike in Ludhiana||Enraged over repeated incidents of snatching, locals thrashed two snatchers who had tried to flee with a labourer’s mobile phone, and set their motorcycle afire, on Noorwala Road on Thursday. Their third accomplice, however, managed to flee. The accused have been identified as Rahul and Anshu, both in their early 20s and residents of Salem Tabri. The duo is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital, where their condition is said to be stable.As per information, the incident took place in the afternoon, when the duo, along with their third accomplice, snatched the phone of a labourer. The labourer immediately raised the alarm, following which a security guard of a nearby factory rushed to help him. While trying to escape, the snatchers lost control over their bike and fell on the road. Some passersby nabbed two of the snatchers, and beat them up before handing them over to the police. They also torched the motorcycle, before the police arrived at the spot. Meharban station house officer (SHO), inspector Jagdev Singh said police will take action against the snatchers after recording the statements of the locals. He added that they are trying to trace the third accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/angry-locals-thrash-2-snatchers-torch-bike-in-ludhiana-101643319360273.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab’s intelligence wing at private firm’s disposal: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday demanded a judicial probe into reports that the peace of the sensitive border state of Punjab is being compromised by the ruling Congress by virtually placing the most crucial intelligence wing of the state police at the disposal of a private company. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here, Harcharan Bains, principal adviser to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, shared documents pertaining to the reported misuse of the state intelligence wing by a private company, ‘Movedek Politico’. He asked CM Charanjit Singh Channi and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to clear their stand on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-intelligence-wing-at-private-firm-s-disposal-sad-101643318040590.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala: ₹1 lakh robbed at gunpoint from JJP leader’s petrol pump||Two men robbed ₹1 lakh at gunpoint from a petrol pump owned by a Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader on the Hisar-Chandigarh national highway near Sadhopur border in Ambala in the wee hours of Thursday.The Ambala police have lodged a robbery case against the two robbers based on a complaint by Amrinder Singh Kamboj, son of JJP Ambala urban zone president Harpal Singh Kamboj. Amrinder said the robbers arrived in a white Skoda car, bearing a Gurugram (HR26-BS-1139) number, around 3am. “They threatened our three employees with a gun and a baseball bat, and fled after snatching ₹1 lakh,” he told the police. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera installed on the pump’s premises. The FIR was lodged under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-1-lakh-robbed-at-gunpoint-from-jjp-leader-s-petrol-pump-101643317680113.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: Two friends in a subway||They live together. Noor Muhammed is in his 60s. The nameless one is one year old. The first one is a human. The other is a cat. They pass their time together in a subway. Mr Muhammed sells masks and handkerchiefs in the underground. The nameless one has no known occupation.“She walks here and there, but never ventures very far from me,” says Mr Muhammed. He goes silent. It is obvious that he wants to share something, but hesitates, as if conflicted about whether to disclose a secret or not. Finally, he says in a mumbling tone, “She has a very lazy nature. She sleeps most of the time.”This afternoon, the subway is empty. It is tunnelled under a busy road in central Delhi, but the sound of traffic is muffled, and can hardly be heard. On both sides of the passage, daylight seeps in through staircases. This subway is otherwise immersed in darkness, which would be very appealing in Delhi’s sweltering summer. But these days, the dimness is adding to the gloom of the cold dampness. Mr Muhammed is sitting on a corner chair — the handkerchiefs and masks are arranged on an upturned umbrella. The nameless one is ambling about the floor.“Her mother dumped her not long after she was born. One morning, I heard her sobbing — meh-meh-meh — over there,” he points to a corner. A Bihar native, Mr Muhammed has been serving as the subway’s unofficial custodian since it opened in 2006. “I think she was hungry. I fed her a bowl of milk. Since that day, we are together… I never thought of naming her.”Suddenly, a rush of footsteps. A group of young men enter the subway on their way to the other side. One of them pauses to gaze at the nameless one. He takes out his mobile phone and focuses the camera lens on her. The nameless one freezes, but does not show fear. Stilling into a statue, she gazes back at the young man, her eyes unblinking. The man takes a series of photos, and walks away. Only after a few moments, she stirs.“She isn’t naughty,” Mr Muhammed says. “I give her milk. She drinks it without complaining. I buy her 250g of kaleji (liver) from the meat shop every day.”About half an hour later, the nameless one is nowhere to be seen. Mr Muhammed is sitting cross-legged on his chair, his eyes closed. He appears to be asleep. The ramshackle chair beside him is empty, except for a blanket slumped upon… well, it’s the nameless one. She sleeps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-two-friends-in-a-subway-101643317389459.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||Uphaar fire: Delhi HC reserves order on Ansals' plea seeking suspension of jail term||The Delhi high court on Thursday reserved its order on the pleas by real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal who sought a suspension of their seven-year jail term in the Uphaar cinema fire evidence tampering case.Justice Subramonium Prasad heard the arguments on behalf of the counsel for the Ansals, another convicted person Anoop Singh Karayat, the Delhi Police, and Association of the Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT).A trial court in November last year awarded the Ansal brothers, former court staff Dinesh Chand Sharma and two others -- PP Batra and Anoop Singh Karayat -- seven-year jail terms. The sessions court refused to suspend the sentence and release them on bail.Also Read | Uphaar fire: 7-yr jail to Ansals for tampering with evidenceThe 1997 fire left 59 dead.While dismissing the Ansals’ plea, the sessions court said the case was one of the gravest of its kind and the offence appeared to be the outcome of a calculated design to interfere with the course of justice.Seeking to suspend the jail term, Sushil Ansal’s counsel contended before the high court that the “mutilated” documents were not relevant to his culpability in the main Uphaar trial and his conviction in the evidence tampering case was a “travesty of justice”.He highlighted that Sushil Ansal was over 80-years-old and suffered from various ailments.Gopal Ansal’s counsel similarly argued that his client was over 70-years-old and said that the court should exercise its wide and liberal discretion to release him.The plea was opposed by the Delhi Police, which argued that the petitioners mutilated vital documents which formed part of the trial record in the main Uphaar cinema case, which forced the prosecution to record the secondary evidence in the main case and resulted in an enormous delay of trial court proceedings.AVUT’s counsel opposed the plea contending that the accused persons cannot be allowed to take law in their hands and claimed that the Ansals were “incorrigible’ and that the instant matter pertained to “majesty of the law” and “obstruction of justice”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uphaar-fire-delhi-hc-reserves-order-on-ansals-plea-seeking-suspension-of-jail-term-101643316923426.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||MCD polls: Ward list sends parties back to drawing board||The Capital is all set for the crucial municipal corporation elections, due to be held in the city this April, with the state election commission (SEC) completing two crucial tasks ahead of the polls — revising the electoral rolls and fixing reserved seats.The revision of reserved seats, an exercise repeated before each full-term election, has set the cat among the pigeons since several key municipal leaders will now have to look for a new seat to contest.According to the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, of the city’s 272 municipal wards, 46 are reserved for people from the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. Additionally, 114 seats are reserved for women.The notification issued by the SEC on Tuesday said the commission has arranged wards in descending order of percentage of SC population, and the selected SC reserved wards for 2022 were the ones that follow the last ward reserved in 2017. For instance, the Punjabi Bagh ward with 20.45% SC population was the last reserved ward in descending order in 2017. So, this year, the election commission has selected subsequent wards in descending order such as Khyala (20.02%), RK Puram (19.45%), and so on.Several prominent councillors from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress will scout for new seats this year with the change in the status of wards they won in 2017.BJP leaders who have been hit by the revision include former mayor and current Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, sitting North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Raja Iqbal Singh, former North Delhi mayor and corporation veteran Jai Prakash, incumbent South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Mukesh Suryan and his predecessor Narendra Chawla.The Sadar Bazar ward (80-N), currently represented by Jai Prakash, has gone from being a general seat to one reserved for women. Jai Prakash said he also contested the assembly election from the Sadar Bazar assembly constituency in 2020, and added that he would have no problem shifting to a neighbouring ward, if given a ticket.In 2017, former Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay had to leave his seat, Malviya Nagar, after it was reserved for women. Upadhyay did not contest the civic polls in 2017. This year, the seat has been restored to the general category.The shift in reserved wards has also impacted the AAP, which is main opposition in the three MCDs and is widely regarded as the front-runner to topple the BJP, which has governed the civic bodies for 15 years now. According to the list released by the state election commission, wards of all leaders of the Opposition in the three corporations have been reserved.Vikas Goyal, leader of the opposition (LoP) in North MCD, who represents Wazirpur ward (72-N) will have to look for a new seat, as it has now been made a reserved (SC) seat. The Dakshipuri ward represented by Prem Chauhan, who heads AAP councillors in SDMC, has now been reserved for women. The LoP in East MCD, Manoj Tyagi’s Khajoori Khas (63-E) ward has gone from being a general seat to one reserved for women.Goyal said his party was studying the revised list, and its probable impact on the seat arithmetic.“The rotation of wards is legal exercise, but it deprives a person from having a continuous connect with the area. If a person has worked hard for five years in an area, why should they not get an opportunity to be judged on their work? Since it is a legal exercise, it might need an amendment in the wake of ground realities,” he said.In the case of Abhishek Dutt, a senior Congress municipal leader, it could be a possible return to his home turf as Andrews Ganj (59-S), a ward he won in 2012, was reserved for women in 2017. Then, under the delimitation exercise, the ward’s boundaries were changed. Dutt got elected from then newly carved seat, which retained the name of Andrews Ganj. Now, that his seat has been reserved (women), he may move back to Kasturba Nagar ward, which contains part of his old seat.“In the new areas which have been added to the ward in Lodhi complex, we are showcasing our achievements in colonies like Sadiq Nagar,” Dutt said.Subhash Arya, a former mayor and senior BJP municipal leader, said the party has constituted a four-member team to study the election commission’s order, and added that the party will come up with a formal response in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcd-polls-ward-list-sends-parties-back-to-drawing-board-101643316436662.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khadoor Sahib MP hints at revolt as son’s name not on Congress nominee list from Khadoor Sahib||Senior Congress leader and Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa on Thursday hinted at raising a banner of revolt, a day after his son’s name did not figure in the second list of 23 candidates released by the party for the Punjab assembly elections. Dimpa was apparently eyeing party ticket for his son Updesh Gill from the Khadoor Sahib assembly constituency from where the party declared two-time MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki as its candidate. “What should be done if your party ignores hard work, loyalty and honesty & prefers stacks (sic),” Dimpa tweeted Wednesday. Dimpa’s tweet came after his close associate and Congress leader Satinderjit Singh Chhajalwadi joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Dimpa, who won the parliamentary seat by defeating SAD leader Jagir Kaur in 2019, was campaigning hard in the constituency for the last few months. The father-son duo stopped their poll-related meetings in the segment soon after the party announced Sikki as its candidate. MP Dimpa had been supporting Chhajalwadi and wanted to secure Congress candidature for the latter from Baba Bakala, a reserve constituency, where the MP holds a considerable sway. Chhajalwadi was announced as SAD candidate from the Jandiala constituency on Thursday. Earlier, Dimpa and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu had attended a rally in Baba Bakala in support of Chhajalwadi’s candidature from the segment from where the party announced incumbent MLA Santhok Singh Bhalaipur as its candidate in its first list. Also, Dimpa’s absence during Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Amritsar on Thursday is being seen as another sign of a brewing revolt. Dimpa was not available for comments. He, however wrote on Twitter, “I was not able to attend the Amritsar function due to personal obligation and I had already informed the party leadership about this.”In another Tweet, he said, “Only Congress candidates from 117 assembly constituencies and not MPs were invited. So there was no boycott.” But the Congress’ Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla was also present during Gandhi’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khadoor-sahib-mp-hints-at-revolt-as-son-s-name-not-on-congress-nominee-list-from-khadoor-sahib-101643316661785.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police nab Himachal man with 50-gm heroin||A resident of Kullu, Himachal Pradesh, was arrested with 50-gram heroin near the petrol pump in Phase 2, Industrial Area, on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Panna Lal, 35. A drugs case has been registered. Kharar man held with illegal weapon The operation cell of Chandigarh Police arrested a resident of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, with one countrymade pistol and five live cartridges. The accused, identified as Kuljeet Singh Kang, 35, was arrested near Butterfly Park in Sector 26. A case under Arms Act was registered. Mohali man loses phone to snatchers A resident of Phase 4, Mohali, lost his mobile phone to two motorcycle borne snatchers near the Sector 40/41 lightpoint. Based on the complaint of the victim Rafeeque Mohd, a snatching case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. Beopar Mandal seeks relief for traders in budgetThe Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has sent a memorandum to the finance minister of India seeking relief in taxation and announcement of an amnesty scheme for pending pre-GST Assessment VAT cases on the pattern of nearby states. Other major suggestions mooted by the traders include rationalisation of income tax exemption limit and rate slabs and exemption of capital gain on commercial self-use property.CCPCR organises blanket distribution drive in slum areaThe Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) visited the slum area of Bhaskar Colony, Sector 25, on Thursday to check on the underprivileged children residing there. The team members interacted with around six families and identified 22 children living there without facilities like hygiene, water and sanitation and are not going to school. They also distributed 12 blankets to these underprivileged children.22-yr-old ends lifeA 22-year-old man was found hanging at his house in Sector 47 on Thursday morning. Police said the deceased is a Class 12 passout and took the extreme step when he was alone at home. The body has been kept in the mortuary and postmortem will be conducted on Friday. No suicide note was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-nab-himachal-man-with-50-gm-heroin-101643316660161.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Powermen Union to go on strike on 4 days in February||The UT Powermen Union staged a protest against privatisation of the UT electricity department in Sector 43 on Thursday. The union will also go on strike on February 1, 7, 23 and 24.The union’s leaders appealed to all electricity department employees to make the strike on February 1 a success and said that after privatisation, the employees as well as the general public of Chandigarh will have to pay the expensive bills as fixed by the government. “The electricity rate of the company is more than twice the rate of Chandigarh. Therefore, all political parties, trade unions and mohalla committees should strongly oppose the privatisation,” said Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary of the union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-powermen-union-to-go-on-strike-on-4-days-in-february-101643316362894.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||People wise enough not to vote for a drug accused: Navjot Kaur on Bikram Majithia||Congress leader Navjot Kaur Sidhu on Wednesday said that people of the Amritsar East segment were wise enough not to vote for a drug smuggling accused, referring to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia’s candidature from the seat against her husband and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Asked while campaigning for her husband whether it will be a high-profile contest in Punjab, she said, “I don’t think so. People are not stupid that they would vote for someone who is absconding after the high court dismissed his anticipatory bail in a drug case.” “Whoever comes to contest against my husband is welcome. But I would like to ask him if he would contest the polls from jail?” she said.Kaur, who also represented the constituency from 2012 to 2017, said, “It will be up to the people to decide whom they want to vote for. We don’t face any challenge from anyone as we have worked in this segment,” she added.On SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal terming Sidhu as “arrogant”, she said, “We are not arrogant. Those who do not get down from their vehicles or consider themselves as big are arrogant. How can we be arrogant since we are meeting people at their doorsteps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/people-wise-enough-not-to-vote-for-a-drug-accused-navjot-kaur-on-bikram-majithia-101643316239828.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Will challenge DSGMC presidential poll in court, say Paramjit Sarna, Manjit GK||Once-sworn rivals — Shiromani Akali Dal (Delhi) president Paramjit Singh Sarna and Jag Aasra Guru Aasra (JAGO) president Manjit Singh GK — on Thursday said they will jointly challenge in court the presidential polls of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC). In a poll session held at Delhi’s Gurdwara Rakab Ganj on January 22, the newly elected members associated with the SAD (Badal) had elected Harmeet Singh Kalka as gurdwara body president. But Sarna and GK, both of whom remained DSGMC chiefs in the past, alleged that the Badal faction forcibly captured the president’s and other posts of the committee with the help of the Delhi Police.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, the two said, “The SAD (Badal) camp called police to the hall where Guru Granth Sahib was kept to take control of the committee by force. The rival members, including the nominee against Kalka, were chucked out of the hall with the help of police.” This was for the first time that police entered the gurdwara where Guru Granth Sahib was kept, they said. “The SAD (Badal) camp is responsible for this grave sacrilege. Also, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami played a role in the sacrilege. Ironically, the Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has not said anything on this so far. Both should quit if they are not able to ensure respect and maryada of Guru Granth Sahib,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-challenge-dsgmc-presidential-poll-in-court-say-paramjit-sarna-manjit-gk-101643316061685.html
28-01-2022||Noida||39 candidates to contest three assembly seats in Gautam Budh Nagar||With the first phase of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections a fortnight away, the total number of candidates for the three seats in Gautam Budh Nagar district remained at 39 on Thursday, the last day for the withdrawal of candidature. The 39 candidates will be contesting from the three assembly seats of Noida, Dadri and Jewar. Twelve candidates will contest from the Jewar seat, 13 from Noida and 14 from Dadri. The Jewar constituency has four candidates from national parties, three candidates from registered parties other than the recognised national parties and five Independents. This assembly seat also has the highest number of candidates over 60 years of age. The seat also has the highest women’s participation with two candidates — Poonam from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Neeru Walia from the Sarva Samaj Party — in the fray here. Dadri constituency has four candidates from national parties, six candidates from registered parties other than the recognised national parties and four Independents. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate and sitting MLA Tejpal Nagar, (68), is the only candidate over 60 years of age here. Incidentally, he is also the oldest among all candidates in the three constituencies. Also, there are no women candidates contesting from the Dadri segment. The Noida seat is expected to see an open contest of youth leaders as seven of the 13 candidates are in their 20s. Pankhuri Pathak from the Congress is the only women candidate. The constituency has four candidates from national parties, six candidates from registered parties other than the recognised national parties and three Independents. Despite having a large pool of youth leaders, sitting MLA Pankaj Singh from the BJP appears to have an advantage. Historically, apart from the top two or three candidates in all the three constituencies, the rest had to forfeit their deposits in the elections of 2007, 2012 and 2017. Forfeiture is required if a contesting candidate fails to get a minimum one-sixth of the total votes cast. The parties that usually get maximum votes are BJP, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Samajwadi Party (SP). One exception was in 2012, when Dhirendra Singh, then a Congress candidate, was the runner-up and lost by 9,500 votes in Jewar. In 2017, Dhirendra Singh, who fought on a BJP ticket, won by a margin of over 22,000 votes and this time he is seeking a re-election from the same seat again on a ruling party ticket. Experts say that the candidates’ list is an encouraging sign for democracy because of the increased political participation, especially from the youth, despite knowing that they may not be in a position to win. “Better political participation is always an encouraging sign in a democracy as voters get several options. Social media plays a big role as election campaigns are going virtual. Now, more and more people are able to participate in the electoral process”, said Dr Shalini Saxena, associate professor (political science) at the Amity University in Gautam Budh Nagar. “The online space is not a challenge for the youth today. With digital campaigns, we are moving away from the legacy politics of yesteryears. Now, voters are more approachable. It may be likely that the votes will be divided among more candidates this time, especially in an urban constituency such as Noida. Voters also have more candidates to choose from and this augurs well for democracy,” Dr Saxena added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/39-candidates-to-contest-three-assembly-seats-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101643316001697.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Pollution of Ghaggar river: Punjab, Chandigarh asked to act on suggestions of joint action committee||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Punjab government and Chandigarh administration to take action on the recommendations of the Joint Action Committee constituted to examine pollution of the Ghaggar river.The implementation will be overseen by the chief secretary in Punjab and the UT adviser in Chandigarh. A joint committee of the Central Pollution Control Board, Punjab Pollution Control Board and Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) may monitor compliance, the NGT has ordered.Notably, the NGT had already directed Punjab and UT to ensure that no solid waste is dumped into the N-Choe or catchment area, which is polluting the Ghaggar River, and STPs must have online monitoring system to monitor quality and quantity of wastewater being discharged.The joint committee in its report with the NGT had submitted that Punjab and Chandigarh are required to sort out the issue and take appropriate action of laying of sewage network and its treatment in a time-bound manner.Punjab is required to take action for collection and treatment of untreated sewage from villages of Mohali Area like Amb Sahib colony, Kambala, Papri, Manauli, Dairi, Kaura Majra, Chachu Majra, Saini Majra, Chau Majra, Nagiari, Ginemajra, Kalauli, Mote Majra, Hulka, Nadiali, Jhansali and many other villages of the Patiala region in the vicinity of the drain, which are discharging untreated sewage leading to the Ghaggar.The committee has also recommended that immediate action is required to regulate dairies and gaushalas in villages of Chandigarh and Mohali by following the “Guidelines for Environmental management of Dairy Farms and Gaushalas” as per Orders of NGTRespective local authorities/ urban local bodies of the Chandigarh administration and Punjab government are required to ensure that STPs are operated efficiently to achieve prescribed parameters without diverting untreated effluent into drains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pollution-of-ghaggar-river-punjab-chandigarh-asked-to-act-on-suggestions-of-joint-action-committee-101643316000224.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||‘For freedom fighters’: 75 Tricolours unfurled in city||Whenever someone in Delhi steps out of their home, they should see a Tricolour no matter which direction they look, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said while unfurling a 115-foot-tall national flag in Timarpur as part of the Delhi government’s project to set up 500 such high-mast flags across the Capital.The Delhi government, in all, unfurled 75 such high-mast national flags on Thursday across the city to mark the 75th year of India’s Independence.Kejriwal said 500 high-mast flags, including the 75 that were unfurled on Thursday, will be set up in the next couple of months. The plan is to have 115-foot tall national flags in every district and assembly constituency, he said, and so far, 80 such tricolour installations have come up.The ₹104 crore project is part of the 2021-22 budget, which finance minister Manish Sisodia had at the time termed the “Deshbhakti Budget”, to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. The budget contained several projects meant to instil a sense of patriotism among residents of the Capital.“We have installed the tiranga at a height of 115 feet at 75 places in Delhi to pay homage to our freedom fighters. Our goal is to ensure that whenever someone steps out of their home, they see a tiranga in every direction they look. Seeing the tiranga fly high instills a stronger sense of patriotism in everyone. Delhi is perhaps the only city in the world to have installed their national flag on such a large scale. Hopefully, we have secured a spot in the Guinness Book of World Records for this feat,” Kejriwal told reporters at the event.Till August 15, 2021, the public works department (PWD) had installed high-mast national flags at five locations in the city -- East Kidwai Nagar, Rani Bagh, East Vinod Nagar, Kalkaji, and Dwarka.“Our target was to set up the 500 high-mast flags by January 26 (Republic Day), but because there was a ban on construction activities due to pollution and also the third Covid-19 wave, it will now take place over the next couple of months,” Kejriwal said.PWD minister Satyendar Jain, who was also present at the Timarpur event, said that the state agency has executed the project in accordance with the 2002 Flag Code of India rules, which pertain to the laws and practises around the display of the national flag.“Abiding with the flag code rules, illuminating the flag with adequate lighting was given priority. Each foundation was painted red and white. The Delhi Government has executed this colossal project largely on PWD roads under its purview. The project has been executed while overcoming challenges of the multiplicity of road-owning agencies in Delhi, like the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), both of which are under the control of the central government and the municipal corporations of Delhi,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/for-freedom-fighters-75-tricolours-unfurled-in-city-101643315410221.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Lack of social interaction, excess screen time causing stress among kids, say parents||Even as physical classes will resume for Classes 10 to 12 from February 1, the other students will continue with online classes even as year-end exams are drawing near. Many students and parents say this is leading to stress, as physical classes have been suspended since January 10 amid the Covid surge.Ever since the first lockdown, it has been a common complaint by parents that sitting in front of the computer screen for long periods of time is making kids more irritable, leading to mood swings and damaging their eyesight.Due to limited social interaction, parents say kids have become more introverted and since they are not getting enough exercise, their health is also suffering.However, as per president of the Chandigarh Parents’ Association Nitin Goyal, the numbers of complaints have reduced as parents are now accustomed to the downsides of online classes.Goyal said, “The UT education department can set up a dedicated helpline for students where they can share issues related to Covid or online classes.” Chandigarh district education officer (DEO) Prabhjot Kaur said that the phone numbers of class teachers and school counsellors have already been shared with all students and they have also been told to check in routinely to ensure the childrens’ well-being.The counsellor of a government school on condition of anonymity, said, “Students from poorer socio-economic backgrounds are suffering the most and many of them call us about problems they are facing with their family or with online classes. Worksheets are prepared for students unable to attend online classes. Other problems also include issues with certain subjects like maths.” She added that the number of calls received were higher during the second wave in 2021.Chairperson of Chandigarh Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) Harjinder Kaur, said, “The commission is also concerned about the mental health of children, as online teaching can’t compare to physical classes. We are running virtual programmes to involve kids more and create awareness among both students and parents till offline classes can resume.”Dr Adarsh Kohli, professor of clinical psychology at PGIMER, said, “Children are being deprived of social learning and learning by observation and parents have to ensure that more interactive methods of play and study are practiced at home. More video sessions with cousins, playmates and school friends need to be encouraged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-lack-of-social-interaction-excess-screen-time-causing-stress-among-kids-say-parents-101643315640167.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Several Congress nominees, Khadoor Sahib MP give Rahul Gandhi’s Amritsar visit a miss||Many of the Congress candidates in the poll fray in Punjab and Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa on Thursday failed to turn up during senior leader Rahul Gandhi’s Amritsar visit even as state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu had said that all of those contesting the elections will remain present at the event. Rahul visited the Golden Temple and other shrines in Amritsar. While the Congress has so far declared candidates from 109 constituencies, not more than half of them made it to the Gandhi scion’s visit, a local party leader said. Among those who failed to turn up were state cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Rana Gurjit Singh who had unsuccessfully sought party ticket for their sons from the Batala and Sultanpur Lodhi seats.Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, who accompanied Rahul, claimed that more than 85 percent of nominees were present. “Some of the candidates who were to file their nominations and had other scheduled programmes could not join him, but many reached the shrine later,” the Amritsar MP said. Gandhi scion listens to gurbaniSoon after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple sanctum sanctorum, the former Congress national president along with Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, deputy CMs Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, OP Soni, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa listened to gurbani kirtan. District Congress (rural) chief Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar honoured him with ‘siropa’ and ‘kirpan’ outside the shrine complex. The Congress leader partook of langar along with devotees. Later, he paid tributes to the martyrs at the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial following which he paid obeisance at the Durgiana Temple and the Bhagwan Valmiki shrine at Ram Tirath.Khadoor Sahib MP Dimpa, who was seeking party ticket to his son from Khadoor Sahib constituency, tried to explain his absence in a Twitter post, “Due to my personal obligation I was not able to attend Amritsar function & for this I had already informed my leadership, no assumptions please (sic).” But he had tweeted on Wednesday, “What should be done if your party ignores hard work, loyalty and honesty & prefers stacks”.Also, former state party chief Sunil Jakhar clarified on his absence in a tweet, “Heartiest welcome to Sh @RahulGandhi as he arrives in Guru-ki-Nagri... Eagerly awaiting my 7 day quarantine to end to personally carry forward his msg for - Punjab di Chardi Kala (sic)!”
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panchkula: 87 files of telecom firms missing from MC office||Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta conducted an inspection at the municipal corporation’s Sector 14 office on Thursday where he found over 87 files missing pertaining to payment records of telecommunication companies for installation of mobile towers in Panchkula.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and municipal commissioner Dharamveer Singh were also present at the inspection.Gupta said that he has received complaints that several telecom companies were not paying prescribed fees for the past many years, causing huge loss to the state exchequer. He said that as many as 318 towers of Airtel, Vodafone, BSNL, ATC, Indus and Jio are installed in Panchkula, but after 2016, prescribed fees and other charges were not paid by themGupta issued directions to disconnect the connections of companies which don’t clear their dues within a week. He added that MC is owed ₹100 crore on account of fees for installation of tower and laying lease lines and notices have been issued to the companies to clear their dues. Gupta said that of the 87 files which were found missing, 21 were of Reliance Jio, 16 of Indus Company, 13 of Airtel, 18 of Vodafone, three of BSNL and 16 of ATC.“We are cross checking every file. The discrepancy could be because a few files were earlier handled by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran,” said the MC commissioner.“The revenue realisation committee in its investigation has found that an official issued permission to a mobile company to install tower without paying processing fee and rent of about Rs. 1.65 crore,” he said.The MLA said that the potholes on the roads are not filled properly by the mobile companies after the completion of work. “I have issued directions to take strict action against such companies. A detailed report in this regard will be sent to the senior officials of urban local bodies department as well as ULB minister Kamal Gupta so that appropriate action can be taken,” the MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-87-files-of-telecom-firms-missing-from-mc-office-101643315339726.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||High court grants bail to Punjab Congress leader Sukhpal Khaira in money laundering case||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday granted bail to Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case in November last year. Khaira, who is lodged in the Patiala jail and is Congress candidate from the Bholath segment for the Punjab assembly elections, had moved the HC seeking bail on December 13 after his bail petition was dismissed a week earlier. The bench of Justice Sureshwar Thakur observed, “When the offence under the money laundering law is directly linked with the predicate offence and that the matter is pending in the apex court, the high court, prima facie, cannot firmly draw an objective conclusion that the money drawn in the drug case also resulted in committing an offence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Khaira was told to surrender his passport and appear in the trial court when hearing in the case is fixed. He was also told not to leave Punjab and Haryana without the trial court’s permission. The ED had raided Khaira’s premises in March 2021 and later initiated proceedings in connection with a first information report (FIR) registered in a 2015 drug case. A court had convicted four persons and by the same order, Khaira was summoned as additional accused in 2017.Claims political vendettaKhaira, who joined the Congress in June last year, has maintained that the proceedings against him were part of a political vendetta. Khaira claimed that the ED’s action was a case of witch-hunt as he had been vocal against the Centre’s three farm laws which were later repealed. The ED had initiated proceedings under the PMLA in January even as there was a stay from the Supreme Court in the 2015 matter, he had claimed.The ED opposed the bail claiming that Khaira was an accomplice of drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers. Also, a special ED court in Mohali on Thursday allowed him to come out of jail to file nomination as a candidate on January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-grants-bail-to-punjab-congress-leader-sukhpal-khaira-in-money-laundering-case-101643315219878.html
28-01-2022||Noida||Congress’ Pilot sounds poll bugle in Ghaziabad||Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Thursday slammed the “double-engine ki sarkar” (Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh) and said that the state never re-elects the same party. Pilot was in Ghaziabad to campaign for Congress candidates who are contesting in all the five assembly constituencies in the upcoming state polls. “In this area, we have a direct fight with the BJP. The “double-engine ki sarkar” has posed problems for the people. The farmers were forced to carry on agitation for over a year and about 700 of them also died. People of every segment suffered and are annoyed with them,” Pilot said. Pilot also slammed the BJP on a host of issues such as healthcare, education, roads, electricity and unemployment. “After failing on all these accounts, chief minister Yogi Adityanath is talking about 80:20, religious divide, love-jihad and mandir-masjid for which he is well known. People are fed up with all this and want development. Also, many of their leaders have run away to other parties and this gives an indication. If the BJP is so strong, what is the need for the Union home minister Amit Shah to hold meetings with Jat leaders?” Pilot added. Pilot was campaigning for Congress candidate Sushant Goyal, who is contesting his first election. He is the son of former Congress MP late Surendra Prakash Goyal. He also went to the grain market at Ghanta Ghar and visited several shops during the election campaign. “People in UP need change and in UP governments don’t get repeated. So, there will be change this time and the Congress is the best bet for the people. They have seen different governments in the past 30 years and other parties have not been able to perform the role of Opposition. If they (BJP) are not fearful this election, why is Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Adityanath holding so many election campaigns,” Pilot said. BJP leaders countered Pilot and said that the Congress party has lost base across the state. “If they think that they have a fight with the BJP, let them remain in illusion. They have lost their base in UP and the coming election will be another eye-opener for them,” BJP’s city president Sanjeev Sharma said. Political experts agreed and said that the Congress has lost base in India’s most populous state over the last 30 years. “For any political outfit to succeed, it needs to have workers and cadres. Congress cadres have shifted to other parties over the years. If their leaders are trying to gain ground, they should first build a strong base of party workers, so that the party gains strength in the next 5-10 years,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) from MM College, Modinagar. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary, is leading her party’s campaign in UP and has also promised 40 percent seats to women candidates. The party also launched a manifesto for the youth to woo young voters. The Congress fared poorly during the last three assembly elections held in 2007, 2012 and 2017. 
28-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19: 4.2k cases in Delhi, least in 24 days; positivity dips below 10%||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in Delhi on Thursday fell below the 10% mark for the first time in 23 days, state government data showed, as new infections fell 43%, in persistent signs that the city has seen the back of its fifth wave of infections.Delhi on Thursday added 4,291 Covid-19 cases, the fewest in a day since 4,099 on January 3, and a sharp drop from 7,498 a day ago.The city added an average of 7,859 cases each day over the past week, showed records from the state government.While the drop in cases came on the back of a significant dip in testing (falling from 70,804 on Wednesday to 44,903 on Thursday), a smaller percentage of samples nonetheless returned positive results, the data showed.Just over 9.5% of all collected samples returned positive samples on Thursday, as the seven-day average test positivity rate also dipped to 12.8%, the lowest in 20 days. The positivity rate was last lower on January 4, when this statistic read 8.37%.The city also recorded 34 Covid-19 deaths on Thursday.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the decline in Covid cases was a promising trend.“The Covid situation is under control. Today (Thursday) Delhi recorded less than 5,000 cases and the positivity rate was also lower than 10%. Hospitalisations are also a lot lower now,” Jain said.Only 2,028 (13.15%) of the 15,420 Covid-19 beds in Delhi’s hospitals are occupied as of Thursday, leaving 13,392 (86.85%) vacant.The number of occupied beds fell from 2,137 on Wednesday.The continued dip in cases came as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday decided that there will no longer be a weekend curfew, shops can be open on all days, and restaurants, bars and cinema halls can reopen for customers at 50% of their capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-4-2k-cases-in-delhi-least-in-24-days-positivity-dips-below-10-101643314546390.html
28-01-2022||Noida||₹21 lakh seized from luxury car in Noida||The Gautam Budh Nagar police have recovered unaccounted cash worth over ₹24 lakh in two incidents during intensive checking at borders in view of upcoming assembly polls.Both recoveries were made from Sector 60 checkpost under Sector 58 police station jurisdiction by the personnel form the district police and the State Surveillance Team (SST). In the first incident, over ₹21 lakh cash was recovered from a Porsche car on Wednesday evening. Police said that the car driver, a businessman, couldn’t produce documents to verify the cash.“While searching, the total ₹21,23,990 cash was recovered. The driver of Porsche car identified himself as Rohit Awana, a resident of Sector 19 in Noida,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (Noida 2).The ACP said that Awana was released after questioning. “During questioning, Awana revealed that he runs a petrol pump and was returning home from Gaur City in Greater Noida West with the collection money of last three to four days. We have informed income tax officials to probe into the matter. A case will be registered if we find irregularities in connection with the seized money,” said Verma. In the second incident, ₹3,01,000 was recovered from a WagonR car at Sector 60 checkpost. “The car’s occupant, Gopal Swarup, was unable to answer any questions with regards to the cash recovered. He said that he is a businessman working in Noida. Swarup was let go after questioning. Income tax officials have been informed about the cash,” said a senior police official. The officials said that they are probing if the money was meant to be used in the upcoming state assembly elections. The seven-phase state polls are set to commence from February 10 when the voters in three constituencies of Gautam Budh Nagar — Noida, Jewar and Dadri — will cast the ballot.The district police have seized unaccounted cash worth about ₹1.50 crore in the past ten days. On January 18, cash worth ₹99 lakh was recovered from an SUV near Noida Stadium in Sector 24 while on January 20, ₹4 lakh was recovered from another SUV in the Knowledge Park area of Greater Noida. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said police teams have intensified checking in the district ahead of the assembly elections. “We are checking every vehicle entering the city,” he said.“Apart from borders, our teams are continuously visiting guest houses, hotels, and markets. The SHOs have been directed to keep a watch in the areas falling under their jurisdiction and take swift action against suspicious people,” he said.The officer further said that a total of 9,000 personnel of the Uttar Pradesh police and home guards, along with some paramilitary troops, are presently deployed in Gautam Budh Nagar for the assembly elections.
28-01-2022||Delhi||Why leave schools behind, learning at stake: Principals||Administrators and parents on Thursday were a disappointed lot as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) deferred a decision on reopening school to its next meeting, which is likely to take place on February 7. Stakeholders said the delay in opening schools has been causing immense harm to children who have stayed away from in-person for most of nearly two years now.Also Read | Covid-19: Schools, colleges to remain closed in DelhiDuring the DDMA meeting on Thursday, officials said a decision on reopening schools will be taken up for discussion in the next meeting, after experts suggested a phased reopening of institutions. In the first phase, schools will be reopened for students in classes 9-12, followed by classes 5-8, and classes 3-4 in the third, they said.But school administrators said educational institutions were not accorded priority whereas curbs on bars, restaurants, and markets were being relaxed. They said prolonged suspension of in-person classes was exacerbating the learning gap among students.Sudha Acharya, chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC) said most had expected a positive outcome on Thursday as deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had earlier highlighted the learning loss on account of school closure, and said the government backed their reopening.Acharya said the delay did not make sense as the government was relaxing other curbs. “The meeting is scheduled next week and we are not certain what decision might be taken or by when it would come into effect,” said Acharya.“We also need to conduct practical exams for students of board classes (class 10 and 12). Now, we will have to wait before planning exams. This is an unnecessary delay. We are unable to understand why schools are not a priority if other establishments such as restaurants and malls can function with relaxations,” said Acharya.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said the deferment of reopening has thrust schools into uncertainty again. “How is it possible that we are able to open schools in Maharashtra for children of all grades but the same can’t be done in Delhi?” said Joshi.Parents also expressed their disappointment with the continued closure. They said the lack of clarity on reopening was a disappointment after their demand was supported by Sisodia.More than 1,600 parents on Wednesday signed an online petition requesting government authorities and other key stakeholders to reopen schools for in-person classes on priority. A delegation of parents met Sisodia who said school reopening was crucial to bridge the learning gap.“We are disappointed that schools continue to remain closed, despite Manish Sisodia supporting the reopening of schools. We are unable to understand the rationale behind the continued closure when experts nationally and internationally have recommended the opening of schools,” said Tanya Aggarwal, lawyer, and one of the petitioner parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/why-leave-schools-behind-learning-at-stake-principals-101643313932520.html
28-01-2022||Noida||Shah starts poll campaign from Dalit’s house in Greater Noida||Eyeing Dalit votes in the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) bastion of Dadri, Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday kicked off his door-to-door campaigning for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls from a Dalit’s home in Greater Noida’s Tugalpur village of Dadri assembly constituency.Dadri is the home turf of BSP chief and former chief minister Mayawati and approximately 15% of a total 587,000 voters are Dalits, according to the latest voters’ list.Shah, along with Dadri candidate Tejpal Nagar, visited at least four houses and a few shops in Tugalpur’s by-lanes, where Dalits live in large numbers. His visit to the predominantly Dalit area assumes significance as Mayawati hails from Badalpur village of Dadri and, for that reason, the assembly segment has always been a stronghold of the BSP. However, in 2017, BJP’s Tejpal Nagar effected an upset by defeating BSP candidate and two-time MLA Satveer Singh Gujjar by a margin of 80,000 votes. And, this time, the BJP is sparing no trick to win the seat again, including having the home minister open his campaign from Dadri.A confident Nagar said, “We are winning Dadri and forming a government in UP easily because our government has worked for all communities. We aim to defeat our rivals by a margin bigger than that of 2017 because people have realised that only the BJP can develop UP,” he said. After interacting with Shah and Nagar, Juhi Sagar, an MBA student and a Dalit from Tugalpur village, said, “We are with the BJP because it has provided a safe environment to women and worked for the welfare of all communities,” Shah also addressed a “prabhaavi matdaata samwad (effective voter dialogue)” in Greater Noida’s Sharda University and delivered a 35-minute speech to motivate party cadre ahead of the seven phased polls, starting February 10. Speaking at the event, Shah said the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has brought about a change in the last five years in every section of society and is now seeking a second term for the betterment of society.“This election is not only to elect an MLA or chief minister but to constructively support Yogi Adityanath’s good governance. This is the election to fight against the “four misdeeds” of previous governments -- corruption, nepotism, appeasement of a particular section of people and mafiaraj -- that destroyed this state for long. Recalling the rule by the Kalyan Singh government of the BJP in 1991, Shah said,”Babu ji Kalyan Singh of BJP was the first to give good governance in the state and now it is the Yogi government. This government has worked for all sections of society; created jobs, set up industries, put mafias in jail, built infrastructure, hospitals, universities, expressways and what not to improve the image of the state. But a lot more is left to do.”“In the last five years, the Adityanath government has put every goonda behind bars -- be it Azam Khan, Ateeq Ahmed, Mukhtar Ansar and others,” said Shah.Asking why the opposition parties were feeling uncomfortable about income tax searches, Shah said, “The income tax searches found truckloads of black money and they started feeling the pain. Why? Because they have a connection to that money.” They claimed to work for the backward caste but did nothing during their regime, he said. “Our government created a commission to work for the backward castes and provided reservation for medical students. We are working for all communities,” he affirmed.Accusing the BJP leader of resorting to falsehoods, SP spokesperson Raghwnedra Dube said, “BJP leaders will say any falsity to woo voters. These elections, voters will teach the BJP a lesson. the SP government from 2012 to 2017 provided a conducive environment for all sections -- be it businessmen, Dalits, professionals or others. People will vote for the SP-RLD combine because they want change.” Countering Shah’s allegations, Gautam Budh Nagar BSP chief Lakhmi Singh said, “It is the BSP that developed Noida and Greater Noida and also built the Yamuna Expressway, among other important development projects in the state and the people know that. All allegations made by Amit Shah are baseless and people will teach the BJP a lesson using their votes.” said Lakhmi Singh BSP president from Gautam Budh Nagar. 
28-01-2022||Delhi||Govt outreach for 2nd shot to teens||With nearly 800,000 children aged between 15 and 18 in the national capital having received their first jab of a Covid-19 vaccine, the state government is now working to ensure these beneficiaries receive their second shot within the stipulated period, said officials aware of the matter.A senior official of Delhi government’s health department on Thursday said 204,913 children in the bracket will be eligible for the second vaccine dose in the first week of February. In the subsequent week, another 300,000 teenagers will be eligible for their second shot, the official said.According to government estimates, there are nearly 1.01 million children aged between 15 and 18 in the Capital. Of them, 786,611 have received their first vaccine dose, showed data from the CoWin dashboard.“The date for their second dose appears on the Co-Win portal, but we will send out reminder messages to their registered mobile numbers as well,” the official said.Data from the central government’s Co-Win dashboard showed that between January 3 — when vaccinations for this age group began — and January 7, Delhi administered over 200,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Between January 8 and January 14,302,553 eligible teenagers were given their first doses and 219,660 children received their vaccine shots in the next week. Between January 22 and January 27, the city administered 47,261 first doses to children in this age-group.Children between ages 15 and 18 across the country are being administered doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, a two-dose vaccine, with the second jab to be administered between four to six weeks after the first.Officials also said district administrations are also trying to reach out to children who are yet to get vaccinated.“We are trying to reach out to children in schools, homeless children, street vendors and other children unaccounted for in government records,” an east Delhi district official said.
28-01-2022||Noida||Two unidentified bodies recovered in Greater Noida||The body of an unidentified man, believed to be in his 50s, was found from an area under jurisdiction of Surajpur police station, said police on Thursday. According to police, in the first incident, the body was found on the roadside on Wednesday night. “Locals informed the police about the body lying on the roadside near LG Chowk in Surajpur. The body had marks of strangulation on the neck and was sent for postmortem. The body is yet to be identified,” said Awadhesh Pratap Singh, station house officer at Surajpur police station.In a separate incident, the body of an unidentified woman was recovered from a jungle under the Dankaur police station area. A senior police officer said that the victim had severe injuries to head.“A local informed the police about the body and a team was sent to recover it. Prima facie, it seems that her head was hit with a heavy object and the body was dumped here after killing her,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-unidentified-bodies-recovered-in-greater-noida-101643313779681.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Murder accused escapes from police custody in Lucknow’s KGMU, 2 cops suspended||A murder accused escaped from police custody from the surgery department of the King George Medical University (KGMU) where he was admitted, police said on Thursday. The police said an FIR for negligence while on duty has been lodged against two police constables who were guarding the accused. An FIR has also been registered against the accused for escaping from custody at the Chowk police station. Inspector in-charge of Chowk police station, Kuldeep Dubey said that the accused Satveer Singh, 35, of Alwar, Rajasthan was lodged in Lucknow district jail for past four years since he was arrested for murder from Vibhuti Khand police station of Lucknow. He said the accused was shifted to the KGMU for treatment after he had injured his face with a pointed object around 10 days ago. He said the accused escaped from the KGMU between 6 and 7 am on Wednesday due to the negligence of Ravi Kumar and Yogesh Kumar, the police constables who were deployed for his security. A police team has been sent to Alwar, Rajasthan, where the family of the accused lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/murder-accused-escapes-from-police-custody-in-lucknow-s-kgmu-2-cops-suspended-101643313659713.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Class-1 officers to take role of village protectors, says Khattar||The Haryana government has started a gram sanrakshak programme in which Class-1 level officers will be adopting one village each.Chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar, who held an interactive programme with gram sanrakshaks on Wednesday, said as village protectors, these officers will get the problems of people resolved at village and ward level.They will also deliver the information related to the development of villages to the district administration and the government. This will ensure that benefits of government schemes and programmes reach everyone, the CM said.The CM added that all Class-1 level officers have to select one village each and become its guardian. “Working beyond the call of duty is what really defines an officer, thus, along with professional duties, each should also always be ready for making pivotal contributions for serving the society,” he said.The purpose of dialogue with gram sanrakshaks is that everyone should work for betterment while becoming accountable to the society. For this, they should register themselves on www.intrahry.gov.in portal and select their villages as soon as possible. This work is to be done at times other than the time of duty.Khattar said the state government is working with the spirit of antyodaya. In the last seven years, the government has started many schemes and programmes in public interest including education, employment, skill development, promotion of cottage industries, ‘one district, one product’, pension schemes, ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’, SVAMITVA Yojana, ‘Har Ghar Nal Se Jal’, ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’, ‘Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana’, etc; the benefits of which are being ensured to every needy person.Even today, there are people who are unable to take advantage of the schemes in their interest. Officers acting as gram sanrakshak can contact villagers, local leaders, officers and employees working at village level to smoothen things, Khattar said. The CM said at district level, the nodal officer of gram sanrakshak programme will be the additional deputy commissioner.Apart from this, an administrative secretary level officer will also be made nodal officer in all 22 districts. These officers will review all activities from time to time and resolve any problems that may arise. The suggestions sent by the gram sanrakshak will be sent to the departments concerned for necessary action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-class-1-officers-to-take-role-of-village-protectors-says-khattar-101643312341755.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||PM Rashtriya Bal Puruskar awardee: Karnal youth’s portal a weapon to fight Covid||The adage ‘necessity is the mother of invention’ holds true for Karnal’s Aakarsh Kaushal, who has been awarded with the PM Rashtriya Bal Puruskar for helping lakhs of Covid-19 patients amid the pandemic.Kaushal, a Class 12 student’s karnalcovid.in helped people to get real-time data of cases, deaths, availability of beds and their RT-PCR test reports while sitting at home. It also helped the authorities deal with the situation and counter false information as there was no source of credible information available in smaller cities like Karnal.“During the first wave, I realised that people were facing problems in getting their RT-PCR reports. They were unable to move out due to the pandemic. I felt that an online portal was the best alternative,” Kaushal said, on how he got the idea.Kaushal, with the help of his father, contacted the Karnal deputy commissioner and the CMO. They agreed to assist him with the data and information if he creates a portal in October 2020.“In the beginning, I created the portal to facilitate people with real time data of Covid cases, recoveries and deaths, then I realised that people were not able to get their RT-PCR test reports as going out was not safe and with the help of Karnal health department, I created another portal enabling people to get their RT-PCR report within 24 hours of sampling,” he said.But the worst was yet to come and a few months later, the second wave of the pandemic hit the country. The number of cases increased manifold and people were running from pillar to post to get hospital beds. Thus, Kaushal created another portal with real-time information of availability of beds in all government and private hospitals.“The initiatives evoked huge response and helped lakhs of people. Even people from different states were able to get details of empty beds in Karnal,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Yogesh Sharma.Later, CMOs from other districts also contacted Kaushal and he created the portal for RT-PCR test reports for 10 more districts.The initiative has been implemented under the guidance of Dr Chintan Vaishnav, a senior lecturer at MIT’s Solan School of Management and the academic director of MIT Tata Centre for Technology and Design wrote him an e-mail and Dr Chintan helped him with a mentor regarding design of the website, and other features on it.His parents Aarti and Gagan Kaushal are both doctors. They run a private hospital in Karnal. “Since Class 7, he was learning computer science and web development online. Soon after, I noticed his interest in computer science,” said Dr Gagan.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the initiative helped the public and the administration to deal with the situation. He had recommended Kaushal’s name for this national award.Presently, the project has 10 websites serving in 11 districts of Haryana and till date, it has over 1.3 millions views over 8,00,000 hosted RT-PCR reports with 2,00,000 downloaded reports and is serving a population of about 16.5 million.
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Seers’ meet in Magh Mela tomorrow, ‘Jihad’, ‘Hindu nation’ on agenda||PRAYAGRAJ: Saints and seers belonging to various sects and organizations will discuss “ways to counter Islamic Jihad” and “steps to help bring a Hindu nation into being” at a “Sant Sammellan” to be held during the ongoing Magh Mela-2022 at the camp of the Brahmrishi Ashram Trust on January 29. It has been organised by the Dharm Sansad Sanchalan Samiti. “The aim of this “Sant Sammellan” is to get saints from across the country to sit together on a single platform and discuss pressing issues and challenges facing the country and the Hindus,” informed a key organizer of the meet and president of Varanasi-based Shankracharya Parishad, Swami Anand Swaroop. He said that a large number of noted saints from across the country, including Shankaracharya of Puri Swami Nischalananda Saraswati, Mahamandaleshwar Prabodhanand Giri, Khak Chowk saints’ president Damodar Das and Mahamandaleshwar Santosh Das aka Satua Baba would attend the meet, apart from many others. According to his Twitter bio, Swaroop is the president of the Shankaracharya Parishad and the Ganga Mission. The Shankaracharya Parishad’s official website claims that it is reaching the society globally, with the mission of reconstruction of ancient India. “The saints will deliberate on the various forms of jihads being waged against the members of the Sanatan dharma, including “Love Jihad” targeting Hindu girls and women, besides other such efforts to drive away Hindus from Muslim-dominated areas and localities, forcefully grabbing their properties and also cow slaughter. The saints want strict laws against such acts across the country and their proper enforcement,” said Swaroop, who has hogged limelight for his anti-Muslim remarks in the past. Though the saints claim that the meet has nothing to do with politics and the UP assembly elections 2022, they do concede that the saints would always support political parties and leaders who “believe and work to take forward” their suggestions. “This “Sant Sammellan” is apolitical. However, we will propagate support for a leader who would work towards making the country a “Hindu Rashtra” and respect the values that go with it, added Swaroop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/seers-meet-in-magh-mela-tomorrow-jihad-hindu-nation-on-agenda-101643311322520.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP only option for people who want rule of law: Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was the only option for people who wanted rule of law, good governance, zero tolerance towards crime and no politics of appeasement. He called upon people to vote for the BJP, as their vote would not only elect an MLA but also (indirectly) elect the chief minister of UP. “Decisions (of governance) are taken by the chief minister. How to deal with criminals, anarchists and how the benefits of development schemes will reach the people are decided by the CM,” said Yogi in an obvious bid to educate voters how 2022 assembly elections may affect them at the state level. Adityanath was addressing a select gathering at the ‘Prabhavi Matdata Samvad’ in Bijnor, where he tried to establish an instant connect with people. He called Bijnor as the land of Mahatma Vidhur (of Mahabharat).The chief minister targeted the Samajwadi Party, the BSP and the Congress alike, reciting a verse from the Gita to make his point that they would never say “paritrāṇāya sādhūnāṁ vināśhāya cha duṣhkṛitām” (to protect the righteous, to annihilate the wicked, and to re-establish the principles of dharma I appear on this earth, age after age) and follow the righteous path. Adityanath said previous chief ministers refrained from visiting Bijnor because of some myth and as chief minister he had been visiting the district frequently with the recent one being for laying the foundation of a medical college in the name of Mahatma Vidhur. Adityanath said the district was left “Bhagwan Bharose” as there was no development, no hearing for farmers while criminals and mafia were having a field day. “We decided to set Duryodhans and Dusshasans right,” he said while referring to action taken against criminals and mafia in western UP after the installation of BJP government in 2017. He said the SP, the BSP and the Congress-led governments followed wrong policies, had bad intentions and used to differentiate among people. He said there was a clear difference between how the BJP worked and the work done by the opposition. The CM said loan waiver for farmers, setting up of Anti-Romeo squads and ban on illegal slaughter houses were the first three decisions of the BJP government following its installation in 2017. “When the Samajwadi Party came to power in 2012, they withdrew cases against terrorists…the difference is clear,” he added. Adityanath said the previous governments deprived people of the benefits of government schemes and the money they collected by indulging in loot from poor, farmers, labourers, children, women and health and education budget was being recovered and the Samajwadi Party was getting upset. Referring to the “poor state of affairs in UP” during the previous regimes, he said: “This is the same UP that used to witness a riot every third day. Big incidents of violence used to take place here. Girls were not able to go to school while women were not able to go to the market and farmers were upset. Bijnor faced utter neglect as it is situated on the UP-Uttarakhand border. Youths used to hear taunts from the people of Uttarakhand that no development is taking place in Bijnor while Uttarakhand is developing.” Adityanath said the people of Bijnor now know how farmers were getting prosperous, youths were getting government jobs, traders were feeling secure and how medical colleges were coming up in the state. ‘Yogi Adityanath zindabad’ slogans rent the air at regular intervals as the CM asserted that his government followed the principle of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’. The CM concluded his address with “Jai Sri Ram”, asking people to take his message to every citizen of Bijnor to make UP the number one state in the New India.Adityanath also went door to door to meet people and said he was there to seek support for BJP candidates. He stopped to interact with children and asked them whether they were attending school. He visited the local Covid hospital and spoke to media persons later, pointing out how the third wave of Covid would be contained in the next 10 days, like the first and second waves of the pandemic. 
28-01-2022||Jaipur||Alwar girl found on flyover may have been hit by food delivery worker’s bike: Police||JAIPUR: A 16-year-old girl found in a distressed condition in Alwar on January 11 may have been hit by a motorcycle used by a food delivery worker, police officers said.A police officer said a speeding bike hit the minor from behind causing injuries that led to profuse bleeding. “A report from forensic science is awaited, which will clear all doubt,” the officer said.Police officers earlier ruled out abduction and rape of the minor after examing footage from scores of CCTV cameras. A medical report also confirmed that she was not sexually assaulted.According to reports, the biker has been identified and has faced an initial round of questioning.The state government has referred the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on January 16 after the opposition BJP cited the incident as an example of deterioration in the law and order situation, particularly in the context of crimes against women.
28-01-2022||Gurugram||Third wave of Covid under control in Gurugram, say health department officials||Health department officials on Thursday said that the Covid-19 situation in Gurugram district has reached a plateau and is stabilising with a gradual decline in the positivity rate and daily testing numbers. On January 21, the district had witnessed a 33% positivity rate with 3,509 cases and 10,401 samples were tested that day. Till the third week of January, the positivity rate was on an increase with some sharp fluctuations. On January 18, the district had reported a positivity rate of 30.82% against 10,191 tests, which dropped to 22.59% on January 20 with 12,591 tests and again increased to 33.73% on January 21 against 10,401 tests. In the past seven days (from January 21-27), the positivity rate in the district is on a downward trend with minor fluctuations as testing numbers have also declined from over 10,000 samples a day to around 7,500 samples. Officials said that testing numbers reduced in proportion to the number of cases being reported daily. In the first week of January, 5,000 daily average tests were being conducted when the district had less than 1,000 cases, according to official records. This was increased to 12,000-13,000 tests by mid-January as the district reported over 3,000 cases. Now, around 7,000-9,000 daily tests are being conducted as cases have come down to below 2,000. Along with this, the positivity rate in the district increased from 5% (approximately) in the first week of January to 25% by the mid of the month, reaching a peak of 33% on January 21 and since then, it has been on a decline. On Thursday, the district reported a positivity rate of 21.62%. “With a declining positivity rate, we can safely say that the district has reached stability for the third wave and cases are on a downward trend now. If a lesser number of cases are being reported then automatically the contacts of the positive patients also drop, so daily testing numbers are also reduced accordingly,” said Dr Jai Prakash, the district surveillance officer. On January 14, the district health department issued new guidelines regarding testing and hospitalisation, based on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. According to the district surveillance officer, all symptomatic patients with cough, fever, sore throat, and other symptoms must get tested along with the at-risk contacts of confirmed positive cases. Health experts also said that decreased daily testing numbers does not affect the positivity rate as more symptomatic patients are being tested. Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of department of community medicine and school of public health at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER) said, “With the revised guidelines of the Union government, mostly symptomatic patients are being tested. In such a scenario, if there is a downward trend, then it is real and means that the wave is stabilising, irrespective of the number of tests being conducted. “When asymptomatic patients are also tested, the number of daily tests will definitely be high in comparison with daily cases, due to which positivity rate may or may not be accurate. But with testing of only symptomatic patients, the denominator has shrunk and a downward trend in this situation is good news,” Dr Kumar added. Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, a health expert and epidemiologist said, “When we conduct test on more symptomatic patients, test positivity rate will be high, but now, over two weeks since the new testing policy has been implemented, if there is a decline in positivity rate, it shows that there is a downward trend. But such data must be interpreted with hospitalisation rate and as that has also been less than 2 percent, it is safe to conclude that Gurugram might have crossed the third wave peak and the situation is stabilizing. However, there is no reason to relax or lower our guards.” Experts also said that reduced testing numbers may or may not show an actual decline in cases. Dr Arun Sharma, a health expert who was with the community medicine department of University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi said, “Overall what we are seeing, irrespective of the decline in the number of tests, is that proportion of people who are testing positive is low and that is why we can say the number of cases is definitely coming down. It could be so that out of 10 symptomatic people, nine are coming forward for testing because of fear”. “But since it not known whether the samples are a representative of the population, that is a greater number of samples being of symptomatic people or the larger chunk being of asymptomatic people, we cannot draw an inference that what we are seeing right now is the actual decline in cases,” Dr Sharma added. Meanwhile, Gurugram on Thursday reported 1,671 fresh cases of Covid-19 along with 3,177 recoveries, taking the active cases tally to 9,288. The district also reported three deaths. On the brighter side, the district reported less than 2,000 cases for the first time since January 8. “Gurugram reported three deaths, which include a 75-year-old fully vaccinated male who was suffering from nasopharynx carcinoma. Another deceased was a 79-year-old man who was unvaccinated with comorbidity of carcinoma prostate and the third deceased was a 72-year-old man who was unvaccinated and suffering from Parkinson’s disease and coronary artery disease,” said the district surveillance officer. On Thursday, a total of 8,342 doses were administered to beneficiaries in the district, including 2,499 first doses, 4,246 second doses and 1,597 precautionary doses. Gurugram has administered a total of 4.75 million vaccines till date. Also, 721 children in the 15-18 age group received their first dose in the district on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/third-wave-of-covid-under-control-in-gurugram-say-health-department-officials-101643311199460.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||New Covid cases down but Jan saw 7 deaths a day on average||The number of daily Covid-19 cases has reduced in the last one week and experts say this could be an indication of the peak having been crossed, but cautioned that despite the fall in the number of daily cases, the threat from infection remains.“New cases are reducing which indicates that we have peaked,” said Dr PK Gupta, a microbiologist and former president of Indian Medical Association, Lucknow.If the trend remains the same for the next few days, the peak would indeed have been crossed, they said. “The falling trend (of the new Covid-19 cases), hopefully, will bring new daily cases below 1,000 next month. That will be a clear indication of the present Covid-19 wave having ebbed,” said Dr Surya Kant, HoD respiratory medicine, King George’s Medical University.“It took 20 days for Uttar Pradesh to reach a level of 18K new daily cases from 383 on January 1 and in the next seven days, the (new daily) cases are down below 9K, just half. The fall in new cases is significant, yet, keeping in mind the intensity of the virus spread this fall should not become a cause to lower the guard,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.“A majority deaths during the present wave are being reported among people who were admitted for some other ailment,” said Prof Surya Kant.According to statistics, a maximum of 18,554 new cases were reported on January 20 in the state and then a gradual fall was recorded for the next one week. A maximum of 22 deaths were reported on January 21. And since January 1 there have been 210 deaths reported which is at least 7 deaths a day, on an average.Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, said that the test positivity rate has also recorded a fall. The positivity rate was 7.78% on January 19 and now it is 4.98%. However, some districts, individually, have higher positivity rate, hence, there is a need to remain cautious against the spread of infection.UP reports 20 Covid deaths, tally up to 23,125Uttar Pradesh reported 20 new Covid-19 deaths on Thursday with six districts reporting two deaths each.Gorakhpur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Varanasi, Moradabad, Hapur, Bijnor, reported two deaths each, according to data from the state health department. Auriya, Banda, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Hardoi, Gonda, Ballia reported a death each.With 8,901 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s total case load reached 19,89,095 while the death toll reached 23,125.“In all, 16,786 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. We are recording for the past few days that recovery is more than new daily Covid-19 cases,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, during a press conference.Lucknow too recorded a fall in new Covid-19 cases. “Over 900 male and over 500 females tested positive for Covid-19. In all, 2,777 patients recovered,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, the Lucknow district’s health education officer. Among the new cases in Lucknow, 527 tested positive during the contact-tracing.Only 1.5% of eligible in state yet to get vaxAbout 1.5% of the eligible people over 18 years of age are still to take their first dose of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine in Uttar Pradesh.UP has till now administered a total 25,48,92,031 doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine, including 15,44,33,589 first doses, 9,94,11,800 second doses and 10,46,642 precautionary doses.“In all, 98.58% of the eligible population above 18 years have taken their first dose of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine, which means very few or hardly 1.5% are remaining. I appeal to all eligible to take their vaccine doses,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, at a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-covid-cases-down-but-jan-saw-7-deaths-a-day-on-average-101643311019484.html
28-01-2022||Gurugram||At 5.5°C, Gurugram shivers on second lowest minimum temperature of the season||The city on Thursday recorded the minimum temperature at 5.5 degrees Celsius (°C) -- two degrees below normal -- which was the second lowest minimum temperature of the season, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Gurugram recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 4.8 degrees Celsius on December 22, 2021. The city, however, got a slight respite from the cold wave conditions on Thursday with a rise in daytime temperature owing to a sunny day. Gurugram recorded the maximum temperature at 18.1 degree Celsius, which was four degrees below normal.On Wednesday, the city recorded the minimum and maximum temperatures at 6 degrees Celsius and 16.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.The Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh -- a regional centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) -- on Thursday issued a weather bulletin, stating that a “fresh feeble western disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from Saturday”. “Under the influence of the fresh western disturbance, isolated pockets are likely to experience cold wave conditions, over the south Haryana region, during the next two to three days. ‘Cold day’ conditions in isolated pockets are likely during the next 24 hours, along with dense fog conditions during the night and morning hours. The minimum temperatures have been below normal in the past two days, but no significant changes are likely over the next 48 hours (two days), and the region will witness a clear sky during the day,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh. According to the IMD, a “cold day” is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal. A “severe cold day” is when the maximum temperature is at least 6.5 notches below normal.Meanwhile, Gurugram on Thursday recorded the air quality index at 228 in the “poor” category for the third consecutive day, according to the 4pm bulletin issued by the CPCB. According to the CPCB, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System (AQWS) for Delhi-NCR (national capital region), owing to moderate winds and better ventilation conditions, which are likely to prevail for the next seven days, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the “poor” to “moderate” category over the next few days.The wind speed will remain between six and 12 kilometres per hour (kmph) over the next three days, with the ventilation index -- a measure of air pollution based on the speed of the wind and the height of the column of air in which smoke or other pollutants mix -- is likely to be approximately 10,500 meters per second (m2/s) on Friday, and 8,200 m2/s on Saturday.According to experts, a ventilation index lower than 6,000 m2/s with an average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/at-5-5-c-gurugram-shivers-on-second-lowest-minimum-temperature-of-the-season-101643310899623.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Lapsed assistant registrar posts: Kashmir varsity goes ahead with recruitment process, aspirants cry foul||In a clear violation of its own recruitment rules, Kashmir University is going ahead with the hiring process for assistant registrar posts which had lapsed in October last year, eliciting allegations of nepotism by prospective aspirants. The university advertised seven positions of assistant registrar/assistant controller of examination on October 24, 2019, and as per the varsity statutes, the posts should have been filled within two years of the date or else re-advertised. Interestingly, when the posts were advertised in 2019, the varsity had asked those candidates who had already applied for the posts for different campuses way back in July 2015 to apply afresh. The university failed to fulfil the posts within stipulated time and invoked the emergency powers of the outgoing vice-chancellor to go ahead with the process, even though this was not under the purview of Section 13(4) of the Jammu and Kashmir Universities’ Act 1969 because of the non-exigency nature of the issue. “Why is university denying us the opportunity to apply for the posts when the recruitment process has legally lapsed? The only thing they should have done is not to ask for submitting fresh application fee from those who have already applied. But the posts had to be advertised afresh without fail,” said an aspirant of Srinagar. “We want the current process quashed and the posts re-advertised,” he added.The recruitment process involved three-tier criteria for the selection which included holding of preliminary examination, mains examination and personality test. While the varsity could conduct the preliminary examination in August 2021, it had scheduled the mains for January 6, 2022 which was postponed due to inclement weather.Sources in the university said that the entire process, including the final selection, as per the university’s own regulations, had to be completed by or before October 24, 2021 or else re-advertised in terms of subsection xiv of Section 17 of the regulations. They said the university administration got a special approval from the V-C for an “illegal extension” for validity of these posts which had already expired.They said that extending validity of these posts, which is essentially a domain and purview of the two top bodies - syndicate and university council, was neither reported to the syndicate which wasn’t held, nor the chancellor who heads the university council. Some candidates who had applied for the posts in 2019 alleged that less than 50% of candidates could appear in the preliminary examination because the varsity didn’t give enough publicity to the schedule of the exam and hastily conducted the preliminary examination.“I came to know about the conduct of prelims after the varsity issued the provisional list of candidates who qualified the exam. It appears there is a hidden hand trying to reduce the competition for the posts aimed at favouring some people,” said an aspirant of Old City, Srinagar. Sources in the university said that the varsity authorities also received several representations from the aggrieved candidates informing them about the lack of publicity to the exam schedule, but they were not considered. Kashmir University registrar Nisar Ahmad Mir, meanwhile, rejected allegations of any nepotism claiming that the whole process was transparent.He acknowledged that the process couldn’t be completed within two years and attributed it to government restrictions owing to Covid.“We had to conduct the entrance exam of 6,000 candidates. The government itself didn’t allow us because of the pandemic SOPs.That means it could not have been completed in two years. We have sought a six-month exemption from the competent authority because of the given circumstances,” he added.Mir said he was aware that some aspirants have also written to higher authorities about the issue of publicity and time which they have answered. “We gave wide publicity in newspapers and social media. Our publicity is handled by the government itself,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lapsed-assistant-registrar-posts-kashmir-varsity-goes-ahead-with-recruitment-process-aspirants-cry-foul-101643310781216.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: Cong releases 3rd list of 89 candidates, with 40% women||Lucknow: The Congress on Wednesday released its third list of 89 candidates, including 37 women. The party which has declared candidates for 17 west UP seats (going to polls in the second phase), has replaced two sitting MLAs of Saharanpur and Bareilly Cantt who had switched loyalties recently. Naresh Saini, MLA from Behat, Saharanpur had joined the BJP while MLA from Saharanpur seat Masood Akhtar had joined the Samajwadi Party. As per the list, Poonam Kamboj is party candidate from Behat and Sandeep Rana from Saharanpur assembly seat now. The party has decided to field Mohammad Islam Ansari from Bareilly Cantt where the party’s candidate Supriya Aron had joined the Samajwadi Party. Out of 89 candidates, 17 have been declared for west UP seats that go to poll in the second phase with nominations set to close there on Friday. The party has decided to field its west UP women wing chief Mamta Rajput from Bhogaon assembly seat of Mainpuri. Other women candidates include Tara Rajput from Marhara, Neelima Raj from Jalesar (SC) and Divya Sharma from Amanpur assembly seat. Saroj Devi has been fielded from Hathras (SC) assembly constituency. A spokesman of Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) said the list upheld the Congress’ promise of giving 40 per cent tickets to women. He also said the list accommodated some of the party’s office-bearers. The Congress’ third list includes 27 general, 21 Muslim, 23 OBC and 18 SC category candidates having an average age of 43 years. With its third list of candidates the Congress has declared candidates for 254 out 403 assembly seats of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-cong-releases-3rd-list-of-89-candidates-with-40-women-101643310779936.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||BJP rules out alliance with MNS||After several rounds of discussion, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has said that there will be no alliance with the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and the party will fight the local body polls with its smaller allies. The development comes as a setback for MNS chief Raj Thackeray who was keen to alter his image as a spoiler who cuts into the Shiv Sena’s Marathi votes. The BJP’s decision followed its core committee meeting on Tuesday. Party insiders said the BJP has decided to not join hands with the MNS fearing the backlash from north Indian voters in Mumbai and other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The party is also wary about the reaction during the Uttar Pradesh elections. The indication came on Wednesday when state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “There is no proposal of the alliance with the MNS under consideration. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis plays a key role in taking the final call on such proposals.” Isolated in the state’s political space after the Sena, NCP and Congress came together to claim power following the 2019 Assembly elections, the BJP started considering the possibility of adding the MNS as its new partner. Patil had called on Thackeray at his residence a few months ago and discussed the possibility. Fadnavis too visited Thackeray’s new house at Shivaji Park. The MNS was looking forward to the alliance for various reasons. It saw an opportunity to grow in the state with the help of the largest party and also rub off its image of a ‘spoiler’ by dividing Marathi and Hindu votes. In fact, Thackeray started showing that he had changed his stand towards north Indian migrants whom his party had targeted for over a decade since he formed the MNS in 2006. He even adopted hardline Hindutva to create a separate identity of his party. “Most of the core committee leaders, including Ashish Shelar, Manoj Kotak and election in-charge of Mumbai Atul Bhatkhalkar, were against any official alliance. They see a direct impact on the north Indian voters who stand by the party in Mumbai and neighbouring cities. Secondly, the UP elections have been announced. Most of the north Indians living in Mumbai are from eastern UP. Many are also expected to return to their hometowns for voting. At this juncture, we cannot take any risk of disturbing them,” a BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity.A senior BJP leader, who did not want to be named, said there could be an indirect understanding between the two. “Instead of a formal alliance, we can have a tacit understanding by which we can dent the Sena, the prime enemy of both the parties. We know the MNS is in no position to have any major impact in Mumbai, but It would definitely help us reduce the Sena’s tally,” he said.An MNS leader said, “Rajsaaheb had even clarified to the BJP, during his meeting with Patil, that the MNS had dropped its ‘anti-north Indian’ stance long ago and had not undertaken any such protest in the last few years. The party leaders have not spoken anything against the Modi government.” Political analyst Hemant Desai said Thackeray and leaders from his party were keen on the alliance with the BJP as they think it will help them win a few seats. “Thackeray has not spoken on any key issues like farmers’ agitation, infiltration by Chinese forces as they were against the Modi government. In fact, he changed his party flag to establish his new political stance. He has not spoken against the north Indians and it might have been clarified by him during his meetings with Patil and Fadnavis. The BJP would not speak anything about the alliance with the MNS until the last phase of the UP elections was over. The cards will be opened after the results of the five states are announced,” he said. MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar said the party will soon clarify its stand on the issue. “Rajsaheb will speak on it. We have been used to fight the elections on our own and will continue to do so. We had made our stand on the north Indians clear during our meetings with them. After all the BJP too has to fight with the three parties.” Nandgaonkar said it was wrong to call the MNS a spoiler and they were not looking at the alliance to tweak that image. “The Sena has been cribbing about us over division of votes, but all the parties, including the Congress and the BJP, have taken our help in various elections. Like all other parties, even we have our own vote bank. We would have welcomed had the BJP decided to join hands.” 
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Ashok Chavan leaves cabinet meet after getting Covid-19 positive report||Mumbai Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan left the state cabinet meeting, minutes after it commenced on Thursday, as his RT-PCR report came positive. Chavan, who heads the public works department, was present in the meeting at Mantralaya for around 10 minutes, those in the know said. Before that, he even attended a meeting of top state Congress leaders to discuss the party’s strategy for the civic polls. A senior Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi minister said the Congress minister had cough and cold and therefore had taken a rapid antigen test on Thursday afternoon, which was negative. The other swab was sent for the RT-PCR test.“He was present in the cabinet meeting when he was informed that his test was positive. He immediately left the meeting... Obviously, there was some unease among others who were present,” said a minister who did not wish to be named. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was chairing the meeting via videoconferencing.Chavan later tweeted about his Covid-19 test result and urged those who came in contact with him to be “careful”.The minister, who is said to have mild symptoms, is in home isolation for seven days. Chavan had recently participated in public events in his hometown Nanded. Following his test results, his visit to Goa was cancelled, where he was slated to campaign for the assembly election. Despite attempts, Chavan did not respond to calls from HT.This is the second time the former chief minister was infected by Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ashok-chavan-leaves-cabinet-meet-after-getting-covid-19-positive-report-101643310539453.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||BJP may project RPN Singh as OBC face of party in east UP||Lucknow: Political equations on the seven assembly seats in Kushinagar district have changed with former union minister RPN Singh joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In the 2017 assembly election the BJP bagged five seats- Padrauna, Khadda, Fazilnagar,Kushinagar and Hatta while its ally the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) captured one seat- Ramkola and one seat- Tamkuhi Raj went to the Congress. Labour and employment minister, Swami Prasad Maurya who was contesting from Padrauna seat, led the charge of the BJP, mobilizing the other backward class (OBC) voters in the district. After Maurya switched to the Samajwadi Party (SP), it seemed that the BJP would face difficulty in repeating its performance in the district that has a large chunk of OBC voters. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav projected Maurya as a prominent OBC face of the party in the 2022 UP assembly elections. However, the BJP turned the tables on the Samajwadi Party by inducting RPN Singh who comes from the OBC- Sainthwar community that has a sizeable presence in eastern UP districts of Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria and Maharajganj. Even as the BJP, SP and BSP are yet to announce candidates on the seven seats in Kushinagar that will be going to poll in the sixth phase of the election on March 3, the churning among the political parties to win the support of the OBC voters has started. “To check the drift of the OBC voters to the SP after joining of Swami Prasad Maurya, the BJP might field RPN Singh or his family member from the Padrauna assembly seat. The party central leadership had held discussions with Singh as well as chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the strategy in Kushinagar district,” said a BJP leader. The leaders close to Singh are likely to be fielded on a few seats that have strong OBC presence, particularly Kurmi, Sainthwar and Kushwaha communities. Congress district unit president, Manish Jaiswal who was the party candidate from Padrauna seat has already resigned from the primary membership of the party. More backward community leaders were likely to join the BJP, he said. A scion of the Padrauna royal family, RPN Singh enjoys influence over dalit, upper caste and Muslim voters along with the OBC. To consolidate its hold over the OBC voters made in the 2017 assembly election, the BJP is likely to project Singh as an OBC face of the party in eastern UP region. “Although chief minister Yogi Adityanath has a considerable influence over the backward community in the region, the BJP does not have an OBC leader of RPN Singh’s stature in the area,” said Dharmesh Singh, a BJP leader. A three-term MLA from Padrauna assembly seat, Singh had also won from Kushinagar Lok Sabha seat in the 2009 Lok Sabha polls. He defeated Swami Prasad Maurya who contested on the BSP ticket. He lost the 2014 Lok Sabha election when Modi wave swept the state but still gave a tough fight to his BJP rival Rajesh Pandey. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Singh had polled 2.84 lakh votes and had stood third. His father CPN Singh had represented Padrauna twice (1980, 1984) in Lok Sabha. He was also a union minister of state in the Congress government in 1980. 
28-01-2022||Mumbai||BJP opposes move to rename Malvani garden after Tipu Sultan||Mumbai The BJP and right-wing outfits are opposing the renaming of a civic garden at Malvani after Tipu Sultan, the former ruler of Mysore. The proposal has been pushed by textile minister Aslam Shaikh (Congress). The Shiv Sena and the NCP pointed out that President Ram Nath Kovid had praised Tipu while the Congress said BJP corporators had earlier supported a proposal to rename a road after Tipu Sultan. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it has not received any proposal for renaming the garden.Members of the BJP and right-wing groups staged a protest on Wednesday as Shaikh inaugurated a sports facility at the garden. “For the last 15 years, the garden has been known after Tipu Sultan,” said Shaikh, adding that he was, however, unaware if it had been named formally. “Before independence, Sher-e-Mysore Tipu Sultan was the only ruler who laid down his life fighting the British,” claimed Shaikh, adding that for 70 years, roads and museums had been named after him in many states. He alleged that the BJP was targeting him and Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray as they had launched a slew of developmental works in Mumbai.While Thackeray told reporters that the BMC had not named the garden formally, Mayor Kishori Pednekar said the BJP is creating a controversy. She, however, said the facility should be named after ‘Jhansi chi Rani Laxmibai.’“These are just attempts to destabilise law and order situation in the city. Why have they been having problems since 2019? They did not have problem in 2012 when their MLA supported the naming in a similar situation?” asked Pednekar.Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis slammed the MVA government, saying it is a shameful act by its leaders for the sake of power. “The police lathi-charged BJP and Bajrang Dal workers who opposed the naming of the sports complex after Tipu Sultan who was responsible for the atrocities against Hindus,” he said.The slugfest continued even on Thursday. Congress leader Sachin Sawant accused the BJP of trying to polarise sentiments using historical figures. “The BJP’s opposition smacks of double standards. The BMC elections are here, and they have no roadmap for development except spreading communal sentiments…,” he said.Sawant said during a visit to Tipu’s dargah, then Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yeddyurappa praised his bravery. Accusing the BJP of double standards, Sawant said in 2013, BJP corporator Vitthal Kharatmol had proposed renaming a road in M-East ward of Mumbai as ‘Shahid Tipu Sultan Marg.’ In 2012, the standing committee hall of the Akola Municipal Corporation was named after ‘Shaheed Watan Shere Mysore Tipu Sultan’ and this resolution was proposed by former Mayor and incumbent BJP Akola city president Vijay Agrawal, he said.Meanwhile, replying to Shaikh’s claims that he had had seconded the proposal of naming a road after Tipu Sultan, BJP MLA Amit Satam warned the minister with a defamation notice. “The minister and the mayor said I seconded the proposal of naming a street after Tipu Sultan during my tenure as a corporator in the BMC. Infact, I never had supported any such proposal. Either they should prove the claim by producing documents or apologise for defaming me. In case they fail to do so, I will move a criminal defamation case against them,” Satam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-opposes-move-to-rename-malvani-garden-after-tipu-sultan-101643310299218.html
28-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Underpass work on Dwarka Expressway in limbo after issues over land||After completing almost 70 percent underpass work on the Dwarka Expressway near Kherki Majra village, construction has come to a standstill.A local landowner has refused permission to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to construct approach roads to the underpass as he has not received the compensation for his land. The 29-kilometre Dwarka Expressway is being constructed in four phases, of which the first two phases are in Delhi and third and fourth phases in Gurugram. The ₹10,000-crore project will connect Kherki Daula and Mahipalpur in Delhi on the NH-48 and also provide access to the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport. Incidentally, the road is among the first in the country to have eight lanes on a single-pier flyover. A senior NHAI official said that after constructing the underpass, when they started making approach roads, the local villagers stopped the work and claimed the land was owned by one of them and he had not received compensation from the authorities. “A survey of the land was carried out by the contractor and it was revealed that around one and half acre land had not been acquired and it was owned by locals,” he said, on the condition of anonymity. Following this, the NHAI wrote a letter to the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on January 10, stating that work is getting hindered due to intervention by local villagers and asked the authority to take steps for making the land available for constructing the underpass. “It is requested to take necessary steps for providing possession of aforesaid land so that the NHAI contractor can take up development work of the underpass,” said the letter written by manager (technical) of the NHAI. Meanwhile, Sandeep Dahiya, who owns the land in question, said that the authorities have not paid him compensation despite a clear order by the Punjab and Haryana high court in his favour. “We have allowed the work to happen till date in public interest but if the compensation is not paid even now, why should we allow the work to happen. Once the project is over, who will pay us ₹3 crore plus interest, which is the total value of this land,” he said. Prakhar Sahai, a local activist, said that the delay in paying compensation for land will also delay the completion of the highway project. “This underpass will provide connectivity to residents of Sector 101, 102, 104 and 10A. Already, the project is delayed and the state authorities must act quickly,” he said. The HSVP officials said that the matter was under consideration and will be resolved soon. “A proposal for purchase of the land for constructing the approach roads on both sides of the Dwarka Expressway has been sent to the headquarters in Chandigarh. The land will be acquired soon and handed over for the construction of the underpass,” said Vikas Dhanda, HSVP estate officer. 
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Traffic partially restored on Jammu-Srinagar highway||Traffic movement on 278km-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway was partially restored around 4.30pm on Thursday following a landslide at Panthial in Ramban district, said officials. SSP (traffic, national highway) Shabir Malik said, “At 11am, a big slide blocked the highway at Panthial in Ramban. However, NHAI immediately pressed into service its men and machinery and by 4.30pm, we were able to partially restore the affected stretch.” “For now, we are allowing one-way traffic, but we expect to restore the stretch in another two hours,” he added. The SSP informed that around 400 light motor vehicles were left stranded following the landslide. Chief secretary AK Mehta on Monday had reviewed the progress of works at the Panthial Tunnel and directed the NHAI to double its efforts to complete the pending works by April 15. He said on completion, the tunnel will provide reliable connectivity bypassing the current landslide-prone stretch of NH-44. Mehta also stressed on wearing of body cameras by traffic police personnel. Meanwhile, night temperatures dropped below zero at all the weather stations of Kashmir on Thursday after skies had cleared across the valley. There were light showers at a few places, including Srinagar, Qazigund and Pahalgam, during the night. The weatherman said that the lowest night temperature on Thursday in Kashmir was recorded at the resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir where the mercury dropped to -10.9°C.In the ski resort of Gulmarg, the temperature dropped to -10°C. The mercury settled at -1.3°C in Srinagar during the night while it was -0.2°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu. It was -4.3°C in Kokernag, -2.4°C in Konibal and -3.4°C in Kupwara.The weather office has said that the weather will remain fair to partly cloudy throughout J&K till January 29 with moderate to dense fog in morning hours in plains of Jammu. It said that there is no forecast of any major weather till ending January. BRO restores Solang-Keylong stretch on Manali-Leh highway for four-wheel driveThe Border Roads Organisation restored the Solang-Keylong stretch through Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, on the National Highway 003 (Manali-Leh) for one-way traffic on Thursday for four-wheel drive. This is for the information of general public that the NH-003 which was blocked due to heavy snowfall earlier this week has been restored for one-way traffic, Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police (SP) Manav Verma said. However, the road conditions are still not suitable for vehicular movement and avalanche threats also loom large. So, only four-wheel-drive vehicles with chains are allowed to ply on the stretch, he added. It is worth mentioning that more than 365 roads are still blocked for traffic across the state. Maximum 144 roads are closed in the Lahaul-Spiti district alone. Besides the Manali-Leh highway from Darcha to Sarchu, NH-505 is also closed for traffic from Gramphu to Losar. Highway 707 in the Sirmaur district is blocked due to landslides. Eighty-five roads are closed in Shimla, 53 in Chamba and 26 in Kullu. Electricity is yet to be restored in several parts as 219 transformers needed repairs. As many as 104 transformers are hit in Shimla, 65 in Chamba and 29 in Sirmaur. A total of 176 water supply schemes have been affected — 61 in Shimla, 42 in Chamba and 31 in Lahaul-Spiit. The higher and middle hills of the state continued to experience mild snow. Nichar got 7cm of snow, Kufri 3cm, Shimla 1.6cm and Kalpa 1cm. Minimum temperatures dropped by 4-5 degrees in parts of the state and were 1-2 degrees Celsius below normal while day temperatures dropped by 4-5 degrees as well. Keylong recorded the lowest minus 15.3 degrees C, Kalpa minus 7.7 degrees C, Kufri minus 3.6 degrees C, Manali minus 2.5 degrees C, Dalhousie minus 1 degree, Solan 0 degrees, and Shimla 0.3 degrees C. Naina Devi in Bilaspur was wettest recording 22mm rainfall, Sarkaghat 9mm, Pachhad 8mm, Bangana Jubbar Hatti 7mm and Gohar 6mm.The MeT department has forecast dry weather till January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-partially-restored-on-jammu-srinagar-highway-101643310184419.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Maharashtra to allow sale of wine in supermarkets, stores||Mumbai: In a move aimed at giving a boost to the wine industry, the state cabinet on Thursday cleared a proposal to sell wine in supermarkets and walk-in stores across Maharashtra at a flat annual licensing fee of ₹ 5,000. This move will ensure a more accessible marketing channel for Indian wineries even as the two-decade-long tax holiday for wine produced in Maharashtra ended on December 31, 2021. The decision will also ensure a level playing field for supermarkets and walk-in stores across the state, when it comes to licensing fees to stock wine for retail sale. At present, fees for beer shopee (currently available to supermarkets to stock wine and beer) depends on the slab that the city or town falls under, based on its population — and often exceeds the new amount decided upon. “We have many wineries in Maharashtra and to boost their business, the state government has decided to allow them to sell wine at supermarkets having an area of 1,000 square feet… No permission will be given to any shop smaller than 1,000 square feet. The decision will also help the farmers get better prices for their produce and was taken considering their interest,” said Nawab Malik, minister for skill development and minority affairs. Of the close to 110 wineries in India, Maharashtra has 72 wineries, of which around 40 to 45 are operational. Of these, just around 15 to 20 units are into direct marketing, while the rest are involved in contract manufacturing. The cabinet’s decision will apply to establishments which have an area of at least 100 square metres and are registered under the Maharashtra Shops and Establishments (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 2017. Supermarkets and walk-in stores will be allowed to retail wine in sealed bottles for “off-consumption” as per the “shelf in shop” concept — a separate lockable shelf of 2.25 cubic metre will have to be installed for wine to ensure that it is not retailed with other products. Though some supermarkets stock wine, they have to seek a beer shopee license which allows them to retail both wine and beer, but carries steep and varied license fees. Wine bars, which already sell wine for consumption, but only in their premises (using what is called the E-2 license) will also be allowed to sell wine in sealed bottles for off consumption. There are around 40 such establishments in the state. The department is also considering allowing shops to retail only wine— at present, only wineries can launch an outlet to sell wine. “Despite excise duty holidays and concessions, the sale of wine has not picked up in Maharashtra. One reason for this is the lack of exposure to consumers,” said a senior state government official. He added the state excise department would soon clear more measures to enhance retail availability of wine by opening up alternate channels. There are around 1,685 wine shops in the state. The wine industry has a turnover of around ₹1,000 crore in India, of which 65% in Maharashtra. Most wineries are located in Nashik, which produces around 80% of India’s wine, and is referred to as the wine and grape capital of India, followed by Sangli, Pune, Solapur, Buldhana and Ahmednagar. India sees around 4 million cases of domestically produced and imported wine (one case includes 12 bottles of 750 ml each) being consumed. Maharashtra’s share hovers around 40%. However, India lags in wine consumption with per capita consumption estimated at a miniscule 10ml compared to 4 liters in China. “A growth in wine sales will boost the backward linkages and strengthen the value chain. The industry will grow and the rural economy will get a boost… this will benefit not just wine grape cultivators, but the horticulture sector, as other fruits (like bananas and flowers) are also used to produce wine,” said Jagdish Holkar, President, All India Wine Producers Association (AIWPA). Maharashtra is said to have the right soil, topography, mineral content, weather and water for growing grapes. One of the leading producers of table grapes, Maharashtra grows wine grapes on just 5,000-acre land, compared to 2.5 to 3 lakh acre for table grapes. Internationally, most grape cultivation takes place for wine production. On an average, one kg of grapes can be used to produce around 600 ml wine. Former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis called this move an attempt by the government to make Maharashtra into a “Madyarashtra” (liquor capital).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-allow-sale-of-wine-in-supermarkets-stores-101643310179297.html
28-01-2022||Lucknow||Previous UP govts worked for a particular section, sheltered goondas: Amit Shah||GREATER NOIDA Wooing Dalit voters, union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday started a door-to-door campaign from a Dalit’s house in Greater Noida’s Tugalpur village in Dadri constituency.Shah, along with Dadri candidate Tejpal Nagar, visited at least four houses and a few shops in Tugalpur’s bylane, where Dalit voters are in large numbers. His visit to this Dalit area is crucial because Dadri is the home turf of former UP chief minister Mayawati, who belongs to Badalpur village in this constituency that has been a stronghold of the Bahujan Samaj party. However in 2017, BJP candidate Tejpal Nagar had defeated the BSP candidate here. The BJP is leaving no stone unturned to win this seat again.“Our government in Uttar Pradesh has brought about a change in the last five years for every section of society and is seeking vote for the betterment of the society,” said the home minister while addressing a ‘Prabhaavi Matdaata Samwad’ (Effective Voter Dialogue) in Greater Noida’s Sharda University later. In his 35-minute speech, Shah criticised the previous governments of BSP and Samajwadi Party in UP.“This election is not only to elect an MLA or CM but for a constructive voting to support Yogi Adityanath’s good governance. This is the election to fight four misdeeds of previous governments – corruption, nepotism, appeasement of a particular section and mafiaraj that destroyed this state,” said Shah, who recalled BJP’s Kalyan Singh’s government in the state in 1991.He added, “Babuji Kalyan Singh of BJP was first to give a government of good governance and now it is Yogi government that has worked for all sections of the society, created jobs, set up industries, put mafias in jail, built infrastructure, hospitals, universities and expressways, to improve the image of this state.”Shah said that previous governments of ‘Bua-Bhatija’ worked for a particular section and sheltered the ‘goondas’.“Somebody told me that BJP is easily winning 2022 election because Akhilesh has two beacons- red and blue. Because he has these two beacons, BJP will continue to win the elections because red beacon means no permission for development and blue beacon means free passage to goonda raj. In 5 years, Yogi Adityanath government has put every goonda behind bars, be it Azam Khan, Ateeq Ahmed, Mukhtar Ansar or others,” said Shah.On the opposition’s reaction over income tax searches, he said:“I-T raids found truckload of black money and they started feeling pain in the stomach. Why? because they have a connection with that money.” 
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Relief as recoveries outpace new Covid cases in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 4,959 fresh cases of Covid and seven related deaths on Thursday, an official health bulletin said.As many as 6,264 patients recovered, making it the first instance this month when the number of recoveries outpaced fresh infections. On Tuesday, the union territory had breached all records since the pandemic started with 6,570 infections while 14 persons had lost their lives to the Covid-induced illness, highest daily fatalities since June. The month of January so far has contributed 78,441 cases and 114 deaths with the past nine days mostly adding around 5,500 to 6,500 cases every day. Before this month’s surge, the highest novel coronavirus cases reported in the union territory were 5,443 and 50 deaths on May 7 when the second wave had peaked. The first wave had peaked in September 2020, reporting the highest surge of 1,698 cases and 10 deaths on September 12. The active cases in the union territory reached 46,657, a slight decrease from the previous day for the first time this month owing to a higher number of recovered patients. On December 31, the union territory had just 1,337 active cases.The officials said 61,752 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking Thursday’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) to 8.03%. The authorities have increased the testing rate this month as earlier they have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December. Of the total infections on Thursday, Kashmir valley saw almost 72% of the infections with 3,565 cases and six deaths while 1,394 cases and a single death was reported in the Jammu division. In Kashmir valley, the surge was high in most of the districts with Srinagar witnessing the maximum 841 cases followed by 784 in Baramulla, 529 cases in Kupwara, 440 in Budgam and 299 in Anantnag.In the Jammu division, Jammu district reported 703 cases followed by 165 in Kishtwar, 162 in Doda and 110 in Samba.Srinagar is the district with the highest number of active cases at 13,531 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 7,044 and 6,387 such cases, respectively.This month has witnessed a steep rise in cases with daily infections shooting up sharply from 169 on January 1 to 6,570 on January 25. However, of the 5,038 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 11.73% (591) are occupied in J&K. The overall number of people who have recovered was 3,68,432, while the recovery rate reached 87.77%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have crossed four-lakh mark to reach 4,19,731 and the death toll has mounted to 4,642.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,194 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 896 deaths.Himachal sees 1,820 fresh infectionsHimachal Pradesh logged 1,820 fresh Covid cases on Thursday taking the state’s tally to 2,65,734 while the death toll mounted to 3,951 after seven patients succumbed to the infection. Highest 336 cases were reported from Kangra, 285 from Mandi, 229 from Shimla, 198 from Hamirpur, 191 from Sirmaur, 145 from Solan, 128 from Una, 127 from Bilaspur, 83 from Kullu, 46 from Kinnaur, 50 from Chamba and two from Lahaul-Spiti.Four fatalities were reported from Solan, two from Mandi, and one from Hamirpur. All the victims were co-morbid and in the age group of 38-72. Active cases came down to 10,336 after 2,618 people recuperated while the recoveries reached 2,51,423.Kangra is the worst-hit district with its case tally reaching 59,157 followed by Mandi (36,205) and Shimla (33,473).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relief-as-recoveries-outpace-new-covid-cases-in-jk-101643310063582.html
28-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 2 quacks arrested for illegal termination of pregnancies in Badshahpur||Police arrested two men from two areas in Badshahpur on Wednesday night for their alleged involvement in illegally terminating pregnancies by impersonating as doctors. A health department team led by Gurugram deputy civil surgeon, Dr Pardeep Kumar, trapped both the quacks by sending a woman as a decoy who told them she wished to get her pregnancy terminated. After payment, the decoy was handed over MTP kits or medicines used to terminate pregnancy at both places by the two ‘doctors’ without any qualification and prescription, as per FIR after which authorities raided them. The two persons were Sandeep Kumar (28) of Palra village and Khalid Hussain (29) of Sakatpur village, in Badshahpur. They had allegedly studied only till class 12.After finding them allegedly involved in illegal activities, the health department team informed police which arrested them.Sandeep was allegedly impersonating as a doctor for two months, while Khalid was doing the same for at least three years and giving medicines to women for terminating their pregnancies, as per FIR. Police said Sandeep ran Divya Medicose at Fazilpur while Khalid ran Muskan medical store on Sohna road, in Badshahpur. They said a health department team first raided Sandeep then Khalid. Separate FIRs were registered against them at Badshahpur police station on the basis of a written complaint of Dr Pardeep under Section 15 (2) of The Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, Sections 3, 4 and 5 of Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, Section 27 of Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Sections 120-B and 420 of Indian Penal Code. As per FIR, the health department team also found the duo to be running the medical stores allegedly on basis of licenses issued to someone else and in absence of pharmacists. In the first FIR, Rahul, Dinesh Kumar and Bhawna Dhingra were made co-accused with Sandeep. As per the FIR, Rahul was allegedly supplying MTP kits to Sandeep illegally which he used to prescribe to pregnant women, Dinesh was the former owner of shop while Bhawna was pharmacist on whose name drug store’s license was issued but was illegally being used by Sandeep. Besides Khalid, Mohammad Rafik was made co-accused in the second FIR as he was allegedly the registered pharmacist of the shop but was absent during the raid. Police said one MTP kit was seized from Sandeep and three from Khalid against which they failed to produce any bills. Both the shops were later sealed by Gurugram drugs control officer Mandeep Mann who had reached the spots after the raids for investigation. “One MTP kit of five tablets is available between a price range of ₹120 to ₹180 at a drug store. The duo was selling them for ₹600 to ₹800 to women willing to get their pregnancies terminated,” a senior official said. Dr Pardeep said that the decoy, used in trapping both quacks, was sent to them with prescriptions and ultrasound films of her foetus. “It’s a matter of investigation how many pregnancies the quacks got terminated in such a way,” he said. Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said there has to be a valid reason for pregnancy termination. “Only a registered practitioner can prescribe these medicines needed to be administered with caution as they have side-effects too. Such medicines can be sold or made available at hospitals or drug stores only on valid bills. They can’t be sold or prescribed in the manner the two quacks were doing,” Yadav said. Dinkar Yadav, station house officer of Badshahpur police station, said that a joint investigation was going on in both the cases. “Sandeep and Khalid may be released on bail from the police station as their offences attract imprisonment of less than seven years as per Supreme Court direction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-2-quacks-arrested-for-illegal-termination-of-pregnancies-in-badshahpur-101643309880594.html
28-01-2022||Mumbai||Jolt to Congress as 28 corporators in Malegaon join NCP||Mumbai: In a major setback to the Congress, its almost entire elected corporators in the Malegaon Municipal Corporation defected to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday. Led by Mayor Tahira Shakh, 27 of the 28 elected representatives and one nominated corporator joined the NCP in the presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and state NCP president Jayant Patil. The defection is likely to increase bitterness with Congress leaders threatening a “tit-for-tat”. The Congress is part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government along with the Shiv Sena and the NCP. Ironically, the announcement was made by Pawar when top state Congress leaders were in a closed-door meeting with All India Congress Committee in-charge of Maharashtra, H K Patil, over the party’s prospects in the civic polls. Elections to several municipal corporations, including the Malegaon civic body, are expected to be held in the next few weeks. The development in Malegaon is significant for the Congress because it had emerged as the single largest party in this Muslim-dominated town in 2017 by winning 29 seats. As the election threw a fractured mandate, the Congress had won power with the help of the Sena and the BJP against the NCP and the AIMIM in the house of 84 members. Of the 29 corporators, one died two years ago. “We were planning a rally for induction of the corporators but it could not be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ultimately it was decided to hold it at the party office. NCP chief Sharad Pawar never discriminated against people over religion, caste, creed or relations,” said Pawar after inducting the corporators and the mayor at the NCP headquarters at Ballard Pier.Congress candidate in last Assembly elections and former MLA from Malegaon Central constituency Asif Shaikh too resigned from the party in February last year. He also joined the NCP along with his father Shaikh Rashid Haji Shaikh, a former MLA and Congress district president.“The problem with the Congress is there is no respect for ordinary workers anywhere,” alleged Shaikh Rashid, who had breached the Janata Dal (Secular) stronghold in 1999 and 2004.The Rashid family held sway in the Congress locally and in the minority community in Malegaon and in parts of north Maharashtra. Rashid was a two-term MLA from the Malegaon constituency between 1999 and 2009. His son Asif Shaikh too won the seat in 2014 but in 2019 he lost the battle against AIMIM candidate Mufti Mohammad Ismail. Rashid’s wife Tahira is mayor of the Malegaon municipal corporation.For the mayoral polls, the party had joined hands with the Sena and Shaikh Rashid was elected mayor in the first half of the term while his wife Tahira won the mayoral polls later in December 2019 along with Sena’s Nilesh Aher as deputy mayor for the remaining term.Asif Shaikh was disappointed after his name was not considered for the state Congress committee formed after Nana Patole took reins of the Maharashtra unit. “The party was overlooking us. It failed to provide development funds for Malegaon city despite being in power. We are answerable to the people. Thus, first I decided to quit the party in February last year. Two months ago, my father (Shaikh Rashid) resigned from the post of district Congress chief but he is yet to receive any communication from party leaders. Despite being a senior leader, no one cared to ask him the reason for quitting the party position,” said Asif Shaikh.Congress reacts The defection was discussed between H.K. Patil and senior Congress leaders. Party insiders said revenue minister and Congress legislative party leader Balasaheb Thorat spoke to Sharad Pawar and conveyed their displeasure. “The party is upset at the NCP poaching Congress leaders. Before Malegaon, the NCP has weaned away Congress corporators in Bhiwandi. Though the defection of leaders does not mean a shift in the loyalties of party workers, this is not right (as the Congress and the NCP are in an alliance),” a Congress leader said. State Congress chief Nana Patole threatened a “tit for tat”. “They have taken a few from us but there are many from them (NCP) who want to join the Congress. Discontent is part of politics. So, we don’t take such matters seriously… Tit for tat is also part of politics. We are not saying what they (NCP) did is wrong but they also should not feel bad when we do the same to them,” he said.In response, the NCP said the Congress leaders had been unhappy for the last three months and were planning to join some other party. Thus, it decided to take them along. “Ahead of elections, leaders do shift from one party to another to ensure they get elected. Asif Shaikh had already joined the NCP three months ago. His father (Shaikh Rashid) had also been upset with the party (Congress) for the last three months and was also planning to join some other party. This is when we decided to induct him to the NCP. If the Congress or any party believes that NCP leaders want to join them then they are free to take them. We are not stopping anyone,” said Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson and cabinet minister.At present, Mufti Muhammed Ismail of the AIMIM is the MLA of Malegaon.BOXEnergy Minister Raut upset Energy minister Nitin Raut is said to have left a meeting of senior leaders that was chaired by party’s state in-charge H.K. Patil in Mumbai to discuss the performance of the Congress in the local body elections. Sources said Raut had not been invited to the meeting. However, later, it was denied by Patole and Raut. “The meeting was about the recent elections and forthcoming polls,” said Patole, adding that just Thorat, former chief ministers Ashok Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde, and he (Patole) had been invited. Raut said he had an appointment with Patil at 10 am and their meeting went on till 10.30-10.45 am. “I am not upset with the party,” Raut said.
28-01-2022||Gurugram||Suspects booked for breaking into Gurugram duplex, stealing valuables worth ₹5L||Police have booked some unidentified suspects for allegedly breaking into a three-storey house in New Palam Vihar’s Phase-2 in Gurugram on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, officials said on Thursday.The thieves stole valuables worth nearly ₹5 lakh from the house, police said, adding that the house owner, who lives alone there, was not home when the incident took place. The matter came to light when the 42-year-old house owner, Manoj Deshmukh, returned home from his office late Tuesday night. His wife and son live in Rajasthan.Deshmukh works as a senior manager at the corporate headquarters of Airports Authority of India (AAI) in Delhi’s Safdarjung Airport.Based on Deshmukh’s complaint, a case was registered against the unidentified suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 380 (theft) and 457 (house trespass) at the Bajghera police station on Wednesday evening.Deshmukh, who went to office on Monday and returned home late Tuesday night as he had some important work, said in his complaint that the thieves ransacked his house and stole 134-gram gold jewellery, a laptop, one LCD TV, and three watches -- total worth nearly ₹5 lakh from there.“I live in a duplex. From scratch marks, it seems that the thieves had attempted to break the lock on the main wooden door (ground floor), but failed. They supposedly climbed to the second floor‘s balcony and broke the lock on the door to gain access to the house. They broke open a steel almirah and other closets in both the floors and decamped with all the valuables,” Deshmukh said.He informed the police immediately after he reached home late Tuesday night.“I found a rope with knots lying on the terrace. The thieves likely used it to drop TV and other items from the terrace to an empty plot next to my house. According to my neighbours, they did not hear any sound or spot any suspicious movement...,” Deshmukh said, adding that CCTV cameras were not installed in the neighbourhood. “We have launched a search to nab the suspects and an investigation is underway,” said Aman Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Bajghera police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/suspects-booked-for-breaking-into-gurugram-duplex-stealing-valuables-worth-5l-101643309459359.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Minister lauds Army, police sacrifices on Republic Day||The district level Republic Day celebrations were held at the local Guru Nanak Stadium, where agriculture and farmer welfare minister, Punjab, Randeep Singh Nabha, hoisted the National Flag. Cabinet minister Nabha said BR Ambedkar united the country. He termed the constitution of the country as a charter of rights and duties of the people and said it would be a true tribute to the freedom fighters if every citizen of the country abides by their duties. He also lauded the sacrifices made by the country’s army, paramilitary forces and state police forces to safeguard the country’s democracy and constitution.He called upon the people of Punjab and country, especially the youth, to make their due contribution for the overall development of the state and country. Nabha was accompanied by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar was also present. Former minister and MLA Rakesh Pandey, MLA and Punjab State Warehousing Corporation chairperson Kuldeep Singh Vaid, MLA Sanjay Talwar, district and sessions judge Munish Singal were also present on the occasion.DC Nayan exhorts youth to play proactive roleAdditional deputy commissioner Nayan Jassal called upon the youth to play a proactive role in making India a vibrant and progressive Republic.Addressing the gathering after unfurling national tricolour during a function organised to commemorate Republic Day, ADC said this day the Constitution of India, drafted by BR Ambedkar, came into force. It has given right to vote to every countrymen thereby making everyone an equal partner in social and political development of the country. ADC said above 80% people who were either been martyred, exiled or imprisoned for life term in the fight to freedom were Punjabis. She said, “Our brave Punjabi soldiers have ever safeguarded the integrity of country from external aggression and internal disturbances. Likewise, the hard working and resilient Punjabi farmers have made the country self reliant in food production despite having just 2.5% of country’s total area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-minister-on-republic-day-lauds-army-police-sacrifices-101643309339303.html
28-01-2022||Noida||Noida reports two more Covid-19 deaths for second day in row||Gautam Budh Nagar on Thursday reported two more deaths due to Covid-19 for the second consecutive day.With seven deaths being reported in January, Covid-19 casualties is also at its highest mark in the last seven months.According to health officials, both the patients were senior citizens and were undergoing treatment due to prior ailments and were diagnosed with Covid-19 only during their hospital stay.The first victim, a 61-year-old man, was a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a lung ailment. He was also suffering from kidney disease and was admitted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on January 14 and died after four days.The second patient was admitted to a private hospital due to several age-related complications. The 80-year-old man was a patient of kidney disease, diabetes, prostate ailments and had also suffered a heart attack. Health officials said that he was admitted to the ICU on January 13 and was Covid-19 negative during hospitalisation. He tested positive on January 20, during routine tests and died four days later.Dr Manoj Kushwaha, the district surveillance officer said, “Unlike in the second wave, when we had several cases of positive patients getting admitted, this time Covid-19 has been an accidental finding in most of our patients. People are visiting hospitals for other reasons and are testing positive after screening or during their hospital stay.”A total of 534 cases were reported in Gautam Budh Nagar in the last 24 hours and 1,176 people recovered from the virus. On a brighter note, active cases stand at 4,529 and are below 5,000 for the first time since January 10. The positivity rate is also on a gradual dip and stood at 21% on Thursday.Since the pandemic began in 2020, the district has reported 93,053 cases, while 18,89,958 tests have been conducted till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-reports-two-more-covid-19-deaths-for-second-day-in-row-101643309280753.html
28-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram and Faridabad witness 2,584 mishaps in factories in five years: Survey||The two districts of Gurugram and Faridabad in Haryana witnessed 2,584 accidents in automotive factories in the past five years, revealed a report released by Safe In India (SII), a city-based NGO, on Wednesday.According to the report, most of the workers lost their fingers and in some cases their hands while working on machines like power press, shearing machines and others. Most of the affected workers were contractual workers with a minimum salary, it added.Gurugram witnessed 305 such accidents in 2022-21, 316 in 2022-20, 457 in 2020-19, 488 in 2019-18, and 544 in 2018-17, the report said. Faridabad recorded the remaining mishaps.The report, however, said that there has been a dip in the number of accidents in the past two years.  The SII report released on Wednesday stated that 92% of the injured workers are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Orissa.The survey revealed that 70% of the workers were on a contractual basis, and had little or no legal documentation. Most of the injured are aged less than 30 years and have a salary of less ₹10,000, it said.According to the data, more than 60% of the workers lost their hands and a large number of them lost one to two fingers in such accidents. Another finding by the study said that the majority of the workers got their ESIC e-pehchan cards only after the accident, and not on the day of joining their jobs, as the ESIC regulations require. However, if these workers had the card, they could have availed the required medical facilities with its help.All the insured people whose Aadhaar numbers are linked to the IP numbers at the time of registration or subsequently are issued e-Pehchan cards by the employers, which can be used as permanent identity cards for availing medical benefits till the eligibility for medical benefit exists.  The report said that 93% of the injured workers in Gurugram have been working for original equipment manufacturers of top two companies. 22% percent accidents happened in large numbers of units, and this problem is not only an issue at small firms, it said.Sandeep Sachdeva, co-founder and CEO of SII Foundation, said, “All we need is the boards of the auto industry’s top 10 brands to think more about the workers who contribute immensely to their profits, and their productivity once a quarter. They should come together to form a joint action group with SIAM and ACMA.”The city-based trade union leaders, meanwhile, said that there was a need for the auto companies to realise that “this was a serious problem and it creates a support system for them”. “Most of these workers are contractual. There are several legal loopholes, which are used to deny compensation. Due to long legal processes, workers lose interest in getting justice,” said SL Prajapati, secretary of CITU, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-and-faridabad-witness-2-584-mishaps-in-factories-in-five-years-survey-101643309279280.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||East Delhi gang-rape victim was living in fear since stalker died by suicide: Family||The 21-year-old woman, who was allegedly abducted, gang-raped and paraded on a street in east Delhi’s Kasturba Nagar area on Wednesday, was living in hiding for the past one and half months, after a juvenile who used to stalk her died by suicide, and the latter’s family started threatening her.The woman’s family said she moved to Karkardooma village, nearly four kilometres from Kasturba Nagar, with her husband and child overnight after the 16-year-old boy’s family started threatening her, holding her responsible for the teenager’s death.Also Read | Capital crime: Woman raped, paraded by neighbours in east DelhiHer 17-year-old sister on Wednesday said nobody in the neighbourhood knew her elder sister’s address. She alleged that the family of the alleged stalker assaulted one of their relatives on January 19 when she refused to share the woman’s address.The 17-year-old girl lives with her father who is bedridden after an accident. They alleged that they had informed the police and also given a written complaint after the January 19 assault, but no action was taken.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said, “A police team visited the area after receiving a call from the family. Both parties resolved the issue amicably in the presence of the police. We will find out what action was taken on the written complaint.”Meanwhile, after Wednesday’s incident, the family of the woman has been provided with two police guards for their security, the DCP said.The woman’s family said she got married to a sanitation worker in 2017. However, she mostly stayed at her parents’ home to take care of her ailing father and minor sibling. They were surviving on the income of the woman’s husband and her brother, who lives and works in south Delhi.According to the family, the teenaged boy from the neighbourhood wanted to be in a relationship with her and began stalking her.“My sister repeatedly told him that she was happily married, and did not want to have anything to do with him, but he kept stalking her. He also used to threaten her,” the woman’s sister said.On November 12, the teenager left home saying that he was going to kill himself, and ran towards the nearby railway tracks. His family members ran behind him to stop him. But before they could reach him, he was overrun by a train, police said quoting statements from the woman victim’s family members. Police said since the day the boy died, his family members have been abusing and threatening the woman.The woman’s father said, “My daughter stopped living with us and shifted to her in-laws’ home in north-east Delhi. However, the family members of the boy got hold of that address and began visiting there and threatening her her and her in-laws. Then, my daughter moved to Karkardooma about a month and a half ago. Except my family members, nobody knew her new address. The boy’s family members often threatened and pressured us to give them that address.”East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir tweeted on Thursday that he has talked to senior police officers and demanded swift action in the case, “Have spoken to DCP Shahdara over barbaric assault on the 20-year-old woman. Some arrests have been made & more will follow. I assure that these animals (men & women) will not be spared. Every kind of support will be provided to the survivor,” Gambhir tweeted.
28-01-2022||Delhi||Capital crime: Woman raped, paraded by neighbours in east Delhi||New Delhi: A 21-year-old woman was abducted by at least 11 members of a family in her neighbourhood -- including women and minor boys -- locked in a room where she was gang-raped in front of the women, who later chopped her hair off, blackened her face, put a garland of footwear around her neck, and paraded her in the lanes near their house on Wednesday, police said.Also Read | East Delhi gang-rape victim was living in fear since stalker died by suicide: FamilyIn an incident that has sent shock waves across the Capital, the accused filmed the whole gamut of demeaning and criminal acts on their cellphones. For nearly an hour, barely 50 metres from the local police booth in east Delhi’s Kasturba Nagar that was unmanned at that time, the woman was subjected to torture in full public view.The motive for the crime, police said, was personal enmity -- the family held the woman responsible for the death by suicide of one of their kin, a 16-year-old boy whose advances were rebuffed by the woman.As more than half-a-dozen video clips of the crime surfaced on social media, attracting criticism and anger from political leaders including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi residents, the Shahdara district police registered a case under 12 different sections of Indian Penal Code. These include gang rape, abduction, molestation, physical assault, wrongful confinement and criminal conspiracy. Of the 11 accused, seven women were arrested and two minor boys, aged 15 and 17 were apprehended by the police till Thursday evening. Raids were on to nab two other men from the family who were also allegedly involved in the crime, police said“They are all family members and relatives of a 16-year-old boy who allegedly killed himself on railway tracks in east Delhi in November last year. The teenager was stalking the 21-year-old woman living in his neighbourhood, who is married and has a child. His family members blamed the woman for his death. They committed the crime to take revenge on her,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram, quoting the statements of the victim and the arrested women.The woman’s family said that they were receiving threats and abuses from the teenager’s family since his death.Things had reached an extent that the woman stopped visiting her parent‘s home, and also shifted to a rented home in Karkardooma with her husband and two-year-old child. Except her 17-year-old sister and her uncle, who is visually impaired, nobody else knew her new address.CM Kejriwal called the incident “shameful”, and urged the Union government to direct Delhi Police to take strict action against the culprits. “This is very shameful. How did the criminals get so much courage? I urge the Union home minister and the Lieutenant Governor (LG) to instruct the police to take strict action, pay attention to the law and order situation. Delhiites will not tolerate such heinous crime and criminals at any cost,” Kejriwal said on Twitter on Thursday.What happened on WednesdayThe woman’s 17-year-old sister, who is the prime witness in the case, said that around 11.30am, she left home to deliver some wheat at her sister’s house. As the girl reached there on an e-rickshaw, and called her sister out, 11 people who were following her in a car, an auto-rickshaw, and two-wheelers, rushed out. They had brought her uncle along, after threatening to kill him with if he did not tell them his niece’s new address, the girl said.“As my sister came out with her child, they overpowered her, and snatched her child. When I tried to stop them, they assaulted me and snatched my cellphone so I could not inform the police. I somehow took the child from them. They grabbed my sister, bundled her in the three-wheeler, and left. I followed them back to our neighbourhood, which is nearly 2km from the abduction spot. They took my sister inside their house locked themselves,” the girl added.Around half an hour later, the girl said, the abductors pulled the woman out with her hair chopped and face blackened. They paraded her in the nearby lanes for another half an hour after putting a garland of footwear around her neck. The girl said that she borrowed the mobile phone of a neighbour, and informed the police.Before that call, however, the woman’s husband had already informed the police about her abduction, after their landlord had called him frantically to tell him about what happened. The woman’s family members alleged that the police reached too late. However, police contended that their team got to the spot within four minutes of the first call.“After receiving the calls, our police team immediately reached there and rescued the woman. She was removed from the place. The suspects locked the house and fled. Four of them were caught in the evening while two were arrested on Thursday,” added DCP Sathiyasundaram.In one of the videos circulating on social media, the woman is seen pleading with folded hands while a woman is cutting her hair with a razor and scissors. In another video, she is seen standing among a crowd with her face blackened. She is taken inside the room and made to sit on a cot, while some women pose for shots with her. One woman is also seen holding a currency note and humiliating the victim.In a third video, a man and a boy are seen mercilessly assaulting the woman with objects which looks like sticks and a belt. It is alleged by the victim’s family that the two and another sexually assaulted and raped the woman in front of their women family members inside the room.HT is withholding the names of the arrested women since they live a few metres away from the victim’s parental home, and information about them could reveal her identity.Victim being counselledPolice said they have kept the survivor in a “safehouse” with trained counsellors who are helping her overcome the shock and trauma of the crime. Her statement before a magistrate was recorded on Thursday afternoon, the DCP said.Police said that a majority of the arrested and absconding suspects are involved in illegal sale of liquor, and have previously been booked in the past under the Excise Act. The husband of one arrested woman is registered as a “bad character” (habitual offender) with the local police station. The criminal history of the suspects was the reason nobody from the neighbourhood informed the police about the crime even as they witnessed the horrific scenes playing out in full public view, police said.Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) Swati Maliwal said the panel has issued a notice to the police. “A 20-year-old girl was gang-raped by illegal liquor sellers in Kasturba Nagar. Her head was tonsured and black paint put on her face and then she was paraded in the streets wearing a garland of slippers. I am issuing notice to Delhi Police. All the accused men and women should be arrested and the girl and her family should be given security,” Maliwal tweeted while sharing the video.Rajat Mitra, a clinical psychologist, said he has never heard such a horrific incident in his 25 years of work with police and other organisations. “I have heard it happening in remote villages and smaller towns. But it’s for the first time that it has happened in a city like Delhi. What is also very poignant and shocking is that nobody (in the neighbourhood) protested against it.”Terming it a signature crime, Mitra said that in the present case the sexual assault was not the main goal but shaming the woman and humiliating her was the main objective of the “perpetrators”.“That shaming and humiliation is what we call a signature crime. When perpetrators sexually assault a woman in order to humiliate her in public. The sense of a city where there is safety is slowly giving away to a kangaroo court culture,” he added.
28-01-2022||Delhi||Warmer day for Delhi as Capital finally gets some sunshine||Daytime was significantly more comfortable in Delhi on Thursday, with residents treated to a sunny day – a relative rarity for the city this January, which has seen the Capital shadowed by cloud cover and with maximum temperatures well below normal.The maximum temperature rose by two or three degrees in most parts of Delhi on Thursday, with “cold day” conditions largely abating in the region, the weather office said.The Safdarjung station, considered representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded a maximum temperature of 19.1°C on Thursday – three below the normal mark, but significantly higher than 16.4°C a day ago and a biting 12.1°C on Tuesday (which was the coldest January day for the city in nine years).Experts said the warmer day was down largely to impact of the sunshine, which was relatively unhindered by cloud- or fog-cover.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts the maximum temperature to continue its rise and touch 21°C between Sunday and Monday. However, the minimum temperature could drop below 5°C by Saturday, it added.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.3°C on Thursday – three degrees below normal, slightly warmer than 5.8°C on Wednesday.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said a weak western disturbance is expected to influence the region from Friday, but unlikely to bring rain.“The maximum is beginning to rise again and the upper-level fog has started to dissipate. Cold day conditions have largely abated in the region, but at the same time, colder winds are now blowing from the snow-clad mountains, which will lead to the minimum dropping further,” said Jenamani.The IMD classifies it as a “cold day” if the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below the normal mark, with the minimum also below the 10-degree mark. Only three spots in the city met this criteria on Thursday – Lodhi Road in New Delhi, Mungeshpur in north-west Delhi and Narela in north Delhi.Lodhi Road was Delhi’s coldest location with a maximum of 16.4°C – five degrees below normal mark.Forecasts for the week ahead also show Delhi is expected to record strong winds, ranging from 10-15 km/hr, with chances of only shallow fog formation in the early hours of the day. “Visibility will remain good during this period, with only some parts to see shallow fog in the early hours. Good winds will prevent fog formation,” a met official said.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘poor’ category, with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 262 as per Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4 pm bulletin. Agencies forecast the AQI to remain in a similar range in the next three days, as wind speeds remain high..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/warmer-day-for-delhi-as-capital-finally-gets-some-sunshine-101643308439824.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Disconnect domestic sewer connection attached to CETP line, Ludhiana MC told||Acting on a complaint against illegal attachment of municipal corporation’s (MC) domestic sewer with the dedicated sewer line of the Focal Point Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) in Vishwakarma colony of ward number 23, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has issued a notice to the civic body directing the authorities to immediately disconnect the sewer line and take action against the defaulters.In a letter dated January 24, it has further been stated that action will be taken against the MC as per the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, if it fails to disconnect the connection in three days. Further, the MC has also been restrained from any such action in the future.Earlier on January 20, the dyeing industry representatives stated that the sewer connection was attached to the directions of area councillor Sandeep Kumari’s husband, Gaurav Bhatti, despite objections raised by the industry. The industry anticipated loss to the CETP machinery due to the inflow of domestic sewer waste.A Focal Point special purpose vehicle’s (SPV) director Rahul Verma said,” The 40 mld Focal Point CETP has been established at Tajpur road at a cost of around ₹96 crore. The sewer connection was attached on the directions of the councillor’s husband and the MC has failed to act on our complaint even after a week. The machinery worth crores installed at the plant can be damaged and the COD level in the treated water has already increased due to the inflow of sewer waste in the plant which is meant to treat industrial waste.”“ MC officials have assured that they will disconnect the connection by Friday, but if they failed, we will be forced to file an FIR in the case. The industry has been accused of polluting the nullah by dumping untreated waste, but now when we have established the plant to remove the blot, the MC has started dumping waste in the dedicated sewer line of CETP,” said Verma.Despite attempts to reach MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh, he was not available for comments. Notably, the CETP established on Tajpur road had been in the pipeline since 2014 and was made operational in the first week of January. The plant has been established to stop the untreated waste of the dyeing industry from getting into the Buddha Nullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/disconnect-domestic-sewer-connection-attached-to-cetp-line-ludhiana-mc-told-101643307179352.html
28-01-2022||Delhi||Cinema hall, schools, markets: What's open, what's closed in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Thursday decided to lift the weekend curfew which was imposed in the national capital in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases. The odd-even system of opening non-essential shops has also been done away with. The latest order has been issued on Thursday night.Here are the details1. All government offices will function with officers of the level of Grade 1 and above to the extent of 100% strength. Other staff will attend the office up to 50% of the strength, while the remaining 50% will work from home. Essential departments will function at full strength.2. Shops and establishments dealing with non-essential goods and services in markets, market complexes and malls shall be allowed to open between 10am and 8pm without odd-even restrictions.3. Cinema halls/theatres/multiplexes shall be allowed up to 50% of the seating capacity, subject to strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.4. Restaurants shall be allowed up to 50% of the seating capacity from 8am to 10pm.5. Bars shall be allowed up to 50% of the seating capacity from 12 noon to 10pm.6. Marriage events shall be allowed up to 50% capacity of the venue with a ceiling of 200 persons. The halls should remain closed except for the purpose of marriages.7. Up to 100 persons are allowed in funeral-related gatherings.8. There shall be no weekend curfew, but the night curfew from 10pm to 5am every day will remain in force.Schools, educational institutes, gyms will remain closed as the order did not mention anything on these. Education minister Manish Sisodia had on Wednesday met a delegation of parents of children and agreed with their demand for reopening schools. He said he was of the opinion that schools should be resumed as this is now harming the children. Delhi on Thursday reported 4,291 fresh cases and records show it just took 10 days for the national capital for the daily cases to drop below the 10,000 mark.  Daily cases reached the peak on January 13 with 28,867 fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cinema-hall-schools-markets-what-s-open-what-s-closed-in-delhi-from-tomorrow-101643304733588.html
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||With cases on decline, Chandigarh relaxes Covid curbs||With the Covid-19 cases declining in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Thursday declared a host of relaxations, including the opening of educational institutions, gyms, health centres and Sukhna Lake.Also read: Covaxin, Covishield to be available in hospitals, clinics; apex body gives nodWith effect from February 1, schools will start functioning physically for Classes 10 to 12. All universities and colleges will also be allowed to open normally. Besides, public libraries will be open at 50% of their capacity.All students above 15 years will need to be vaccinated at least with the first dose while attending offline classes. All officials and students above 18 years should be fully vaccinated. A detailed order in this regard will be issued separately by the UT education secretary. Physical classes as city schools were suspended on January 11 after Covid cases started burgeoning in the city.Coaching institutions will be allowed to open at 50% capacity subject to the condition that all students from 15 to 18 years should have received at least a single dose of vaccine and students/staff above 18 years are fully vaccinated.Markets to be open till 10pmAll markets, including apni mandis, will be allowed to remain open till 10pm.All activities, including boating, at Sukhna Lake will be allowed to resume from 5am to 10pm. Shops at Sukhna Lake will be open subject to compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and proper sanitisation. The administration had closed the lake for public from January 2 onwards, allowing only walkers access for some hours in the morning and evening.Also, all gyms and health centres will be allowed to operate till 10pm at 50% of their capacity, subject to all staff and users being fully vaccinated. The UT administration had on January 6 decided to close all gyms amid the surge in Covid cases. The Tricity Gym Association had been demanding that gyms should be allowed to open with 50% capacity like restaurants, cinema halls and malls.Positivity rate sees declineThe decisions were taken in the administration’s Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit. The administrator expressed satisfaction over the decline in positivity rate and appreciated the health officials for being proactive in handling the situation.He also congratulated the administration for administering 100% second dose of vaccination to the city’s adult population. Notably, on January 6, when major restrictions were announced, the positivity rate was 14.4%. It had jumped to 23.24% on January 11, but stood at 15.5% on Thursday.Strict enforcement of Covid protocolPurohit directed police officials to ensure strict enforcement of Covid protocols at public places. He advised health officials to keep analysing small trends and surges, and keep taking strict and prompt containment action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-cases-on-decline-chandigarh-relaxes-covid-curbs-101643287736399.html
28-01-2022||Kolkata||Veteran singer Sandhya Mukherjee falls ill in Kolkata; rushed to hospital||KOLKATA: Legendary singer Sandhya Mukherjee, 90, who refused to accept the Padma Shri award on January 25, tested positive for Covid-19 at the state-run SSKM Hospital in Kolkata on Thursday afternoon, hours after she was rushed there with signs of lung infection and breathlessness. Doctors at SSKM hospital found that Mukherjee also has a serious heart problem that complicated her condition. Mukherjee suffered an injury on her waist a few days ago after a fall in her room, members of her family said. The veteran singer rarely interacted with outsiders but received many phone calls after the controversy over the Padma award. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who instructed the administration to take Mukherjee to SSKM Hospital through a green corridor around noon, said the government decided to shift her to Apollo Hospital in Kolkata. “Sandhya Di (elder sister) is in critical condition because of the heart problem. She also suffered an injury due to the fall. Since treatment for Covid-19 cannot be done at SSKM, we got in touch with Apollo Hospital and decided to shift her. She could have been taken to any of the other state hospitals in Kolkata. Her daughter was also ready for that but we decided to opt for Apollo,” the chief minister said after visiting Mukherjee.“Let’s all pray for her recovery. She is a national asset,” the chief minister added.Members of Mukherjee’s family said in the morning that she was running fever since Wednesday night and had signs of congestion.“She was feeling drowsy and had a breathing problem. Our family physician advised that she should be hospitalised,” a member of the family, who did not want to be named, said. Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, Sandhya Mukherjee and tabla maestro Anindya Chatterjee refused the Padma awards offered by the central government on the eve of Republic Day.The focus of most people was on the Centre’s decision to confer the Padma Shri award on 90-year-old singer whose illustrious career spans over 70 years. Sandhya Mukherjee, a student of Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, has sung thousands of songs for Indian cinema and her albums of modern, classical and semi-classical music. She received the national award in 1970 for play-back singing. Mukherjee’s relatives told the media that she expressed her refusal when a central government official called her up on Tuesday afternoon. She said accepting the Padma Shri, the lowest in the rank of the civilian awards, would be demeaning for her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/veteran-singer-sandhya-mukherjee-falls-ill-in-kolkata-rushed-to-hospital-101643282275279.html
