31-01-2022||Other||Post student violence: Now, more cops at two key police outposts in UP’s Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: After recent incident of violence near Prayag Railway Station during protests against alleged anomalies in Railway Recruitment Board’s NTPC examinations, police officials have decided to undertake major changes for effective policing and maintenance of law and order in areas where students reside in large numbers.“Number of policemen will be increased multiple times at police outposts in Salori, Baghada and other such areas,” SSP Ajay Kumar said. “Now, two police outposts Ishwar Sharan and Annie Beasant in Colonelganj area will have three sub inspectors and 20 constables each and will operate as police stations. Moreover, a proposal for a new police station in the areas with large student population will also be forwarded soon to the police headquarters,” the SSP added.Ishwar Sharan and Annie Beasant police outposts had a post of a sub inspector as in-charge and four police constables each since several decades. However, the number of population and students has increased in the area multiple times during last many years.It was almost impossible to control such large number of students with few policemen at the two outposts. Police was unaware of the protests launched by students against unemployment late night around ten days back and was seen helpless when youths came out in large numbers to protest against alleged anomalies in RRB examinations. After the protests, ADG (zone) Prem Prakash, IG (range) Rakesh Singh and SSP Ajay Kumar reviewed the security arrangements which revealed that lack of force resulted in poor handling of the situation during protests.On the instructions of senior officials, three sub inspectors and 20 constables have now been deployed at Ishwar Sharan and Annie Beasant police outposts.SSP said with the objective of maintaining peace and security, number of policemen at Colonelganj police station has been deputed on special duty. They will be deployed at different police outposts in the area as per requirements. Proposal for establishment of a new police station at Baghada where students reside in large numbers is also underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/post-student-violence-now-more-cops-at-two-key-police-outposts-in-up-s-prayagraj-101643653713594.html
31-01-2022||Other||Road accidents in UP: Mishaps tell a gory tale with 21,227 deaths, 24,897 injured in 2021||Brajendra K Parasharbkparasharlko@hindustantimes.comLucknow Despite all efforts to promote road safety, there is no reduction in the number of road accidents and deaths in Uttar Pradesh. In fact, the state has again reported a double-digit growth in terms of number of road crashes, deaths and persons injured in 2021.The transport department’s latest statistical report on road accidents in Uttar Pradesh reveals that an alarming number of persons, 21,227 to be precise, were killed and 24,897 injured in 37,729 cases of road accidents in the state between January 2021 and December 2021.Compared to 2020, there is an increase of 10.2% in the number of road mishaps, 10.9% in the number deaths and 11.1% in the number of people injured. According to the same report, some 19,149 people died and 22,410 were injured in 34,243 cases of road mishaps in UP in 2020.The report further shows that only 10 of the 75 districts registered a negative growth in the number of deaths caused by road crashes. For a change, the decline was reported to be sharp in Lucknow where the number of deaths declined from 483 in 2020 to 261 in 2021, the decrease being as high as 46%.Other nine districts showing negative growth are Banda (3.6%), Balia (-0.9%), Rampur (-0.8%), Bulandshahr (-2.4%), Hapur (-0.5%), Jaluan (-11.8%), Aligarh (-0.6%), Deoria (-8.8%) and Balrampur (-1.1%).However, all the remaining 65 districts registered positive growth and some of them were as high as more than 50% over the previous year. Among the districts where the increase was found to be very sharp and close to or above 50% were Hamirpur ( 62.7%), Sonbhadra (51%), Siddharthnagar (51%), Shrawasti (50%), Bhadohi (49.5%) and Chitrakoot (49.4%). In absolute terms, the highest number of deaths due to road accidents in 2021 were reported from Kanpur Nagar (598) followed by Agra (549), Prayagraj (535), Unnao (515), Aligarh (503) and Hardoi (502).“This year’s figures pertaining to road accidents and deaths are alarming considering the fact that the Central and the state governments are making big efforts to bring the growth in deaths to single digit,” a senior transport official said.The situation, he said was comparatively better in 2020 that saw 15.48% decline in number of deaths, and barring half a dozen districts, all other districts reported a decline from 2019. “However, the situation was better in 2020 largely because of the negligible or fewer number of vehicles on the roads due to the lockdown in the state in April and May,” the official pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/road-accidents-in-up-mishaps-tell-a-gory-tale-with-21-227-deaths-24-897-injured-in-2021-101643653594510.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Administrators to take over local bodies with March term-end||Mumbai: The five-year term of many elected bodies in the state, including the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expected to end in the second and third weeks of March, as a result of which administrators will take charge of at least eight municipal corporations and 25 district councils, for six to eight weeks, till the elections are held.The mayor and other office bearers will not be able to take any administrative or financial decisions once the tenure of elected body ends. The municipal commissioners will be vested with the power till fresh elections are held.The delay is due to the demarcation of boundaries where new wards have been added in these local bodies. The State Election Commission (SEC) announced the schedule for 14 municipal corporations to complete the process of forming new wards and demarcating boundaries on January 28; a schedule for a similar exercise in 27 district councils is imminent.Besides BMC, the municipal corporations of Thane, Pune, Ulhasnagar, Nagpur and Nashik are among the 14 bodies.“The schedule for the formation of wards has been announced for the corporations. Simultaneously we are expecting the delimitation of wards for district councils and panchayat samitis to be completed. Elections will be announced once all processes including publishing of the voters’ lists and drawing of lots for reservation are complete. We will have to take classes X and XII exams, local festivals and availability of manpower and security into account while holding the polls. We may consider holding the elections in rural and urban parts separately,” said Kiran Kurundkar, secretary SEC said.“After the finalisation of the wards, the draws for the reservation and publishing of electoral rolls may take another two to three weeks. Once it is completed by March-end, elections are expected to be held in April and May. The five-year terms of eight municipal corporations end between March 3 and 13 while the terms of 25 district councils end on March 20. This means administrators will be appointed to these bodies till the election process is complete,” an SEC official said.The process of finalisation of wards is expected to be completed by the second week of March. Electoral wards in urban or rural local bodies are increased due to an increase in the population of the entire city/district or a part of the city/district The state government projected a rise in the population in 10 years and accordingly chose to increase the number of wards in these corporations and district councils.The SEC, which conducts local body elections, will notify elections to 15 municipal corporations and 27 district councils in April, SEC officials said.A second official of the SEC said that they would have to take the Supreme Court’s decision on political reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates into consideration. The top court struck down OBC reservation in local body polls till the state conducts fresh empirical survey to ascertain the exact nature of the backwardness and determine the quantum of reservation accordingly.Polls to 15 civic bodies, 27 district councils, 280 panchayat samitis, 209 municipalities are due. Since more than 60% local bodies are facing the polls, these elections are being referred to as “mini assembly polls” as the performance of all political parties will be up for scrutiny.
31-01-2022||Lucknow||PM Modi mentions Sangam city girl’s postcard in ‘Mann Ki Baat’||A postcard sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by a schoolgirl of Sangam city has found a mention in his ‘ Mann Ki Baat’ programme on Sunday in its first episode of 2022. Reacting to over one crore postcards received from children from across India and abroad, the PM said, “These postcards provide a glimpse of the broad and comprehensive outlook of our generation for the country’s future.” While sharing views from select postcards, the PM specifically mentioned Navya Verma, a Class 8 student of Patanjali Rishikul, Prayagraj. Navya wrote: “Mera Bharat ka ek sapna hai, jahan 2047 mein sabhi ko samman purvak jeevan mile, jahan kisan samradh ho aur desh mein bhrastachar na ho. (I have a dream of India in 2047, where all citizens will lead honourable and peaceful lives, farmers would be prosperous, and the country would be corruption free).” More than 1.5 crore students from all CBSE schools, including Kendriya Vidyalayas, Navodaya Vidyalayas and various state education boards across the country and 250 CBSE schools in 26 countries abroad participated in this postcard writing campaign. Students had to write a postcard drawing the attention of the PM on any of the two topics: ‘Unsung Heroes of Freedom Struggle’ and ‘My Vision for India in 2047’. It was under this campaign that the postcard, written by Navya Verma, was selected among the 75 best ideas from across the country. Modi will felicitate and encourage these select children at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi, soon where Navya will get an opportunity to interact with him, shared Nityanand Singh, principal of Patanjali Rishikul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-mentions-sangam-city-girl-s-postcard-in-mann-ki-baat-101643652813997.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Four killed, 20 injured in road mishap in UP’s Gonda||In a tragic incident, four devotees, including a woman, died and nearly 20 others suffered serious injuries when the pickup van carrying them fell into a trench along the road on Tarabganj-Nawabganj road in Gonda district early of Monday. The van was converted into a two-storey using a wooden plank to accommodate more passengers. There were around 40 passengers in the ill-fated vehicle, police said. Expressing grief over the accident on his twitter handle, chief minister Yogi Adityanath assured all possible support to the aggrieved family members of the deceased and also those injured.Sansar Singh Rathi, circle officer (CO), Tarabganj, said the mishap occurred when the driver of the vehicle full of devotees going to Prayagraj from Bahraich lost control. “Four people died on the spot while the injured were rushed to hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-killed-20-injured-in-road-mishap-in-up-s-gonda-101643652812465.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Pvt schools to help admin increase poll percentage in UP capital||Private schools in Lucknow have joined hands with the district administration pledging their support to the ongoing voter awareness drive to ensure that polling percentage in the state capital crosses 90 per cent mark in the 2022 UP assembly election. In the previous assembly polls, the voting percentage in Lucknow remained between 55 and 57 per cent. In a meeting with district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Prakash on Monday, a delegation of Unaided Private Schools’ Association (UPSA), Uttar Pradesh, assured him that they will work for establishing a healthy democratic environment. In the meeting, it was resolved that schools will play an important role in increasing voting percentage in the state capital. In a press release, the Lucknow DM said it was heartening that private schools’ association had come forward to play a constructive role in taking voting percentage to cross 90%. He said the schools had pledged to support voter awareness drive by convincing students to motivate their family members and relatives to exercise their franchise in this election. “This time we are targeting the areas having apartments and multi-storeyed buildings where polling percentage generally remains low,” he added. “Our schools will now play an important role in the ongoing voter awareness drive of the district administration this time by encouraging children to motivate their parents and relatives so that voting percentage goes beyond 90%,” said Jagdish Gandhi, founder manager, City Montessori School, Lucknow.“After a discussion among the managers of private schools, it was unanimously decided that through our students, their parents and people above 18 years of age would be motivated to vote. The work of motivating others to increase voting will be done through children,” said Mala Mehra, principal, Hoerner College and secretary, Unaided Private Schools’ Association.In a press release, Aashrita Dass, principal, La Martiniere Girls’ College, Lucknow, was quoted as saying that higher the voting percentage, the stronger the government will be. “Academicians have put forth their views and everyone believes that we all can play an important role in voting,” said Brajendra Singh, senior vice president, Pioneer Montessori School, and Rajiv Tuli, managing director, Modern Academy and vice president, UPSA, according to the press release.“In the upcoming elections, we promise the district administration to spread maximum awareness and ensure success of these elections through our students,” Jeevan Khanna, director, Vardan International Academy was quoted as saying in the press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pvt-schools-to-help-admin-increase-poll-percentage-in-up-capital-101643652452865.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Time to defeat those who opposed Covid vaccine: UP CM Yogi||Taking a dig at the Samajwadi Party (SP) ahead of UP assembly polls, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the time had come to ensure that those who played with the lives of the common man during the pandemic by spreading misinformation about life saving Covid vaccines lose deposits. He also said that the previous regime promoted riots and their “topi” (cap) was stained with the blood of innocent youths and farmers killed during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. “Jo log vaccine ka virodh kar rahe the, vaccine ke naam par gumrah kar rahe the, unki jamanat zabt karne ka samay aa gaya hai” (Time has come to ensure that those who were opposing and spreading misinformation about the Covid vaccine lose their deposits),” he said while addressing a gathering in Anwalkheda area in Etmadpur assembly segment of Agra district a couple of hours after SP president Akhilesh Yadav filed his nomination papers from Karhal seat of Mainpuri. Yogi was in Agra for a daylong campaign at three rural assembly seats of Agra district and addressed gathering in Kirawali in Fatehpur Sikri assembly seat followed by a speech at Shamshabad in Fatehabad assembly segment before he concluded after addressing another gathering at Anwalkheda in Etmadpur assembly segment. “The previous SP regime wanted to build a museum in the name of Aurangzeb in Agra but we said a museum can only be built in Chhatrapati Shivaji’s name. Today, the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh is building a museum in Shivaji’s name,” the CM said.“I bow before the land of Fatehpur Sikri in Agra where Gokula Jat was born and gave a tough fight to Mughal ruler Aurangzeb who was a foreign invader. During the SP rule, no respect given to Gokula Jat but the BJP gave full respect and declared a ‘chowk’ and road after him,” Yogi said in Sikri where Jat community is dominant. “In SP regime, there was a riot every third day but now no riots take place as the BJP took tough stand and rioters are now running away. It is only the BJP which is working for villages. See what type of candidates are given tickets by the SP. Their cap is stained with the blood of innocent youths and farmers killed during Muzaffarnagar riots. They are also guilty of firing on ‘kar sevaks’,” said the CM who added that both the SP and the Bahujan Samaj Party harmed Uttar Pradesh. Agra district has nine assembly seats. The BJP had won all these seats in the 2017 assembly polls. Moreover, Yogi applauded the Covid management under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. “The double engine government of the BJP was serving the masses during the corona period but there was none from the SP, the BSP and the Congress to help them as they sat back home when the masses were having a tough time. How can one be friend when one is not there in need? The SP and the BSP are opportunists and need to be taught a lesson,” the CM said.“Development for SP meant for development of Saifai but the BJP gave employment to the youth while ‘Chacha’ and ‘Bhatija’ of the Samajwadi Party (an indirect reference to Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal Yadav) used to move out to make earnings in the name of jobs, transfers and postings from the masses,” Yogi added. “One can find out that the Samajwadi Party is giving tickets to criminals, mafias and those causing riots but they should understand that after the BJP comes to power again in UP on March 10, the bulldozer against mafia will begin to move again,” he said. Addressing a gathering in Shamshabad (Fatehabad assembly seat), Yogi said the opportunist leaders of the opposition parties did not have any sensitivity towards farmers, women or the youth. “Naam Samajwadi, sonch parivarwaadi, kaam daanga wadi” (Their name is Samajwadi but they worked for their family and caused riots),” the CM said. “More than 99 % have got their first dose of Covid vaccine and they have decided to throw away those who were opposing and spreading misinformation against vaccine. The double engine BJP government gave double dose of ration to the poor. In previous regimes, this ration used to go to mafias when there was rule of ‘chacha bhatija’ and the stomach of the elephant of ‘Behanji’’s party (BSP) is so big that ration of all poor went into it,” Yogi said. “The Samajwadi Party’s development was confined to boundary wall of kabristan (graveyard) but the BJP used the same money in the development of ‘teerth’ and ‘dham’ (pilgrimage)’,” CM said.
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Attack on realtor: NBW against ex-MP Atiq’s son, four others in Prayagraj||The district court of Prayagraj on Monday issued a non- bailable warrant (NBW) against former MP Atiq Ahmad’s son Ali and four others in connection with the attack on a property dealer Zeeshan aka Janu on December 31 last year. Two people have been arrested in this connection while Ali and others are still on the run. Station house officer (SHO), Kareli police station, Anurag Sharma said an NBW was issued by the district court against Ali, Asaad, Arif Kachholi, Aman and Kullu. “The accused are evading arrest in connection with the assault on one Zeeshan. Further action will now be taken on instructions of the court,” he added. Zeeshan, who is Atiq’s relative, had alleged that he was at his farmhouse in Ainuddinpur area of Kareli when Ali and others assaulted him and his kin. Zeeshan fled the spot when they allegedly opened fire on him. Police reached the scene and arrested Ali’s aide Saif and another person while others fled. Meanwhile, Atiq’s wife Shaista Parveen has alleged that police were unnecessary harassing her family. She alleged that the police entered her house at Chakia and misbehaved with women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/attack-on-realtor-nbw-against-ex-mp-atiq-s-son-four-others-in-prayagraj-101643651552148.html
31-01-2022||Patna||Group of 7 including 2 women pose as income tax officials, rob Bihar contractor||PATNA: A group of seven including two women on Monday entered a sand contractor’s house in eastern Bihar’s Lakhisarai district posing as income tax officials and robbed the family of ₹35 lakh including ₹25 lakh in cash, police said.Police said the group reached Sanjay Kumar Singh’s house in a white sports utility vehicle at about 1.15pm when the contractor’s mother, wife and children were at home. They first cordoned off the three storey house. According to CCTV footage seized by the police, one of them stood guard at the entrance while the others went in.The team had fake identity cards hanging around their necks, and their masks for Covid-19 were in place. Once inside, they told the family that they were going to seize the family’s firearm. Soon after, the team ‘seized’ the mobile phones and locked the children in a room.The women were forced to sit in another room and told to handover the key to the iron almirah with a built-in safe. They couldn’t however, open the safe and ultimately had to break it open to access the cash and jewellery.After the group left, Singh’s wife called her husband and file a complaint with the police.“The police are searching for the crooks based on the CCTV footage”, said Lakhisarai SP Sushil Kumar. 
31-01-2022||Mumbai||BJP leaders write letters to Rashmi Thackeray and Sonia Gandhi||Mumbai: Former UP governor Ram Naik and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Chandrashekhar Bawankule have written separate letters to Saamana editor Rashmi Thackeray and Congress president Sonia Gandhi over recent comments made by their party leaders.While Naik has complained about Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana’s executive editor Sanjay Raut for his ‘wrong’ references, Bawankule has demanded removal of Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole from the post for his derogatory remarks on PM.Naik, who is also the former MP from Mumbai, has said that the references given by Raut in his column on January 30, related to the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance and the election fought by them were wrong.“Raut says that Sena’s Wamanrao Mahadik was elected from Parel to the legislative assembly in 1970 in a bypoll after the killing of the communist MLA Krishna Desai. He has said that the party’s Pramod Nawalkar and Chhagan Bhujbal too were elected to the lower house from Girgaum and Mazgaon respectively. In fact, Mahadik was supported by Bharatiya Jana Sangh, (the political arm of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) and many Sangh leaders campaigned for him. In the 1972-assembly election there was an understanding between Sangh and Shiv Sena on two seats- Girgaum and Malabar Hill. Both the parties supported each other, though Jan Sangh’s Jaywantben Mehta could not win from Malabar Hill. Sena’s Nawalkar won from Girgaum. It is true that Bhujbal won the Assembly election in 1985 from Mazgaon, but as an independent,” wrote Naik.Naik has also rebutted Raut’s claim that Shiv Sena did not fight Uttar Pradesh elections in 1993 immediately after the demolition of the Babri Masjid on its symbol. “Raut has said that the 180 Sena candidates who lost their deposits were not the official candidates of the party and they did not fight on the party symbol. The claim is a half-truth as Sena could not get the symbol as it was not an authorised party (in UP) in that election held after Babri demolition. Raut takes credit for Bhujbal’s victory, but misleads people saying the UP polls were not fought on the party symbol. I urge you to publish my letter in Saamana to ensure that the facts are presented before the readers,” he summed up.Raut in his column on Sunday had said that though Sena candidates lost their deposits they neither had contested on the party symbol nor any key party leader, including the then party chief Bal Thackeray, campaigned for them. Raut has written this in response to leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis’s criticism that the Sena never had presence at national level.In another letter, former power minister and BJP’s OBC face Chandrashekhar Bawankule has written a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi demanding Maharashtra congress chief Nana Patole’s ouster from the post. “Patole has been continuously disturbing social peace by his anti-social rhetoric. He made controversial statements against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and now more recently, he termed Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination as ‘Vadh’, which is the term used for the killing of bad elements. By his statements Patole has been creating unrest in the society leading to intense reaction from the people. We urge you to take a strict action against him by removing him from the post,” the letter dated January 31 has stated.Patole, in his speech on Sunday mentioned assassination of Gandhi as Vadh. Recently, he had said that he can hit or abuse Modi. Last week again he also passed derogatory remarks against Modi. Later he went on clarifying that he was referring to a local goon by the name Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-leaders-write-letters-to-rashmi-thackeray-and-sonia-gandhi-101643651011977.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Efforts begin to set up Sainik School in Prayagraj||Students who aspire to pursue their studies in a Sainik School but were unable to do so in absence of any such school in Prayagraj will soon be able to fulfil their wishes. The process for opening a Sainik School in Sangam city has begun, informed state education department officials. In last year’s budget, the central government, in association with the Sainik Schools Society, had approved a plan to open 100 new Sainik Schools in the country against just 33 running in India. These news schools are to be opened under the public-private partnership (PPP) model with an aim to develop the ethos of national spirit, indomitable courage, an unfailing commitment to values of respect for country and society, imbibe the importance of physical fitness and embody the national pride in students, while providing quality educational environment by involving the government/private schools to partner in establishing and aligning their system in line with Sainik Schools’ eco-system. Prayagraj district school inspector of schools (DIoS) RN Vishwakarma, said, “Those, be it organisations or investors, who are interested in opening these schools can visit https:// sainikschool.ncog.gov.in and apply.” Under the scheme, government-aided schools such as Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Navodaya Vidyalaya Sangathan, autonomous schools, schools being directly run by the Ministry of Defence and Railways, public sector schools and private schools can apply. As per the plan, around 5,000 students can be enrolled in the schools in the 2022-23 session. The schools will start taking admission from class 6. These schools will function like any other 33 Sainik Schools spread across the country. These schools will also get financial support from the government in the form of fees, training grants etc. In return, the government will get the benefit of the already existing infrastructure in reputed private and government schools. The initiative is expected to meet the growing demand for Sainik Schools. These Sainik Schools will also have the option to allow day scholars with early morning to late evenings timings so that day scholars can partake in full-day academic and extra-curricular activities. Teachers of the proposed Sainik School will be provided with teachers’ training under the aegis of Sainik Schools Society. Each Sainik School will be required to excel in an identified sport in accordance with a system of ‘One School– One Sport’ of the ministry of sports and youth affairs. Moreover, NCC vacancies will be allotted based on the existing policy, added officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/efforts-begin-to-set-up-sainik-school-in-prayagraj-101643649751970.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||LMC warns Ecogreen for not depositing service charges||Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has warned Ecogreen Energy Private Limited, a company responsible for door-to-door waste collection, for not paying the service charges collected from the residents for the last few months. According to LMC officials, the company has not deposited the money collected as user charges into its account. The municipal commissioner, in the last meeting with the officials of the company, had warned of strict action if they fail to deposit the money in an LMC account. Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “There have been several complaints against the Ecogreen workers for collection of service charges but not giving any receipt against the payment. I have already recommended strict action against anyone indulging in taking money without receipts.” Last year, in September, a fine of ₹2.2 crore was imposed on Ecogreen Energy by LMC for breach of contract and its failure to operate the solid waste treatment plant at its full capacity, causing an environmental hazard. During the inspection, the LMC officials found tons of waste was lying untreated at the Shivri Treatment plant. Earlier too, during the surprise inspection of the plant, not all the machines were found to be in working condition. The company officials were warned of strict action several times, but they chose not to improve their functioning, Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lmc-warns-ecogreen-for-not-depositing-service-charges-101643649152007.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||HC calls for report on anda cells in state prisons||Mumbai A convict, even if a hardened criminal, needs to be treated humanely and cannot be put in anda cells on the whims and fancies of the prison authorities, Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) observed on Monday.The HC made the observation while hearing a petition filed by the kin of an inmate, who was kept in an anda cell. The kin had approached HC, complaining that the inmate suffered from severe mental health issues due to solitary confinement and sought his transfer to regular barracks.On January 28, the HC had directed shifting of the inmate to the barracks and sought a report on his mental health and medical condition.The division bench of justice V K Jadhav and justice Sandipkumar More, while hearing the petition of Ruheena Shaikh, was informed by advocate Rupesh Jaiswal that his client was the wife of Imran Shaikh, a convict who was serving his sentence in the Aurangabad Central Prison. Jaiswal submitted that Imran had been kept in the anda cell for two years and four months for breaking prison rules since October 2019.During the hearing on January 24, the bench was informed that in November 2021, when Ruheena visited her husband, she realised that his mental health was deteriorating and he was not able to understand what she was saying. This prompted her to write to the jail authorities in December 2021, requesting them to shift her husband out of solitary confinement. However, she did not get any response and eventually approached the HC. As she was unable to afford a lawyer, the court directed the district legal service authorities to provide her a counsel and advocate Jaiswal was appointed to represent her.In her petition, Ruheena attached a letter written by her husband to the jail superintendent in September 2021, wherein he had stated that he was suffering from hallucinations and had lost all sense of feeling and communication with other humans due to the solitary confinement. The petition stated that though Imran was accused of breaking prison rules he was not given an opportunity to disprove it as well.The court had then directed the transfer of Imran to the barracks and also sought a medical report of Imran’s mental health. The bench had also asked the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) to visit the anda cell and to get details including photographs of the same and submit a report on the living conditions therein on January 31.When the matter was heard on Monday, the bench perused the medical report and the report submitted by the CJM and observed, “He may be a hardened criminal, but what is expected is that he is treated as a human and not given inhuman treatment. Though medical examination report is not very serious, this could result into a psychological problem, there may be a serious impact if this is left to whims and fancies of the authorities.”The court sought the records and the reasons for putting Imran in the anda cell and whether proper procedure was followed while transferring him there and also asked the state to submit details on the procedures for putting an inmate in an anda cell.The court further sought to know about the number of anda cells in state prisons and the duration for which an inmate could be kept there as per the prison manual. The court also sought details about the number of inmates put in anda cells over the past two years.The court then sought to know whether putting an inmate in an anda cell was akin to solitary confinement and directed the state/prison authorities to go through the report of the CJM and file an affidavit in reply and also explain the procedure for putting an inmate in an anda cell. The bench also asked the petitioner to go through the CJM and medical report and make submissions accordingly and posted a hearing of the petition after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-calls-for-report-on-anda-cells-in-state-prisons-101643649093086.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Driver hired to help Pune resident relocate flees with goods; arrested||PUNE Abhinav Verma (30) - who was relocating from Pune to Mumbai lost his belongings when a 27-year-old vehicle driver he had hired to help him move fled enroute to Mumbai.The complainant is a native of Delhi and works at a hotel reservation aggregator platform, according to police. The driver, identified as Ashwin Raghunath Raikar, 27, a resident of Dhayarigaon area of Pune, has been arrested by the Pune police. The police have recovered the vehicle and are on the lookout for an accomplice. Raikar has been remanded to police custody till February 4.“If you search for the names of the companies, which are run by the same set of people, there are several such complaints against them. Because of multiple bad reviews against one name, they changed their names. We are looking for two more people,” said police sub- inspector Ashwini Bhosale of Mundhwa police station, who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Mundhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/driver-hired-to-help-pune-resident-relocate-flees-with-goods-arrested-101643648911516.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||Covid-19: With 2,779 new cases, Delhi's positivity rate drops to 6.20%||Delhi on Monday continued a declining streak in its fresh Covid-19 tally with the capital recording 2,779 new cases of the coronavirus disease, the health bulletin data showed. At least 38 people succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours.The positivity rate in the national capital fell to 6.20 per cent, while 5,502 people recovered in the span of a day.The number of daily cases in Delhi has been falling rapidly since January 13, when it had touched a record high of 28,867 infections. Active cases in the capital now stand at 18,729.A total of 44,847 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 40,476 RT-PCR tests.Meanwhile, the number of containment zones in Delhi currently stands at 38,046.The weekend curfew and the odd-even system of opening non-essential shops was lifted by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday, in view of the improving pandemic situation. Restaurants, bars, cinema halls and theatres were also allowed to reopen with 50 per cent capacity.Meanwhile, with the third wave of pandemic receding, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the resumption of daily domestic flights to Kolkata from Delhi and Mumbai, earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-with-2-779-new-cases-delhi-s-positivity-rate-drops-to-620-101643645214872.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Name Yogi doesn’t make one a saint: Azad takes a jibe at CM||The Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who looks all set to contest against Yogi Adityanath from Gorakhpur urban seat in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, on Sunday, attacked the UP CM saying, “Someone who goes by the name Yogi does not make him a saint.”Azad, who was addressing a press conference, also hoped that people of Gorakhpur would bless him with their votes.When asked about various social media memes which show him as demon king Ravana, who is being killed by Yogi (Adityanath) as Lord Rama, Azad said, “Deprived have always been killed whenever they raise their voice for equality and justice. Dalits and the socially oppressed are killed. The name of Ravana has been given to me by the media. Names do not matter, as someone who goes by the name Yogi does not make him a saint. A person named Yogi could be a Dhongi, Hitler or even a dictator. My name is the same as that of great freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad. This is not a battle of the name rather work. Those who have changed names are going to face defeat.” On being asked about his decision to contest from Gorakhpur, he said, “This is my decision. I believe that people of Gorakhpur will shower their blessing on me. They know that this Ravana is fighting for youngsters, Dalits, elderly, women and farmers, who feel cheated by this government. Azad also commented on the failure of his party to ally with Samajwadi Party (SP). “I tried my best for the alliance, but they (SP) did not want the welfare of the Dalits. They know well if they come to power, Chandrashekhar will not sit silently on the issues of Dalits, deprived, and women. We are the people who walk on the path of equality and justice shown by Kanshi Ram ji.” Azad also raised the issue of a Dalit student, who last year was found murdered on Gorakhpur university campus and whose family had alleged that the girl was raped and murdered. “Her family members still await justice,” Azad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/name-yogi-doesn-t-make-one-a-saint-azad-takes-a-jibe-at-cm-101643648671404.html
31-01-2022||Other||Farmers observe ‘betrayal day’ in west UP||Farmers in west Uttar Pradesh observed “betrayal day” on Monday. They accused the BJP government of “vishwasghaat” (betrayal) and claimed it didn’t fulfill promises made to them for ending 13-month-long farmers’ protest.They staged protests at the district and tehsil headquarters across the region under the aegis of Bhartiya Kisan Union, BKU (Asli) and other farmer organisations and handed over a memorandum to the district officials, addressed to the President of India.“Vishwasghaat Diwas was observed as per the guidelines of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Farmers gathered outside the offices of district magistrates and sub divisional magistrates and staged protests at Sadar, Khatauli, Meerut, Bulandshahar, Hapur, Amroha, Bagpat, Shamli and other tehsils and district headquarters,” BKU’s media incharge Dharmendra Malik said.BKU (Asli) president Harpal Singh Bilari said that farmers turned up in large numbers and raised slogans against the government.In the memorandum addressed to the President of India, the farmer organisations have said that the SKM decided to end protests at Delhi borders after agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal gave written assurance on some issues on December 9.“Farmers are pained to share that they were cheated again as government didn’t fulfill any promise made in the letter and this has compelled farmers to observe ‘Vishwasghaat Diwas’.The assurance of withdrawal of cases registered during movement has not been fulfilled and farmers are still receiving summons. Haryana and UP governments agreed to give compensation to families of farmers who died during the movement but nothing happened in this direction,” the memorandum read.The farmer organisations have also stated in the memorandum that along with assuring that a committee would be set up on the issue of MSP but that hasn’t been done as yet.“Farmers were mowed down in Lakhimpur Khiri and main conspirator of the incident Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni is still in union ministry and this is against Constitutional and political ethics. It is like rubbing salt in wounds of farmers. Also, the UP police were arresting farmers named in the incident and was sending them to jail,” the memorandum read. The farmers have threatened that the movement would be re started if the government fails to fulfill its promise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-observe-betrayal-day-in-west-up-101643648491969.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||CBI arrests IAS officer in Punjab in ₹2-lakh bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation(CBI) on Monday arrested senior Indian administrative service(IAS) officer Paramjit Singh, posted as the Director of Punjab Roadways, in Chandigarh for allegedly taking a ₹2 lakh bribe for recommending the name of an officer for promotion, officials said.The CBI had carried out a raid when Singh, who was elevated to IAS after promotion from state civil services, was allegedly receiving the bribe money for recommending the officer's name to Punjab's transport department principal secretary for promotion, they said.The person from whom Singh had allegedly demanded the bribe approached the CBI with a complaint, they said."It was alleged that the complainant was due for promotion to the rank of General Manager, for which a DPC was constituted in January, 2022 and the Director (Singh) was part of the said DPC (Departmental Promotion Committee)."It was further alleged that the accused demanded bribe of ₹5 lakh from the complainant for recommending his name to Principal Secretary, Transport, Government of Punjab, for promotion to the rank of General Manager,” CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said.It was also alleged that the bribe amount was negotiated and the accused settled for ₹2 lakh, he said."The said Director (Singh), Punjab Roadways, Chandigarh allegedly threatened the complainant to bear the consequences in case the said bribe amount was not paid to him," Joshi said.After getting a complaint and preliminary verification, the CBI laid a trap at the location where the alleged bribe money was to be paid, Joshi said.The team raided the location after getting the signal and caught Singh while allegedly accepting ₹2 lakh, the officials said.“Searches were conducted today on the premises of the accused in Chandigarh and Mohali,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-arrests-ias-officer-in-punjab-in-rs-2-lakh-bribery-case-101643648011148.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Pune contractor booked for death of teen sewage pump operator||PUNE A labour contractor, unidentified for now, has been booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for causing the death of a teenager who worked as a sewage-filter pump operator in Chakan. The deceased, identified as Pawan Praveen Jamdade, 17, a resident of, and housekeeping employee at Puranik Society in Mhalunge chowki, Mulshi drowned on January 28.After having left home to operate the drainage pump on January 28, Jamdade was found floating dead in the sewage the next afternoon. There were no safety precautions like a safety wall near the pump. The police suspect that he slipped while operating the pump and fell into the water.“There was supposed to be a wall or a lid atop the tank in which the water collected. However, both were missing. His job was turning it on and off and watering the plants. We are yet to arrest the contractor,” said sub-inspector Yashwant Salunkhe of Hinjewadi police station, who is investigating the case.The boy’s mother Radhika Jamdade, 38, who works for the housekeeping in the building, lodged a missing person’s complaint at Hinjewadi police station on January 29. The police found his body floating in the drainage water.A case under section 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified labour contractor at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-contractor-booked-for-death-of-teen-sewage-pump-operator-101643648311381.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Gajanan Marne gang member arrested for possession of firearm||PUNE A member of the Gajanan Marne gang was arrested in possession of a domestic- made illegal weapon one month after he was released from jail in a 2014 murder case. The man has been identified as Dnyaneshwar Pandurang Taware, 31, a resident of Jambli in Sangrun area of Haveli. He was arrested by a team led by senior police inspector Shailesh Sankhe of Unit 1 of the Pune crime branch. Taware was Identified and booked along with six-seven others for shooting dead a man named Pappu Taware, resident of Jambhaligaon in Haveli. While all the others in the case were granted bail Taware was not. Since his arrest eight years ago he was lodged in the Yerawada Central Jail until December 25, 2021, when he was acquitted in the case and released. “As per information received on January 29, we set a trap in the in Pasodi Dhayari area and found him in an open plot. Upon checking him he was found with a firearm on the waistbelt of his pants worth ₹62,000 and two rounds loaded in it,” read a statement form Unit one of Pune city crime branch. The man told the police that he possess the firearm for self-defence as he feared that the supporters of the man he was accused of murdering would find him and kill him. The man who was killed was a known criminal whose murder was committed at a time when a gang war was raging in Pune. A case under sections three (25) of arms act along with 37 (one) with 135 of Maharashtra police act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gajanan-marne-gang-member-arrested-for-possession-of-firearm-101643648011664.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Min temp crosses 10 deg C in Pune on Monday||PUNE After six days, the minimum temperature in Pune rose to cross 10 degrees Celsius on Monday morning. The minimum temperature at Shivajinagar, which covers a major portion of Pune city, was recorded at 10.3 degrees Celsius, while for Lohegaon and Pashan the minimum temperature was 13.6 and 12.6 degrees Celsius, respectively, according to the India Meteorological Department. The maximum temperature, however, crossed 30 degrees Celsius for the second consecutive day on Monday. Shivajinagar, Lohegaon and Pashan observatories recorded 32.8 deg C, 33.1 deg C and 30.1 deg C, respectively. According to IMD, northerly winds have been penetrating parts of Maharashtra for the past week and this is likely to continue, met officials said. The northerly wind pattern is taking a turn towards the east as a result of an anticyclonic circulation at the lower atmospheric level. A cumulative effect of these condition would result in the minimum temperatures increasing gradually in the days to come. The weather is likely to remain dry till the end of January. The city’s minimum temperature is forecast to hover between 10-12 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature iis forecast to be around 28-29 degrees Celsius for the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/min-temp-crosses-10-deg-c-in-pune-on-monday-101643647771539.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Last date for Haj online application extended till Feb 15||Haj Committee of India has extended the last date of filling the online application forms from January 31 to February 15.This time, there was a window of three months for filing online Haj applications, but despite this, few people have applied for the pilgrimage, a committee member said.Haj Committee, chief executive officer Yakub Shekhawat said, “This year, fewer forms have been filled, that’s why the last date has been extended. Till now, a little more than 78,000 people from across the country have applied for Haj.”He said that in view of the low count, the committee has extended the last date of filling the applications till February 15. In Uttar Pradesh, only 7,182 people have filled the form, with a maximum of 478 people from Moradabad.As many as 433 have filled applications from Lucknow, and in Rae Bareli, 316 people have filled the form. No application has been received from Chitrakoot and Mainpuri, while only five people have applied for Haj from Lalitpur,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/last-date-for-haj-online-application-extended-till-feb-15-101643647598963.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Pune district reports 3,661 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, no deaths||PUNE On Monday, Pune district reported 3,661 new Covid-19 cases and no deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.40 million of which 1.32 million have recovered, 20,324 is the death toll and 62,365 are active cases. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 693 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 415,865. The death toll stands at 7,072. Pune city reported 2,094 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 657,113. The death toll stands at 9,349. PCMC reported 874 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 336,948, with the death toll at 3,553. Pune district, as per the Cowin dashboard as of Monday, saw a total of 16.63 million vaccine doses administered, of which 9.38 million are first doses, 7.10 million are second doses and 1,38,877 are precautionary doses. A total of 618 sites saw vaccinations of which 468 are government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-3-661-new-covid-19-cases-on-monday-no-deaths-101643647597724.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Railways to pilot new signalling system between CSMT-Panvel||Mumbai: In order to increase the frequency of local trains, the Railways plans to introduce Communication-Based Train Control (CBTC) system on a pilot basis between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Panvel. The groundwork of the first driverless local trains advanced signalling system is expected to begin in 2023.After a successful pilot, Railways is likely to introduce CBDT between CSMT-Kalyan and Churchgate-Virar. Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC), which will oversee the implementation of the system, is in the final process of floating tender for the project.“The project will be implemented first on the Harbour Line, followed by Central Railway mainline and Western Railway. We are at an advanced stage of processing the tender for the CBTC project,” said Ravi Agarwal, chairman and managing director, MRVC.Once the tender is floated, it would take six to eight months for MRVC to award the tender and the work will begin after that.“After studying different suburban railway line patterns, we have finalized to introduce it on the harbour railway first,” said a senior MRVC official.The driverless system enables signals to be placed inside the motorman cabin. CBTC does not require physical signals to be placed across the railway tracks, helping reduce the distance of trains between two signals and accommodate more trains.Though the system can be operated driverless, railway authorities said that the trains will continue to be operated by motormen. “A motorman will be able to supervise and direct controls as there are trespassing, multiple convergence and crossings along the suburban railway tracks. If the trains are operated without motormen, then they would halt multiple times due to the brake system installed in it. In future, the system can operate without a motorman,” added the senior MRVC official.CBTC is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) 3 A, which got approval in 2019 and will cost ₹5,928 crore. The system will help increase the frequency of local trains operating every hour from the present 16 to 24. It will also reduce the headway between the trains from four minutes to two and half minutes.CBTC system is presently used in the operation of trains in Spain, London and metro services in India.According to a study conducted by the MRVC on the expansion of the suburban railway system, CBTC will create more than 50 percent extra capacity for train operations.The study states that after Harbour Railway, the CBTC system will be introduced on slow lines on the Western Railway and then the Central Railway. It also suggested that Central and Western railways finalise fifth and sixth railway line alignment (usually used to operate fast railway lines) up to Kalyan and Virar, respectively, to implement CBTC on the fast railway corridor with trains equipped with automatic closing doors and air-conditioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-to-pilot-new-signalling-system-between-csmtpanvel-101643647595820.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Autorickshaw meter calibration deadline extended till February 28||PUNE The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has once again extended the deadline for the autorickshaw calibration till February 28. Earlier the deadline was January 31, however, as many auto drivers are yet to do the calibration work, the extension has been given by RTO. After the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) of Pune division approved revised rates for autos in Pune region, the new fares for first 1.5 km now auto fares would be ₹21. In order to charge these fares, it is necessary to do the meter calibration work and passing from the Pune RTO for every auto driver. Out of the 72,000 registered autos in Pune, meter calibration of 50,000 autos is completed. “There are still many auto drivers who have not done the meter calibration work and so we have decided to extend the deadline till February 28,” said Ajit Shinde, Pune regional transport officer. As per the information given by the Pune RTO, in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Baramati jurisdictions, the revised rates of 25 per cent additional charges will be applicable for fares between midnight to morning 5am. Apart from these three jurisdictions, additional 40 per cent charges will be applicable during night hours for the rest of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/autorickshaw-meter-calibration-deadline-extended-till-february-28-101643647355722.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Pune ZP launches app as facilitator between donors and govt projects||PUNE: A new app named ‘MahaAnusha’ that the Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has come up with that serves as a facilitator between donors and government projects, was launched on a pilot basis by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. If successful, the same can be implemented in other districts and municipal corporations, officials said.The Pune ZP will serve as an integrated corporate social responsibility (CSR) matchmaking platform for donors/CSR foundations, funding agencies, NGOs and citizens. The Pune ZP has partnered with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for the same, said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune ZP.Prasad said, “The concept has earlier been introduced by the UNDP in Karnataka by the name ‘Akansha’. This dashboard will give real time access to donors, civil society and the district administration to monitor and implement projects in a collaborative manner to maximise available financial and technical resources and minimise duplication.”Prasad further said that according to the national CSR portal, ministry of corporate affairs, Maharashtra has the highest share of CSR expenditure among all the states at Rs2,846 crore (14%) which is spent on various CSR initiatives. Maharashtra is one the leading states in terms of CSR expenditure with over Rs2,846 crore spent on various development projects, and growing at an average of 15% annually. Most of the CSR spend is across the education, rural development and healthcare categories. In the last two years of Covid-19, the Pune ZP has received more than Rs52 crore in donations most of which have been distributed in an uneven manner. Prasad said, “To align this CSR spend with state governments projects and leverage CSR as a gap fund for Pune, it is envisioned that the ‘MahaAnushaa’ platform will be piloted in Pune. Pune is the hub for the manufacturing and information technology sectors and many companies are headquartered in Hinjewadi, Kharadi, Chakan and other MIDC areas. The Pune ZP intends to tie up with all industrial associations to promote this platform for CSR projects. Based on the gap analysis carried out by various departments of the ZP, projects in health and education such as school and anganwadi upgradation will be uploaded on the portal on priority. During the Covid pandemic, the Pune ZP has efficiently mobilised CSR from more than 65 corporates amounting to ₹52 crore for various projects. We hope that with this new app, we will be able to collect and coordinate more funds which can be used to divert funds for projects that really need them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zp-launches-app-as-facilitator-between-donors-and-govt-projects-101643647291163.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Kanpur E-bus accident: Driver was drunk, charged with murder||The driver of the e-bus was drunk while on duty and lost control over the vehicle when it was on a descent, the police officers, who are privy to details of the interrogation, claimed.Driver Satyendra Singh has confessed that he was driving under the influence of liquor. He had consumed in good quantity when he took over the shift, the police officials added.Singh was arrested on Monday noon, hours after his bus trampled six people to death and left nearly 12 others injured in Tat Mill area.He was interrogated at the Rail Bazar police station and will be produced before the court on Tuesday morning. The police have charged the driver with murder and attempt to murder in an FIR lodged with the Rail Bazar police, said Anand Prakash Tiwari, additional commissioner of police (crime).“Based on the evidence and the eyewitness account, we have made it a case of murder. In addition, we have received multiple complaints. The police are investigating the case, and investigation will involve scientific methods to build a strong case,” he said.The E-bus was headed towards Tat Mill from Ghanta Ghar late Sunday night. The driver told the police that on Harrisgunj railway over bridge, he hit a rickshaw, following which the bus jumped the divider. Thereafter, he lost control of the bus. The vehicle could only come to stop after it had hit 17 vehicles and mowed down a number of people.Police said six people were killed, and 12 were critically wounded. The injured have been admitted to LLR hospital and a private hospital.An eyewitness Shailendra Shukla, said, “I have never seen such a horrific scene. People were lying everywhere on a 300m stretch, and the vehicles, badly hit, were lying scattered on the road.”Prime minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the accident in a tweet. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also condoled the deaths and instructed the officials to provide the best medical assistance to the injured.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi also expressed anguish over the deaths and asked the party workers to help the families in need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-e-bus-accident-driver-was-drunk-charged-with-murder-101643647238594.html
31-01-2022||Ranchi||J’khand: CMP soon, says Cong’s new in-charge after RPN exit||Newly appointed All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Jharkhand, Avinash Pande, said Monday that a common minimum programme (CMP) and a co-ordination committee would soon be put in place in consultation with the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the lead partner in the ruling alliance in the state, for better functioning of the government and redressing grievances of party legislators and workers. Speaking to reporters here at the end of his three-day maiden visit after getting Jharkhand assignment following the exit of former AICC in-charge RPN Singh, who joined the BJP last week, Pande said, “In our extensive meetings with the party leaders and legislators, we have reviewed the functioning and performance of all departments, including those which are with our ally. We have also reviewed our manifesto. A CMP is important not only for our coalition government, but also for the public. Onus also lies on the lead partner for having a CMP. We will soon have a CMP in consultation with the CM. Our central leadership will also speak with the CM.”Pande said they would also put in place a co-ordination committee among the allies from the state to district level in light of the complaints by the party legislators and workers that the administration was not responsive to their issues. The AICC in-charge said the state Congress unit was intact and there was no threat to the government. “Party legislators ought to raise their concerns on party forum and not before media. Indiscipline would not be tolerated,” he said. Soon after RPN Singh left the party, at least two legislators had alleged that the former was trying to topple the Hemant Soren goverment in collusion with the BJP. Pande did not meet chief minister Hemant Soren or any senior JMM leader despite being in Ranchi for three days. “I was busy holding consultations with my party leaders and workers. I spoke to CM and shared pleasantries on phone. I have a flight to take. If possible, I will try to meet him before that or else would meet him on my next visit,” he said. Later, JMM principal general secretary Supriya Bhattacharya said the ruling alliance already had a “functional CMP” in place and advised Congress to have coordination within their party. “We are a pre-poll alliance and we already have an in-principle CMP in place. But if there is a need to have a formal CMP, we can discuss that. However, as far as coordination is concerned, our CM is readily available not only for a legislator or top Congress leaders, but even for opposition leaders. On the issue, I would also advise our ally to have better coordination within Congress,” he said. Balmuchu, Bhagat return to Congress Meanwhile, two former state Congress presidents, Pradeep Balmuchu and Shukhdeo Bhagat, returned to the party on Monday in presence of Avinash Pande and co-incharge Umesh Singhar and senior leaders.Balmuchu and Bhagat, both senior tribal leaders, had quit party just ahead of 2019 assembly polls and contested on AJSU Party and BJP tickets, respectively. The two leaders thanked the party leadership for “forgiving their mistake” and vowed to not leave the party again in entire lifetime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-cmp-soon-says-cong-s-new-in-charge-after-rpnexit-101643647171285.html
31-01-2022||Patna||Inter exam to begin with Maths paper on Tuesday||PATNA: The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB)’s intermediate exams will commence with mathematics and Hindi papers on Tuesday, officials said.The examination will begin with mathematics paper for science stream students in the first sitting, which will start from 9.30 to 12:45pm while the Hindi paper for Art stream students will begin from 1:45 pm to 5 pm.Altogether 13.45 lakh students have registered for the intermediate exams across 1,471 exam centres in the state. In Patna, a total of 78,856 students including 37,817 girls and 41,039 boys will appear for the exams.BSEB officials said tight security arrangements have been made at all exam centres. The board also activated its control room on Monday which will remain functional till the last day of the examinations.“A 24x7 control room with telephone numbers 0612-223227 and 0612-2230051 has been set up for overall surveillance of all exam centres. No examinee or invigilator will be allowed to carry mobile phones inside the exam halls. Using calculator, Bluetooth, earphone is strictly prohibited for examinees”, said a BSEB official.The board’s chairman Anand Kishor said, “The board will give first 15 minutes to read the question paper and fill the OMR sheet. It is mandatory for the students to enter the exam hall 10 minutes before the commencement of the exam. Latecomers will not be given entry. Two-step frisking will be done to check on impersonators. Candidates are advised to carry their photo-attached identity proof which can be used for verification.”The inter exams will conclude on February 14.Important tips for candidates:1.Reach exam centre at least 10 minutes before the commencement of examination2. Along with admit card, carry one photo-attached identity proof like Aadhar Card, PAN card, voter ID, passport, driving license3.Wear face mask and maintain social distancing4. Follow breathing etiquettes inside the exam centre5. Stand in queue while thermal screening and frisking to prevent gathering6. Do not carry any paper or gadget inside the exam centre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/inter-exam-to-begin-with-maths-paper-on-tuesday-101643647113996.html
31-01-2022||Patna||Bihar Council polls: After RJD snub, Congress to contest all 24 seats||The alliance between the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar is all but over, at least for now. While ties between the two parties had already come to a breaking point after both fielded their candidates in bypolls for two assembly seats last year, the final blow has been dealt by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who categorically said on Sunday that his party has no truck with Congress in Bihar and declared that his party had selected candidates for all 23 Legislative Council seats, while leaving Bhagalpur for the Left parties. The 24 seats are likely to go to polls in February or March this year. Responding in kind, Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma said on Monday his party would field nominees on all 24 seats. “There will be no looking back, until the party high command tells us to follow the other line,” said Sharma, who returned to Patna on Monday after meeting with AICC in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, and other senior leaders in Delhi.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, who was also in Delhi to meet and discuss the seat sharing issues on the words of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, said the party had launched the selection process for candidates on all seats. “Applications of candidates have started pouring in once the party decided to contest the elections on its own,” he said.A section of Congress in the state hailed the party’s decision to opt out of the coalition led by the RJD in Bihar. “The party took a right decision, but the delay in deciding the course has caused irreparable damage to its electoral base,” said Kishore Jha, a senior AICC member. Former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh said it was illogical to be in alliance of the RJD, which is supporting other parties in the Uttar Pradesh elections. “The Congress should better strive to revitalize its roots instead of relying on the allies. We have a tie-up with the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) in the neighbouring state, which had supported the Trinamool in West Bengal and Samajwadi Party in UP,” said Singh.Leaders of the ruling alliance, however, ridiculed Congress’s delayed decision. “Congress woke up after RJD discarded its proposal. Congress has become irrelevant by supporting the party which is known for institutionalizing corruption and perpetuating nepotism in politics,” said BJP leader and road construction minister Nitin Nabin. 
31-01-2022||Patna||10 cops injured in attacks by sand mafia in Banka and Vaishali||At least 10 policemen, including a subdivisional police officer (SDPO), were injured in two separate attacks by alleged sand mafia in Banka and Vaishali districts on Monday, police said. According to police, six policemen were injured in Banka when a police team led by SDPO Dinesh Chandra Srivastava came under attack in Kolhattha village under Barahat police station limits around 5 am. Srivastava and his bodyguard, who received head injuries, have been admitted to Barahat referral hospital. Four other policemen were also injured in stone pelting and they were released from the hospital after treatment. Banka superintendent of police (SP) Arvind Kumar Gupta said the police team was attacked by people involved in illegal sand mining, who allegedly fired in air and hurled bricks on policemen. “Following the attack, additional reinforcement was rushed to the spot and five people, including their leader Pritam Yadav, were nabbed. Police also seized two sand laden tractors and a motorcycle from the spot,” he said. In Vaishali, station house officer of Town police station, Subodh Kumar, had a miraculous escape when miscreants involved in illegal sand mining attempted to crush him under the wheels of a sand-laden tractor. Four policemen were seriously injured when the miscreants resorted to heavy stone pelting at them. Two persons, identified as Pramod Rai and Jay Mangal Rai, have been arrested, police said. Subdivisional police officer (Sadar) Raghav Dayal said the incident took place near Ram Choura Ghat on the banks of Gandak . “Raids are on to nab more accused. Three tractors and a JCB machine have been seized,” he said. 
31-01-2022||Lucknow||SSU fetes three Padma awardees from Varanasi||Sampurnanand Sanskrit University (SSU) on Monday feted three Padma awardees from Varanasi-- prof Vashishtha Tripathi, Pt Shivnath Mishra and prof Kamalakar Tripathi.The Union government had recently announced Padma Bhushan for prof Vashishtha Tripathi, a renowned scholar of Jurisprudence, Padma Shri for renowned sitar player Pt Shivnath Mishra and prof Kamalakar Tripathi, noted physician and former professor of IMS-BHU.Vice chancellor of SSU prof Hareram Tripathi said “It is a matter of great joy and luck to honour the three distinguished people who have been conferred upon Padma Awards recently.” Speaking on the occasion, prof Vashisht Tripathi said: “I wish speedy progress of this university. I wish that Sanskrit and Sanskriti (culture) keep flourishing. The country’s identity is from the Sanskrit scriptures. By its upgradation, the prestige of the country will increase. Study-teaching is my karma (action) religion and worship.”Guest of honour prof Kamalakar Tripathi said, “By the grace of Mahamana Pt Madan Mohan Malviya ji I got this award. It will inspire young doctors to serve patients selflessly.”Sitar player Pt Shivnath Mishra said, “For 36 years I have taught music here. The credit of Padma Shree goes to this institution. This honour belongs to the people of Kashi.”Public relation officer of the varsity Shashindra Mishra said several professors attended the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ssu-fetes-three-padma-awardees-from-varanasi-101643646871191.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Private school associations request UP govt to reopen educational institutes||Two associations of private schools have requested the UP government to order reopening of schools, which were closed due to the raging pandemic, without any further delay. President of Unaided Private Schools Association, UP and managing director of St Joseph Group of Institutions Lucknow Anil Agarwal has requested the state government to reopen the schools with immediate effect. He also said they believed that government will take necessary action and allow them to call students for offline classes.Rachit Manas, co-director, Brightland Inter College said, “The government should allow the children of classes 9 to 12 to be called in the school so that they can take the examination.”Saifi Yunus, managing director, Eram Educational Society said, “As per the advice of child psychologists across the country, the government is requested to immediately start offline classes.”Separately, Association of Private Schools, Uttar Pradesh has written a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath urging him to reopen schools in the state, which have been closed for the past one month, from February 7. President of the association, Atul Kumar cited the views of Dr Praveen Kumar, pediatrician of Lady Harding Medical College, New Delhi, published in a prominent Hindi daily, wherein he had said though the parents are scared to send their children to schools, they are also concerned about their children’s decreasing activities. “In such a situation, sending children to schools is the best alternative, so parents should not be afraid and send their wards to school. Moreover, the closure of schools is affecting the overall development of children,” he said.He said seeing the falling graph of Covid cases in the country, it may be said that the peak is now over. Kumar said the pre-schools association has also expressed concern as more than 70% of students were not taking interest in online classes. The children have become cranky after staying away from schools for so long. The little ones are not able to get practical knowledge of sitting, standing, taking lunch etc. “The online classes are not able to establish communication with the students. In view of the above scenario, the government must open schools all over the state from February 7 the association has said in their letter to chief minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/private-school-associations-request-up-govt-to-reopen-educational-institutes-101643646571487.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Allow physical applications for Covid ex-gratia, HC tells state||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) directed the state government on Monday to allow and assist the next of kin of Covid victims to submit documents for ex-gratia amount of ₹50,000 physically or through the post if they are unable to do so online.The HC also directed the state to make an earnest endeavour to decide the claims expeditiously.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice V G Bisht was hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Prameya Welfare Foundation.After the government pleader for the state had submitted that the NGO should assist the eligible applicants to upload forms online, the HC had observed that the state government must reach the applicants to grant them compensation which is their right. The bench had further stated that the authorities could not deprive eligible applicants of the same on technical grounds.On Monday, the government pleader informed the bench that steps were taken to contact the eligible applicants to help them with the online claim procedure. However, some of them were not traceable. The GP added that some physical applications were already pending before BMC and they would be decided in a week’s time and the compensation amount would be disbursed. The bench was told that the online process was faster and easier.However, advocate Sumedha Rao for the NGO refuted the claims of the GP and said that none of the applicants had been contacted by the authorities for online applications. She added that as per SC directions, the state was bound to disburse the amount within 30 days from the date of application, which was not happening.After hearing the submissions the bench directed the state and BMC to file affidavits in reply to the plea and noted, “As and by way of the interim measure, we direct that applications, which have not been filed online should continue to be processed as if they are online applications and assistance be extended to the next of kin of victim of SARS-Cov for uploading documents and an earnest endeavour should be made that assistance is extended at the earliest.”The bench further said, “If he or she (applicant) is in position to file an online application, they may do so, but if not, then do not keep on insisting. If you want any information about applicants, ask the advocate for the petitioner for the same. We should not fight over it, so that unfortunate people get compensation and we work in coordination.” The PIL has been posted for further hearing on February 14.Advocates Sumedha Rao and Rumana Bagdadi for the NGO on January 24 had informed the bench that as per a Supreme Court (SC) decision, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) had formulated guidelines for the state to disburse ex-gratia compensation of ₹50,000 to dependents of Covid victims through the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Certification of eligible victims was to be decided as per guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and the Indian Centre for Medical Research (ICMR).The advocates while elaborating on the role of the NGO had submitted that claim forms were distributed in several chawls and slum areas following which nearly 56 people, who are economically backward, had filed claims before the Collector’s office. This was done before the state government had started an online portal for claims and payments. Advocate Rao had added that due to technical glitches in uploading documents on the online portal, claims should be granted based on the forms submitted physically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-physical-applications-for-covid-ex-gratia-hc-tells-state-101643646155778.html
31-01-2022||Pune||In hope of strong support: Pune’s industry captains lay out their budget expectations||PUNE: After two consecutive years of the Covid-19 pandemic have adversely affected the economy, industry in Pune has various expectations from the budget to be presented on Tuesday by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCIA“The budget should support real growth of 8.5 to 9% or more. We are not yet completely out of the pandemic so there is still need to provide fiscal space, however fiscal deficit should reduce from about 6.8% of the GDP this year to about 5.8% of the GDP next year. The allocation for capital expenditure, that creates jobs and boosts consumption, should increase from Rs5.5 trillion to about Rs6.5 to Rs7 trillion. There is need to emphasise on some of the announcements made in previous budgets such as the national infrastructure pipeline, national asset monetisation plan, and labour reforms. The budget should also hint at new policy interventions, including clarity on crypto currencies. The FM should highlight the need for the GST council to include alcohol and petroleum products in GST. There is need for special emphasis on MSMEs that are not yet completely out of the woods. Continuation of the ECLGS scheme, though with lower allocation and boosting support through other schemes like technology up-gradation and quality assurance will help. Reduction in custom duty on metals that are used as raw materials will help MSMEs.” Nishant Agarwal, founder, Proctur“The ed-tech sector has adopted new technology and approaches. However online classes were hampered by inadequate internet connections, digital devices, or computer systems. The ed-tech ecosystem anticipates that the government will make government services available to both applicants and ed-tech companies. The budget is projected to place a greater emphasis on improving internet connectivity infrastructure across the country. Also, one of the most critical areas which required improvement is the GST treatment of print vs digital educational products. Online educational content has the potential to improve educational access and quality. From this year’s budget, there is a hope that the GST will be cut, allowing more individuals to invest in digital education.”Vishal Gokhale, managing director, Gokhale Constructions“It has been a longstanding demand of the real estate sector either to reduce or remove GST applicable for under construction flats. We hope that the FM and GST council considers this in the coming budget. In the past few years, the demand for bigger homes has increased thus an increase in home loan tax benefit will be beneficial for both the home buyer as well as the real estate sector since it is expected to boost the sale of properties.”Anil Pharande, president, Credai-Pune Metro“Credai advocates cheaper home loans, tax benefits for investments in housing, and longer loan repayment cycles to boost housing demand and enable more people to buy their dream homes which will contribute to achieving the government’s policy of ‘housing for all by 2022’. We recommend amendments in Section 80IBA of affordable housing, which along with home buyers will also benefit the construction sector. We are also expecting additional support from the government to control the rising input costs besides streamlining faster approvals for projects, introducing credit input on GST, and increasing availability for funding, streamlining and faster approvals for projects which Bharat B Phatak, personal finance expert“The government wants higher tax collections to continue. Looking at the number of income tax returns filed and GST registrations, it seems that collections will be higher due to better compliance and data transparency. At this time, the government should not raise tax rates. Stock markets are worried about equity capital gains’ tax increase.”Dishan Kamdar, vice-chancellor, Flame University“We hope that the budgetary allocation to the overall education sector will see an increase this year, as the last two years have severely impacted both institutions and students, with a shift to the online mode. A fund allocation for advancement in the technology infrastructure to help enable institutes to invest in the latest technology tools, software, and high-speed connectivity will surely deliver a seamless, high-quality learning experience to their students. The government could also develop an education loan scheme for ease in accessibility, disbursement and repayment terms which will support students from the lesser privileged strata and the deeper pockets of the country to benefit from.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-hope-of-strong-support-pune-s-industry-captains-lay-out-their-budget-expectations-101643646154530.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Students respond to Hindustani Bhau’s call, protest offline exams for classes 10, 12||Mumbai Groups of students gathered in Mumbai and three other cities to mark their protest against offline board examinations for classes 10 and 12. They said that as they studied online the entire year, it is only fair to conduct the exams online too, as most students are not prepared for the offline mode. Responding to a call by Vikas Fhatak, alias ‘Hindustani Bhau’, a former contestant on the reality TV show Big Boss, the students gathered to protest. Fhatak is known for his use of abusive language on social media. The protest turned violent in Nagpur, where window panes of buses were damaged. Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil asked the police to probe who was behind the organised protests that took the government as well as police machinery by surprise. He asked them to probe whether there was an organised attempt to incite students.In Mumbai, students gathered at Dharavi, the assembly constituency of state education minister Varsha Gaikwad in the afternoon, where Fhatak addressed the crowd. He also released a video on social media platforms, where he demanded the cancellation of board exams and school fee waiver.He also threatened that if the demands are not met, similar protests will be staged across the state.Meanwhile, students gathered at Aurangabad and Osmanabad with similar demands on Monday afternoon. Students said that they had gathered because ‘Hindustani Bhau’ asked them to do so. In Nagpur, the protest turned violent as a group of students pelted stones and damaged a school bus. Meanwhile, state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that they want to know if students were incited by someone and will request the home minister to investigate. She also asked students not to violate Covid rules and risk their health. She further said she has invited the students for talks.Bachhu Kadu, minister of state for school education, said that some students taking to the streets don’t mean all of them feel the same. They will have to look into the demands as there are students who are well prepared for exams and want them to be held offline. “It was an impromptu protest by students. We would have called them for discussion if we were told about it in advance. We need to consider all the aspects before taking the decision as we are working in the interest of students. Today some are demanding online examinations and others want them to be cancelled. Tomorrow they will oppose physical classes. This is not the way to function. We have also received demands where students want time for studies and some oppose the average mark system. Everything will be considered before taking a decision,” Kadu said.Gaikwad said that it is improper to protest in such huge numbers during Covid. “They are immature. There should be no politics over students’ future…I will speak to the home minister and will request him to find out who is behind all this,” the school education minister said, adding that they have been discussing the issue of holding examinations with all the concerned people including experts, schools management and parents. “I am ready to discuss the issue even more and ready to consider their suggestions,” she added.However, Bhai Jagtap, Mumbai Congress chief, smelled a conspiracy. “The students protested outside Varsha Gaikwad’s office reportedly because a social media influencer Hindustani Bhau uploaded an Instagram post... the police have detained him. This post sparked off trouble in the state and hence, this is a serious matter. The police will trace the roots of this issue, but prima facie, this seems to be a conspiracy,” said Jagtap.Earlier, Fhathak had been the face of controversy over his abusive language. In August last year, he shared a video asking his supporters to beat up people who disrespect Hindu gods. After this, his account on Instagram was suspended.On an earlier occasion, he was arrested by the Shivaji Park police in Mumbai for violating Covid restrictions. He posted on his Twitter account that he would stage a protest all by himself at Shivaji Park demanding the cancellation of all the exams and was arrested after reaching the spot in an ambulance, which he used to hoodwink the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/students-respond-to-hindustani-bhau-s-call-protest-offline-exams-for-classes-10-12-101643645910916.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Sendoff celebrations for Pune RTO inspector toned down after complaints from public||PUNE: A grand sendoff arranged by the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) for one of their RTO inspectors on January 31 had to be toned down following complaints from citizens that the celebrations were disturbing people coming for their RTO work.One of the Pune RTO inspectors – Chandrakant Jawalkar – was set to retire on January 31 for which a ceremony was planned inside the RTO main building premises at Sangamwadi. A huge stage was set in front of the RTO license window and a big LED screen with sound system was installed. A special music band was arranged. Sofas and chairs were kept for the guests and RTO staffers, and the programme was scheduled in the evening. With all these preparations going on since the morning however, people coming for their RTO work were getting disturbed and after complaints from citizens, the celebrations had to be toned down by the RTO administration.Sagar Abnawe, one of the citizens, said, “Creating trouble for the public and conducting such huge programmes inside government offices is not right. The benches for the public were kept aside and we were forced to stand in one corner of the office to get our work done.”Another citizen Shweta Rathi said, “At a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Pune city and the state government has issued strict guidelines for conducting programmes and other functions, grand celebrations were underway at the RTO office which is not right and can lead to further spreading of the virus as many people were flouting Covid norms.”After the public expressed their displeasure, RTO officials pared down the mega arrangements that had been made for the function. The open jeep decorated with flowers as well as the chairs and sofas were removed from the site and all those gathered including the public were urged to wear face masks and follow Covid-19 norms.When contacted, Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde maintained, “A sendoff programme for one of our RTO inspectors has been organised within the office premises and we are going to hold the program following all Covid-19 norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sendoff-celebrations-for-pune-rto-inspector-toned-down-after-complaints-from-public-101643645371041.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Mumbai logs less than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 2.10%||Mumbai on Monday saw a fall in Covid-19 cases for the second straight day. The country’s financial capital reported 960 new infections of the coronavirus disease and 11 deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the active caseload to 9,900. The city had recorded 1,160 cases and 10 fatalities a day ago.The daily positivity rate currently stood at 2.10 per cent, while the cumulative case count has touched 10,46,590.As many as 91 patients were found infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19 of whom eight were from Mumbai.Also, 1,837 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the total recoveries to 10,17,288, according to latest data shared by the city’s civic body. Currently, 2215 of 37,576 beds remained occupied.Meanwhile, 57,686 samples were tested for the viral disease during the day.The latest surge in Covid cases was witnessed in Mumbai in the third week of December and peaked in early January. Mumbai had logged 20,971 Covid -19 cases on January 7, 2022, the highest in a day since the pandemic broke out in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-logs-less-than-1-000-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-at-210-101643644445688.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Pune hospital research claims Omicron not affecting internal organs like Delta variant||PUNE Research conducted by Pune’s Sassoon General Hospital on the difference in symptoms between those infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19 and the Delta variant, claims that new variant does not affect internal organs like the Delta variant did.Symptoms were observed in about 150 adults who were admitted after December 20, 2021 until now.Doctors observing patients infected with the Omicron variant found that although the symptoms are mild, they are different from those reported during the second wave last year The study found that most commonly reported symptoms are similar to those associated with a viral flu. Dr Rohidas Borse, head of Medicine at BJ Medical College and Sassoon General hospital said, “We have observed close to 150 Omicron infected Covid-19 patients. The stark difference in symptoms which did not exist the last time is severe body ache, severe headache, chills and also throat pain in some patients. Although the throat pain might last for only three days and lead to difficulty in swallowing food, the rest of the symptoms, especially the cough, could last for about a week or so. These symptoms did not exist in the last wave, which was dominant with the Delta variant. Although in this wave we do see that most patients complain of a runny nose which during the last wave was a dry nose.” He further added, “In the last wave we did see that the virus infected other organs like kidney, heart and liver, and so even though the virus had left the system the impact of the infection would force the patient to remain admitted for more than a month sometimes. If a kidney is damaged then the patient cannot be discharged immediately. However, this time the other internal organs are not damaged.” In Omicron while fever lasts for about a week or so, in Delta the fever was not persistent at all and would re-appear in some patients. He further added, “Based on the difference in symptoms as of now we can say that those who require ventilators or an ICU are likely to be infected with the Delta variant, which is still in the community, at about 30-40%. Like the previous wave we can see that those who have comorbidities are most likely to be infected and also the working population is being infected more this time. However, it is also true that most Omicron infections are reported among those who are either partially or fully vaccinated, but the vaccines have helped to reduce complications.”|||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-hospital-research-claims-omicron-not-affecting-internal-organs-like-delta-variant-101643643630760.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||FIR against 4 for sending rape, death threats to journalist Rana Ayyub||Mumbai: A First Information Report (FIR) has been filed against unidentified persons for sending rape and death threats to independent journalist Rana Ayyub on Twitter and Instagram.Ayyub told the cyber cell of Mumbai police that over 26,000 abusive, objectionable tweets were posted on her Twitter handle and other platforms over the past few days.“The accused posted fake news about Ayyub saying that she has been banned from Saudi Arabia and the user also gave her rape threats and abused her. The offence has been registered against four Twitter and two Instagram account users on Friday,” a deputy commissioner of police rank officer said.On January 25, Ayyub had tweeted, “26.4 thousand tweets, most are abusive, rape and death threats, calling me a terror sympathiser. Most tweets are by the Indian right wing & Saudi nationalists who are attacking me after i posted a tweet in solidarity with Yemen and calling out the Saudis. Hello @TwitterIndia.”Ayyub, who has over 1.5 million followers on Twitter and 320K followers on Instagram, has been a staunch critic of the BJP-led union government and right-wing organisations.The next day, on January 26, a Twitter user by name @thescoopbeats claiming to be an Indian News Media Organisation, posted a YouTube video link with a message, “Saudi Arab Banned Rana Ayyub #RanaAyyub #SaudiArabian #banned @RanaAyyub @KingSalman Anchor @Mannusahu1319, @Vidyanshi6 Editor @Patrakar_Ayush.”In the 10-minute video, two young women presented a news bulletin with memes under the title, ‘Saudi Banned Rana Ayyub?’. The video received over 4,000 views.In a tweet, Ayyub claimed that the portal spread fake news by using a photoshopped tweet image of Ayyub saying she hates India and she hates all Indians. In response, the portal uploaded another video claiming that the facts presented in their news were all correct and authentic.Mumbai police sources said that they are looking into the YouTube video.Dr Rashmi Karandikar, DCP, Cyber Cell, on Monday said that the complainant has received many obscene comments and death threats.Based on her complaint an offence has been registered by the West Region Cyber Police Station under sections 354A (Sexual Harassment), 506-2 (death threats), 509 (outraging modesty of women), 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and 66c (Punishment for identity theft) and 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of Information Technology Act, she said.“Mumbai Police has registered an FIR against those who disseminated fake news, morphed tweets and death and rape threats against me. About time these brazen and consolidated acts of online violence are stopped and the perpetrators brought to book,” Ayyub tweeted on Monday.  “Impressed with the alacrity and co-operation of @CPMumbaiPolice @Dwalsepatil @supriya_sule @satejp @CMOMaharashtra. This bullying and assault on women needs to stop. Hope the accused are brought to book soon,” she added.The police has sought information on the six Twitter and Instagram accounts from the service providers. The cyber cell is also investigating whether the accused have targeted other journalists or individuals on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-4-for-sending-rape-death-threats-to-journalist-rana-ayyub-101643643090742.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh, his family laundered ₹10.42 crore in last 10 years: PMLA court||Mumbai: In the last 10 years, former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and his family members have integrated ₹10.42 crore unaccounted cash into the banking channel via Delhi-based shell company operators, the special PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court has said while taking cognisance of the supplementary chargesheet filed by Enforcement Directorate (ED).Special PMLA judge Rahul Rokade said the investigation showed that since 2011, Deshmukh has laundered ₹10.42 crore unaccounted cash in the (educational) trust in the form of donations through shell companies of Delhi-based Jain brothers.The investigation further revealed that Deshmukh received illegal gratification of ₹4.70 crores in cash collected through now-dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze from orchestra bar owners from December 2020 to February 2021, the court said.“Anil Deshmukh, in connivance with his son Hrishikesh Deshmukh, transferred illegal gratification through hawala channels to Jain brothers i.e. Surendra Kumar Jain and Virendra Kumar Jain, who are accused in the earlier chargesheet along with Vaze. Thereafter, Surendra Kumar Jain and Virendra Kumar Jain transferred the said amount in the bank account of Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur in the garb of donation to the trust run by the Deshmukh family. Surendra Kumar Jain and Virendra Kumar Jain infused the said illegal money into the banking channel and upon layering the same through various shell companies, transferred ₹1.71 crore in the bank account of Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur in the garb of donation in February 2021 and March 2021,” PMLA court observed.“Deshmukh also laundered his unaccounted cash to the tune of ₹1.12 crore using the above modus into the trust. Deshmukh has actively integrated his unaccounted cash into the banking channel since the year 2011. He has laundered his unaccounted cash to the tune of ₹10.42 crores in the trust through Delhi-based shell companies through the Jain brothers,” judge Rokade noted.The special court further said that Hrishikesh Deshmukh assisted his father Anil Deshmukh to launder ₹1.71 crore out of the tainted money collected from bar owners and projected the same as a donation to the trust.He was also instrumental in infusing bogus share capital in companies that ran on dummy directors and were giving capital to them to purchase lands, it said, adding that Hrishikesh was an active participant in the laundering of the proceeds of crime as defined under PMLA.As to the role of Salil Deshmukh, the judge said he was instrumental in raising bogus share capital in Zodiac Dealcom Private Limited.“He was also instrumental in infusing bogus share capital in M/s Flourish Properties Pvt. Ltd., which was controlled using dummy directors, and using the said capitals to purchase lands in the name of M/s. Premier Port Links Pvt. Ltd. He acquired shares of M/s. Premier Port Links Pvt. Ltd. for a meagre amount of ₹17.95 lakh and became 50 percent owner over assets amounting to ₹5.34 crore of the said company. Thus, he is directly involved in the offence of money laundering and assisted his father and brother in money laundering as defined under section 3 of PMLA,” the PMLA court said.The special court also issued a process against all the accused named by the agency in the supplementary charge sheet.In addition to Deshmukh and his sons, chartered accountant Bhavik Panjwani and eight shell companies have been named as accused in the supplementary chargesheet filed by ED on December 29, 2021.Deshmukh was arrested on November 2, 2021, by the agency after questioning him for several hours. ED has also arrested his personal secretary Kundan Shinde and personal assistant Sanjeev Palande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-his-family-laundered-10-42-crore-in-last-10-years-pmla-court-101643642491173.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Ward names out, most corporators to come from periphery areas||PUNE The State Election Commission (SEC) on Monday declared names of 58 wards in Pune, although their actual map will be announced by Tuesday. With names announced, among the 173 members to be elected for Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the upcoming elections, more than 100 will come from periphery areas of the city, which may pose a challenge before the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to retain majority in the civic body. Post delimitation of wards after city’s population witnessed rise as 23 villages were merged, the strength of the house has been increased to 173 from 164. The draft panel structure posted online indicates that maximum elected members will come from suburban areas of Pune where Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has bigger hold compared to the BJP. NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “Citizens had given a clear majority to the BJP, putting their faith in the party. However, the BJP failed them on every front. Now, we are sure voters will reject them.”The Pune Municipal Corporation on Monday announced the ward names on its website. As a part of draft, which is unlikely to see any significant change after March 2, when state election commission will declare the final map of delimitated wards. Before that, there will be a public hearing to be completed by February 28. In its notification the State Election Commission has stated that the draft delimitation map with boundaries of each electoral panel for the PMC would be published on February 1. Citizens are invited to file suggestions and objections by February 14. As per the draft plan, there are 57 wards which will elect 3 members each and one ward will elect two members, taking the overall strength to 173 elected members. Among the 173 members, more than 100 members are coming from Vadgaonsheri, Hadapsar, Purandar and Khadakwasla assembly constituencies. The Vadgaonsheri and Hadapsar is dominated by NCP with seating MLAs also from the same party. The Purandar legislator is from Congress although the urban areas under that constituency areas are dominated by NCP and Shiv Sena. Khadkwasla constituency however has BJP and NCP clouts. During 2019 assembly elections, NCP candidate lost election hardly by 1,000 votes. BJP leader Hemant Rasane said, “BJP had representation everywhere. All eight MLA s were from BJP. Even the MP is from BJP. The party even scored more votes from suburban areas. We would win more seats than the previous election.”The BJP with 98 members currently rule the PMC having annual budget of ₹6,700 crore. The NCP, however, has been making all out efforts to regain the control over civic body where it once enjoyed power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ward-names-out-most-corporators-to-come-from-periphery-areas-101643642369849.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Suspended BJP MLA Ashish Shelar seeks entry in state legislature after SC order||Mumbai: Days after the Supreme Court (SC) quashed one-year suspension of 12 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs, its legislator Ashish Shelar on Monday in a letter to the Maharashtra Legislature Secretary wrote that 12 party legislators including himself are entitled to enter the premises of Vidhan Bhavan in Mumbai and Nagpur.The suspension of 12 MLAs was a result of an alleged unruly behaviour during the monsoon session. Shelar, on behalf of the suspended legislators, moved the apex court, which termed the suspension irrational and unconstitutional. In response to the order, the state government has said that the state legislature will study the judgement if the apex court has overstepped while giving the ruling over the decision of the sovereign house.“The legislature has the power to suspend members, similarly on the lines of the suspension done by Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha. It is well within the power of the Assembly,” Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/suspended-bjp-mla-ashish-shelar-seeks-entry-in-state-legislature-after-sc-order-101643641830145.html
31-01-2022||Kolkata||Bengal govt eases Covid curbs as cases drop. Here's what reopens and stays shut||The West Bengal government on Monday eased several restrictions in the wake of an improved Covid-19 pandemic scenario. As part of the relaxations, the government announced reopening of schools, colleges and universities from February 3. Night curfew in the state will now begin from 11pm instead of the current 10pm, and end at 5am, an order read.The number of coronavirus infections in the state dropped under 2,000 in the last 24 hours.Addressing a press conference in Kolkata, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, "As the Covid-19 situation in Bengal has improved, schools will reopen on February 3 for classes 8 to 12. Colleges, universities, polytechnics, ITIs will also restart offline classes on the same day. We are not reopening primary schools right now."Here is a detailed list of all that would reopen and continue to stay shut in the state.What's allowedWhat's not allowedWest Bengal reported 1,910 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, as per the state's health bulletin on Monday evening. The daily count in the state has dropped from a peak of more than 24,000 in mid-January over the past two weeks. The positivity rate dipped further at 5.49 per cent. However, at least 36 patients succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-govt-eases-covid-curbs-as-cases-drop-here-s-what-reopens-and-stays-shut-101643636764137.html
31-01-2022||Pune||PMC, PCMC likely to get an administrator due to delayed civic elections||PUNE With the State Election Commission’s (SEC) notification making it clear that the panel structure for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations will be finalised by March 2, the elections for Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad corporation are likely to be announced by mid March and the voting may take place by April.In such a scenario, when the term of the civic body ends, the state government may appoint an administrator for a few days for both the corporations. Already, the municipal commissioner has taken charge as an administrator at Aurangabad and some other civic bodies on the directives of the state government as the term of these corporations ended, though elections could not be held due to Covid.Besides Covid, the state government also decided to wait for a decision from Supreme Court over OBC quota which was scrapped for local bodies.As Pune Municipal Corproration’s (PMC) tenure ends in the first week of March, the state government may ask for appointment of an administrator instead of offering extension to all the elected members.One of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader requesting anonymity, “It is good that the elections are delayed. Usually, elections are held two months before ending the tenure of the civic body though model code of conduct does not allow us take up fresh work. Due to Covid-19 pandemic this year, we could not spend our budget entirely. If we get these two months grace period, it is good for us.”Once the elections are announced, corporators cannot inaugurate or announce fresh work while municipal administration handles the routine work. Appointment of an administrator in that case will not affect any political party, said the BJP corporator on anonymity.Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) senior leader on anonymity said, “If the ruling party corporators are not in action for a few weeks due to the power of the administrator, it will be good as they won’t be able to influence voters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-pcmc-likely-to-get-an-administrator-due-to-delayed-civic-elections-101643641170155.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Students protest against Class 10 &12 offline exams||PUNE State authorities were caught off guard with sudden eruption of protests on Monday when thousands of students hit the streets in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and other parts of Maharashtra demanding cancellation of offline exams.The protest further added confusion among parents, Class 10 and Class 12 students who expressed that last moment changes will disturb them. The protest erupted after a video by one Vikas Phatak aka ‘Hindustani Bhau’ went viral urging students to agitate. Students gathered in large numbers outside the home of State Education Minister, Varsha Gaikwad in Mumbai.Gaikwad said she will interact with protesters on Tuesday to discuss the exam issue.Members of the parents’ association from the city expressed similar views and added that the board and education minister should soon end this confusion after state board sent a proposal for considering the dates to be deferred and Gaikwad also promising to look into the same despite the dates for Class 10 and 12 offline exams been already been announced.In some families, parents want offline examinations while students prefer online examinations. One such family is that of Sunil Chaudhari. His son is in Class 10. “I believe that offline examination is crucial and important for these children. However, these students have been continuing the online mode of education for the last one-and-a-half-years. And so, I think, before the examination, the schools should start offline classes for at least three months so that students can clarify their doubts and come back to the habit of writing again,” said Chaudhari.Shreesh Chaudhari, a Class 10 student said, “I prefer online exams because considering the rise in Covid cases. We haven’t received our 2nd vaccine dose, which puts us at an even greater risk. This whole year we have attended school online, offline classes were hardly held for 10-20 days.”Amruta Kulkarni, a student of Class 12 said, “We have seen the confusion last year around board exams. If similar thing happens this time, it will be very difficult to focus on the preparation.”However, board officials have emphasised that the offline examination is the only solution. “We are not equipped to take online examinations of students across Maharashtra. Many areas are in remote locations where online exam centres and internet connectivity is an issue. In such a scenario, offline examination is the only way ahead,” said a board official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-protest-against-class-10-12-offline-exams-101643639849932.html
31-01-2022||Pune||No water supply to peth areas, NIBM, Kalyaninagar on Feb 3||PUNE There will be no water supply to some parts of the city on Thursday (February 3), read a statement from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s water department.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned electric and construction related activities at Parvati water treatment plant on Thursday. Hence, areas that depend on this water treatment plant will not receive water supply.According to the statement, all peth areas,Sahakarnagar, Vimannagar, Kalyaningar, NIBM,Mithnagar,Kondhwa, Vadgaonsheri, Kalas and Dhanori areas will not have water supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-to-peth-areas-nibm-kalyaninagar-on-feb-3-101643637755971.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||NeoCoV scare: Should we be worried about this new variant?||Mumbai: A team of researchers from the Wuhan University and Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing have alerted people about NeoCoV, a new type of coronavirus detected in bats. In a paper published on the preprint repository bioRxiv, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, the researchers have stated that NeoCoV is a close relative of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) and should be closely monitored as its mutated form can likely have the potential to infect humans. The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that further studies are required to ascertain NeoCoV’s threat to humans. On Sunday, Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope also sounded an alarm about the new variant, even as the world is yet to identify a confirmed human case. ‘NO REASON TO PANIC’ Vellore-based virologist Dr T Jacob John informed that there’s no need to panic since bats and humans do not have a natural contact. “We should definitely monitor new variants, be guarded, but we should not panic unnecessarily. Bats and humans do not have a natural contact, and it is only in rare, extraordinary situations that such contact may happen,” said Dr John.According to him, the Nipah virus, which had caused the 2018 outbreak in Kerala and the 1999 outbreaks in Malaysia and Singapore, has spread through the bats. “Researchers have confirmed three possible scenarios of the spread of Nipah- through contact of bat saliva on a half-eaten fruit by a bat and through the palm toddy containers where bats are found. In another situation, researchers have found that the Nipah virus jumped from bats to pigs and then to human beings,” he said, adding that it’s premature to assume that such transmission has occurred in the case of NeoCoV. IS IT HYPE? SARS-CoV-2 is known to bind with the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptors in human beings. But in their study, the researchers from China found that NeoCoV and another closely related virus PDF-2180-CoV used bat ACE2 as their functional receptor. “This unexpected ACE2 usage of these MERS-CoV close relatives highlights a latent biosafety risk, considering a combination of two potentially damaging features of high fatality observed for MERS-CoV and the high transmission rate noted for SARS-CoV-2,” the study pointed. “Furthermore, our studies show that the current COVID-19 vaccinations are inadequate to protect humans from any eventuality of the infections caused by these viruses.” “NeoCoV is an old virus closely related to MERS-CoV which enters cells via DPP4 receptors (a type of receptor protein),” state’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said on social media. “NeoCoV can use ACE2 receptors of bats but they can’t use human ACE2 receptors unless a new mutation occurs. Everything else is hype,” he said. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava said that it’s best to leave the discussions till a human case has been found. “Till then, we should undoubtedly be cautious, but there is nothing to worry about,” he said. “We know very little about NeoCoV at the moment, except that the researchers from China have found it in bats. We don’t know if it has the capacity to jump onto humans or spread around the world. It’s just too soon to make assumptions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neocov-scare-should-we-be-worried-about-this-new-variant-101643637029608.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Goa Assembly elections: Shiv Sena withdraws its Panaji candidate in support of Utpal Parrikar||Mumbai: Abiding by its statement, the Shiv Sena on Monday announced that it has dropped its candidate from Panaji ahead of the Goa Assembly elections to extend the party’s support to Utpal Parrikar, son of former Goa chief minister, Manohar Parrikar. Utpal is contesting from the seat as an independent candidate. Sena, in a message to former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said that it is “keeping its word” and that it was “more than elections”.“We’re keeping our word. Shiv Sena is withdrawing its candidate Shailendra Velingkar from Panaji. Not just that, our workers will fully support Utpal Parrikar. We believe that the battle for Panaji is just about the election, but also about the purification of Goa politics (sic),” Raut said in a tweet tagging Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is involved in the planning for Goa polls.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had earlier said that if Parrikar contests solo, and does not withdraw his candidature till the last day, the party will withdraw its candidate from the seat and support him. Sena had given the ticket to Shailendra Velingkar, son of Goa Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Subhash Velingkar. Shailendra had joined Sena earlier this month.Raut’s tweet also included a picture of Parrikar’s quote, targeting BJP for giving a ticket to Atanasio Babush Monserrate from Panaji, which was being presented by Manohar Parrikar. “You will give ticket to the person with criminal antecedent in the constituency represented by late Manohar Parrikar? (sic)”After being denied a ticket from Panaji, Utpal resigned from the BJP on January 21 and announced his candidature as an independent to mark his electoral debut. BJP, meanwhile, had said that Parrikar was given two other options to contest. On January 29, Devendra Fadnavis, BJP’s poll in charge for Goa, said that the party did not deny him a ticket, but he rejected two options.Shiv Sena is contesting the Goa polls in an alliance with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Sanjay Raut said that the party Aaditya Thackeray will campaign in Goa, including in Sinquerim (Sakhali) Assembly constituency from where Goa CM Pramod Sawant would contest. So far, the party has not decided if senior party leaders will campaign for Parrikar.“Aaditya Thackeray will campaign in Goa, including in Sakhali. The people of Goa are unhappy with the incumbent CM; there are several issues of corruption against him so I don’t think he will get elected again. He (Aaditya) will also campaign in Vasco, Pernem, Mapusa, Mandrem, the constituencies that are close to the Maharashtra border. Other Sena leaders will also campaign in Goa,” Raut said.
31-01-2022||Dehradun||BJP govt took away poor people's money to fill coffers: Congress||All-India Congress Committee spokesperson Charan Singh Sapra on Monday accused the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttarakhand of "picking pockets" of the poor to fill their coffers.Giving a call to people to dislodge the BJP from power if they want to defeat inflation, Sapra said prices of essential commodities like pulses and edible oil have risen like never before besides those of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders.The Modi government follows the policy of making the poor poorer and the rich richer, Sapra said at a press conference in Haldwani."Wherever there are double-engine governments only the Ambanis and Adanis have benefitted," he said, accusing the BJP governments of "picking pockets" of the poor to fill their coffers.The change of chief ministers by the BJP in Uttarakhand was a cover-up for their failures, he said."The BJP does nothing. It only changes chief ministers or the names of places," he said.Talking about corruption, he said Uttarakhand is the only state in the country where a Covid testing scam took place."On February 14, when the state casts its vote, the BJP's arrogance will be broken," he said.He also appealed to people of Haldwani to vote for Sumit Hridayesh, the son of sitting Congress MLA from the seat and senior party leader Indira Hridayesh who died last year.Former Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin pilot also held a door-to-door campaign in Paltan Bazar in Dehradun to drum up support for the party.Campaigning is likely to pick up in Uttarakhand from February 2 when AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will release the party's manifesto here besides addressing a virtual rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/bjp-govt-took-away-poor-people-s-money-to-fill-coffers-congress-101643632382053.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||Fire breaks out in Kanjurmarg area of Mumbai: Report||A major fire broke out in the grasslands of the Kanjurmarg area of Mumbai on Monday. The incident happened near the Kanjurmarg bus stop where a metro car shed for the Maharashtra capital is slated to come up. Officials said four fire engines were rushed to the spot, adding there was no report of any injury and no injuries have been reported .#WATCH | A major fire breaks out in the grassland in Kanjurmarg area of Mumbai, Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/bjS59zzCVsIt is a developing story.(More details awaited)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/major-fire-breaks-out-in-kanjurmarg-area-of-mumbai-report-101643631629055.html
31-01-2022||Noida||Noida reports 364 new Covid cases, least since January 4||Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday reported 364 new Covid-19 cases, taking the active caseload to 3,173 in the district, according to the state health bulletin. This is the lowest daily count since January 4 when the district had reported 140 cases.On Sunday, Gautam Budh Nagar also reported one death due to Covid-19, taking the district’s toll to 480, which included 13 deaths reported in the district this month so far. The test positivity rate also reduced to 8.84% on Sunday from 10% two days ago. Over 3,500 tests are being done daily in the district now, officials from the district health department said, adding that the reduced positivity rate shows that the infection rate has reduced considerably in the district. According to the officials, the patient who died on Sunday was a 45-year-old male suffering from comorbidities such as tuberculosis (TB), chronic liver disease and hypertension. “He was admitted to the Noida Covid Hospital on January 26 and died on January 28 due to cardiopulmonary arrest,” said a senior health official. This is the third death due to Covid-19 involving TB patients in the district this month. Experts say that during the third wave there has been an increase in the number of TB patients getting affected by Covid-19. “Covid impacts the lungs severely and cough is one of the most common symptoms. It is also a common symptom for TB, especially if the cough lasts for more than two weeks. Since TB patients are already immunocompromised, there are higher chances of getting infected. So, it is important for such patients to remain cautious,” said Dr DK Gupta, chairman, Felix hospital. Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida, said that irregular treatment regime for TB patients for over a year now may also be a reason for increased infections. “With the entire health care system being occupied with Covid management, treatment and regular medicine distribution for tuberculosis patients have been somewhat neglected. This has been the case for several other chronic diseases as well, but for TB treatment to work, regularity is important. So, it is possible that such patients are more compromised,” Gupta said. With regards to the Covid-19 vaccine, the district has administered about 3,671,000 doses so far which include 2,132,000 first doses, 1,511,000 second doses and over 28,000 precautionary doses. Over 75,000 children in the 15-18 age group have also been vaccinated, the data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-reports-364-new-covid-cases-least-since-january-4-101643630009024.html
31-01-2022||Noida||Noida: BJP deploys senior leaders to counter SP-RLD strategy in Jewar||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has deployed senior leaders in Jewar to counter the Samajwadi Party (SP) –Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) alliance’s strategy of using the King Mihir Bhoj issue during campaigning to unite Gurjar voters in the Jewar assembly segment.SP-RLD alliance candidate Avtar Singh Bhadana, a Gurjar himself, is taking on incumbent MLA and BJP candidate Dhirendra Singh, who belongs to the Rajput community, in what political experts believe is going to be a tough fight in the constituency.In September 2021, a row was triggered after the caste name of Gurjar was removed from the plaque beneath the statue of King Mihir Bhoj that was erected at a college in Dadri, about 20km away from Jewar. The 15-foot statue of the ninth-century ruler was unveiled by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on September 22, 2021.Soon after the event, Gurjars started a series of protests after their caste name was dropped from the plaque. Later, the community formed a group to fight for the inclusion of the caste on the plaque and also decided to vote against BJP in these assembly polls.Bhadana and his supporters are raising this issue at village meetings to mobilise Gurjar voters in his favour, sources said.There are at least 50,000 Gurjar voters, of a total around 3.2 lakh (320,000) voters in Jewar. The Rajput community has about 70,000 voters and the BJP is anticipating a tough fight from the SP-RLD candidate. Bhadana supporters, meanwhile, are also banking on 20,000 Muslim voters and the 24,000 Jat voters to win the seat.To counter this crisis and win over Gurjar voters, the BJP has deployed two senior leaders-- Member of Parliament for Rajya Sabha Surendra Nagar and UP transport minister Ashok Kataria--to reach out to those who are upset with the BJP regarding the King Mihir Bhoj issue.According to party workers, BJP has asked the two leaders, both Gurjars with considerable influence over the community, to visit Gurjar-dominated villages in all constituencies, including Jewar. Nagar, who is also vice-president of UP’s BJP unit, visited many Gurjar-dominated villages last week , including Bironda, Murshadpur and Sikandrabad, to appeal to people to vote for Dhirendra Singh in Jewar.“We are telling people that this election is not to elect an MLA or chief minister, but to work together to make UP the most prosperous state of the country. The BJP government has worked for all communities without dividing people on caste or religious lines like other parties. We are telling people why they need to join hands and vote for the betterment of the state. The Opposition’s effort to divide people on petty or caste issues will not work,” said Nagar, who is in charge of “effective voter communication” in all western UP seats, including Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Meerut.The BJP has also asked Faridabad MP Krishan Pal Gurjar, union minister for state for heavy industries, to hold small meetings and influence Gurjar voters, party workers said.Meanwhile, Avtar Singh Bhadana said the BJP’s effort will not work because people are “fed up with the party”.“The BJP has not worked for the people and divided people on the lines of caste and religion. People will teach them a lesson in this election no matter what they do now,” said Bhadana.Political experts say the contest in Jewar is a direct fight between the BJP and the SP-RLD combine.“There is a direct contest between BJP and SP-RLD in Jewar, and other candidates from Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party are fighting for third position. Now it is to be seen whether people will vote above caste lines,” said Bipin Sharma, a political analyst and senior journalist.
31-01-2022||Dehradun||Uttarakhand polls: 150 FIRs filed for violation of ECI's Model Code of Conduct||The chief electoral officer (CEO) of Uttarakhand has said that 150 FIRs have been registered under various sections for violating the Model Code of Conduct for Assembly elections since January 8.A toll-free number is in place for people to submit complaints related to elections."For election-related complaints contact on toll-free number 180033001950. The complaints center numbers of the control room are - 0135-2644303; 0135-2664304. According to Uttarakhand CEO, 150 FIRs have been registered under various sections for violation of model code of conduct since January 8," Uttarakhand PIB tweeted.Of these FIRs, 44 were filed for defacement of property, one for misuse of vehicle, 22 for illegal meeting/speech, etc, four for inducement/gratification to electors/cash distribution, and 79 were other complaints related to the elections.The Uttarakhand government has informed that so far 25,302 litres of liquor worth more than ₹1,30,33,000, smack of more than ₹1, 72, 46,000, charas worth more than ₹26,50,000, ₹1,82,10,000 of heroin, and ganja worth over ₹33,32,000 has been seized.A total of 3,90,675 publicity materials have been removed so far from public places in the context of Assembly elections.Also, a total of more than ₹2,45,20,000 cash and more than 20,69,000 silver have been recovered so far.As per the state government, so far, 24,537 licensed arms have been confiscated and three licenses have been cancelled by the government. Total 303 illegal weapons have been seized so far. Under CrPC section 107/116, 24,617 people have been booked and 39,722 have been challaned.The Model Code of Conduct (MCC) came into immediate effect, following the announcement of the Assembly poll dates in five states by the Elections Commission of India (ECI) on January 8.Uttarakhand is slated to go to the Assembly polls on February 14 and the counting of the votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-polls-150-firs-filed-for-violation-of-eci-s-model-code-of-conduct-101643627830954.html
31-01-2022||Pune||Monday Musings: The politics of wine in Maharashtra||PUNE During the winter of 2005, when the Grape Growers Association held its annual general meeting at Gultekdi in Pune, none in the media had expected that they will get a big story out of the event. The National Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was delivering the speech, and by five minutes he was to finish it, not much had transpired.Finally, before he concluded the speech, Pawar said if the grape growers have to raise their income, they should grow the variety that can be sent to wineries. His next comment: And the wine made of it should be allowed to be sold in grocery shop – “Let wine flow like cola”. When the news appeared in media, it stirred up a storm as opposition including Shiv Sena, which was then the main position party with Ramdas Kadam being the leader of the opposition, launched a caustic attack against Pawar and his party. It was a different matter that Kadam owned a bar at Kandivali in Mumbai, and, after latest government decision, allegations are made by BJP’s Kirit Somaiya that the new policy will benefit Shiv Sena leaders like Sanjay Raut as his family has stakes in the wine business owned by prominent industrialist. Raut has refuted the charges though. More than 15 years later when the state government has allowed the wine to be sold in supermarkets and walk-in stores across Maharashtra, we know that its seeds were sown in 2005.These shops, once the new policy is implemented, will be able to sell wine at a flat annual licensing fee of ₹ 5,000. The decision has predictably invited criticism from opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has called the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s move to turn Maharashtra into a “liquor capital.”Whether one supports the government decision or not, wine has always been close to those in power. Its formal introduction into government policy was made 21 years ago when the Congress-NCP government was then headed by Vilasrao Deshmukh who introduced the Maharashtra State Grape Processing Policy 2001. Wary of being politically incorrect, the Vilasrao Deshmukh government at that time avoided using wine into its title and instead restricted it to grapes, which the farmers related with more.The policy was introduced to give a fillip to the nascent industry growing around the Pune-Nashik belt. The policy offered a tax holiday for the wine produced in Maharashtra for two decades that ended this month. It also offered a slew of other concessions to the wine sector, including no stamp duty and registration and land at concessional rates. While the policy helped wine production in Maharashtra from 712 kL in 2002-03 to over 20 million litres in 2008-09, with the number of wineries jumping to over 75 in the same period.Those were the heydays of wine production in Maharashtra as many among those connected to political leaders saw wine as a vehicle to add value to their crop. After all, the reasoning went that wine grapes fetched only ₹25 a kilogram, while wine was selling for ₹300 per bottle, and if there was no excise duty involved, one would be able to make a tidy profit.If Vijay Mallya’s father Vittal Mallya collaborated with Dr Rossi to start producing Cinzano vermouths at Baramati, his son as the chairman of UB Group, too saw the same logic when he strived to launch wine tourism in Baramati, Pawar’s pocket borough, through Four Season winery in 2007-08. The winery had a 51 per cent stake of United Spirits and 49 per cent of local grape growers backed by Pawar.In neighbouring Akluj village in Solapur district, the two Mohite-Patil brothers – NCP leader Vijaysinh Mohite Patil’s sons Ranjitsinh and Arjunsinh who are currently with BJP - joined hands with Delhi’s Sekhri brothers and an Italian family to produce Fratelli. But it was Sham Chougule of Indage who pioneered the first genuine wine and set up a winery at Narayangaon although Sula wine from Nashik became the country’s top brand as the founder Rajeev Samant understood the Indian market better.However, the falling demand due to global recession and higher taxes in key markets played havoc in 2009-10 and 2010-11 as it led to a glut in the wine market, eventually resulting in Maharashtra’s big bang wine story going sour. The market flooded with an oversupply of wine amid demand not picking up forced many wineries to stop producing wine in 2009-10. Another reason that adversely affected the market was farmers were encouraged to cultivate wine grapes like table grapes which increased their yield. However, wine requires the opposite approach, with relentless pruning and discarding of grapes to focus only on the best. Most of the vineyards ended up producing poor wine, which would have no chance in the export market and even falls short in the developing domestic.Today, if the country has over 110 wineries, around 75 of them are in Maharashtra although only 40 to 45 are operational currently. Of these, just around 15 to 20 units are into direct marketing, while the rest are involved in contract manufacturing.If the MVA wants to promote wine to help grape cultivators, the BJP too has its share in it even as it is opposing the latest decision currently.In a bid to promote wines made in the 40-odd vineyards and wineries in Nashik district in north Maharashtra, the Maharashtra government, then headed by Devendra Fadnavis, had organised its first wine festival — ‘India Grape Harvest, Wine Festival’ during February 2018. The festival, aimed at promoting agro and wine tourism, was an initiative of the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), a government subsidiary that works for tourism development in the state.Despite all promotional measures, wine consumption in the state during the financial year for 2020-21 was just around 70 lakh litres. The beer consumption on the other hand stood at 30 crore litres, country liquor 32 crore litres and Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) at 20 crore litres. The wineries hope that with the government allowing the sale of wine at departmental stores, its consumption will increase. 
31-01-2022||Gurugram||Namaz case: SC agrees to hear plea for contempt action against Haryana officials||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to list for hearing a plea by former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb for contempt action against Haryana officers for their alleged failure to prevent incidents revolving around Friday namaz prayers in plots in Gurugram.The case was mentioned before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana for urgent listing of the matter by senior advocate Indira Jaising.The Bench also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli said it will list the matter before the appropriate Bench."This is a contempt action against Haryana officers for inaction to curb communal incidents. This is not based on newspaper reports. There are preventive measures laid down," Jaisingh said.The contempt petition was filed by former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb stating that Haryana authorities have failed to comply with the directions issued by the Supreme Court in the case, where it had issued a slew of directions in 2018 to control and prevent the increasing number of hate crimes, including mob violence and lynching.The contempt plea had said that in the few recent months, there has been a constant rise in incidents revolving around the Friday prayers offered by Muslims at the behest of certain "identifiable hooligans", who portray themselves falsely in the name of religion and seek to create an atmosphere of hatred and prejudice against one community across the city.The contempt petition had sought action against the Chief Secretary and the Director-General of Police of State of Haryana, Sanjeev Kaushal IAS and PK Agrawal IPS respectively.Later, Surjit Singh Yadav, Vice President of Hindu Sena, filed an application opposing the contempt action against officers of the Haryana government for their alleged inaction against the disruptions of namaz prayers in Gurugram.Yadav, filing intervention also sought directions on refreshment from offering namaz on public property in the Districts of Gurugram, Haryana."That the judgement rendered by this Court in the case of Tehseen S. Poonawalla is law of the land and each and every citizen in respective caste and religion have to follow. Therefore, in grab of offering namaz prayer, they cannot create a situation which sets out a platform for others to lodge a protest," the application had stated.It had added, "Indian society is a society of multi-religious people and therefore, members of each community have to follow the principle of self-restraint to maintain law and order situation. The Applicant has experienced that the assembly of a large number of people at one place to show religious supremacy creates a situation for law and order problems. Therefore, the Petitioner and his associate must impose upon themselves self restrain from encroaching public land or public property for offering namaz prayer."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/namaz-case-sc-agrees-to-hear-plea-for-contempt-action-against-haryana-officials-101643621547008.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||It’s raining weddings this February 5th, Basant Panchami||Basant Panchami, which falls on February 5 this year, is considered an auspicious day for marriage. No surprises then that in Delhi-NCR, there are weddings aplenty scheduled on the date. On the popularity of the date, astrologer Sarita Mishra explains, “February 5 is the abhuj muhurta. Shubh muhurta is considered to have special significance in the scriptures. On such dates, there is no need to see the muhurta, that is, the entire day is considered best. This is the last abhuj marriage muhurta [for now] as for the next one, we would have to wait for four months.We are expecting 5,000-10,000 marriages in Delhi-NCR on February 5.”To this, Delhi-based pandit Ram Meher adds, “Lag-bhag 10,000-15,000 shaadiyan honi chahiye iss din. We are finding it hard to adjust our schedules for so many weddings on one day.” Wedding planners and venue owners from the region also back up these expectations. Raghubir Singh, a wedding planner from the Capital, informs, “We are expecting over 8,000 weddings in Delhi-NCR (on Basant Panchami). Yeh din bahut shubh hota hai. Weather also stays good. Most wedding venues in Delhi-NCR are booked for that day.” Tushar Malik from Delhi-based Golden Leaf Weddings company, shares, “Our wedding venues in Delhi-NCR are mostly booked for February 5. We have multiple weddings on this day at Manesar, as well as at outstation venues such as Mussoorie and Jim Corbett.” And Jitendera Yadav, from FNP Venues, says, “All our Gurugram venues are booked for February 5, as well as the one at Greater Noida.”“Yeh date hamesha sold out jaati hai,” says Kunal Bhatia from sales team of Heritage Village, Manesar. He adds, “On Basant Panchami, we are doing small weddings, inventory full hai humari. We’ve multiple venues where we have divided the weddings. The weddings that were moved out of Delhi due to the earlier Covid-19 restrictions, we have picked up all those as well.”Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
31-01-2022||Kolkata||BJP to seek postponement of Bengal civic polls||KOLKATA: A delegation of Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders was expected to meet top officials of the West Bengal State Election Commission on Monday to seek postponement of civic polls in the state next month in view of the Covid-19 situation.“West Bengal BJP would meet State Election Commission on Monday to demand that the elections for remaining municipalities be postponed by four weeks in wake of Covid-19 situation,” said state BJP spokesman Samik Bhattacharya.On Sunday, at least 3,427 Covid-19 infections were reported in West Bengal, taking the number of active cases to 31,562. At least 33 people died on Sunday. The positivity rate was 6%.In December, the poll watchdog informed the Calcutta high court that it proposes to hold elections to five municipalities - Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri, Howrah, and Chandannagar - on January 22. It added elections to the remaining 106 civic bodies will be conducted on February 27.Elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation were held on December 19. A plea filed in the high court cited the pandemic situation and sought the postponement of the polls to remaining civic bodies. This month, the watchdog issued a fresh notification saying the polls to the five municipalities would be held on February 12 instead of January 22. The commission is yet to announce the dates of the elections to the remaining civic bodies.The daily count of Covid-19 cases shot up over 24,000 and the positivity rate touched 36%. The cases have dropped over the past two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-to-seek-postponement-of-bengal-civic-polls-101643605406702.html
31-01-2022||Patna||Patna’s active workforce getting infected with Covid-19 the most||PATNA: The active workforce in the age group of 25-49 years accounted for 51.5% of Patna’s 2,599 active Covid-19 cases on Thursday, which was almost one-fifth of the active cases in Bihar and the highest among the state’s 38 districts, said officials familiar with the development.The positivity rate of 21% is also on the higher side in this age group, pointing to the fact that the office goers and business professionals are the ones getting infected the most to Covid-19 during the third wave of the pandemic in Patna. The figure goes up further if the 24% positivity rate in the 50-74 years age group is taken into account.Government doctors in Bihar superannuate at the age of 67 years.Interestingly, most symptomatic cases are also from this age group, accounting for 2.8% of the 5% cases reported from Patna during the last 24 hours on Thursday.“The silver lining, however, is that hospitalisation of patients due to complications arising from Omicron, which is now the dominant strain of Covid-19, is down to less than 1% of the cases in the third wave, as compared to 7-12% during the second wave of the pandemic,” said Chandrashekhar Singh, district magistrate of Patna.Between April and May last year, the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, 5,544 patients, infected by the virus, were hospitalised in Patna, Singh added.“The possibility of the active age group getting infected is higher this time since infectivity rate is seven times higher in Omicron, which is the predominant strain of the virus during the present third wave, as compared to the Delta variant in the second wave of the pandemic last year. This age group becomes susceptible of contracting the virus because it is the active people who step out of homes more frequently and come in contact with many people, a large number of whom may be infected but asymptomatic and be carriers of SARS CoV-2. Though infectivity is higher, lethality or the severity of infection, is less in the third wave as compared to the second,” said Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani, professor and head of anaesthesiology and dean (academics), AIIMS-Patna.“The infection this time is primarily confined to the upper respiratory tract, with common symptoms such as moderate to high fever, cough, back ache and body pain. Moreover, with over 80% of the eligible population (15 years and above) having got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, it has helped build antibodies, reducing the fatality rate as compared to the second wave,” he added.Though the positivity rate of SARS CoV-2 infection was highest 30% in the 75-99 years age group, Dr Bhadani attributed it to co-morbidity of senior citizens.“Senior citizens, with co-morbidity, have compromised immunity. Most would have contracted the virus in course of going to meet the doctor at the hospital or clinic for the treatment of their primary disease,” said Dr Bhadani.A high 96% Covid-19 cases are now asymptomatic in Patna, as compared to 94% during the third wave of the pandemic, according to the government data.As high as 95.66% of the asymptomatic cases in Patna are now from the office-going active age group from 18-71 years, as compared to 94.33% during the second wave, the government data said.Most of the active cases are from the densely populated urban areas while their number is comparatively less in rural and sparsely populated areas, reveals a block-wise analysis of Patna district.“There are ventilation issues in closed rooms, like school, air-conditioned office, shopping mall, cinema hall, etc. The SARS CoV-2 virus remains suspended in the air for longer duration inside a closed room as compared to an open area. Besides, Covid-19 cases are more in crowded urban areas, having higher population density, as compared to villages, where there are more open areas and better ventilation,” said Mansoon Mohanty, team lead, Patna district resource unit, Care India, which has been partnering the government of Bihar in its health initiatives.Patna’s recovery rate was around 86% as compared to the state’s 96.97%.Lesser inhabited blocks, with far less medical support system, like Daniyawan, Ghoswari, Dhanarua, Bakhtiyarpur, Masaurhi, Belchi, Pandarak and Athmalgola had better recovery percentage than Patna, though in absolute number the cases were far less among the 23 blocks of Patna district.
31-01-2022||Gurugram||2-yr-old leopard hit by speeding vehicle on KMP Expressway succumbs to injuries||A two-year-old male leopard allegedly hit by a speeding vehicle near the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway on Saturday morning died at the veterinary hospital in Rohtak zoo on Sunday while undergoing treatment, said forest officials. Rajender Parsad Dangi, divisional wildlife officer, Gurugram, confirmed the development and said that the leopard succumbed to the injuries on Sunday. “When our staff had rescued the leopard, it was unable to move. The leopard suffered a fracture in its left leg and spinal cord due to which it was unable to move. The animal had sustained grave injuries and it was also facing problem in breathing during the treatment,” said Dangi. Officials on Saturday said that the leopard may have met with an accident on the KMP expressway three days ago, but had entered a field to take shelter and could not move further due to the grave injuries. In the past too, leopard deaths have been reported from Gurugram and nearby districts after allegedly being hit by vehicles. In June last year, a two-year-old female leopard was found dead on Pali-Surajkund road near Gurugram with autopsy reports suggesting it may have been hit by a vehicle. This was the seventh leopard death to be reported from this region since 2015. In October 2019, a one and half-year-old female leopard was killed by a truck on NH-48 in Manesar. Activists have been demanding wildlife friendly measures, such as construction of underpasses on highways passing through the Aravallis, which has a good population of leopards. Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist said, “We lost another leopard due to lack of wildlife friendly roads. I have been writing to the department for over two years now to construct wildlife underpasses at key points as Aravallis have a good population of leopards.Due to lack of proper checks, we are losing our wildlife.” In 2017, the Wildlife Institute of India, in a study titled ‘Mapping landuse/landcover Patterns in Aravallis Haryana’ concerning the status of key wildlife species, had mentioned, “Highways passing through the wildlife habitats have adversely affected the fauna in these forests. Fast moving vehicles kill these animals when they move across these road stretches.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2yrold-leopard-hit-by-speeding-vehicle-on-kmp-expressway-succumbs-to-injuries-101643576844436.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir LG takes stock of AIIMS, IIT Jammu projects||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday reviewed the progress of mega projects of Jammu division through camera-mounted drones via videoconferencing from his office at Raj Bhawan. The review included three undergoing projects- AIIMS Jammu, IIT Jammu, and Jambu Zoo. The Lieutenant Governor lauded the efforts of implementing agencies for fast progress on the projects. During the meeting, the chair was briefed about the physical and financial progress of the projects. Almost ₹1,661 crore has been sanctioned for the AIIMS, Jammu, project at Vijaypur, including ₹1,452 crore for the construction and ₹209 crore for medical equipment and furniture, while works worth ₹1,253.78 crore have been tendered so far, informed Prof Shakti Gupta, director, AIIMS Jammu. Under Phase-I of the project, the prestigious project includes hospital; medical college; nursing college; staff quarters; student accommodation; auditorium, Ayush building, night shelter and other development works. It was informed that the manpower deployed at the site has been enhanced manifold for completion of the work within the stipulated time period. Briefing about the progress made on permanent campus of IIT, Jammu, Dr Manoj Singh Gaur, director, IIT, Jammu, informed the meeting that an amount of ₹1,283.94 crore have been sanctioned for the project. It was informed that completed works under Phase-1A and Phase-1B have already been inaugurated by Home Minister, while works under Phase 1C are in progress. On Jambu Zoo, funds to the tune of ₹49.17 crore have been approved against the total project cost of Phase-I worth ₹62.41 crore. Pertinently, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) was approached for approval of layout plan as required under the provisions of the Central Act i.e. Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and revised layout and animal enclosure designs were submitted to the CZA for approval. The expected dates of completion of the mega projects are March 2023 for phase 1 of AIIMS Jammu, September 2022 for phase 1 of Jambu Zoo, and April 2023 for phase 1C of IIT Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-lg-reviews-progress-of-aiims-jammu-iit-jammu-101643576604581.html
31-01-2022||Gurugram||Daily cases drop, Gurugram reports three Covid deaths for fourth day in a row||The daily fresh cases being reported in the district are dropping with Gurugram recording 1,267 new infections on Sunday, around 100 cases less than the 1,388 cases reported on Saturday. However, the district reported three Covid fatalities for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, taking the death toll in Gurugram to 960. Meanwhile, 1,486 patients were declared ‘discharged’ on Sunday, taking the active case tally to 7,484. The positivity rate--the proportion of samples which return positive for Covid-19 out of the total samples tested-- on Sunday stood at 18.88% as 1,267 samples were Covid positive out of the 6,710 tests conducted by the health department. “All the three deaths reported in Gurugram on Sunday were of senior citizens who died due to comorbidities. Though there is a decline in Covid cases, deaths are still being reported. As most hospitalised patients are above the age of 60 with comorbidities, the risk of deaths is higher and Covid-19 is an incidental finding,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. Of the 960 Covid-19 deaths reported in Gurugram so far since the start of the pandemic, 642 patients have died due to comorbidities, shows official records. Meanwhile, on Sunday, a total of 4,640 doses were administered to beneficiaries in the district, including 1,676 first doses, 2,319 second doses and 645 precautionary doses. As many as 283 children in the 15-18 age group received their first dose in the district on Sunday. Gurugram has administered a total of 4.77 million vaccine doses till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-cases-drop-gurugram-reports-three-covid-deaths-for-fourth-day-in-a-row-101643576544605.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||4,615 Covid cases, 7 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir; highest active infections in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 4,615 infections of Covid-19 and seven related deaths on Sunday, an official health bulletin said.As many as 6,557 patients recovered, taking the overall active cases to 40,270.Covid cases had breached all records since the pandemic started with 6,570 infections on January 25 (Tuesday). However, after that, the cases slowly declined with 5,606 infections on Wednesday, 4,959 infections on Thursday, 4,354 infections on Friday and 4,175 cases on Saturday. The J&K administration on Sunday in a Covid review meeting decided to reduce the weekly restrictions by seven hours.“There shall be complete restriction on non-essential movement in the entire union territory of J&K from every Friday 9 pm to Monday 6 am,” said an order by the state executive committee (SEC) led by chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta said.Earlier, the restrictions would start from 2 pm on every Friday and will end by Monday morning.The night curfew will continue from 9 pm to 6 am in the union territory.The month of January so far has contributed 91,585 cases and 131 deaths.The active cases in the union territory were at 40,270, decreasing from the highest such cases (47,969) on Wednesday (January 26). On December 31, the union territory had just 1,337 active cases.Srinagar is the district with the highest number of Covid active cases at 12,701 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 5,672 and 5,378 active cases, respectively.The officials said 77,108 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking the day’s test positivity rate (TPR) to 5.98%.The authorities have increased the testing rate this month as earlier they have been conducting between 42,000 and 56,000 average daily tests every month from May to December.Of the total infections on Thursday, Kashmir valley saw almost 69% of the infections with 3,214 cases and three deaths while 1,401 cases and four deaths were reported in the Jammu division.In Kashmir valley, the surge was highest in Srinagar witnessing 889 cases followed by 663 in Budgam, 613 in Kupwara, 479 in Baramulla and 244 in Anantnag.In the Jammu division, the Jammu district reported 826 cases followed by 151 in Udhampur, 133 in Doda and 59 in Kishtwar.This month has witnessed a steep rise in cases with daily infections shooting up sharply from 169 on Jan 01 to 6,570 on Jan 25.However, of the 5,038 beds dedicated for Covid patients, just over 10.79 percent or 544 are occupied in J&K.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 17,144 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to cross 2.042 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,87,946 while the recovery rate has reached 89.62%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 4,32,875 and the death toll has reached 4,659. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,199 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 897 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4615-covid-cases-7-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-highest-active-infections-in-srinagar-101643576244403.html
31-01-2022||Gurugram||Over 28,000 birds found in Sultanpur national park during 2nd statewide bird count||The state wildlife department on Sunday said that more than 28,000 birds of 124 different species were spotted at the Sultanpur national park, during the second statewide bird count. MS Malik, chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Gurugram circle, said besides Sultanpur park, the bird count was carried out at Bhindawas bird sanctuary and Najafgarh Jheel, and other wetlands in the state. Malik said, “A total of 28,026 birds of 126 different species were seen only at the Sultanpur park. The count of birds observed at other sites is still being recorded.” The bird count that began at 9:30am at Sultanpur on Sunday, he said. Malik said, “Information collated from these counts will help us in planning better wildlife management strategies.” Some of the bird species observed at Sultanpur park on Sunday include the Greater spotted eagle, Common kestrel, White-tailed lapwing, Black-tailed godwit, among others, officials of the forest department said. “Over 28,000 birds were spotted at Sultanpur national park during the bird count on Sunday. The focus was on Ramsar sites but the bird count was conducted at all wetlands of the state. Sighting of so many species shows that the habitat is in good shape and this will help us maintain a baseline data,” said Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector of Gurugram. In 2020 winter baseline count, 213 species of birds were observed in Gurugram district. In August last year, the Sultanpur national park was notified as a Ramsar site--a wetland of international importance notified by the Union ministry of environment. The Bhindawas wildlife sanctuary was also notified as a Ramsar site, making these two the first such sites in Haryana. Experts said such bird counts are a welcome move as they help create a database which can be used further for enhancing the habitats or wetlands. Pankaj Gupta, a birder with the Delhi Bird Foundation said, “It is good that such statewide bird counts are being conducted as it helps in creating an official database, which can be used in future for the protection and conservation of wetlands. This year, sighting of birds, such as the Great bittern and Penduline tit in wetlands around Sultanpur is interesting as they are being spotted regularly since the past two months, which is not usual for Delhi-NCR.” Nikhil Devasar, founder of Delhi Bird Foundation, said, “Sighting of 124 species of birds in just Sultanpur national park is good news. On an average, over 100 different species are sighted during morning bird walks. This is just the number for the protected area, more birds are definitely there in wetlands outside the boundary of the protected area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-28-000-birds-found-in-sultanpur-national-park-during-2nd-statewide-bird-count-101643576184250.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||Delhiwale: From the old age of movies||The ticket seller is sitting outside the cinema theatre. His chair is placed on the cozy, sunlit driveway. Romy, the dog, is lounging lazily beside him. A few men enter the cinema’s gate. The box office windows are closed. They walk straight to the seller, who takes out a sheaf of cinema tickets from his shirt pocket and starts handing them one by one, on the payment of 30 rupees. Soon, half a dozen men step inside the main door for the afternoon show, here in Gurugram’s single-screen Raj Cinema, since the 1950s.Now, somebody will have to start the screening. In most other theatres, that process has been computerised. No staff is specifically employed to operate the projector, or change the film’s many reels during the course of a single show. Of course there might still be a person in the projector room, but their job is to press a few keys on the computer.In this regard, Raj Cinema is old-fashioned. It continues to rely on the services of a projector operator. The reel of the movie have been with the cinema for a long time.“I’ve been working here for many years,” says Vinod Das, a native of Samastipur in Bihar. In his late 20s, he has a friendly but quiet temperament. He agrees to show the working of the projection room, and politely guides his interlocutor to the cinema’s back area — as if escorting a guest to his drawing room.The rear side of the cinema compound is huge, overgrown with bushes and unwieldy trees. Mr Das shows no haste, though he is aware that the handful of spectators in the auditorium must be waiting for the movie to start. “Most of them are regulars, they come daily to pass the time, they like sitting, they are in no hurry,” he says.He passes by a yard littered with discarded furniture. Next, he climbs a twirly staircase, walks through a narrow corridor, and opens a door on the left. This is the projection room. The walls are covered with old calendars and posters of gods. The center pieces are the two gigantic black projectors.With practised gestures, Mr Das starts to fiddle around with one of the projectors. He opens a lid on one side of it, puts his hand inside, and begins to adjust some fixture. “I live in the compound, I cook my own meals.” He now opens the flap of a disc-like thing at the top, and presto — the movie’s reel pops out into his hands, which he expertly feeds into another space in the projector. He continues to carry out a series of operations, making a lot of tik-tak sounds. Finally, the movie begins.This is the moment when Mr Das finally stills his hands, smiling shyly. He seems at peace, as if pleased that things went so smoothly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-from-the-old-age-of-movies-101643576034342.html
31-01-2022||Gurugram||CM Khattar directs MCG to set up control centre to monitor mechanised sweepers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday directed the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram to set up a control room at the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) so that the mechanised sweeping machines run by the civic agency can be monitored with ease. The chief minister on Sunday held a meeting with MCG officials at the PWD Guest House, where he suggested that municipal corporation to work in coordination with the GMDA and ensure the mechanised sweeping system is operated and monitored with ease and is utilised effectively, said officials in the know of the matter. Earlier on late Saturday evening, Khattar inspected the MCG control room and the GMDA’s integrated command and control centre to check their functioning and operation of the sweeping machines. The chief minister asked for a detailed report from the MCG regarding the functioning of the machines. Dr Vaishali Sharma, additional commissioner of MCG, said they gave a detailed presentation to the CM on how the mechanised sweeping trucks operate at night in the city. “We briefed him about the routes of the trucks, how the routes were selected and the GPS system used to track the machines. The chief minister asked us to set up a monitoring station at GMDA’s control centre and we will take steps in this direction,” she said. A spokesperson for the district administration said during his visit to the GMDA office on Saturday, Khattar conducted a detailed enquiry into the operation of the CCTV cameras across the city, the functioning of which is monitored by the integrated command and control centre. He also sought detailed explanation about the functioning of vehicle tracking system and other functions. These facilities will be reviewed by the CM after a month, said the spokesperson. During his interaction with senior GMDA officials, Khttar also directed that facial recognition system should be started at the ICCC for keeping a watch on suspicious persons and activities using the CCTV cameras installed across the city. Khattar said such a system has already been made functional in Karnal, which is also his hometown. He also suggested that operations of the city bus service be monitored from the control centre. 
31-01-2022||Delhi||Drugs worth ₹43 crore seized at airport, woman held||A 40-year-old foreign national was caught allegedly with drugs worth over ₹43 crore at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, with customs officials terming it one of the biggest recoveries at the Delhi airport in the last one year.A customs official said that the suspect, who hailed from Ivory Coast and arrived in Delhi from Doha on Thursday, was intercepted on the basis of a tip-off. An examination of her baggage allegedly revealed a white powder concealed in the false bottom of her suitcase. “The powder tested positive for cocaine. It weighed 2,880 gram and is worth ₹43.2 crore in the international market,” the official said.“The woman was arrested under sections of the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act. The white powdery substance has been seized... Investigation is underway,” said a customs official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drugs-worth-43-crore-seized-at-airport-woman-held-101643575527309.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||JeM commander among five militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir||A top Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander and a Pakistani were among the five militants killed in two overnight gunfights with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, officials said. The encounters between militants and security forces, including the police, army and the CRPF, started on Saturday evening in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district and central Kashmir’s Budgam district. The officials said the encounters culminated in the wee hours on Sunday with the killing of four militants of JeM at Pulwama and one member of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) at Budgam.“During the past 12 hours, two successful anti-terrorist operations were conducted by the police and security forces in Pulwama and Budgam districts resulting in the elimination of five terrorists linked to proscribed terror outfits JeM and LeT. The killed terrorists include a top JeM commander Zahid Wani and a foreign Pakistani terrorist Kafeel Bhai, alias Chotu,” said inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar.“The elimination of the most wanted terrorists is a big success for us,” he said.This year the security forces have achieved major successes against the militants.“During the current year, so far 21 terrorists, including eight Pakistanis, have been killed in 11 encounters and 13 among them were affiliated to JeM outfit,” Kumar said in a press conference.The police said that they first launched a joint cordon and search operation along with the army’s 55 RR and CRPF’s 182/183 Battalion after getting information regarding the presence of terrorists in village Naira of Pulwama.A police spokesman said that the hiding militants fired indiscriminately on the joint search parties. However, due to darkness and to ensure the safety of the civilians trapped inside the cordon area, the joint parties “exercised maximum restraint”. “After the evacuation of the civilians to safer places, the fire was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, four terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of the encounter,” the spokesman said.The four have been identified as members of JeM which include Zahid Ahmad Wani alias Uzair, a top commander from south Kashmir’s Karimabad, Pulwama, Kafeel Bhari, alias Chotu, a resident of Pakistan, Waheed Ahmad Reshi, a resident of Khadermoh, Kakapora in Pulwama, and Inayat Ahmad Mir, a resident of Naira, Pulwama.Zahid Wani was a categorised militant active since May-2017 and was involved in several militant crime cases, including attacks on security forces and civilian atrocities. “He was involved in various attacks on patrolling parties of the army at Below, Rajpora, Tiken, Pulwama, Parigam, Pulwama besides a grenade attack on police station, Pulwama, and firing upon CRPF camp at Rajpora,” the spokesman said.Wani was also “involved in the killing” of a civilian, Azad Ahmad Dar of Kangan Pulwama.“Moreover, the terrorist Zahid Wani was also instrumental in motivating the gullible youth to join terror folds and other criminal activities,” the spokesman said.The police also said that Zahid Wani was one of the masterminds behind various IED attacks in the region.“The killed foreign terrorist Kafeel Bhai was operating in the Pulwama and Shopian belts and involved in a series of terror crime cases. The killed terrorist Waheed Ahmad was active since 2021 while as Inayat Ahmad had joined terror folds recently,” the spokesman said.IGP Vijay Kumar said that Inayat Ahmad was a ‘hybrid terrorist’ as he along with three militants was killed in his own house. “Last year, we were mocked for coining the term ‘hybrid terrorist’. This is the best example that there are many such people who accompany terrorists but their names are not on our lists. Such people get killed in encounters and when we check their devices digitally, we see how much they were involved,” Kumar said.The IGP said that Inayat was given an opportunity to come out and his family also made an announcement from outside but he did not come out. “He was moving around with terrorists and he was killed in his own house. We will file a UAPA case and book his family as well,” Kumar said.The forces recovered arms and ammunition, including an M4 rifle, two AK series rifles and two pistols, from the site of the Pulwama encounter. “As the joint search parties were approaching towards the suspected spot, the hiding terrorist started firing indiscriminately on the search parties which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” the spokesman said.“In the ensuing encounter, the hiding terrorist identified as Bilal Ahmad Khan resident of Chill Brass Khansahab was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of encounter,” he said.As per police records, he was a categorised militant linked to proscribed outfit LeT (TRF) and part of a group involved in several militant crime cases. The police said that arms and ammunition including an AK-56 rifle, two AK Magazines and five AK rounds have been recovered from the site of the Budgam encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jem-commander-among-five-militants-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101643575705171.html
31-01-2022||Gurugram||Two held for assaulting man over ‘personal enmity’ in Faridabad||The Faridabad Police on Saturday arrested two accused for allegedly assaulting a man with iron rods outside a dhaba in the Huda market on Thursday.The two accused, identified as Nikki and Arjun, who were in an inebriated state, were arrested for thrashing the victim “over personal enmity”.Police said locals caught hold of Sahil, another accused in the case while he was trying to escape after committing the crime and handed him over to cops on Thursday itself.A video of the incident was shared widely on social media platforms on Friday, following which teams were formed and the arrests made.Police said the three accused met in a gym and became friends. They used to meet every evening and get high on alcohol.Accused Arjun runs a shop and sells supplements to gym goers and used to persuade them to buy products from him. The three were produced before the Faridabad court and were sent to 14-day judicial custody, said police.Narender Kadiyan, the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (crime) said that the incident took place when Tosim alias Waseem, a resident of Mawai village in Faridabad’s Kheripul, had gone out for dinner with his friends. “An altercation took place between him and the trio, which soon took an ugly turn. The three accused brutally assaulted Tosim, whose friends shied away from rescuing him,” he said.“The three accused were inebriated and started the fight intentionally. One of them took an iron rod used in the tandoor for making rotis and attacked Tosim with it,” Kadiyan said.According to police, Tosim suffered severe injuries and was seen pleading with the accused to leave him alone in the video, but no one in the eatery came to his rescue.Later, a PCR van on duty reached the spot and Tosim was taken to a nearby private hospital, where he is undergoing treatment, police said.A case under Sections 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged at the Old Faridabad police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-held-for-assaulting-man-over-personal-enmity-in-faridabad-101643575464228.html
31-01-2022||Noida||Noida police arrest two for murdering Dadri resident||Gautam Budh Nagar police on Saturday arrested two people for allegedly murdering a resident of Dadri. Police said the suspects took the victim to Meerut on the pretext of getting him a job but later killed him with the motive of stealing his money.According to police, the deceased, 40-year-old Aslam (identified by his first name), ran a hardware shop in Green Park colony in Dadri. On January 19, his wife Sahina gave a written complaint to Badalpur police saying that Aslam was missing since January 12.“As per the complaint, Aslam called Sahina on January 12 from his shop saying that he is going to look for another job and will come home late. However, he did not return and his mobile was switched off, following which his family members filed a missing complaint,” said Dinesh Kumar, station house officer at Badalpur police station.During investigation, police found CCTV footage from the area near Aslam’s shop and found Aslam leaving the place on a two-wheeler with his acquaintance Vinesh (47), a resident of Chapraula village in Dadri.“When Vinesh was questioned, he said he dropped Aslam in Ghaziabad’s Lal Kuan on January 12 and was not in touch with him since then. Vinesh was let go after questioning. However, after further investigation and electronic surveillance, we suspected Vinesh’s role and called him again for questioning on January 28,” said Kumar.Vinesh confessed to the police that he took Aslam to Meerut on his scooter on the pretext of getting him a high paying job there. On the way, Vinesh also picked his friend Rajesh Kumar (30) from Partapur in Meerut, where he was working as a security guard at an under construction Metro project.“Both the accused knew that Aslam had recently taken a loan of ₹5 lakh from the bank. They knew about his bank account, which was linked to his mobile phone. With the motive of transferring the loan amount to their own accounts, Vinesh and Rajesh hatched a conspiracy to kill Aslam and then use his mobile to transfer the money. On the night of January 12, they killed Aslam and buried his body at an isolated area in Meerut. However, they could not transfer the money from his account,” said the police officer.After interrogating Vinesh, police also picked Rajesh from his residence in Meerut. On Saturday, Aslam’s body was recovered from the spot where the accused had buried his body and handed it over to his family after post mortem. Vinesh and Rajesh have been booked for murder and under relevant sections of the IPC, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-arrest-two-for-murdering-dadri-resident-101643575404214.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP trying to remove Mahatma Gandhi’s ideology: Ghulam Ahmed Mir||Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir on Sunday claimed that the BJP was trying to remove Mahatma Gandhi’s ideology. Leading party leaders here to pay tributes to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Chowk, Satwari, he recalled the great contributions of Mahatma Gandhi in India’s freedom struggle. “The entire world learns from the philosophy of Gandhi which has awakened the world and taught everyone to live in co-existence. However, some forces in this country were and are against his philosophy. The ideology and philosophy that killed Gandhi have to be defeated to keep this country united and maintain peace and harmony,” he said in an indirect reference to the BJP. “Congress workers and every right-thinking citizen has to strengthen the philosophy of Gandhi to defeat the radical forces,” he added. Mir also regretted that the home ministry’s order regarding observing martyrs’ day on Sunday, “deliberately” omitted the name of Mahatma Gandhi from the list. “It shows the respect of the present government towards Mahatma Gandhi,” he said. Working president of the JKPCC Raman Bhalla said Gandhi was an institution and a philosophy, which can’t be killed, though he was assassinated on this day in 1948 physically. “The philosophy of Gandhi is more relevant today and the philosophy that killed Gandhi has to be defeated and killed to live in peace and harmony in this country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-trying-to-remove-mahatma-gandhi-s-ideology-ghulam-ahmed-mir-101643575344266.html
31-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Two of private company booked for damage to greenbelt||A case was registered against two executives of a private telecom company on Saturday for allegedly damaging a portion of the greenbelt on the Old Delhi Road from Rani Shower to Krishna Chowk. The area is being developed by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA).Officials said despite repeated reminders to get proper permission from the GMDA before executing their work, the executives did not pay any heed and continued to lay cables, following which the damage was caused.A case was registered at the Palam Vihar police station under Section 120 B (conspiracy) and Section 3 of the PDPP (The Prevention of Damage to Public Property) Act.LK Bhatia, a sub-divisional engineer with the GMDA, said that the agency lodged a complaint on January 10, against the telecom executives identified as Jasbir Singh and Satbir for damaging the greenbelt on the Old Delhi Road.“Singh had laid pipes and cables for a private company without getting permission from the GMDA. He was asked verbally several times to get permission from the department. Again, on the night of January 26, both laid pipes and cables for the telecom company without seeking the required permission for the same,” Bhatia said.Bhatia said a complaint was received by the higher authorities of the GMDA and a junior engineer was directed to take prompt action and remove the cables. Later, an FIR was also lodged against both the accused.GMDA officials said they removed the cables on Sunday from Rani Shower to the CNG pump on the Old Delhi Road.Police said they have registered a case against the duo for damaging government property by digging land in the greenbelt without getting valid permission from the GMDA.“The suspects were encroaching government land and despite repeated warnings, they continued to lay underground cables,” said Jitender Kumar, the station house officer (SHO) at the Palam Vihar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-two-of-private-company-booked-for-damage-to-greenbelt-101643575166032.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Schoolteacher loses purse to bike-borne snatcher in Panchkula||A Manimajra-based schoolteacher lost her purse to a motorcycle-borne snatcher near the main market of Sector-7, Panchkula, on Saturday afternoon.The teacher, Nishi Chadha, who teaches at DC Model School, Manimajra, said she had just left the school and reached the main market when a bike-borne man snatched her purse and sped away. “I could not note down the registration number of the motorcycle. My purse contained some important documents and a pair of gold earrings,” she said. A case under Section 379-A (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Panchkula’s Sector-7 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/schoolteacher-loses-purse-to-bike-borne-snatcher-in-panchkula-101643575164746.html
31-01-2022||Noida||Owaisi targets SP, BJP during election campaign in Ghaziabad||Lashing out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP), All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday said that leaders of both the parties are playing “politics of polarisation” and trying to appease a certain section of the society.Owaisi, who was in Ghaziabad to campaign for his party’s two candidates -- Manmohan Jha from Sahibabad and Mehtab (uses single name) from Loni -- said this while talking to reporters later in the day. The AIMIM has announced an alliance -- Bhagidari Parivartan Morcha -- with former UP minister Babu Singh Kushwaha’s Jan Adhikaar Party, and other small parties, which claim to have a support base among the backward classes, Dalits and minority communities. Owaisi has said that the alliance will contest 100 seats in the upcoming seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Ghaziabad goes to polls in the first phase on February 10.Owaisi said the Muslim voter base was not the captive of any party, and that his party had emerged as an alternative. “When we contest elections, we fight with all candidates. So, we want support from all corners for our candidates, and would like Panditji (Sahibabad candidate Manmohan Jha) to become an MLA. Yesterday [Saturday], I came to know from the media that the SP has reduced the number of tickets of Muslim candidates by 45%,” Owaisi told reporters at Shaheed Nagar in Sahibabad. Replying to a question about BJP leaders raking up issues of previous riots such as the ones in Muzaffarnagar (2013), Kairana (2014), and Bulandshahr (2018) during their election campaigns, Owaisi said: “This clearly indicates that they are playing politics of polarisation. During their election campaigns, Akhilesh Yadav (SP chief) and chief minister Yogi (Adityanath) are trying to prove who is a bigger Hindu than Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” While Jha is pitted against political heavyweights such as BJP’s sitting MLA Sunil Sharma and SP’s Amarpal Sharma among others, Mehtab has to fight against BJP’s Nand Kishor Gurjar and SP’s Madan Bhaiya, a four-time MLA, among others. When asked whether he will ally with a major political party after the elections, Owaisi ducked the question. “The Bhagidari Parivartan Morcha will be blessed by the people, and our chief minister will be Babu Singh Kushwaha,” he said. Speaking of his plan for the Sahibabad constituency, AIMIM candidate Jha said, “Our party represents every section of the society. If I win, I will try to set up a government hospital in Sahibabad. I will also work to provide water supply to Khoda Colony,” Jha said. Originally from Bihar, Jha presently lives in Shaheed Nagar. Meanwhile, BJP rubbished the charges levelled by the AIMIM chief. “We are doing the politics of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’. We don’t do politics of caste or religion. Our development works have benefitted every section of society, including the minorities,” said Dinesh Singhal, Ghaziabad district president of BJP. SP leaders also said that they have garnered support from every section of society. “We are getting support from every section and class of people. Muslim voters are also with the SP,” said Rashid Malik, district president of SP. Political experts viewed this as the AIMIM‘s attempt to make inroads in western UP. “Owaisi’s alliance will get minorities‘ votes, but it is to be seen how much difference it makes. Owaisi’s party is still trying to make inroads in western UP,” said KK Sharma, associate professor (history) at MM College, Modinagar. 
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali: Dera Bassi candidates have an edge in terms of educational qualification||While Dera Bassi has the notorious distinction of having the most candidates with criminal cases, it also has something to take pride in – the educational qualification of the candidates in fray for the upcoming assembly elections.Dera BassiOf the three assembly seats in Mohali district, Dera Bassi is the only one where four out of the five candidates fielded by main political parties have an educational qualification of graduation or above. The graduates on this seat include Kuljeet Singh Randhawa of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), NK Sharma of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) who has a science degree from Panjab University (PU), Navjot Singh Saini of Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) who has completed his graduation and is currently pursuing law from PU, and Congress candidate Deepinder Singh Dhillon, a law graduate. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Sanjeev Khanna has studied till the intermediate-level (Class-12). MohaliIn Mohali assembly seat, former mayor Kulwant Singh, who has studied only till Class-10, is the least qualified candidate across all seats. After him come former Punjab health minister and Congress candidate Balbir Singh Sidhu and SAD candidate Parvinder Singh Sohana who have studied till the intermediate-level. They are up against BJP’s Sanjeev Vashisht, a B.Tech degree-holder from Bangalore, and SSM candidate Ravneet Singh Brar, who has completed MBA from Amity University.KhararIn the Kharar assembly seat, SAD candidate Ranjit Singh Gill, Congress candidate Vijay Kumar Sharma, Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) candidate Kamaldeep Saini are graduates, while AAP candidate Anmol Gagan Mann and SSM candidate Paramdeep Singh Baidwan have studied till Class-12.So does educational qualification matter?Three-time MLA and former cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who mentioned in his affidavit that he has studied till the second year of Bachelor of Arts, says that it the political experience that counts. “I could not complete my graduation due to some personal reasons. But what I lack in terms of education, I make up for it with my vast political experience. I have been an MLA for the last 15 years and worked for the development of the city,” he says. BJP candidate Sanjeev Vashisht, a B.Tech holder, begs to differ. “To bring qualitative improvement in the working of the system, there is a need to have qualified candidates. I have decided to contest elections to improve my city as it faces several issues.”Balwinder Singh, a sarpanch of Lakhnaur village, says, “Education is important but many of these leaders can beat even the most-qualified persons with their vast political experience.”
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chillai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest winter period, warmer this year: Experts||Kashmir’s harshest first stage of winter, Chillai Kalan ended on Sunday with the sun playing hide and seek from the partly cloudy sky.The weather observers say that the 40-day Chillai Kalan this year was less severe than the past three years.“This Chillai Kalan was relatively warmer and we didn’t experience extreme sub-zero temperatures particularly in the city. The precipitation was also less. The mild snow layer didn’t sustain on city surfaces leading to dry weather while the skies remained mostly cloudy,” said IMD meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with Chillai Kalan from December 21 which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures during the season followed by 20 more days which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).For the past few days, the sun appeared regularly peeking through the partially cloudy skies.Director of J&K’s weather centre of the Indian meteorological department, Sonam Lotus said that weather was partly to generally cloudy at most places of J&K.He said that there was a possibility of light rain and snow on January 31 and February 1 and then on February 3.“Overall, weather is likely to remain partly to generally cloudy next week starting Monday. There is no forecast of any major weather system till the first week of February,” he said.Last year, the winter had prolonged with snowfall starting in November which had damaged apple and saffron crop, uprooted trees and led to the loss of lives of 19 persons, including 10 soldiers, in many snow-related accidents and avalanches. Also, the minimum temperatures had dropped to record levels in Srinagar leading to freezing of water bodies and pipes carrying potable water.On December 19, 2020, the mercury had plunged to record -6.6°C in Srinagar while this winter on December 18, 2021, the weather office recorded -6.0°C in the city. However, after that the temperatures this winter mostly remained below -5.0°C. Many nights, the mercury remained above zero.“Clearly, last winter was harsh as there was very heavy snowfall in January, more than normal. This year the snowfall was less and minimum temperatures in Srinagar were also less. Overall, this Chillai Kalan was warmer and comparatively better than the past few years,” said meteorologist Farooq Ahmad Bhat.The lowest night temperature on Sunday in Kashmir was recorded in the northern ski resort of Gulmarg where mercury dropped to -7.4°C. The resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded -7.0°C.The mercury settled at -2.3°C in summer capital Srinagar during the night while it was -3-2°C in south Kashmir’s Qazigund, the gateway into Kashmir from Jammu. It was -2.8°C in Kokernag, -4.0°C in Konibal and -2.4°C in Kupwara. The day temperatures on Saturday remained lowest at Gulmarg with 0.8°C and Kupwara recording the highest of 13.8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chillai-kalan-kashmir-s-harshest-winter-period-warmer-this-year-experts-101643574805194.html
31-01-2022||Noida||Noida: Gas pipeline may delay demolition of twin towers at Emerald Court||An 18-inch wide gas pipeline that passes through Sector 93A may delay the demolition process of twin towers at Supertech’s Emerald Court project due to safety reasons. Officials from Edifice Engineering, which got the job of demolition of the twin towers, Supertech Limited, and the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) held a meeting on Friday and discussed the need to shift the gas pipeline, which is three metres deep from the ground level, officials of Edifice said on Sunday, adding that the pipeline is just 16 metres away from the twin towers. “We had a meeting with GAIL and Supertech to discuss the technical modalities on Friday. We have realised that demolishing the two towers without taking care of gas pipeline is not possible. Therefore, we have decided that we will submit a technical report on how the vibrations of demolition will make damages to gas pipeline in the next 15 days to GAIL. And then the GAIL will tell us how we can handle these vibrations and carry out demolition without any damage to the pipeline,” said Utkarsh Mehta of Edifice Engineering. In its order on August 31, the Supreme Court gave three months to the Supertech group to demolish the towers, and directed the Noida authority and Central Building Research Institute (CBRI) to supervise the demolition work. The Supreme Court ordered the demolition of the twin towers as the structure was built in violation of building norms. Edifice, a Mumbai-based agency, finally on January 16 got the job of demolition of the two towers. The move came after the Supreme Court on January 14 pulled up the realtor for not implementing its earlier order. The apex court had pulled up the realtor for delay in hiring the agency that will demolish the towers. Supertech Limited and GAIL officials could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. 
31-01-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Police, excise officers shut ahata for operating in curfew hours||An ahata (permit room) was found running illegally beyond the permissible operation hours in Sector 56 even after the night curfew (effective in Gurugram from 11pm) came into force during a joint raid conducted by the chief minister’s flying squad and Sector 56 police late Saturday night, said police on Sunday. The police and excise officers were receiving complaints of violation of rules at the ahata for the past few months, following which a special police team was formed to raid ahatas in Sector 56. Ranvijay Sharma, owner of Refill Republic, was booked for violations while Sunil Khair, operation manager, Lalit Kumar, Tej Chand, and other employees of the ahata were arrested from the spot but later released, said police. Sharma said that he was out of town on Saturday and had received a call regarding the violations. “Currently, my outlet is closed due to the raid and the employees were bailed out after verification. We had no plan to organise a party till late; we were about to shut for the day when the officers raided the spot,” he said. Deputy superintendent of police (crime) Inderjeet Yadav said they received information that some 60 -70 people are holding a party at the ahata and were playing loud music, following which they informed Sector 56 police and a raid was conducted. “When we reached, we found around 30 cars parked outside the ahata and a party was going on in full swing,” he said. Yadav said they questioned the employees, who told them that the owner of the ahata had organised the party and they had plans to operate until early morning.A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the suspects at Sector 56 police stations on Sunday morning. V K Beniwal, deputy commissioner of excise and taxation, Gurugram (east), said they have started a crackdown on ahatas, which have been illegally serving alcohol and hookah in the city. “As part of the crackdown, a raid was conducted at the ahata in Sector 56 on Saturday night and some people were arrested. A few of the suspects fled the spot on seeing the police teams, but they have been identified,” said Beniwal. “Police and excise officials have formed teams and are conducting surprise checks across the city late at night to check if ahatas are operating illegally,” he said. Police said no liquor vend or ahata is allowed to operate beyond 10pm but still violations are taking place and despite strict warnings, people are not mending their ways. In November last year, the chief minister ’s flying squad and the excise department raided three ahatas running illegally beyond the permissible timings which were serving flavoured hookah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-police-excise-officers-shut-ahata-for-operating-in-curfew-hours-101643574687004.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||32-year-old from Mohali, 3 elderly persons from Chandigarh among latest Covid fatalities||The tricity’s daily Covid count continued on the downward trend with 1,097 infections being detected on Sunday, as against 1,168 cases the previous day. Four persons also succumbed to the virus, of which three were from Chandigarh and one from Mohali. The patient in Mohali was 32 years old and under treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. In Chandigarh, all three who succumbed to the virus were senior citizens. The oldest among them was a 92-year-old man from Sector 21, who was hypertensive, had a heart disease and acute respiratory distress syndrome. He was fully vaccinated. The second was an 88-year-old man from Sector 35, who suffered from hypertension and lung disease. He was also fully vaccinated. The third fatality in the UT was a 76-year-old man from Daria, who was a leukemia patient. He was also fully vaccinated. With 441 infections, Chandigarh had the highest daily count among all jurisdictions. It was followed by Mohali with 412 cases and Panchkula with 244 infections. In terms of active cases, Mohali tops the chart with 5,207 infected patients, followed by Chandigarh with 3,452 patients and Panchkula with 1,202 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32yearold-from-mohali-3-elderly-persons-from-chandigarh-among-latest-covid-fatalities-101643574685790.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||Daily cases fall to 3,674 as test positivity rate dips below 6.5%||The Capital saw its lowest daily infection tally since January 2 on Sunday, as the Covid-19 test positivity rate in the city also continued to wind downwards to levels last seen in the early days of the month, according to numbers from the state government’s daily health bulletin.Delhi added 3,674 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the fewest in a day since it recorded 3,194 infections on January 2, when the Omicron surge of the pandemic began to expand its footprint in the Capital.Testing dipped only marginally on the day, with Delhi collecting nearly 58,000 samples on Sunday (as against 60,532 a day ago). The test positivity rate, however, continued to dip, falling to its lowest in 29 days.Of the samples collected on Sunday, 6.3% returned positive results, the fewest since 4.6% on January 2.The statistic is a vital metric to understand the spread of an infection in a region. Experts, including the World Health Organization (WHO) recommend a positivity rate below 5% for two weeks, before an outbreak can be considered under control.In Delhi, the peak of recorded cases came on January 12 (28,867) , and that of the test positivity on January 14 (30.64%).Delhi also recorded 30 more fatalities of the infection on Sunday, taking the Covid-19 toll in the city to 25,827.The city’s fifth wave has been marked by a significantly smaller proportion of hospitalisations and deaths compared to its previous waves – a pattern consistent with global surges caused by the Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.The Omicron variant itself has been seen to cause milder symptoms among people it infects, and consequently fewer hospital admissions and deaths.An audit report of Covid deaths prepared by the Delhi government found more signs that this wave of infections has been significantly less damaging for the city.Among the 438 people who died between January 13 and 25, only 94 had Covid-19 as primary cause of death.The number of people admitted to hospitals in Delhi dropped on Sunday as well, with 1,567 occupying hospital beds in the city, down from 1,771 a day ago, and leaving nearly 90% (13,861) vacant. Even at its peak, hospitalisations in the city did not cross the 20% mark during the current surge of infections.Another factor that appears to have played a role in keeping hospitalisation and deaths low in Delhi has been vaccinations, experts added, with all adults inoculated with at least one dose of vaccines, and over 82% completely vaccinated, according to data from the CoWin dashboard.“Positivity rate is continuously going down in Delhi which is similar to Mumbai and Kolkata, where the R0 is already less than 1, which means transmission has nearly halted... Life should come to normal and all commercial activities should be restored as soon as possible including school and colleges,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided on Thursday that there will no longer be a weekend curfew, shops can be open on all days, and restaurants, bars and cinema halls can reopen for customers at 50% of their capacity, heeding to calls to at least roll back some curbs after the Covid-19 outbreak in the city appeared to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/daily-cases-fall-to-3-674-as-test-positivity-rate-dips-below-65-101643574106432.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjabis will never give chance to Kejriwal’s failed Delhi model: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said that Punjabis will never give a chance to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal’s failed Delhi model in Punjab. Addressing a gathering at the residence of SAD’s Patiala Rural constituency candidate Jaspal Singh Bittu Chattha after inducting scores of Congress leaders into the party, Sukhbir said, “Implementing the Delhi model will mean charging the farmers for supply of power for the agriculture sector and doing away with the free agriculture supply scheme launched by the SAD.”It also means supply of power to the domestic and industrial sector at the rate of ₹13 per unit, he claimed. “Kejriwal has always taken a stand against Punjab on all important issues. Be it the issue of sharing of Punjab’s river waters with Haryana and Delhi, closure of thermal plants of the state or registering criminal cases against Punjab’s farmers for burning paddy stubble, Kejriwal has taken a stand against Punjabis in the Supreme Court,” SAD chief said.He also urged the people not to be fooled by the guarantees being given by AAP. “What is the guarantee that the AAP will even stick together as a party. You have seen earlier as how three out of its four MPs and eleven out of its twenty legislators left the party,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabis-will-never-give-chance-to-kejriwal-s-failed-delhi-model-sukhbir-badal-101643574384076.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Inspection at Ludhiana railway station: Problems galore, reveals report||Authorities’ tall claims of having streamlined operations at the Ludhiana station were debunked after the Zonal Railways Users Consultative Committee (ZRUCC) reported gross oversights in its functioning. After carrying out a detailed inspection on January 24, Zonal Railways Users Consultative Committee (ZRUCC) member Vivek Kumar Shukla submitted his report with Railway Board chairperson Vinay Tripathi, and Northern Railways’ general manager Ashutosh Gangal exposing the sad state of affairs at the station. No doctor available in hospital’s emergency In his report, Shukla said that at the time of the inspection, no doctor was available in the emergency ward of the Railway Hospital. An accident patient was seen waiting for the doctor, so that he could be transferred to another hospital as he required immediate treatment. “The patient, who was in immense pain, was made to do paperwork, instead of being treated or transferred,” he wrote, advising the officials to normalise hospital facilities for railway staff and make provision for direct admission to recognised hospitals in case of an accident through Unique Medical Identification (UMID) cards issued by the railways. Gaping holes in security After the Ludhiana Court Complex blast caused ripples across the state, authorities claimed to have scaled up security at the station. However, the report said that the security arrangements were subpar with three unclaimed packages lying near the Government Railway Police (GRP) police station, which were handed over to the GRP, during the inspection.“No unclaimed package should remain in the station area. Moreover, it was observed that there was an illegal passageway near the GRP station, leading towards the platform. The passage should be closed immediately for passengers’ safety,” said the report. Unauthorised vendors, defunct escalators Shukla also rapped the authorities over the construction of illegal shops on the entrance of the station, and the presence of unauthorised vendors at the entry and the exit points of the station. On the day of the inspection, an escalator was found defunct. “This blemishes the image of the railways, and causes inconvenience to senior citizens,” said Shukla. Toilet trouble The report also created a stink over the state of the railways toilets. It said that a flush was non-functional, there was no liquid soap in the washroom, and the staff did not have their identity card. Poor drainage systemThe report also cast the spotlight on poor drainage ay the GRP Thana. The fare display system at a few counters was non-functional. “I will reach out to the railway ministry to expose the operations at the station”, said a senior railway officer. 
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Madhya Pradesh tourist killed, 3 injured as boulder falls on tempo in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban||A tourist from Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur was killed and three co-passengers were injured after a boulder fell off a hill and hit their vehicle in the Ramban district on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway. SSP, traffic, national highways, Shabir Malik said, “On Sunday, at about 2 pm, a Tempo Traveler (JK 21A/ 1503), on its way to Jammu from Srinagar, was hit by a big boulder at Cafeteria Morh in Ramban district. The boulder fell off a hill and hit the vehicle injuring four tourists.” “One of them succumbed to his injuries at district hospital, Ramban, while three others were referred to Jammu for treatment,” he added. The deceased was identified as Yashvardhan Thakur, 23, of Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh. Injured were also identified as Vivek Thakur, 25, Sanjay Thakur, 50, and Vanesh, 20, all from Jabalpur. The SSP said that subject to fair weather and better road conditions, LMVs and private cars shall be allowed from Srinagar and Jammu on Monday. However, the cut off timing shall be 7 am to 12 pm from Nagrota and 8 am to 1 pm from Jakheni in Udhampur and 8 am to 1 pm from Navyug Tunnel on Qazigund side. No vehicle shall be allowed before and after the cut off timings. “Subject to fair weather and better road conditions, HMVs shall be allowed from Navyug Tunnel (Qazigund side) towards Jammu after assessing the traffic situation on NH44,” said the official. “Security forces are advised and requested not to ply against advisory in view of traffic congestion on the Jammu-Srinagar highway,” said Malik. People are advised to undertake journeys on NHW-44 only after confirming the status of the road from traffic control units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/madhya-pradesh-tourist-killed-3-injured-as-boulder-falls-on-tempo-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-ramban-101643574264200.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh weather update: Warmer days ahead with chances of mid-week showers||The recent spell of sunny days continued in the city though the maximum temperature dipped slightly from 20.4°C on Saturday to 19.9°C on Sunday. Met officials say that similar conditions are expected to continue over the next two to three days, after which an active Western Disturbance is expected to hit the city between February 2 and 4. Cloudy weather is likely from Wednesday, with a chance of light rain on Thursday. The maximum temperature may dip during the week, but the minimum temperature is likely to rise by 2 to 3 degrees. On Sunday, the minimum temperature went up to 6.7°C, from 6.5°C on Saturday. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 18°C and 21°C while the minimum temperature will remain around 8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-weather-update-warmer-days-ahead-with-chances-of-mid-week-showers-101643574205251.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Denied Congress ticket, Nawanshahr MLA Angad Saini likely to contest Punjab poll||Denied ticket by the ruling Congress, Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh Saini is likely to contest the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. Saini has called a meeting of his supporters on Monday to decide the further course of action. It, however, is not clear whether he will contest as an independent candidate or jump the ship to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress gave ticket to district planning commission chairman Satvir Singh Palli Jhikki. Saini on Thursday had announced that he will be filing nomination papers to contest the elections on Monday before the Congress announced its candidates from 8 segments, including Nawanshahr. Saini’s wife, Aditi Singh, an MLA from Rae Barelli in Uttar Pradesh, has jumped the shop to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Nawanshahr, Rahon MC presidents quit partyThe presidents of Nawanshahr and Rahon municipal councils along several Congress councillors resigned from the primary membership of the party to express solidarity with MLA Saini. Also, the Nawanshahr improvement trust chairman along with several members of zila parishad and block samitis also quit the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/denied-congress-ticket-nawanshahr-mla-angad-saini-likely-to-contest-punjab-poll-101643574203977.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ambala: Sugarcane Farmers to press for pending payments next week||Sugarcane farmers of Ambala and nearby villages will hold a mahapanchayat on February 7 to press for payments to the tune of ₹60 crore from Naraingarh Sugar Mills. Rajeev Sharma, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) leader, said that the union’s district president Malkit Singh chaired a joint meeting with Ganna Sangharsh Samiti in Saha on Sunday to decide on further course of action. “The previous year’s dues have been cleared by the mills, but a huge payment of this year remains pending. Out of ₹70 crore, only ₹10 crore has been paid despite the assurance of early payment,” Sharma said. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSOnline lecture held at PU to observe Martyrdom DayPanjab University’s department of Gandhian and Peace Studies in collaboration with varsity’s dean, alumni relations and Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies organised a special lecture on Sunday to observe Martyrs’ Day. A lecture was delivered by HS Bedi, chancellor of Central University of Himachal Pradesh on “Gandhi Dharshan Kii Praasangita Aur Vishav”.Yamunanagar: Blaze at sugarcane farmSugarcane crops spread across atleast one acre were burnt to ashes after a fire broke out in Yamunanagar’s Aurangabad village on Sunday. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot and they managed to douse the flames. Farmers said the crop caught on fire due to a short-circuit in low-lying wires in the fields on Ror Chhapar road that was recently reported to the power board officials, but no action was taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-sugarcane-farmers-to-press-for-pending-payment-next-week-101643574084134.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab-Haryana HC virtual hearings with full strength of judges from Feb 1||The Punjab and Haryana high court has decided to resume virtual hearings with full strength of judges from February 1. However, physical hearings won’t take place for the time being.An official said that decision has been taken in view of fresh guidelines from Chandigarh administration and the decline in number of Covid cases. It was on January 5 that the high court had switched to virtual hearings in the wake of spike in Covid cases. From January 10, the court had further curtailed operations and only 50% judges were holding courts since then. Meanwhile, the high court administration has decided to adjourn the old cases listed for hearing in February for September and October 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabharyana-hc-virtual-hearings-with-full-strength-of-judges-from-feb-1-101643573965566.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Former Qila Raipur MLA Jassi Khangura resigns from Congress||Former Congress MLA Jasbir Singh Khangura, also known as Jassi Khangura, resigned from the Congress on Sunday. Khangura, a hotelier, remained MLA from the Qila Raipur assembly constituency in Ludhiana district from 2007 to 2012.In a letter shared on his Twitter handle, the ex-legislator stated, “The decisions we take determine our fate. My resignation from INC, the only Indian political party I have ever been a member of.”About his decision to quit the Congress, Khangura cited dissatisfaction with the direction of the party, particularly in Punjab. He also blamed weak decision-making. “There should be certain transparency in the decision-making process but that does not seem to be happening. The Congress needs a visionary leader and a loyal team both at the state and centre level if it intends to progress. Otherwise, it will keep losing one state after another.”Whether he has plans of joining other party, Khangura said, “Frankly, I have been approached by many political parties, but I do not want to take any step in haste.”Khangura dismissed the rumours that he quit the Congress since he was denied party ticket to fight the assembly elections. “First of all, I had not applied for ticket. I had come from London to make some intellectual contribution, but now I don’t see that happening.”He refused to divulge details about his future course of action. But speculations are rife that Khangura may join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) soon.He said that his father, who served the Congress for nearly 60 years, also resigned from the party on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-former-qila-raipur-mla-jassi-khangura-resigns-from-congress-101643573964332.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2022: Chandigarh MC gets extra month to streamline solid waste mgmt||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has got an additional month to get the city’s solid waste management (SWM) in order, as Swachh Survekshan 2022 (SS22) timelines have been extended.MC has zeroed down on seven key sectors, mainly related to SWM, to improve the city’s ranking in the survey.SS22 timelines were recently shifted by the Union government. As per guidelines, documentation under SS22 was to be earlier done by January 15, but the deadline has now been extended to February 20.Similarly, direct observation has been shifted from February to March, starting March 1. Under this, independent observers are designated by the Union government to assess different parameters under the survekshan.Collection of data from direct observation is based on physical observation of the sanitation status in public places by the survey agency. The agency uses maps and simple handheld device/recording formats to record their observations and findings along with photographs/videos, wherever necessary.A dysfunctional waste processing plant, slow progress in the legacy mining and poor segregation at source had pushed the city beautiful further down the Swachh Survekshan rankings in 2021. Over all, the city was ranked at 66 out of 4,320 cities.SEVEN KEY AREASMC is focusing on 100% door-to-door collection and segregation of waste this time. “We have pushed in 96 extra vehicles and started covering the uncovered areas of Chandigarh. We have already refabricated the vehicles to collect garbage in four categories- dry, wet, sanitary and hazardous in a segregated manner,” said Anindita Mitra, MC commissioner.Slow bio-remediation of legacy waste at the Dadumajra dumping site was another factor for drop in rankings. On site 1, under the Chandigarh Smart City Limited legacy mining project where 5 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of waste is to be removed, MC has set up five belts instead of three to increase the pace of remediation and speed up the work. “We have remediated 2.80 out of 5 LMT and reclaimed 8.5 of 20 acres of land,” said Mitra.In its last meeting, the MC general House also gave its nod to the proposal to clean up site 2, which has 7.67 LMT of legacy waste. “For the second site, we have submitted a proposal to Union government under Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0, of ₹77 crore,” said Mitra.Full processing of dry and wet waste “MC’s dry waste, wet waste and bio-methanation plants are all being upgraded in order to ensure 100% processing of 550 tonnes of waste generated on a daily basis. Similarly, our 3rd MRF centre shall be functional by February 10,” said Mitra.On the sanitation front, particularly with an eye on the direct observation round, all MC toilets (CTs/PTs), have been provided sanitary napkin dispensers and running water as well as QR codes. “We paid major attention to capacity building of safai karamcharis and sanitation workers. We also linked each employee to three welfare schemes like insurance and JSY,” said Mitra.On the crucial citizen engagement, MC is stepping up engaging with residents through Twitter, and other social platforms and murals in several locations.“We are even applying for a WhatsApp business account to enable us to reach each and every citizen of Chandigarh. With major focus on promoting home composting, we have started a city wide campaign of distribution of home composting buckets and training for the same,” said Mitra.
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||61-year-old man killed in Mohali hit and run incident||A 61-year-old man died after a speeding car hit his two-wheeler at the Phase-7 light point in Mohali, on Sunday evening. The deceased was identified as Balbir Singh, a resident of Jandpur village. He worked as a security guard in Mohali. On Sunday evening, around 7, when he was heading home from work, a speeding car hit his two-wheeler, leaving him critically injured. He was rushed to Sohana hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The car driver fled the scene after the incident.Investigating officer, Amarnath said, “We have registered a case against an unknown car driver at Phase-8 police station. We are checking the closed-circuit television camera footage, and are hopeful of arresting the accused soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/61yearold-man-killed-in-mohali-hit-and-run-incident-101643573725916.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Highly qualified candidates in the fray from Mansa district with state’s lowest literacy rate||Candidates with higher academic qualifications are in the fray from three segments of Mansa, the district with the lowest literacy rate in Punjab. According to the 2011 Census, Mansa has a 62.8% literacy rate against the state average of 76.7%. Female literacy rate was 56.4% and male literacy 62.8% in the district where political parties have fielded medical professionals, a PhD degree holder, engineers and postgraduates from different segments. Five of them are contesting for the first time while three are trying their luck for the second consecutive term. They are promising the electors to make Mansa a vibrant district with better educational avenues and improved employment opportunities. Budhlada, a reserved constituency, has in the fray Ranveer Kaur Mian, 30, of the Congress who is PhD in English and an MBA. She is contesting for the first time. Wife of the Mian village sarpanch, Kaur says she wants to work to provide people more opportunities in the public education sector. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate Budh Ram, 65, has five master’s degrees to his credit. The incumbent MLA remained a school principal and won the 2017 election in a close contest. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) nominee Nishan Singh Hakamwala, 50, a surgeon, practises in Mansa city. Also, Vijay Singla (52), AAP candidate from the semi-urban Mansa seat, is a practicing dentist and a known face in the town. When the Congress swept the 2017 elections, Mansa was the only district where it failed to win any of the three seats. In the last polls, the AAP won two seats of Mansa and Budhlada while SAD won Sardulgarh.Shubhdeep Singh aka Sidhu Moosewala (28), Punjabi singer and Congress nominee from Mansa segment, is appealing for electoral support to ensure the planned development of the district. Moosewala, who has a huge fan following on social media, is an engineering graduate.Dilraj Bhunder, 53, the incumbent MLA from Sardulgarh, has been fielded again by the SAD. He did a bachelor in engineering from Punjabi University in 1992-93.AAP and CPI (M) candidates Gurpreet Singh Banawali and Kulwinder Singh are law graduates and are first-timers. As per his election papers, Banawali is a practicing lawyer whereas Kulwinder mentions his only source of income is ‘agriculture’. The Left leader also holds a postgraduate degree. Once a hotbed of farmer and farm labour union activities, the district, which was carved out in 1992, has been lacking in terms of representation in the successive state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-highly-qualified-candidates-in-the-fray-from-mansa-district-with-state-s-lowest-literacy-rate-101643573724032.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi Master Plan 2041: DDA to take 2+ months to notify draft plan||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is likely to take at least two months to notify the city’s master plan for 2041, said senior officials aware of the matter, adding that work is on to sift through over 33,000 comments received from residents and make necessary amendments in the document’s final draft.The land-owning agency initially planned to notify the new Master Plan of Delhi-2041 before February 7 this year – MPD-2021 was notified on February 7, 2007 — but DDA officials said the public consultation process took time, since it was held online and also extended after requests from stakeholders.A senior DDA official said the draft will need to be rubber-stamped by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs before it can be notified.“The process is going on to finalise the plan. The final draft will first be tabled in the DDA meeting and then sent to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for approval and later for notification.”The draft MPD-2041 was put out in public on June 9 last year. DDA had to extend the last date for comments on the draft plan by a month, from July to end-August, after several requests citing the pandemic and consequent restrictions.“The public hearing also had to be extended and eventually went on till end-November. There are a lot of discussions that have to be held before each chapter is finalised. It will take at least two more months to give it a final shape,” said a senior DDA official.The 2041 Master Plan for Delhi focuses on the regeneration of old areas (unauthorised colonies, urbanised villages), allowing mixed use development, providing affordable rental housing and small format housing, promoting walkability and non-motorised transport, development of green-blue (green spaces and waterfronts) infrastructure and corridors etc for sustainable development of the city.This time the land-owning agency has introduced new concepts and proposals to make Delhi a 24x7 city by promoting night-time economy and nightlife; increasing economic activities; allowing mixed development, especially in industrial areas; ensuring planned development of urban extensions etc.The land-owning agency had to also extend the public hearing, which started in October, by a few days.The official added, “We have got several suggestions from elected representatives. This includes provision for mixed land use in plotted residential areas, increase in floor area ratio of both residential and commercial buildings, upgradation of physical infrastructure, increase in building heights, relaxation in parking norms, etc. We are examining all the suggestions/objections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-master-plan-2041-dda-to-take-2-months-to-notify-draft-plan-101643573156872.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 787 Covid infections, eight deaths; Kangra worst-hit district||Himachal Pradesh’s coronavirus case tally reached 2,70,078 on Sunday as 787 more people detected positive for the disease while the death toll mounted to 3,978 after eight patients died due to infection.Highest 148 cases were reported from Kangra, 114 from Solan, 108 from Hamirpur, 97 from Bilaspur, 83 from Sirmaur, 76 from Mandi, 69 from Una, 42 from Chamba, 29 from Shimla, 19 from Kullu and two from Kinnaur. Four fatalities were reported from Shimla, two from Kangra and one each from Kullu, Solan and Chamba. Active cases have come down to 9,452 after 779 people recuperated taking the total recoveries to 2,56, 630Kangra is the worst hit district having recorded 60,025 cases since the outbreak followed by Mandi with 36,764 cases and Shimla 34,080.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-787-covid-infections-eight-deaths-kangra-worst-hit-district-101643573665261.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Former MLA Jassi Khangura resigns from Congress||Former Congress MLA and hotelier Jasbir Singh Khangura, also known as Jassi Khangura, resigned from Congress on Saturday. Khangura, who had been an MLA from Qila Raipur assembly constituency from 2007 to 2012, shared his resignation letter on Twitter. He wrote, “The decisions we take determine our fate. My resignation from INC, the only Indian political party I have ever been a member of.”When asked about his decision to quit the Congress, Khangura said he was dissatisfied with the direction the Indian National Congress (INC) was taking, particularly in Punjab, and its weak decision-making process. Saying that prognosis for the Grand Old Party was poor, he said, “There should be some manner of transparency and certainty in the decision making process, but that does not seem to be happening. Congress needs a visionary leader and a loyal team both at the state and central level if it intends to make progress.”On his plans of joining another party, Khangura said, “I have been approached by many political parties, but I do not want to make a hasty decision.”He also refuted rumours that he had left the Congress as he had been denied a ticket. “I had not applied for any ticket. I had come from London to make some intellectual contribution, but now I cannot see that happening.”Speculations are rife that Khangura may join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) soon. Khungra has a strong voter base in Dakha, Qila Raipur and Gill constituency. He said that his father, who has served the party for nearly 60 years had also resigned from the party.In the letter, Jassi thanked the party for giving him and his mother the opportunity of fighting several state elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-mla-jassi-khangura-resigns-from-congress-101643573664126.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Junior tennis tournament: Triple delight for Sia||The day belonged to Chandigarh’s Sia Mahajan who bagged as many as three titles on the concluding day of the AITA National Ranking Championship held at the Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur on Sunday.Top-seed Sia beat Sidhak Kaur of Punjab 6-2, 6-2 in the girls’ U-16 final and Suhani Sabharwal of Maharashtra 6-4, 6-3 in the U-18 finals. In the U-18 girls’ doubles finals, Sia and Gursimrat Kaur outclassed Anusha Verma and Suhani Sabharwal 6-0, 6-1 to emerge victorious.Results (finals):Girls’ Under-16: Sia Mahajan (1) [CH] bt Sidhak Kaur (2) [PB] 6-2, 6-2.Girls’ Under-18: Sia Mahajan (2) [CH] bt Suhani Sabharwal (4)[MH] 6-4,6-3.Boys’ Under-16: Gurbaaz Singh (1) [PB] bt Hardik Khanduja (2) [PB] 6-1,7-6(5).Boys’ Under-18: Akshat Dhull (2) [HR] bt Harmanjit Singh (1) [PB] 6-2,6-1.Girls’ Under-18 (doubles): Sia Mahajan (1) [CH] and Gursimrat kaur (1) [PB] bt Anusha Verma (2) [HR] and Suhani Sabharwal [2] (MH) 6-0,6-1.Boys’ Under-18 (doubles): Anirudh Sangra (2) [CH] and Arnav Bishnoi (2) [CH] bt Agnivesh Bhardwaj [HR] and Abhinav Sharma [HR] 7-5, 6-7(4), (10-7).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/junior-tennis-tournament-triple-delight-for-sia-101643573604125.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bhagat Singh, Ambedkar portraits to replace politicians’ in Punjab govt offices if AAP voted to power: Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the portraits of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Dr BR Ambedkar will replace those of the chief minister or other political leaders in all government offices in Punjab if their party was voted to power in the state. Addressing a press conference in Amritsar with the party’s chief ministerial candidate Bhagwant Mann, Kejriwal said the AAP government would follow the principles and ideals of Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh and fulfill their dreams. “To remember their sacrifices, we announced in Delhi on January 26 that their portraits will be put in place of the CM’s and other leaders in all government offices. We will do the same in Punjab too,” he added. The AAP supremo said he drew a great deal of inspiration from the life of Baba Saheb who despite being born into a poor family wrote India’s Constitution and gave democratic rights to the people of this country.Mann said, “It is sad when people say the British were better than today’s politicians. Corrupt political leaders have ruined the vision and sacrifices of the country’s martyrs and freedom fighters. Sikh outfits protest over issue of Bhullar’s release Members of various Sikh organisations staged a demonstration against Kejriwal near his press conference venue over the issue of permanent release of 1993 Delhi bomb blast convict Davinderpal Singh Bhullar. Carrying black flags and banners, they held Kejriwal responsible for Bhullar’s continued imprisonment. The Delhi CM, however, claimed that he alone will not take a call on the prisoner’s release and the central authorities were also involved in it. “This is a sensitive issue but the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is playing dirty politics on it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhagat-singh-ambedkar-portraits-to-replace-politicians-in-punjab-govt-offices-if-aap-voted-to-power-arvind-kejriwal-101643573545997.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||PU Teachers’ Association demands immediate resolution of issues||The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Sunday wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar demanding immediate resolution of some urgent issues concerning the teachers. In the letter, PUTA stated that despite repeated requests by the association’s president seeking a meeting with V-C, he has not responded. The letter demanded the immediate release of the salary of professor Deepak Gupta of the varsity’s dental institute. “It is a fundamental right as observed in various court pronouncements and has been illegally stopped in violation of law of the land and directions issued by Dental Council of India and central government,” the letter states. The teachers’ body has also demanded that the process of holding selection committees for promotion of several teachers under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS), which have been pending for a long time, be initiated at the earliest and the appointment letter of Bhupinder Singh Pali, who was promoted under CAS by a duly-appointed selection committee during an interview held in 2018, be issued without any further delay. PUTA also demanded that the past practice regarding the appointment of senior-most functionaries of the university, i.e. dean university instructions and dean research be maintained. “PUTA strongly stands for the dignity of teachers and any tinkering/violation of this principle will be resisted tooth and nail,” PUTA wrote, while urging the V-C to resolve the issues immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-teachers-association-demands-immediate-resolution-of-issues-101643573193291.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Master plan for Central University of Himachal Pradesh to be ready by March-end||Even as political tussle delayed the setting up of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) for over two decades, the Central government has now proposed a master plan for the construction of its campuses at Dehra and Dharamshala. The university presently functions from three temporary campuses at Dharamshala, Shahpur and Dehra. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur during his recent tour to Delhi had called upon Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan. With the election to the Vidhan Sabha slated this year-end and the delay in setting up Central University bound to be one of the issues against his government, the chief minister asked Pradhan to expedite the construction work of the university. “The minister assured us that the construction plan for the university will be ready by March-end,” the CM said. The Central University was split into two campuses - “Dhauladhar” campus that was set up in Dharamshala, while “Beas” campus was to come up in Dehra. “There has been more politics than work on the Central University. Had they agreed to what Congress had proposed, the university would have been ready by now,” said former urban development minister Sudhir Sharma The university authorities had taken up the issue with the state forest department after which objections regarding the construction work on non-forest land allotted for the campus were removed. The Union environment and forest minister had raised almost six objections in the case referred to the FCA regarding the construction work on non-forest land. The first objection was related to the geological suitability of the proposed land for the construction work which has been removed.There were also objections related to road connectivity and electricity, drinking water and sewerage, which were being resolved. Though Dehra land has already been transferred in the name of CUHP, the forest clearance for 90% of Dharamshala land is still awaited. Only 50-acre of non-forest land at Dharamshala has been transferred to the university so far. Announced in 2007, CUHP became functional with the assumption of charge by the first vice-chancellor on January 20, 2010. However, the project was mired in politicking causing a delay in setting up its campus. The then BJP government proposed two campuses for CUHP with a major portion at Dehra. About 66 hectares of land were given for the CUHP campus at Dharamshala and 300 hectares in Dehra. However, in 2012, the Congress government was thrown out of power, it reversed the proposal identifying around 380 acres of additional land at Indrunag near Dharamsala for the institution. The ministry rejected the site as it found the land unfit for construction due to its location in the active sliding zone, forcing the government to repeat the exercise to find suitable land. New land was identified at Jadrangal, about 15 km from Dharamshala, and the fresh proposal was sent to the Centre. However, the BJP was voted to power in 2017 and the foundation stone of CUHP was laid at Dehra and Dharamshala in February this year. 
31-01-2022||Noida||Ghaziabad: SP leaders, 2,000 supporters booked for poll code breach||The district police lodged two FIRs against office-bearers and leaders of the Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday for allegedly violating the poll code and prohibitory orders in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The FIRs were lodged after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary held a joint press conference at a banquet hall in Ghaziabad on Saturday. Police said that the organisers and SP leaders allegedly brought in more than the permitted number of people to the events in a violation of the poll code issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI).The Election Commission of India on January 22 extended its ban on political rallies and roadshows in the five election-bound states, including Uttar Pradesh, till January 31 as the country continues to grapple with another wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Commission, however, had decided to relax some of the guidelines for candidates who will be contesting in the first phase on February 10 and second phase to be held on February 14. Candidates in Uttar Pradesh constituencies that vote in the first phase were allowed physical meetings in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 persons or 50% of the capacity of the ground, but only from January 28 to February 8. UP will vote in seven phases from February 10 to March 7. Ghaziabad goes to polls in the first phase on February 10.According to police, one FIR was filed against Aslam Chaudhary, SP candidate from Dhaulana, and 500 to 600 of his supporters, while the second FIR was filed SP’s district president Rashid Malik, city president Rahul Chaudhary and vice-president Himanshu Parashar, besides 2,000 supporters.The joint press briefing held by Yadav and Chaudhary at a banquet hall in Ghaziabad on Saturday afternoon drew a large crowd.“The organisers of the party were permitted to have 150 people in attendance at the banquet hall, but several more party supporters entered the premises after flouting guidelines. The SP candidate was booked as he came with hundreds of his supporters and led a vehicle rally to the banquet hall. The two FIRs were lodged for violating the campaign guidelines as well as breaching prohibitory orders,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Both the FIRs were lodged under sections 171F (undue influence or personation at an election), 188 (violation of prohibitory orders), 269 and 270 (acts likely to cause spread of infection) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Masuri police station in Ghaziabad.The SP office bearers said that police had a mala fide intention.“There were only 12 persons inside the banquet hall besides media personnel who were called to attend the joint press conference. A crowd gathered on its own outside the banquet hall--they were not associated with the party. The FIRs are a deliberate attempt by police to pressurise us,” said Malik, the SP district president.Besides Yadav and Chaudhary, all five candidates of the SP-RLD alliance in Ghaziabad, the SP office-bearers as well as SP candidate Aslam Chaudhary were present during the joint press conference on Saturday.Aslam Chaudhary could not be reached for his comments.Police, however, refuted the charge and said that the FIRs were lodged in accordance with the law and denied any bias as claimed by the SP office-bearers.The SP-RLD alliance is contesting from all five assembly seats of Loni (RLD), Muradnagar (SP), Sahibabad (SP), Ghaziabad (SP) and Modinagar (RLD) in the district. A part of the Dhaulana assembly segment falls in Ghaziabad and the SP has fielded Aslam Chaudhary, the sitting MLA as its candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-sp-leaders-2-000-supporters-booked-for-poll-code-breach-101643572948644.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||With budget deficit of ₹278 crore, Chandigarh MC set for another tough fiscal||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) is set for another tough financial year as it has proposed a deficit budget for the coming fiscal (2022-23). With an estimated expenditure of ₹1,725.19 crore, and a revenue estimate of ₹1,448 crore, Chandigarh MC is set to face a budget deficit of ₹278 crore, and that too, if the grant-in-aide demanded from the UT administration comes through. The budget proposal will come up for approval in the MC General House on February 1. The MC is hoping for a grant-in-aid of ₹957 crore from the administration, which itself has sought ₹550 crore from the Centre to provide to the civic body. Even if the MC gets ₹550 crore as grant-in-aid, it would start the new fiscal with a deficit of at least ₹705 crore. It estimates to end the current fiscal with a deficit of ₹148 crore.In the current fiscal year, only ₹500 crore grant-in-aid was sanctioned. While the MC has shown an overall buoyancy in its own receipts, from ₹444.61 crore in current fiscal to ₹616 crore estimate for 2022-2023, it will be largely on the back of collections from its petrol pumps and commercial property tax.Its other receipts from sources such as water tariff, residential property tax and estate receipts are largely stagnant.Poor spending on capital worksThe MC is likely to constrict its spending on development works in the coming fiscal as in the budget proposal, the estimates for capital expenditure has been reduced in comparison to current fiscal.The budget estimates 2021-2022 had pegged the capital expenditure at ₹448 crore. But this year, the MC is proposing to spend only ₹401 crore on development works.But staggeringly, the revised estimates for 2021-2022 under capital head are ₹170 crore only, that means, even though the MC had proposed to spend ₹448 crore on development works, it could spend only ₹170 crore in the current fiscal. ₹1323.77 crore are the budget estimates are under the revenue head for the coming fiscal.Last year, the MC had prepared ₹1,646 crore budget. The MC had demanded ₹1,202 crore as grant-in-aid, assuring to earn ₹469 crore from its own but as per revised estimates for current fiscal, it would earn ₹444 crore only.
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||PEC: Intellectual property rights policy being formulated to improve NIRF ranking||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) is taking a number of steps to improve the institute’s position in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) and has now decided to formulate its intellectual property rights (IPR) policy.The decision was taken in PEC’s last senate meeting and a panel has already been constituted to formulate the IPR policy of the institution. Presently, there is no such policy at the institute and it aims to encourage filing of patents. PEC director Baldev Setia said that filing of applications for the protection of innovation, copyright and design is necessary for an inventor. “A policy is necessary so that the direction is clear. Also, counsellors can be empanelled, monetary assistance to be provided by the Institute can be fixed and the rights can be proportioned,” he said, adding that patents also contribute towards enhancing the quality of research and improving the ranking of the institution.Other steps to improve rankingMeanwhile, PEC has also constituted a panel to simplify administrative processes (including accounts) for sponsored research projects and consultancy. The committee has also been asked to give its recommendations on incentivising good publications.Moreover, PEC has decided that PhD scholars will be registered only after receiving satisfactory progress monitoring report of the previous semester. In the last year’s Union education ministry’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), PEC settled at the 70th position against 68th in 2020 among the engineering institutes of the country. In 2019, PEC’s rank was 78 and it was ranked 73 in 2018. In the first ever NIRF rankings released in 2016, PEC ranked 38 with 61.32 score. After that, the institute never made it to the top 50 engineering institutes again.
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 men rain bullets on security guard in Ludhiana||Two bike-borne men rained bullets on a security guard and left him for dead near Malakpur Bet village on Sunday morning. The victim, Sukhwinder Singh, 40, of Gorsian Hakamrai village of Ladhowal, worked as a guard at Rajgarh Estate Township. He was on his way to work on his bike, when the assailants shot at him. The victim’s neighbour, Harpal Singh, who rushed him to the civil hospital, said Sukhwinder Singh had double shifts on Saturday night and Sunday morning. “After his night shift Sukhwinder came home to freshen up and pack his tiffin. He was on his way to join duty at 6.30am, when two men on a red Royal Enfield bike fired at him.” The accused fired at least six shots at Sukhwinder Singh, of which three hit the mark, casing him to fall off the bike. Assuming that he had died, the accused fled. Around 10 minutes later, an acquaintance spotted Sukhwinder Singh lying in a pool of blood, and alerted his family, who rushed him to a clinic, from where he was taken to the civil hospital. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) station house officer Rajinderpal Singh said, “Sukhwinder Singh suffered two bullet injuries on his right shoulder, and one bullet injury on his lower back. The accused had been tailing him, and opened fire on him on the Malakpur Bet- Noorpur Bet Road.” While the family remains clueless about who may have wanted to kill Sukhwinder Singh, the SHO suspects that a personal rivalry could be behind the attack. The police have also scanned CCTVs near the spot. However, due to the thick fog, nothing was captured on camera. A case has been registered against two unidentified accused under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-men-rain-bullets-on-security-guard-in-ludhiana-101643572883982.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest UP man for stealing cars||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police on Saturday arrested a resident of Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, while driving a stolen car with a fake registration plate. On further questioning, three more stolen cars were recovered.The accused has been identified as Anil Kumar alias Giri, 27, who is currently living in Baltana, Mohali. Police received a tip-off on the whereabouts of the accused and arrested him from a checkpost near the Sector 2/3/10/11 chowk. On verification, they found that the car he was driving had been stolen from Mohali and a theft case had been registered at Mataur police station.Following interrogation, police recovered a vehicle which was reported stolen from Sector 19 on January 11 near the Sector 17 night shelter. Giri is a history sheeter and has been involved in two more theft cases dating back to June 2021 and September 2014.A case under Sections 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc, with intent to commit forgery) and 411 (Dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. The accused was presented in court on Sunday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-up-man-for-stealing-cars-101643572706433.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Provide life-saving equipment to sanitation workers’||Lucknow Corporators from different wards of the state capital have raised the demand of providing life-saving equipment to workers cleaning sewer and nullah. Jal Sansthan cleans sewers and Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) cleans nullah of the city every year before the rainy season. The corporators allege that the company responsible for cleaning the sewers does not provide life-saving equipment to workers who enter sewer chambers to clean them. This can cause fatal accidents as there have been deaths of sanitation workers in the past. Leader of opposition in LMC House, Sayyed Yawar Hussain Reshu said, “Sanitation workers are usually very poor, un-educated, and unaware of their rights. They earn their livelihood by exposing themselves to extreme risk. So, it’s the duty of the government to provide proper safety kits to every sanitation worker. The safety kit must include gloves, gum boots, oxygen cylinders and safety belts. But no contractor provides the safety kit to these workers.” He said, “According to the report of the National Commission for Safai Workers, as many as 631 people have died in the country while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the last 10 years.” Jugal Kishore Valmiki, leader of sanitation workers said, “There is a need for giving safety gears, proper equipment, adequate protection to sewer workers who enter manholes. The contractors should make sure that the manhole covers are opened and ventilated at least for an hour before the workers are allowed to get in. A first-aid kit should always be maintained by the employer.” He said, “There have been cases of deaths of sewer workers in Lucknow which is not good for a cultured society, that’s why we have demanded an end to this practice of manual cleaning of manholes or nullahs.” Meanwhile, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “The LMC and the Jal Sansthan have started using jetting machines to clean sewer overflow in the city after identifying through geographic information system (GIS) mapping. This is a big move towards mechanical cleaning; besides that I have already directed the officials to ensure that no worker enters the sewer or nullah without protective equipment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-provide-life-saving-equipment-to-sanitation-workers-101643572524237.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||2 scooter-borne factory workers robbed of ₹5 lakh in Ludhiana||Four masked men assaulted two garment factory workers and robbed them of ₹5 lakh and their scooter in Bindra Colony on Saturday night. The workers – Shiv Kumar, 20, a supervisor, and his co-worker Karan Parkash – were returning to the garment factory after collecting ₹5 lakh from a jeweller in Mali Ganj Chowk, when the accused intercepted them. In his complaint, Kumar said, “We had kept the cash in the storage of the scooter, and had almost reached our factory in Bindra Colony, when four masked men, who were riding a bike and scooter, started accusing us of harassing women. As soon as we stopped our vehicle, the accused attacked us with sharp-edged weapons and drove away our scooter.” Assistant sub-inspector Harbhajan Singh, who is investigating the case, said the victims suffered multiple injuries, and were taken to the hospital. “The robbers fled in the direction of Bindra Colony after executing the robbery. We are scanning CCTV footage to trace the accused.” Cops suspect that the robbers had been following the workers. A case was registered under Sections 379B (snatching using force) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-scooter-borne-factory-workers-robbed-of-5-lakh-in-ludhiana-101643572347002.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress begins discussions on CM face, seeks suggestions on Shakti app||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has started discussions with party leaders and workers to pick its chief ministerial face in poll-bound Punjab, where it is seeking to retain power, party sources said on Sunday. Gandhi is seeking responses from Congress leaders and workers through the party’s Shakti app, they said. The opinion of common people on the issue will also be sought in a day or two, the sources said. This comes days after former Congress president Rahul Gandhi announced at a virtual rally on January 27 that the party would go with a chief ministerial face in the Punjab elections. Over the past several weeks, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu have, directly or indirectly, made a case for themselves to be declared as the party’s chief ministerial candidate. The Congress is putting its weight behind Channi, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste community. SCs and STs have been a traditional vote bank of the Congress, but they drifted away from the party following the emergence of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and some other small groups. The Congress is now seeking to consolidate the SC vote bank, which comprises almost one-third of Punjab’s population, by choosing Channi to replace former chief minister Amarinder Singh. A three-time MLA from Chamkaur Sahib, Channi is the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab. The Congress has fielded him from two seats --- Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur --- in the state assembly polls that will be held on February 20. He is the only party candidate to be fielded from two seats. The Congress has followed the ‘one family, one seat’ formula in allocating tickets to its candidates in Punjab. The Congress is pitted against the AAP, the SAD-BSP and the BJP that has joined hands with Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-congress-begins-discussions-on-cm-face-seeks-suggestions-on-shakti-app-101643572344151.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Now no affidavit required on power connection transfer in UP||The UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) has done away with the requirement of an affidavit by consumers while seeking transfer of electricity connection to someone else.UPPCL managing director Pankaj Kumar on Saturday issued an order in this regard asking discoms to comply with the same.Now, those seeking transfer of power connection or change of ownership could give details as required on a simple paper and not on a ₹10 stamp paper in the shape of an affidavit.“A power connection shall be transferred in the name of another person upon the death of the consumer or in the case of transfer of ownership or occupancy of the premises, upon on application of the consumer,” the rules state. As per rules, an application for mutation has to be filed, in the prescribed format along with prescribed fee by the transferee or the legal heir or successor of the deceased consumer with the local office of the licensee.“The application shall be accompanied by documentary evidence of transfer or succession and proof of no arrears on account of electricity charges on that connection,” the rules state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-no-affidavit-required-on-power-connection-transfer-in-up-101643572164014.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Himachal police unearth illicit bottling plant in Baddi||The Himachal Pradesh police unearthed an illicit bottling plant of country-made liquor at Ramshehar, near Baddi.The police also recovered materials used for bottling and labelling liquor bottles. The police reached a two-storey house in Ramshehar and found the building locked. When they broke opened the locks, they found machines used for washing empty liquor bottles, holograms and labels of country-made liquor. The police also recovered drums used for storing spirit and liquor. The cops sealed the building. Seven people were killed after consuming spurious liquor in Sundernagar town of Mandi district last week. Police and excise taxation department since then have been carrying out raids in the different parts of the state. Two days ago, the police during raids in Solan and Kangra districts had recovered 6,126 boxes of country-made liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-police-unearth-illicit-bottling-plant-in-baddi-101643572045291.html
31-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj region: Congress fields Sanjay Tiwari from Pratappur, Abdul Wahid from Raniganj||PRAYAGRAJ: Congress declared candidates for two more seats in Prayagraj region comprising the districts of Prayagraj, Pratapgarh and Kaushambi on Sunday. The party has included former student leader Sanjay Tiwari as its candidate from Prayagraj’s Pratappur seat and Maulana Abdul Wahid from Pratapgarh’s Raniganj seat in its fourth list for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections-2022. With these new candidates, Congress has so far fielded candidates from 11 seats of the region and is expected to announce the remaining names in its fifth and final list soon. Out of the 22 assembly seats of the three districts of Prayagraj region, Prayagraj is the largest in terms of its 12 assembly seats, Pratapgrah is next with seven assembly seats followed by Kaushambi with three assembly seats. Sanjay Tiwari had contested the 2012 assembly elections from Pratappur seat as a Trinamool Congress candidate. Due to the alliance between SP and Congress in 2017 elections, Sanjay had failed to get a ticket following the seat sharing agreement. He was the president of the Allahabad University Unit of NSUI in 1990 after which NSUI made him its city unit president in 1992. In 1995-96, he was the General Secretary of the Allahabad University Students Union while in 2003-04, he was the president of the Allahabad University Students’ Union. Congress in Prayagraj has so far announced five candidates including Durgesh Pandey from Phaphamau, Alpana Nishad from Allahabad South seat, Manju Sant from Bara (SC) assembly seat and Anugrah Narain Singh from Allahabad North seat. In Pratpgarh, besides Maulana Abdul Wahid from Raniganj seat, the Congress has so far fielded present Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra from the Rampur Khas, Beena Rani from Babaganj (SC) seat, Neeraj Tripathi from Pratapgarh (Sadar) and Sunita Singh Patel from Patti. The party had earlier also announced Arun Kumar Vidyarthi as its candidate from Manjhanpur (SC) constituency of Kaushambi district of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-region-congress-fields-sanjay-tiwari-from-pratappur-abdul-wahid-from-raniganj-101643572043836.html
31-01-2022||Other||Magh Mela: Security beefed up for Mauni Amavasya tomorrow||Pilgrims have begun to arrive at the Magh Mela area where security has been beefed up ahead of the bathing on the occasion of Mauni Amavasya on Tuesday. Anticipating a heavy rush of devotees for the dip on the Mauni Amavasya day that Hindus consider auspicious, the district administration and the police announced elaborate traffic restrictions that would remain in place till February 2. ‘We expect anywhere from 80 lakh to 1 crore pilgrims on Mauni Amavasya day and all arrangements are in place for them,” said divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal. Inspector general of police (range) Rakesh Singh reviewed traffic, security arrangements and checked plans to streamline crowd movement on the bathing day. Singh directed the Jal police team comprising security personnel and divers to remain alert. The security personnel deployed at the ghats will ensure barricading to prevent pilgrims from crossing over into the danger area of the river. Officials of the intelligence wing, including local intelligence units have also been directed to maintain a sharp vigil in the Magh mela area and foil plans by antisocial elements to create mischief. Fire department officials have also been put on alert. The superintendent of police Rajeev Narayan Mishra and other police officials attended the meeting. There are 13 police stations and 38 police outposts in various sectors of the mela area besides 13 fire stations. Vigil would be maintained from 14 watch towers on which CCTVs would be installed. In all 150 CCTVs would be there across the mela area. Besides civil police, PAC personnel, teams of anti-terrorist squad, bomb disposal squads besides a team of SDRF, divers and flood relief personnel would scan the mela area. Around 15,000 toilets have been built in the mela area, including 1500 pre-fabricated steel toilets, 3000 tent toilets, 300 urinals, 9,000 institutional toilets and 900 at camps of government institutions. For the devotees, 10 major ghats stretching from Nagvasuki to Quila Ghat near Sangam have been set up to avoid overcrowding at one place. COVID CARE “So far we have detected 149 Covid-19 positive cases in the mela area and 129 out of them have recovered. We are taking adequate precautions,” said Sanjay Goyal, the divisional commissioner. Twenty-eight basic life support and two advanced life support ambulances would be there in the mela area. There would be two more ambulances for Covid patients in each of the five sectors of the tent city. A total of 12 static sampling centres will function in the mela area along with 20 mobile testing teams that will be activated after being alerted by the 82-member surveillance teams set up to identify potential cases and vulnerable points. The mela also has two hospitals of 20-bed capacity each and both have one bed ICU facility too. The mela area has 16 entry points where screening teams would check RT-PCR reports of the pilgrims and saints arriving in the mela area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/magh-mela-security-beefed-up-for-mauni-amavasya-tomorrow-101643571745420.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Lucknow: Five days after Rae Bareli hooch tragedy, key accused arrested||Lucknow Five days after the hooch tragedy that claimed 11 lives in Pahadpur village, Rae Bareli police on Sunday claimed to have arrested the kingpin of the racket involved in supplying spurious country made liquor. The police also demolished the state government authorised country made liquor shop in Pahadpur village from where the villagers had purchased the liquor for consumption. Superintendent of police (SP), Rae Bareli, Shlok Kumar said, “The police have arrested the kingpin of the racket Dhirendra Bahadur Singh, who allegedly manufactured and supplied low quality country made liquor to the authorised shop. Kingpin’s relative Ketan Singh, who is the head of Pindari Khurd village, has also been taken into custody for interrogation.” Kumar said that the police team along with officials of district administration and excise department demolished the liquor shop at Pahadpur after finding several anomalies during the inspection. He said that the liquor served to villagers in a party at Pahadpur in the night of January 25 was purchased from the same shop. Initially six people died while as many as 37 others were admitted to different hospitals when their condition deteriorated after consuming the liquor. Later, five more people succumbed during the treatment on January 26 and 27. Sharing further details, another senior police official said that the police had initially arrested the contractor Dhirendra Singh and salesman Ram Pratap of the Pahadpur shop. “The duo had later revealed that they had brought two cartoons of a country made liquor from another authorised shop of Rasheta village. Rasheta liquor shop was being operated by the village pradhan, who has been taken into custody for interrogation,” he said. Earlier, three excise officials and six local cops including station house officer of Maharajganj, Narayan Kumar Khushwaha, were suspended for their negligence in curbing the sale and supply of low-quality liquor. The state government had also stated to impose NSA and Gangster Act against all those involved in Rae Bareli spurious liquor tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-five-days-after-rae-bareli-hooch-tragedy-key-accused-arrested-101643571684897.html
31-01-2022||Other||Prayagraj: Man beheads nephew on suspicion of illicit relationship||PRAYAGRAJ: A man beheaded his 18-year-old nephew on suspicion of having illicit relationship with a woman at Kosfara village under Koraon police station in trans-Yamuna area of the district, said police officials on Sunday. The severed head and the torso of the youth were found hidden in hay late on Saturday night. Two persons, the accused and the witness, had been arrested and being questioned further in this connection, they said. According to reports, a resident of Kosfara Kala, Amar Bahadur Dharkar’s son Anil, left home in the evening on January 27 but did not return home. His kin and villagers launched a search for him but to no avail. On Saturday evening, villagers found Anil’s mobile phone and his kin learned that he was last seen with a teenaged youth of the same village. On the complaint of Anil’s kin, Koraon police lodged a case of abduction and detained the suspected teenage youth. “During questioning, the youth told police that one Babulal who is the nephew of Anil killed him after offering him liquor. He then beheaded his head from the body, and hide them in the hay near the pond. A search was launched and police found the head and torso hidden at different spots,” informed senior superintendent of police (SP), trans-Yamuna, Saurabh Dixit. Dixit said that Babulal and the teenage youth were being questioned further. “Investigations so far have revealed that the teenage youth witnessed the murder but did not inform anyone in the village. The accused is being questioned to ascertain the exact reasons behind the crime,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-man-beheads-nephew-on-suspicion-of-illicit-relationship-in-prayagraj-101643571144564.html
31-01-2022||Other||Can collective might of MVA keep BJP out of local bodies in Maharashtra?||Results of Nagar Panchayat and Zilla Parishad polls show individual gains for alliance partners  The recent local body elections in Maharashtra - Nagar Panchayat and Zilla Parishad - showed that while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bagged more seats, the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners could collectively keep the national party at bay. The results also proved that the support for the BJP had not eroded to a large extent. The BJP secured the top spot in the Nagar Panchayat poll results last week, while the MVA allies together won 57% of the total seats. A similar trend was seen in the Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samiti polls held in October 2021, where the BJP got the first position but with the tally of MVA partners put together, the coalition was ahead by a huge margin. The three parties, however, contested separately at most of the places. Among the MVA partners, the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) gained most seats in the Nagar Panchayat elections, while the Congress saw a drop in its 2017 tally. The three ruling parties won 1,021 seats in these local body polls against the BJP’s 419 seats. The polls for 1,802 seats in 106 Nagar Panchayats, 105 seats in the two District Councils, and 210 seats in 15 Panchayat Samitis were conducted in two phases on December 21, 2021, and January 19. The Nagar Panchayats govern smaller towns in semi-urban areas. In the Zilla Parishad elections, of the 85 seats, the BJP won 22, while the Congress, NCP and Sena bagged 19, 15 and 12 seats, respectively (total 46). The BJP’s tally dropped from 31 to 22 seats, while the three partners improved their tally by 10 to 46 seats. In Panchayat Samitis that govern tehsils, the Congress emerged first by winning 36 seats, while the BJP could get 33. The NCP and the Sena obtained 18 and 23 seats respectively from the total 144 seats. NCP’s gain In the Nagar Panchayat polls, though the NCP retained its second spot it had got in 2017, it gained over 50 seats. The tally rose to 381 from 330. The party not only won seats in western Maharashtra, its stronghold, but also made gains in districts of north Maharashtra. The party which has strong leaders, including Eknath Khadse and Rohit R Pawar, bagged 55 seats in four districts of the region. In Konkan districts too, the NCP won seats in Raigad and Ratnagiri. NCP chief spokesperson and minister Nawab Malik said, “We are number one in the state; even ahead of the BJP.” He further said, “The party’s tally is close to 450. In many places, we did not contest on the symbol, for instance, Patan [in Satara]. Mainly our gains have come from Konkan, Marathwada and parts of north Maharashtra.” In many local bodies, the MVA constituents contested separately, yet they managed to win and keep the BJP out of power. Political analysts said the NCP has gained the most after coming to power, followed by the Sena. The Congress’ performance has been a mixed bag, they added. Hemant Desai, a Mumbai-based political analyst, said the NCP, which has a strong rural presence, coupled with organisational ability and strong leadership, has gained a lot electorally in the last two years. “The NCP has been working like clockwork from the top to the grassroots level. This has been underscored in the results of local body polls. It has gained the most since it came to power, followed by the Sena. The Congress had complained about fund allocations, but its performance has been mix,” he said. Sena’s surge The Uddhav Thackeray-led party came last among the four parties even though it made good progress as compared to the 2017 polls. From 201 Nagar Panchayat seats, it increased its tally by 95 - a jump of 47%. Anil Desai, Sena secretary and Rajya Sabha MP, said the party’s tally is going to be around 305-310 Nagar Panchayat members, and they are in touch with many Independents to form a panel to control the local body. The boss, however, was not pleased with the party’s efforts, which he made clear while addressing Sena workers and leaders on January 23. Thackeray said the party leaders, ministers do not take any elections seriously, except those to the Lok Sabha and the Assembly. He asked them to emulate leaders from their alliance partners. He directed them that henceforth, all elections should be contested with the intent to win. Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the MVA partners’ tally should not be viewed individually. He said though the BJP has bagged the highest number of seats in the Nagar Panchayat polls, it will remain in the opposition. “We view the number collectively as we are running the state government... They might have got more seats, but the BJP is Maharashtra’s number one opposition party and it will remain so for years to come,” he said. Sena leader and urban development minister Eknath Shinde said the MVA has succeeded together. “Though the Sena is known to be an urban party, it has got good results in the rural areas as well. If you look at individual parties, the BJP may be seen with the most seats, but if viewed collectively, the MVA has the highest seats.” The Sena increased the tally in Pune, Satara, Sangli, Nashik, Dhule, and Nandurbar districts. The party, however, saw a loss in some districts of Marathwada, which is one of its strongholds. Desai said the Sena has its CM, so a jump of 95-100 seats is not spectacular. Congress’ decline? The Congress saw a drop of 82 seats in the Nagar Panchayat polls from its tally in 2017. The party lost a chunk of its seats in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, and Raigad districts of the Konkan region along with Nashik, Nandurbar, and Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. Desai said the leadership issues had plagued the party’s success in the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. “The Congress’ decline started after 2014. The central leadership needs to pay more attention to the state unit. There is no coordination in the local units. All key leaders, including Prithviraj Chavan, Ashok Chavan, Nana Patole and Balasaheb Thorat, are restricted to their regions and districts,” he said. Atul Londhe, Congress spokesperson, said the performance analysis needed to be based on the strength of legislators. “The results show the MVA constituents, which have 56 (Sena), 54 (NCP), and 44 (Congress) legislators respectively, have got over 1,000 seats in the panchayat elections. The BJP with 105 MLAs has got only 419.” Alliance and future polls In the upcoming municipal corporation elections, the alliance partners are expected to go solo in most cities. “Contesting local elections on our own gives an opportunity to our grassroots workers to assess the response of people,” an NCP leader said. Key corporations, including Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad, are expected to go to polls in a couple of months. Despite the recent results showing a collective might of the MVA, the three parties have not entered into any formal alliance for any civic body election so far. A Sena leader said, “So far, there is no agreement on any alliance for the municipal polls. But if it works out, we intend to have it for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Navi Mumbai.” The Congress has spoken openly on going independently in the local polls, including Mumbai.
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 4 of family assaulted over monetary dispute||A group of assailants opened an attack on a family over a dispute over ₹3,000 on Sunday afternoon in Subhash Nagar. The victims Vinay Kumar, 22, his father Vijay Kumar, 45, uncles Sonu, 40, and Deepak Bhinder, 33, of Jodhewal have been injured.Vinay said he had given ₹3,000 to the accused Sajid of Kuldeep Nagar, Jodhewal, two years ago on interest basis. Sajid had assured to return the money soon but he did not return it. “On Sunday, at around 12:30pm, i along with my uncle Sonu passing by Jodhewal flyover saw Sajid. We stopped and asked him to return the money. Sajid promised to return the money in the next 10 days and left,” he said.Vinay further said when they reached Subhash Nagar, Sajid along with his ten accomplices intercepted their way, after which he also called his father Vijay and uncle Deepak Bhindar.He alleged that the accused opened an attack on him with swords and other sharp-edged weapons. He also alleged that when they were returning from civil hospital after availing treatment, the accused intercepted their way and also damaged their car.Assistant sub-inspector Jaspal Singh, in-charge of Subhash Nagar police post, said they received a written complaint from victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-4-of-family-allegedly-assaulted-over-dispute-over-3k-101643570124295.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Dowry case: Woman ends life in Ludhiana; husband, in-laws booked||The police on Sunday booked husband and in-laws of a woman, who ended her life after nine months of her marriage by hanging herself at her maternal house in Agwar Ladai village of Jagraon, for abetment. Complainant, brother of victim, alleged that soon after his sister’s marriage, her husband, his two brothers and sister-in-law had started harassing her for dowry and the accused used to beat her.He added that his sister had left the house of her husband on January 28 and returned home. On January 29, when she was alone at home, she ended her life by hanging herself from the ceiling fan.Assistant sub-inspector Narinder Kumar, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dowry-case-woman-ends-life-in-ludhiana-husband-in-laws-booked-101643570066800.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||Shiv Sena Badhapur candidate’s nomination cancelled||Shiv Sena candidate Danvati’s candidature from Badhapur constituency of Bijnor was cancelled on Saturday.Danvati had filed her nomination from Badhapur constituency on Friday, which was the last date of filing nominations for the second phase of voting on February 14.After scrutiny on Saturday, her nomination was cancelled.Shiv Sena’s Bijnor district in charge Veer Singh accused the administration of cancelling her nomination under pressure. Singh said that Danvati belongs to Pal community which has 35,000 votes in the constituency. The community was annoyed with BJP for doing nothing for their welfare. They were supposed to vote in favour of Danvati, which would have meant a direct loss of votes to BJP candidate Sushant Singh.The sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Nageena Shailendra Kumar, however, refuted the charges. He said Danvati’s nomination was cancelled on technical basis.“She filed nomination as an independent candidate and was required to fill the detail of 10 proposers in her form. However, names and details of only six proposers were filled in the form that is why her nomination was cancelled,” the SDM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shiv-sena-badhapur-candidate-s-nomination-cancelled-101643570065557.html
31-01-2022||Other||Shiv Sena alleges ‘illegal’ rejection of nominations in UP||BJP govt is scared of our Hindutva plank, says Sanjay Raut  Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh of pressuring the local administration to “illegally” reject the nominations of Shiv Sena candidates, party Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said their nominees were also being threatened to withdraw from the fray. Raut said the Sena candidates in six seats, including Noida and Bijnor, had their nominations rejected “illegally” to disqualify them from contesting the polls. “I have the record. They filed the nominations in time and the documents were in order. Despite this, their nominations were rejected. The District Magistrate is not willing to conduct a hearing (against this). This means they are under pressure. (The BJP) is running scared of the Sena,” said Raut, adding he would approach the Election Commission of India. “Elections should be fair and fearless. Some of our candidates have been threatened to withdraw. They are scared of us because of Hindutva. (They are) neo-Hindutvawadis… The Sena is getting a good response in parts of Uttar Pradesh, and hence, someone is afraid of us,” he alleged, stating that the BJP may be apprehensive that the Sena may cut into its Hindutva vote bank. Raut said even though a candidate had filed his form before 3 pm, the District Magistrate had rejected his nomination. However, nomination forms of BJP candidates with similar lacunae had been accepted. “The (Union) Home Minister (Amit Shah speaks about kanoon ka raj (rule of law), but this is andha kanoon (lawlessness),” he said. In Bijnor, the reason for the rejection of the nomination was the same as the objection raised by the Sena over the candidature of Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant. The polling authorities heard Sawant’s side and settled the issue in his favour. However, the Sena candidates in Uttar Pradesh were not being given an opportunity to be heard. “Miscellaneous reasons have been given for rejecting the nominations of Sena candidates,” said Vinay Shukla, who is the party’s in-charge for north India. He added that these reasons included a column in the form being blank, a form having both, a thumb impression and signature, and missing documents and details in the affidavit. “Other parties like the Samajwadi Party have also faced this,” said Shukla, adding that however, they had backup candidates unlike the Sena, which was new to the politics of UP. Some of the candidates whose nominations were rejected were Raj Kumar Agarwal in Noida and former MLA Guddu Pandit in Bulandshahr. The Sena had declared six candidates for the first phase of polling in UP (February 10) and seven in the second phase (February 14). The Sena plans to field a minimum of 60-70 candidates, said Shukla. However, officials in Noida said the scrutiny of nominations is a transparent process conducted by returning officers in the presence of independent election observers. “The nomination of this candidate was cancelled because form 26 of the affidavit was not completely filled. The election rules clearly state that for the candidature to be valid every column in form 26 has to be filled. It was checked and a notice was also issued to the candidate to fill all columns and submit the forms by 11 am on the day of the scrutiny. However, they were unable to do so in time,” said Aalok Kumar Gupta, returning officer for the Noida constituency. While the Sena is active in Maharashtra politics and parts of Goa, it holds hardly any ground in UP. It had last won one seat in the 1991 UP Assembly elections: Pawan Kumar Pandey from Akbarpur constituency. This is the only victory that the Sena has notched outside Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shiv-sena-alleges-illegal-rejection-of-nominations-in-up-101643570005703.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||Amid extreme weather, a shorter construction window for infra work in Delhi||From intermittent ban on construction due to rising pollution to record rain and cold conditions deterring work, many experts and engineers associated with infrastructure projects in the city claim that various environmental and climatic factors have resulted in a shorter window for construction work in the Capital.Also Read | Rain likely to cloud Delhi’s warm mornings this week, says IMDExperts have suggested a complete revamp in planning, including prioritising certain components of projects during summer months, incorporation of delays due to climatic factors in the tender, and use of latest technologies, to adapt to the changes.Road surfacing work in the Capital, including for the tunnel project at Pragati Maidan, have been affected in January as the cold is not conducive for the use of bituminous construction material which is the key ingredient laying coaltar-asphalt roads. Prior to this, during November-December last year, construction bans were in place for days on end as the air deteriorated in the Capital. The operation of stone crushers and hot mix plants too were stopped during this period, effectively washing out construction work during the winter months. Brief but intense spells of rain also resulted in inundation of project sites and leading to minor delays in the previous months.Sarvagya Srivastava, former chief of Delhi PWD, confirmed that disruptions due to environmental factors has increased: “The bans impact movement of material and manpower and the construction sector has been most severely affected in last two years. There has been a big setback in the last couple of years and the whole sector is in turmoil.”Srivastava said that the order of construction work cannot be easily changed to prioritise certain works but said use of new technologies will be needed in the future. “We will have to look for new materials and technologies, adopt more mechanised construction and use pre-fabricated parts,” he added.On January 27, HT reported that cold conditions were acting has the last hurdle in completion of Pragati maidan tunnel project and six underpasses in the region.A senior official PWD said that most hot mix plants are now located outside the Delhi boundaries. “The asphalt hot mixture is hearted up to 300°C, and now one needs to factor in its cooling down during transportation. Quick cooling leads to early settling of layers and that can lead to damage. The night temperature in last week has been 7-8°C. The surfacing has to be put on hold till weather conditions improve,” said the official.“Construction companies used to set up smaller hot mix plants near project sites but amid increasing environmental concerns in the last few years, these were moved away,” the official added.An engineer from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation said that the road laying cannot be carried out during peak winter but exemptions in day-time operations are being sought in some cases. “Besides fund shortage, this is certainly a problem faced by all agencies,” official added.Earlier, the construction ban was in force from November 16 to December 20 last year, owing to the poor air quality in the Capital.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) had banned construction and demolition (C&D) activities in Delhi and the NCR due to high pollution on November 16 last year, and the Supreme Court reaffirmed the ban on November 24.The Supreme Court-approved graded response action plan (GRAP) for pollution mandates that construction activities need to be stopped when the air quality index (AQI) passes a certain level.Dr S Velmurugan, chief scientist, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said that road owning agencies need to change their strategies to finish projects on time. “The road owning agencies like PWD and civic bodies should make their priorities clear. If they want to stick to hot-mix technology, then that work should be prioritised so as to carry it out during the summer months. They can also upgrade to use of cold mix technology which has been demonstrated by CRRI on many national and state highways. The cost of this approach may be a bit higher but one has to understand that delays also cause cost escalations,” he said.Dr Velmurugan added that the site management practices have to be improved to minimise dust pollution to a level that such projects are exempt from the construction ban.Some of the key projects where climatic factors have been repeatedly cited for delays are Pragati Maidan integrated transit corridor projects, Ashram underpass and flyover extension project, Benito-Juarez underpass, half underpasses near Wazirabad on Outer Ring Road and Kishanganj underpass, among others.Delhi also witnessed an intense monsoon that continued well into late October, with the city recording 1,512.4mm of rainfall till December 29 -- the second highest ever on record. The short but intense spells of rainfall in the monsoon season led to flooding of several project sites and under construction underpasses.Netra Sharma, who heads All SDMC contractors association, said, “On top of pollution-related bans, the erratic monsoon also led to delays in several projects. No road laying work or major project involving digging work could be carried out during rainy season. There are frequent disruptions in projects after July, till the end of winter. The construction window is getting increasingly shorter and government should consider targeted and time bound bans instead of blanket bans on construction,” he added.Pankaj Bajaj, the president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (NCR chapter), said that the effective period for construction in Delhi NCR is only about 8-9 months in a year. “The loss of 3 to 4 months annually is partly addressable. We can allow construction to continue with strict dust control measures during the affected period. Also, it is not right to put a blanket ban on construction every time pollution increases. Many construction activities, like say plumbing work or installing lifts, are pollution free. They can be allowed to go on. Even for activities like mixing concrete can be done off site, or they can use prefabricated materials. In such cases, the construction site is nothing but an assembly zone while actual manufacturing happens somewhere else.I hope the authorities desist from issuing blanket bans and actually allow all the non polluting activities.”Prof Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said the project planning at tender stage should include climatic factors. “Project planning should take into consideration construction bans, climatic conditions, and prioritisation of certain aspects of projects in summer months. Under current conditions, everyone takes it for granted that a project will be completed in certain number of months without factoring in these delays or plans to avoid these period,” he said.Prof Ram added that technology used in colder European countries should be considered.Retaining workers a challengeOfficials claim that retention of workers amid intermittent construction bans is also a challenge. “We try to keep a section of labourers engaged by deploying them in dust control activities but contractors cannot be expected to keep paying workers during longer ban periods. We need a permanent mechanism to deal with this,” said a senior official from South MCD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-extreme-weather-a-shorter-construction-window-for-infra-work-in-delhi-101643569885383.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||25-year-old booked for raping minor in Haryana’s Hisar||A 25-year-old man has been booked for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl in a village in Hisar. In her complaint, the victim’s mother said, “Our neighbour had visited our house on January 24 and fed some intoxicants to my daughter. Later, he raped my daughter and threatened her with dire consequences.” Hisar police spokesperson Vikas Kumar said a case under Section 4 of the Pocso Act and Section 376 of the IPC has been registered. MDU extends last date for PhD application
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Khattar government starts process to compensate deceased farmers’ kin||Haryana government has initiated the process to give compensation to the families of state’s deceased farmers, who had lost their lives during the year-long agitation against three farm laws, which were later repealed by the Union government.BJP MLA from Rai Mohan Lal Badoli, along with other BJP leaders, on Sunday disbursed financial compensation of ₹5 lakh each to eight families of the deceased farmers in Sonepat district. “I have visited the houses of eight deceased farmers’ families and extended them a financial help of ₹5 lakh each on the behalf of the Haryana government and expressed grief over the demise of their loves ones in the farm stir. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was also pained about the demise of farmers and he is committed to providing the help to these families in future, if required,” the Rai MLA added.He has provided financial assistance to the families of Rajesh, Dilbagh, Kulbir Singh, Ajay Moor, Umid Singh, Rajender Pannu, Manoj Sharma and Dharmpal Malik in Sonepat district.Father of Ajay Moor, Ishwar Singh, a resident of Baroda village, said the government should also give a job to his daughter-in-law so that she can run the family. Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Inderjit Singh said they were expecting that the state government will provide more compensation to the deceased farmers’ families than the Punjab government, but it paid the same amount.“The Punjab government had also provided jobs to next of kin of the deceased farmers besides ₹5 lakh. The Haryana government should either increase the compensation amount or give job to one member of the deceased farmers’ families. We will discuss this issue in the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s meeting. The state government has withdrawn nearly 82 out of 250 FIRs registered during the farm stir and it should initiate the process to take back other FIRs too,” he added.Two farm leaders, pleading anonymity, said the Union government officials had assured the SKM leaders during the final talks that the BJP-JJP government in Haryana won’t give jobs to next-of-kin of the deceased, but it would increase the compensation amount. On ‘Betrayal Day’, SKM leader Suresh Koth said, “No action has been taken by the Union and state governments of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh on the promise of immediate withdrawal of cases registered during the farm agitation. On the issue of MSP, the government has neither announced formation of a committee nor has it given any information about the nature of the committee and its mandate. We also demand withdrawal of the Land Acquisition Act 2013 amended by the Haryana government and Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Property act.” “Despite a conspiracy being acknowledged in the SIT report, Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni is yet to be removed from the cabinet. The UP Police have implicated farmers in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-government-starts-process-to-compensate-deceased-farmers-kin-101643569705282.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||In 2015 repeat, Delhi to present ‘Swaraj Budget’ in March-end this year||After the “Deshbhakti Budget” last year, the Delhi government is going to present a “Swaraj Budget” a second time, for the 2022-23 financial year, said state officials aware of the matter. The Budget is likely to be presented in March this year, said officials. When the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to power with an absolute majority in 2015, winning 67 of 70 assembly seats in Delhi, the Arvind Kejriwal-led government picked ‘swaraj’ or self-rule as the theme of its maiden budget (2015-16). At the time, a significant section of the finances was allocated for the government’s flagship water and power subsidy schemes, which remain in force, and it also proposed the creation of a “Swaraj Fund”, for which ₹253 crore was earmarked. The AAP government had decided to create 30,000 ‘mohallas’ across the city, each of which was supposed to decide on how to spend the Swaraj Fund in their localities. The process continued till about 2018, but was later merged with the local area development fund given to MLAs. The “swaraj” theme will be repeated for the Budget this year, but with a separate approach, said officials aware of the matter. The government has also sought suggestions from residents of the city on ideas or projects it should incorporate in this year’s document. The idea of engaging residents of the Capital in the budget-making process this year and a return to the AAP’s maiden budget theme is significant as Delhi heads into elections for the three municipal corporations, all of which are currently governed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A government spokesperson said that the state has received at least 1,000 suggestions with the final date for comments over two weeks away (February 15). “This year, Delhi will have a participatory budget. Several responses concerning the areas of education, health and economic growth, all of which the government devotes a major share of its budget to every year, have also come in. The suggestions aim to overcome on-ground problems faced by the residents,” a government spokesperson said. Officials said that some have suggested that the government should develop “Mohalla Libraries” on the lines of the “Mohalla Clinics”. Such libraries can help students who live in densely populated areas without the space or privacy to study, said one of the suggestions. Another resident called for cheaper parking for electric vehicles (EVs), saying it may incentivise people to adopt greener modes of transport. Other responses suggested the concept of small-scale community solar power plants, localised sewage treatment plants, use of treated water to irrigate parks, and e-waste collection from doorsteps.The government last year presented the “Deshbhakti Budget” for Delhi to mark 75 years of India’s independence. The Delhi government introduced a slew of initiatives along that theme, including a “Deshbhakti Curriculum” for school students, installing 500 high-mast Tricolours across the city, planning a musical play in honour of the architect of the Constitution, Dr BR Ambedkar (the play was postponed due to the city’s fifth wave of infections), as well as ordering the removal of all photos of politicians in government offices and keeping only those of nation builders like the revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and Ambedkar. While Ambedkar is hailed as a Dalit icon, the iconic Bhagat Singh has particular resonance in Punjab, a state where he Aam Aadmi Party is seen as a strong contender in the next month’s assembly polls.The deshbhakti curriculum is divided into four cohorts – classes kindergarten to 2, 3-5, 6-8 and 9-12 and was officially launched on Bhagat Singh’s birthday. “All schools introduced a Deshbhakti period every day for classes K-8 and twice a week for grades 9-12. All the discussions and reflections in Deshbhakti Curriculum are based on real life situations and examples with which students can easily relate. A book titled ‘Humare Deshbhakt Krantikari’ with stories of 100 freedom fighters for students of class 6-12 was also launched under the programme. The method of instruction is through activities, discussions and reflection-based enquiry. Only teacher’s handbooks are being provided; no textbooks are being given to students. Through classroom discussions, the focus is on honing intellectual, mental, emotional, and social abilities of children. No formal examinations or grading system will be followed for the Deshbhakti curriculum. Emphasis is on observing and assessing the development of the values, behaviours and actions through reflections and observations,” a government spokesperson said. As for the project on installing national flags, 80 of the 500 Tricolours have been installed across Delhi so far. The rest will be installed in about two or three months, said officials.. 
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Day of Betrayal’: Haryana farm unions to hold protests today||On a call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmer union leaders from Haryana will hold protests at all district headquarters on Monday to observe the ‘Day of Betrayal’ against the central government for not fulfilling promises made to morcha leaders.The SKM, an umbrella body of farmer unions, has given the call to observe January 31 as ‘Day of Betrayal’ across the country against the Union government for ‘backtracking’ from the promises made to the SKM leaders last month.The decision to hold protests and submit a memorandum addressed to the Union government was taken in the review meeting of the SKM leaders held on January 15. According to the farmer leaders of 40 unions of Haryana, who held a meeting at Rohtak, they have decided to join the protests at the district headquarters in the state on January 31 and burn effigies of the Union and state leaders. Earlier, there were reports that BKU (Charuni) was reluctant to participate in the protests but now members of the union at the district level have issued instructions to their supporters to join the protests. Farm union leaders in Haryana are also holding meetings with farmers, requesting them to join the protest in large numbers to make it successful to get justice for the victims of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri of Uttar Pradesh last year. Messages are being circulated to the farmers on social media platforms as well. “January 31 will be observed as Day of Betrayal as the government has turned back from its promises and justice has not been done with the farmers who were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence,” said BKU (Charuni) Karnal leader Jagdip Singh Aulakh. He said that they were bound to follow the directions of the SKM leaders and they will follow whatever decision was taken by the top leadership.Haryana BKU (Tikait) president Ratan Mann said the farmers will hold protests at the district headquarters and a memorandum addressed to the President of India will be submitted to the deputy commissioners, seeking the President’s intervention as the “Union government did not fulfil any of the promises made to the farm leaders in the letter on December 9, 2021, including formation of a committee on the issue of MSP , withdrawal of cases registered against farmers and compensation to families of those who lost their lives during the yearlong agitation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-of-betrayal-haryana-farm-unions-to-hold-protests-today-101643569583928.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||IGNOU signs MoU with skill development ministry for higher education||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship (MSDE) to help provide higher education to all the learners enrolled in various skill training institutions across the country.Manorama Singh, senior regional director, IGNOU, said the open university had taken the initiative keeping in mind its objective of providing good quality employment oriented higher education at the doorsteps of the learners. Regional centre, IGNOU, Lucknow will establish an extension centre at the national skill training institute, Kanpur, to enrol their learners under graduate programmes of IGNOU.She further said a national-level virtual inauguration of the programme was organised on January 27 (Thursday) which was chaired by prof Nageshwar Rao, vice chancellor, IGNOU in which Rajesh Agarwal, secretary, MSDE, government of India was the chief guest. Singh said similar centres will be established at government ITIs, Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras and Jan Shikshan Sansthans in future.Kirti Vikram Singh, assistant regional director, said IGNOU regional centre, Lucknow, will enrol those trainees in its under graduate programme who have completed 10+2. They will be provided self-learning material, audio-visual materials, academic counselling classes and web-enabled academic support (WEAS) to complete their programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ignou-signs-mou-with-skill-development-ministry-for-higher-education-101643569524496.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||DMCH Ludhiana organises awareness event to mark World Leprosy Day||The Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Sunday marked the World Leprosy Day by organising an event —the theme for which was ‘Unity for Dignity’—aimed to raise awareness about the disease among public. DMCH managing society secretary Prem Kumar said the department of dermatology at DMCH has state of the art facilities and provides the highest level of skin care facilities.Department of dermatology head Dr Sunil Gupta said, “The bacteria causing leprosy grows very slowly and it may take up to 20 years to develop signs of the infection. The disease can affect the nerves, skin, eyes, and lining of the nose.”Stressing on the importance of early diagnosis, he added that if untreated, leprosy can lead to paralysis of hands and feet. Associate professor Dr Jaspriya Sandhu echoed the same, saying early diagnosis and timely management of the disease can prevent leprosy.“Leprosy does not pass from one person to another while shaking hands or hugging, sitting next to each other or sharing food,” she added.Fellow associate professor Dr Sukhjot Kaur highlighted the signs and symptoms including discoloured patches on the skin, usually flat that may be numb and look faded, painless ulcers on the soles of feet, numbness of affected areas of the skin, painless swelling or lumps on the face or earlobes, loss of eyebrows or eyelashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dmch-ludhiana-organises-awareness-event-to-mark-world-leprosy-day-101643569106852.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||Delhi govt to plant 14 varieties of grass at Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary||If a pilot project of planting 14 types of grass in the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary that aims to restore its ecological landscape is a success, the Delhi government may consider including grasses in its annual greening targets.Grasses are already returning in parts of the sanctuary where human footprint has reduced, according to a senior forest official in the south division. “We are already seeing grasslands return in places where boundary walls were strengthened, but plantation work of shrubs and grasses will begin in areas near the check dams, as there is already high silt and water availability,” said the official. “Open spaces need to be filled by shrubs and grasses, which form an equally important part of a forest, and grasses will be able to grow in places where trees will simply not be able to grow.” Although there are no immediate plans for a policy change that incorporates grasses in the greening target, it will be looked at following this pilot project, another forest official said. “It is possible in the future that greening agencies will be asked to plant grasses along with saplings and shrubs, especially along pavements,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Delhi’s green cover has been increasing over the past decade and now stands at 23.06% (342.2 sq km) of its land area, according to the latest India State of Forest Report. It was 21.9% in 2019 (324 sq km). Focusing on grasses and the creation of grasslands will be the next step in reviving the ecological landscape in the sanctuary, which has recorded the presence of ungulates such as the spotted deers, nilgais, black bucks and hog deers as part of an ongoing census, said Sohail Madan, centre manager, Bombay Natural History Society at Asola. “Around 14 different types of grasses have been identified, each of which are important in their own way for the ecology,” Madan said. “Not only will they sustain the browsers and grazers, but will also make it easier for reptiles and smaller mammals to thrive. The grasses to be planted include Buffel grass, Johnson grass, Mauritian grass, Daabh, Crowfoot grass, Kash, Munj, Needle grass, Lemon grass, Dhoob, Vertiver and Rat tail grass, among others. Grasses not only support herbivores, but increase microbial activity, which is important for a number of ecosystem processes, according to Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park. Grasslands are crucial in open forests, providing enrichment to the soil and a food source to grazers, said Pradip Krishen, an environmentalist and author of the book Trees of Delhi. “In a dense forest, grasses will not grow too easily, as they will not receive enough sunlight, but in open forest and open expanses of the Aravallis, grasslands are important for all sizes of mammals, rodents and reptiles,” Krishen said. “Different areas need to be studied carefully before determining the type of grass that can grow there and this can be replicated in other places of the sanctuary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-plant-14-varieties-of-grass-at-asola-bhatti-wildlife-sanctuary-101643568745325.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Second training of election staff held across 14 locations in Ludhiana||A second training for election staff was held on Sunday across 14 different locations in the district. District election officer (DEO)-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma visited three training venues, encouraging the staff to perform their duties with devotion and honesty.The training was aimed at preparing the staff for the entire election process including handling of electronic voting machines (EVM) and understanding the voter-verified paper audit trail method.The DEO, during his visit to venues at SCD Government College, Kundan Vidya Mandir and Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar, said the officials allocated election duty should take pride in their work. He said three more training sessions have been scheduled for the coming days, before circling back to the importance of the task.The training of election staff at venues including AS Modern School, Khanna, Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Khanna Road, Malwa Central College Of Education for Women, Swami Ganga Giri Senior Secondary School, Raikot, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/second-training-of-election-staff-held-across-14-locations-in-ludhiana-101643568684050.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||For oppn, development meant family progress: Nadda||Agra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda alleged on Sunday that ‘development’ for opposition parties meant development of their family members while the BJP regime led by Yogi Adityanath worked for all sections of society in Uttar Pradesh. The BJP was the party which delivered what it promised, claimed Nadda. Nadda first reached Shikohabad area of Firozabad district and walked for about a kilometre to campaign for the party candidate. Party supporters and candidates for assembly seats of Firozabad flanked the party president. Nadda later reached Hathras and campaigned for BJP candidate Anjula Singh Mahour. “The BJP has been only party which delivered what it promised since the days of the Jan Sangh. We have ensured development for all but for the opposition, development meant development of family members,” said Nadda who blamed Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav for praising Jinnah who divided the nation. “The Samajwadi Party leader is promising free electricity but the masses are aware that there was no power supply when he was chief minister. Such false promises are not going to work,” said Nadda. “Yogi Adityanath ended lawlessness in the state and criminals either fled or were jailed. Half of the candidates of opposition parties are on bail and the other half in jail,” he said. Nadda also cited the welfare schemes implemented by the double engine government in Uttar Pradesh. Union minister Smriti Irani was in Agra to campaign for party candidates from Agra North and Agra South assembly constituencies. “The BJP is winning the state assembly election yet again and will return to power. The masses are convinced that the BJP is the party which can carry out development and has fulfilled promises it made, including that of Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” claimed Smriti Irani and added that the BJP regime in UP ensured that criminals left the state and those who had moved away after being threatened were returning. “It was BJP workers who were out in the field to help the masses during the pandemic while SP leader Akhilesh Yadav even mocked the vaccine that saved many lives in the nation,” alleged Irani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/for-oppn-development-meant-family-progress-nadda-101643568563949.html
31-01-2022||Mumbai||War of words continues between MVA and BJP over wine sale decision in Maharashtra||The slanging match between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continues over the decision to allow sale of wine in supermarkets, with the latter reiterating its allegation linking Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s business interest with it. On Sunday, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said Raut’s family members entered into a partnership with a company named Magpie DFS private limited, which was involved in wine distribution last year. Raut responded, saying there is nothing wrong if someone is in a legitimate business and BJP leaders will have to go underground if he starts revealing their businesses. “On April 16, 2021, Raut became involved in a partnership with Ashok Garg. Raut’s two daughters were made directors of the company. On January 12, 2022, the company’s name and its business were also changed. With such deep financial interests, no wonder the MVA allies see no wrong in the wine sale decision which aims to make Maharashtra a ‘Madya Rashtra (liquor state),” Somaiya said. Raut said the BJP has started low level politics which will backfire. “Is it a crime if my daughters are directors in a company? What business are the children of BJP leaders involved in? Does Somaiya’s children sell peanuts or is Amit Shah’s son selling dhokla?” Nationalist Congress Party chief spokesperson and minister Nawab Malik too questioned whether the BJP leaders will shut down the distilleries and wineries owned by them. On Saturday, Vivekanand Gupta, secretary, Mumbai BJP, said Raut’s two daughters are directors in Magpie DFS private limited. The company is a subsidiary of Magpie Global which is into the supply and distribution of beverages, liquor, wine, and champagne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/war-of-words-continues-between-mva-and-bjp-over-wine-sale-decision-in-maharashtra-101643568504168.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||10L people in Ludhiana yet to get their second dose of Covid vaccine||A total of 50,125 people were administered doses at a mega vaccination drive organised at more than 300 venues in the district on Sunday following an appeal by deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.The DC urged the residents, those aged 15-18 years in particular, to get vaccinated in the interest of the society. He also visited the camp at BCM School, Basant Avenue, and interacted with the youth.He revealed that only 64% of the eligible population have received the second dose, leaving about 10 lakh people who are yet to be fully vaccinated.Restressing the importance of getting fully vaccinated, the DC said out of 81 Covid-related deaths that took place in January this year, 80% of victims were either unvaccinated or had missed their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10l-people-in-ludhiana-yet-to-get-their-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-101643568445469.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||Rain likely to cloud Delhi’s warm mornings this week, says IMD||The Capital spent a warm and sunny Sunday, as the maximum temperature settled at 22.2 degrees Celsius, even as the weather office predicted that an active western disturbance is likely to bring widespread rainfall to the northern plains and snowfall in the hills between February 2 and 4The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said it forecasts a drop in the mercury in Delhi on February 3 and 4.As per the IMD, while Delhi is expected to record a maximum temperature of 23 degrees in the next three days, it could hover between 19 and 20 degrees Celsius on February 3 and 4 as wind speeds touch 30-40 km/hr.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, says peak rainfall activity will occur on February 3rd for Delhi, with a yellow alert currently in place for the Capital.“Due to the approaching intense western disturbance, minimum temperatures are gradually going to rise over northwest India. The impact of the WD will be felt mainly in the hills and northern areas but on February 3 we can expect light rain in Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh as well. The system will move eastwards bringing rain to Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal also. Thereafter there will be a fall in minimum temperatures but it’s very difficult to say if there will be cold wave conditions again. Till the first half of February cold wave conditions can still arise,” said Jenamani.“We could see light showers across the city on February 3, while a drizzle is expected in parts of Delhi on February 4. Unlike the past western disturbances in January which brought moderate rainfall both times, the intensity of this will be slightly lower. However, we can still expect gusty conditions,” he added.Delhi meanwhile saw a slight increase in the minimum temperature on Sunday, climbing to 7.5 °C – one degree below the normal mark, up from 5.4°C on Saturday.Mungeshpur saw the coldest morning, with a temperature of 19.9°C, while Narela was the coldest, with the mercury dropping to 6.5°C.In its forecast, the weather office said the minimum temperature is likely to hover around the 8-degree mark over the next two days, and could touch 11 degrees by February 3.This spell of warmer weather has also meant Delhi’s air quality has remained in the ‘poor’ category, not deteriorating too much over the last one week. The capital recorded an overall air quality index (AQI) of 278 (poor) as per Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4 pm bulletin on Sunday, a slight increase from Saturday’s reading of 251 (poor).Agencies forecast air quality to remain in the ‘poor’ category for the next three days as well, before an improvement occurs due to rain.“The AQI today indicates ‘poor’ air quality and it is likely to remain the same for the next three days (31st, 1st and 2nd) as the prevailing weather conditions are unlikely to change significantly. On 3rd, rainfall is likely to occur along with gusty winds which is expected to improve AQI through wet deposition and strong dispersion,” said Safar, a government air forecasting body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-likely-to-cloud-delhi-s-warm-mornings-this-week-says-imd-101643568324102.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 2-min silence observed in memory of freedom struggle martyrs||Under the supervision of deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, tribute was paid to the freedom fighters and martyrs, who had sacrificed their lives for the sake of the country, at the District Administrative Complex on Sunday.Civil, police officials and employees observed two-minute silence at 11am.DC Varinder said, “We must feel proud of our martyrs. Every citizen is enjoying independence due to their struggle and sacrifice.” He appealed to all the officials, employees and citizens to put in their efforts and make India a country which martyrs dreamt of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-min-silence-observed-in-memory-of-freedom-struggle-martyrs-101643568087392.html
31-01-2022||Delhi||In Jewar resettlement town, new homes, life bring new challenges||Smoking a hookah on a sunny January morning in front of his brand new home, Vijay Pal Chauhan (65) is still not happy.“In our village, I was always surrounded by people. But in this township, I spend most of my time alone. I am not used to living like this,” said Chauhan, who has been recently displaced from Rohi, one of the seven villages acquired by the government for a new international airport in Greater Noida.In November, he shifted to the sprawling 48-acre resettlement township on the outskirts of Jewar, where villagers from Nagla Ganeshi, Nagla Sharif Khan, Nagla Phool Khan, Nagla Chhittar, Kishorepur, Rohi, and Dayanatpur Kheda have been relocated. Adult members of families whose land was acquired were allotted plots of various sizes through an online draw of lots, depending on the size of their houses in the acquired villages.Developed by the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), the township will house over 3,500 families from the acquired villages. Over 600 families have moved in, some with their buffaloes as well as new cars bought with compensation money.But most villagers say they are struggling to navigate life in what the government refers to as a model township. What troubles them most is not just the lack of promised amenities such as a community centre, school or health centre, but the “loss of a rural lifestyle, livelihood, neighbourhood bonds, and community feelings” in their new location.“My neighbours, whose families lived next to ours for a hundred years, are no longer my neighbours. Even my three sons have got plots in three different parts. All of us lived together in our house in the village; now we live separately,” said Chauhan. “The shift to this place has disintegrated my family.”Sushila Devi, his sister-in-law, said she has not met most women of her village for over two months though many have shifted here. “It looks like they have changed, or maybe they no longer have time for me,” she said. “Even my own daughters-in-law now live separately.”The family’s tractor is parked outside the house. “It is a useless machine now as we have no land to till, but I do not have the heart to sell it,” said Chauhan.While most villagers in Rohi sold off their cattle as there was no provision in the new township to house cattle sheds, some like Chauhan chose to bring them anyway. He has turned a 50-metre plot one of his sons was allotted into what he calls a pashuwada. “I know it is not allowed, but buffaloes have always been a part of our family of farmers,” he said, pointing to two buffaloes and a cow tethered outside the shed.A few hundred metres away is Pocket 5, where families from Dayanatpur Kheda village have resettled. Nitin Kumar’s is among the families who have shifted here. Like Chauhan’s, a tractor stands outside Kumar’s new house.“We sold all our agricultural instruments such as harrows, tillers, ploughs, but did not sell the tractor, which was a symbol of pride for us in the village,” said Kumar, who is studying in a local college. “Most people, including youngsters, were engaged in agriculture, which was their primary source of income. There is no commercial space here, so we cannot even start a business.”His family spent about ₹30 lakh building the new house. “We also bought some agricultural land in Khurja district, 40 km from here, as land gives us a sense of security. Our family is living off the compensation money of ₹1 crore. At this rate, we will soon run out of money.”His uncle, Hoshiyar Singh, who got a plot next to his in the township, said that while youngsters are coping well after the relocation, life for the elderly has turned upside down.“A village has its own rhythm of life. You get up early, go to the fields, tend to your animals, spend time at the chaupal, but here all of us stay home with nothing to do,” said Singh. “This place is a concrete jungle. Imagine what it must be like for villagers who lived all their lives surrounded by trees and agricultural fields.”A few children are playing cricket in the park outside his house. “That park is our everything — our chaupal, our playground, our only piece of greenery, ” said Singh. “Displacement has brought a new social order in the village. All the villages had mohallas based on their castes, but here they all are living together, so far in harmony.”While the township is yet to get the promised school, community centre, crematorium, graveyard and health centre, the roads are paved and every residental pocket has its own park. Most houses are yet to get water and electricity connections though, and depend on generators. There is no shopping complex, but a few villagers have opened hole-in-the-wall grocery stores and pharmacies.Gabbar Khan is sitting outside his house in Pocket 7 in the township, where he lives with his wife and five children. The pocket houses families from Nagla Chhittar, a village dominated by the minority community, most of whom were landless farm labour. The poverty is reflected in the houses in this part of the township, where, unlike Pocket 1, which has large houses and new cars, most houses are small, single-storey structures.“I sold my goats as I had no place to keep them here. They were my source of livelihood. I used to sell their milk. Besides, in the village, my family also found work in the agricultural fields as labourers. Now we have no work. We had no land, so we got no compensation apart from this plot and little money against the small brick house I had in the village,” said Khan, who has set up an egg stall outside his house in the new township.His neighbour Shaira interjects: “My buffaloes used to provide us with 15kg of milk every day. Now, I buy 1kg packaged milk every day to make tea. I cannot afford to buy enough milk even for my children. I am going to somehow buy a buffalo and keep it right there, whether it is allowed or not.”But what worries Shri Pal Singh(70), a retired principal in Dayanatpur Kheda, is the lack of a crematorium. People, he said, have to travel about 10 km to cremate the dead near their razed villages. “Even our mail comes to our old addresses, where our houses are now just mounds of rubble. People here are facing many problems that no social impact study might have taken into account.”Surendra Singh, divisional commissioner (Meerut), who is also the rehabilitation and resettlement commissioner for the airport project, said the government is sorting out the issues.“We have bought land for both the crematorium and graveyard near the township and they will soon be ready. The tender for the school has been issued, and the one for the community centre will be issued after the elections. The township will have every facility promised in the resettlement and rehabilitation scheme.”But Chauhan in Pocket 1 is not quite sure it will change anything. “Officials promised that they would replicate our villager here. But it is not possible. Our villages are gone for good, and so are our joys and pleasures of village life.”
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Ludhiana traffic police issues 250 challans for using high-beam lights||The traffic police of city’s police commissionerate on Sunday initiated a drive against use of high-beam lights and issued atleast 250 challans to the violators.The police installed ten special checkpoints at Ludhiana-Ferozepur road and other main roads of city to curb the menace.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, traffic) Sandeep Sharma said high-beams are cause of mishaps on highways and a source of trouble for drivers. “The police have started a drive against high-beam lights. We have started rotating and shifting nakas at different places in the city at night under the supervision of traffic assistant commissioner of police and zone in-charges. We are also educating the drivers about the rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-traffic-police-issues-250-challans-for-using-high-beam-lights-101643567603729.html
31-01-2022||Chandigarh||Police recover 26K litre lahan in Ludhiana||The rural police in an action against Illicit liquor recovered 26,000 litre lahan and two drums in Talwandi Naubad village alongside Sutlej river on Sunday. A case has been registered against the accused Shindu Singh, Kaka Singh and their three accomplices, who are yet to be identified, at Dakha police station. Senior superintendent of police (rural) Patil Ketan Baliram said the police along with the excise department initiated a search operation using drone cameras, following a tip-off . On finding suspicious activities, they conducted a raid.On January 29, the police had recovered 1 lakh litre lahan in Sidhwan Bet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-recovers-26k-litre-lahan-in-ludhiana-101643566583768.html
31-01-2022||Lucknow||UP polls: ECI to review ban on physical rallies, roadshows today||The Election Commission of India (ECI) will on Monday review the Covid situation in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh to take a decision over the ban it imposed on physical rallies, roadshows and “padyatras” in view of the surge in Covid cases while announcing the poll schedule for five states, including UP, on January 8. While assessing the Covid situation on January 22, the ECI had given certain relaxations to political parties, including organising meetings at designated open spaces, indoor meetings as well as door-to-door campaign. With UP registering a decline in fresh Covid cases as active Covid cases in the state came down to 55,574 on Sunday (January 30) from the peak on January 17 when 1,06,616 active cases were reported, the poll panel is likely to give more relaxation to the political parties in organising election campaign on Monday. The filing of nomination papers for the first phase of assembly election on 58 seats in 11 districts and 55 assembly segments in 9 districts of west UP in the second phase has culminated while filing of papers for the third phase poll on 59 seats in 16 districts and for the fourth phase on 60 seats in 9 districts is continuing after the ECI issued notifications for these phases. In the first phase on February 10, polling will be held on 58 assembly constituencies located in 11 districts, including Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida), Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Mathura and Agra. In the second phase, polling on 55 assembly seats in 9 districts, including Saharanpur, Bijnor, Amroha, Moradabad, Sambhal, Rampur, Bareilly, Buduan and Shahjahanpur will be on February 14. Polling for the third phase on 59 seats in Hathras, Kasganj, Etah, Firozabad, Farrukhabad, Mainpuri, Etawah, Kannauj, Auriya, Kanpur Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Jhansi and Lalitpur districts will be held on February 20 while polling on 60 assembly seats in Pilibhit, Kheri, Sitapur, Hardoi, Lucknow, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Fatehpur and Banda will be held in the fourth phase on February 23. Collectively, the 45 districts going to poll in four phases have 41,751 active Covid cases of the total 55,574 active cases in the state which is around 75.12% of the Covid caseload in UP making the task of permitting the political parties to hold rallies, roadshows and “padyatras” challenging for the poll panel. With 8,100 fresh Covid-19 cases across UP in the last 24 hours, the tally of active cases in the state is 55,574. The state is also witnessing an increase in Covid deaths. Within 30 days starting January 1, Uttar Pradesh reported a total 274 deaths, majority of which have been reported in the districts located in west UP and the state capital. “The state has ramped up Covid vaccination. Among eligible beneficiaries above 18 years of age in Uttar Pradesh, 14,66,76,992 first doses of Covid vaccine have been administered so far, which is 99.49% of the eligible population. Among the beneficiaries, 10,14,97,070 people have got their second dose which is 68.85% of the eligible population. In the age group of 15-18 years, 90,99,722 people have been given first dose while a precautionary dose has been given to 12,53,210 people, including health workers, frontline workers and people above 60 years with comorbidities,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, UP. The recovery rate that was 93.8% on January 22 increased to 95.9% on Sunday, said a health department officer. Uttar Pradesh chief electoral officer Ajay Kumar Shukla said, “The political parties and candidates have been directed to comply with the Covid appropriate behaviour, guidelines as well as model code of conduct during election campaign and filing of nomination papers.” 
