01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Gippy Grewal held for flouting COVID curbs in Patiala, released later||Punjabi singer and actor Gippy Grewal and some of his crew members were arrested for allegedly flouting COVID-19 restrictions by shooting for a film at Banur in Punjab's Patiala district, police said on Saturday.They were later released on bail, police said.A police official said over 100 people had gathered at the shooting site in a village in Banur, even as a weekend lockdown was in force in Punjab.Police arrested Grewal and some crew members from the spot, the official said.A case under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act has been registered at Banur police station.A few days ago, actor Jimmy Shergill and some crew members were booked for allegedly defying COVID-19 restrictions while shooting for a web series in Ludhiana. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-singer-gippy-grewal-held-for-flouting-covid-curbs-in-patiala-released-later-246833
01-05-2021||---||37 die of Covid at Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital in 24 hours||Patiala, May 1The daily death toll at Covid isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital continues to rise.As many as 37 patients died at the isolation wing of the hospital over the past 24 hours.Of these, only eight were from Patiala while 25 belonged to other districts of the state. Three Covid victims were from other states, including Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/37-die-of-covid-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-in-24-hours-246793
01-05-2021||---||Private hospitals short of ICU beds in Patiala district||Patiala, April 30Private hospitals in the district are running short of ICU beds. According to the district administration, 97 per cent ICU beds in private hospitals have been occupied.Of a total of 60 ICU beds in private hospitals, only two were vacant this evening.The district administration said they had got the number the ICU beds increased in private hospitals and were working hard to enhance it further.It was learnt that the district administration and the Health Department were getting harsh on the already strained private hospitals to increase the number of beds. The private hospitals are said to have been upset over the issue of increasing ICU beds. The authorities said increasing the number of beds overnight was not possible because it required infrastructure and manpower.A doctor at a private hospital said: “To run ICU facilities, a hospital needs ventilators, manpower and space. It cannot be arranged overnight.”Confirming the crunch in the district, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said the private hospitals were being asked to increase the number of ICU beds. “Two or three more private healthcare centres, which have ICU beds, have been given permission to admit Covid patients, which will increase the number of ICU beds in the district.”Meanwhile, Government Rajindra Hospital is also running short of Covid ICU beds. The hospital authorities claimed that they had increased the number of beds from 120 to 180. However, all ICU beds are said to have been occupied at hospital.Covid deaths at Rajindra Hospital continue to be highThe daily death toll at the Covid isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital continues to rise. Around 26 Covid patients, including three suspected patients, had died at the hospital over the past 24 hours. Of the 26 victims, only seven were from Patiala and 16 belonged to the other districts of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/private-hospitals-short-of-icu-beds-in-patiala-district-246686
01-05-2021||---||Covid: 2 more crematoriums earmarked  for victims in Patiala||Patiala, April 30The Health Department today earmarked two more crematoriums for Covid victims. Now, there are a total of three cremation grounds in the city earmarked for Covid victims.The two crematoriums are situated on the Badungar road and at Tripuri. It was learnt that the mounting Covid deaths had prompted the administration to take timely action to avoid chaos in future.A majority of Covid victims succumbing at Government Rajindra Hospital are cremated here only, irrespective of the districts they belong to.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said: “We have now allowed the cremation of Covid victims’ bodies at two more sites.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-2-more-crematoriums-earmarked-for-victims-in-patiala-246683
01-05-2021||Patiala||Patiala MC begins construction work on parking facility||The Municipal Corporation has started the construction of a parking area at the Baradari Gardens in the city. The parking facility for about 90 cars, coming up near level crossing 20, is expected to benefit advocates and people visiting the local district courts as well as those visiting the Baradari Gardens.The MC will spend Rs35 lakh on the parking facility. The chunk of land was already being used for parking of vehicles. “We will renovate the piece of land which belongs to the Health Department and construct a parking facility at the site,” officials said.Meanwhile, Mayor Sanjeev Sharma said the MC was also going to implement the new parking policy “Under the policy, the city dwellers will be provided with a number of parking spaces across the city while a number of areas will be put in use for general parking of vehicles by residents.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-begins-construction-work-on-parking-facility-246682
01-05-2021||Patiala||Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University to start session in July||Newly established Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University aims to begin its first session in July. The university will begin its certificate and degree courses after it gets permission from the distance education bureau of the UGC.Meanwhile, the university has decided the syllabus for the courses and begun the process of hiring teachers.Dr Anita Gill, Dean Academic Affairs, said: “The enrolment of students will begin once the session starts in July. By then, the university will seek permission from the distance education bureau for starting the courses.”She said the university had passed the syllabus for its courses. “We are going to run a slew of courses under the schools of social sciences and liberal arts, languages, business management and commerce among others. Course material for all such degree and certificate courses was passed at a meeting of the academic council held last week.”As such, the university will now run a number of courses, including certificate courses in digital marketing, rural management, effective business and social communication, cyber security, artificial intelligence and its application and others along with degree courses, including bachelor of science (data sciences) and bachelor in liberal arts.She said the university also hold an orientation programme for the enhancement of skills of teachers associated with the university for preparation of study material for the courses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jagat-guru-nanak-dev-punjab-state-open-university-to-start-session-in-july-246681
01-05-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University celebrates 60th foundation day||Punjabi University celebrated its 60th foundation day today. Punjab Governor and Chancellor of the university VP Singh Badnore, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa sent their messages on the event.The university authorities said owing to the Covid situation, the event was organised via the online mode which was attended by more than 7,000 students, researchers and non-teaching staff of the university.The Governor said the university had made remarkable achievements in various fields and fulfilled its mission. The Chief Minister said the university was established on the recommendations of a commission headed by Maharaja Yadavindra Singh.Dr Surjit Patar, a distinguished Punjabi poet, said technological advancements made with time had a scope for futuristic development of all languages, including Punjabi.The Vice-Chancellor, Professor Arvind stated that there was a need to develop interdisciplinary and multi-disciplinary courses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-celebrates-60th-foundation-day-246680
01-05-2021||---||In Patiala, protesting farmers break barricades, 4 cops hurt||Patiala, April 30The protest held by farmers associated with the Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee against the state government over the acquisition of their land on low compensation paralysed the traffic movement in the city on Friday.Farmers, who have been protesting at the YPS chowk for over a month, held a tractor rally in the city and took to streets of Patiala with their tractors to gherao Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence. The protesters also broke barricades set up by the police at the YPS chowk and held a sit-in outside the Police Post Officer Colony. However, the police managed to stop the march. At least four police personnel were injured in the incident.The traffic throughout the city, including colonies adjoining the CM residence, was hampered. Residents had to go around in circles to reach their destination. The Fountain Chowk at the heart of the city was also blocked in the afternoon.Meeting with committee on may 4We are in talks with the protesters and they have decided to clear the blockades. A meeting between the protesters and a committee constituted by the CM Office for land acquisition will be held on May 4. —Saurav Jindal, Deputy superintendent of policeHarmanpreet Singh, a farmer, said the state government did not listen to their demands. “They were aware of the protest and are themselves responsible for the melee. We will keep the city shut till our demands are met,” he said.Bharat Bhumi Sangharsh Committee president Ramesh Dalal, who came to the city in support of the farmers, said, “Farmers of Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi were united for the cause. The governments are trying to pay us peanuts for our land, which will not be accepted.”The police said ASI Bhola Singh, SI Randhir Singh, ASI Jasveer Singh and Gurmeet Kaur suffered injuries during the protest. They said a complaint had been forwarded and facts were being ascertained before filing of an FIR.DSP Saurav Jindal in the evening said, “We are in talks with the protesters and they have decided to clear the blockades. A meeting between the protesters and a committee constituted by the CM Office for land acquisition will be held on May 4.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/in-patiala-protesting-farmers-break-barricades-4-cops-hurt-246395
01-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Labour officers forged papers to get job: Probe||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 30Experience certificates of Labour Enforcement Officers — recruited in 2017 — have been allegedly found to be fake. A departmental inquiry was carried out into the matter to establish the facts that some of the candidates had reportedly forged experience certificates at the time of their recruitment.Notably, a minimum two-year experience of practical working of labour laws in government or private undertaking, was a mandatory requirement for the said posts. In the inquiry, conducted by respective controlling officials of the alleged defaulters, it was found that some of those officers had submitted experience certificates of factories which were not operational or had already shut before their time of experience. While in other cases, the experience has been of some other work, for example one of the candidates has got the job on the experience certificate of a data operator.Certificates from non-operational firmsAn officer, who had given the experience certificate of the State Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Punjab, had no history of practical working of labour laws, said the department. Another investigating officer had said that a Malerkotla firm could not issue experience certificates giving details of relevant experience i.e. labour laws and claimed that he had worked as an Assistant (Training) in the said firm.Meanwhile, VK Janjua, principal secretary, Labour Department, said he had received the inquiry reports from the Deputy Directors and action would be taken as per the reports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/labour-officers-forged-papers-to-get-job-probe-246401
01-05-2021||---||Patiala: Store owner booked for selling oxygen kit in black||Patiala, April 30Amid shortage of oxygen in the region, the Patiala police have arrested a surgical store owner for allegedly selling oxygen cylinder kit at exorbitant prices here on Friday.Patiala SSP Vikramjit Duggal said Jaspinder Singh Bhatia, owner of Shanky Surgical Store, was selling the kit at twice the original price and had been arrested from his store on the TB-hospital road.He further said a flow meter (oxygen kit), a bill book and other documents were recovered from the store. The SSP said the accused was taking undue advantage of the prevailing pandemic situation. On checking the stock register, an oxygen kit was found missing from the record by a Drug Inspector.The accused has been booked. It has been learned that the shop owner had brought the kit from New Delhi and was selling it for Rs 3,000, the market rate of which was Rs 1,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-store-owner-booked-for-selling-oxygen-kit-in-black-246415
