05-05-2021||Ravneet Singh||PCCTU demands work-from-home, threatens protest||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 5The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) has decided to launch a protest for their demands of work-from-home during the surge in Covid cases in the state.The Union claims it has been given the cold shoulder despite repeated requests to the higher education department.PCCTU president Vinay Sofat said the union raised its demand with the office of secretary, higher education, but the matter was sent to the department of home affairs instead. “This is while GNDU, Amritsar, has allowed its teachers to work from home after consultation with secretary, higher education.” He said Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa had also assured them of permission to work from home.The teachers’ union also demanded that monthly grants of colleges be disbursed. He said, “Salaries of over 2,000 teaching and 1,500 non-teaching officials of 136 aided colleges have not been credited after February.”Secretary, higher education, VK Meena, said, "They raised their demands with our office. We have prepared a proposal and sent it to the home department. The Chief Minister's Office will take a decision." He said the GNDU is an autonomous body which can take its own decisions.Responding to the matter of salaries, Director, Public Instructions (Colleges), Paramjit Singh, said the grants were not disbursed due to changes in budget allocation. “Also, some colleges have not submitted the grant utilisation certificates of last year which is mandatory. Now, we have decided to block the grant of those colleges and will disburse the grants of remaining colleges in a week.”The teachers said they would wear black badges on May 5 and 6 as a mark of protest for work from home orders. “If no response comes, the agitation will be intensified,” they threatened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pcctu-demands-work-from-home-threatens-protest-248527
05-05-2021||---||Divisional Commissioner takes stock of Covid situation||Patiala, May 4Commissioner of Patiala Division Chander Gaind today asked the district administration of Fatehgarh Sahib to step up sampling and vaccination in the area to contain the spread of Covid-19.He said in view of the possibility of a spike in cases of Covid-19, all arrangements should be made in advance so that better treatment facilities could be provided to patients.The office of the Divisional Commissioner held an online meeting with Amrit Kaur Gill, Deputy Commissioner, Fatehgarh Sahib, and other officials. Gaind also reviewed the production at the oxygen gas plants of the district.Gill apprised the Divisional Commissioner about the availability of level-2 bed facilities. She said there were 144 L-2 beds in government and private hospitals of which 23 beds were occupied.Gill added that there were six oxygen plants in Fatehgarh Sahib for which an audit committee was constituted.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Mahinder Singh, said 5,243 cases were reported in the district, of which 523 were still active. He said 147 patients succumbed to the virus. He pointed out that the district had a recovery rate of 92 per cent and a positivity rate of 3.7 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/divisional-commissioner-takes-stock-of-covid-situation-248389
05-05-2021||---||PDA notice to developers||Patiala, May 4The Patiala Development Authority (PDA) has now issued a notice under section 87 and 88 of the PRTPD to developers who were found developing a colony under its regulated area. The matter came to light when residents of Karheri village wrote to the Panchayat, demanding action against the colonisers.Sarpanch of the village Amarjeet Singh said the Panchayat had written to the PDA, requesting that the alleged illegal construction of the colony be stopped.The Panchayat wrote that many shops having multiple stories were being constructed in an unauthorised manner. “This is a purely residential area and such construction will lead to multiple problems for the residents of the colony. This is against the law of the land,” the Panchayat pointed out, and demanded action against the illegal construction.The residents also pointed out that officers of the PDA had visited the area and warned the persons concerned to stop the construction, but to no avail.Meanwhile, the PDA officials said they got the construction stopped thrice. “Now, we have sent notices to the colonisers under section 87 and 88 of the PRTPD. Due action has been initiated against the colonisers,” said PDA Chief Administrator Surabhi Malik. She said the PDA would also write to the SDM office to help put a check on the illegal and unregulated construction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pda-notice-to-developers-248387
05-05-2021||Patiala||Fatalities continue to be high at Govt Rajindra Hospital||The daily death toll at the Covid isolation facility of the Government Rajindra Hospital continues to be high. Around 41 patients, including three suspected ones, died at the isolation facility in the past 24 hours.Of the 41 victims, 12 were from Patiala and 24 belonged to other districts of the state. Two victims were from other states. Meantime, around 72 patients were admitted to the hospital in the past 24 hours while only 22 discharged.As many as 111 Covid patients have died at the isolation ward of the hospital over the past 72 hours.The hospital authorities claimed that the patient caseload had increased manifold over the past few days, and the victims were very sick at the time of admission. A majority of patients died within a few hours of admission as they were critical, said the authorities.Surbhi Malik, in charge of Covid isolation, Government Rajindra Hospital, said: “We are doing our best to save as many lives as possible. A majority of patients come to the hospital in a very critical condition.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fatalities-continue-to-be-high-at-govt-rajindra-hospital-248383
05-05-2021||---||Highest single-day spike in Covid cases||Patiala, May 4The district today recorded the highest single-day spike of 614 Covid cases. The number of active cases in the district has now risen to 4,246. Besides, 16 persons succumbed to the virus, taking the death count to 824 since the pandemic broke out last year.Of 614 fresh cases, Patiala city reported 382 cases, Nabha 40, Rajpura 29, Harpalpur 27, Samana and Kauli logged 26 cases each. Meanwhile, Bhadson reported 25 positive cases, Dudhan Sadhan 23, Shutrana 21 and Kallon Majra logged 15 cases.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said street number 2 of Anand Nagar and Sidhu Colony had been declared micro containment zones after positive cases were reported from both areas. At present, there are nine micro and one macro containment zone in the district.Vaccination at all govt centres todayThe Health Department has announced that they have received around 12,000 doses of the Covid vaccine, therefore the vaccination drive would be held at all government health centres on Wednesday.The vaccination drive had to be halted on Tuesday after the vaccine stock ran out. Many beneficiaries at Samana Civil Hospital had to turn back due to a shortage of vaccine. One of the beneficiaries, who had to turn back, said: “On the one hand the government is pushing for vaccination, but on the other hand, it doesn’t have enough stock of vaccine.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-cases-248381
05-05-2021||---||Patiala traders protest ‘partial’ closure||Patiala, May 4Shopkeepers in the city today held protests at separate sites against a ‘partial’ closure of markets alleging loss of business. The shopkeepers demanded that the administration should either shut all markets or allow all shops to function as usual.Rakesh Gupta of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Patiala, said disgruntled shopkeepers of various areas, including Lakkar Mandi, Mathura colony, Gurbaksh colony, fountain chowk, Nabha gate and Dharampura bazaar, held protests.“All shopkeepers of Patiala city are protesting the state government’s decisions and guidelines with respect to the curbs imposed by it to check Covid-19 spread. While some shops have been asked to remain shut, the others are allowed to function. We demand if the state government wants to impose curbs, then all offices, including government offices, should also be kept closed,” he said.The spread of Covid-19 cannot be checked by closing shops only. “We will support the closure if every office is closed,” he said.Shopkeepers of the Dharampura bazaar also held a protest in the market. “We do not agree with the partial lockdown. They should enforce a complete lockdown. Even the traffic in the city continues as usual,” a shopkeeper said.He said all shopkeepers of the city would hold a protest at the Anardana chowk in the city on Wednesday.Directives as per govt orders: SDMSDM of Patiala Charanjit Singh said the administration had issued the directives as per the orders of the state government. “The government has taken the decisions keeping in mind the need of the hour as well as the benefit of people. People should follow the guidelines which are devised to save them from infection,” he said, adding that the orders as per section 144 of the CrPC are in force and people should not gather at a place in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-traders-protest-partial-closure-248379
