06-05-2021||Patiala||Patiala Jail breach: One arrested out of the three who escaped||Almost a week after three convicts escaped from Patiala central jail, police managed to arrest one of them on Thursday. Police arrested Inderjeet Singh from his village where he had gone to borrow money from a friend.The arrest is likely to shed some light on how the three managed to scale two jail walls. The three had escaped following laxity on part of jail officials. All three were lodged in the Koratine barrack which houses cells for inmates. The police were investigating how they managed to scale a 10-feet inner wall and then the outer wall which is over 12 feet in height.“The trio managed a hole in the cell wall and later managed to scale the other two walls, without being noticed”, sources inside the jail said. “We came to know about the escape in the morning when during change of guard one of the jail guard notices the hole in the cell wall”, they added The missing convicts who allegedly fled from the jail include Sher Singh Son of Village Vanike, Amritsar, Inderjeet Singh Dhiana of village Ranipur Komboa in Kapurthala and Jaspreet Singh Noopi of village Dhadi in Roopnagar. Out of the three, Sher Singh was deported from the United Kingdom to serve the rest of his sentence in a drugs case, in which he was sentenced to 22 years behind bars. “He was in Patiala jail for over two years”, said a top cop. “There is a hole which they made through the wall of their cell, not the outer wall. We are searching the jail premises as well”, said a senior official. Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal confirmed the arrest of Inderjeet Singh and said raids are on to nab the other two escapees too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-jail-breach-one-arrested-out-of-the-three-who-escaped-248935
06-05-2021||Patiala||In highest single-day toll, 19 succumb; 677 contract virus in Patiala||In a highest single day spike, Patiala district today reported 677 Covid cases. With this, the total count of the positive cases in the district has risen to 35,931.Besides, 19 people succumbed to the virus today, thereby taking the toll to 843 in the district since the onset of the pandemic. Notably, this is the highest single day death count in the district so far.Of 677 cases, Patiala city reported 442, Rajpura 61, Kauli 44, Kallon Majra and Shutrana 27 cases each. Meanwhile, 21 positive cases were reported from Samana, 13 from Dudhan Sadhan, 10 from Harpalpur and eight from Bhadson.Concerned over rising Covid cases and deaths in the rural areas, the Health Department said 22 per cent of the active cases in the district were from the hinterland.The department added that the death count in the rural areas was also higher than the urban areas. Reason was late reporting to hospitals, the department said.The department claimed that patients from the rural areas were reporting to hospitals only after their health deteriorated to critical level. This made it difficult for doctors to save precious lives, said department officials.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder, said, “Late testing and delayed hospitalisation of patients has led to higher fatality in the rural areas as compared to the urban area. Therefore, people should immediately get tested and take treatment.”Sadly, none of the primary health centres in the rural areas have sufficient infrastructure and manpower to manage positive patients. Only two subdivisional hospitals at Rajpura and Nabha in the entire district are admitting Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/in-highest-single-day-toll-19-succumb-677-contract-virus-in-patiala-248707
06-05-2021||Patiala||Youth arrested for killing street dog in Patiala||Taking a swift action, the police arrested a youngster for killing a street dog with a gun in Patran in the evening today.The suspect has been identified as Taranjot Singh of Khaspur village in Patran division of the district. Action was taken against suspect after Bollywood actor Mansha Bahl and animal rights activist Meet Ashar took up the matter with the police.Notably, Meet Ashar is an associate manager of the Emergency Response Team of PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals)Bahl shared a video of the suspect shooting a sleeping street dog with a 12 bore gun. The actor has demanded a strict action against the suspect.After the video went viral, netizens condemned the incident and demanded strict action against the suspect.The police said the suspect was booked under Section 429 of the Indian Penal Code and 11(1) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Besides, Section 5 and 27 of the Arms Act were also slapped on him, the police added.They had already recovered dog’s body and 12-bore-gun, the police said. Further investigation was underway while postmortem would be conducted at the veterinary hospital in Samana tomorrow, the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/youth-arrested-for-killing-street-dog-in-patiala-248708
06-05-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University language resources get ISLR number||Punjabi University’s language resources prepared by officials of its Department of Computer Science have now been registered with the ISLR number.The International Standard Language Resource (ISLR) number is a unique identifier of language resources that uses a standardised nomenclature for proper references and their usage in applications of research and development projects.What is ISLR numberThe International Standard Language Resource (ISLR) number is a unique identifier of language resources that uses a standardised nomenclature for proper references and their usage in applications of research and development projects.Dr Vishal Goyal, professor, Department of Computer Science, said, “A lot of research is carried out in language technologies, but problems arise as most NLPs do not openly share data and as such researchers are forced to start from zero with the creation of dataset, which has already been developed by others.”“To overcome this problem, we have decided to keep sharing our resources with the NLP community so that they can work further rather than starting from the same point. Considering this, we decided to register our language resources developed so far with unique identification number,” he added.Research scholars in the department had created 14 lakh English-Punjabi parallel corpus, 14 lakh English-Punjabi comparable corpus, 10 lakh English-Punjabi code mix social media tweets, 2.5 lakh English and Punjabi multi-word expressions (MWEs) among others, he said.The registration helped in proper recognition of resources with references for their usage in research projects, product evaluation and benchmark as well as in documents and scientific papers, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-language-resources-get-islr-number-248709
06-05-2021||Patiala||Ex-Mayor complains against objectionable posts on Instagram||Former Mayor Amarinder Singh today gave a written complaint to the Patiala SSP against an Instagram account for hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community.In his complaint, the former Mayor alleged that objectionable posts regarding the Sikh Gurus were shared by an Instagram account under the name of ‘Valourous.hindu’.Amarinder demanded that the posts should immediately be removed, and strict action be taken against the guilty. Action should also be taken against those people, who liked the post and commented on it, he added.“Attempts are being made by unscrupulous elements to hurt the religious sentiments of the Sikh community. We demand that the police should identify persons, who are behind these objectionable posts and take strict action against them,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ex-mayor-complains-against-objectionable-posts-on-instagram-248710
06-05-2021||Patiala||Will open all shops today, say Patiala traders||Miffed at the state government’s directions of keeping shops and activities closed in view of the second wave of Covid pandemic, various market associations in the city announced they would keep all establishments dealing in essential and non-essential commodities open tomorrow. Shopkeepers held a protest for over two hours in support of their demands at the Anardana chowk in the city today.Rakesh Gupta, president, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Patiala, said over 1,000 shopkeepers gathered at the chowk to demand that the government must allow opening of all kinds of shops in the city.“The work and shops, which are termed non-essential, provide bread and butter to families of workers and owners. Many commodities are season based, which shopkeepers have stocked prior to the beginning of the summer season. Such shopkeepers will face huge losses if their shops are closed for now. So, tomorrow we will open all shops in the city,” Gupta added.Other shopkeepers said, “We have not understood the ‘partial’ closure of markets. They consider those selling milk and dairy related items as essential, but not bakery shops. Our commodities are also perishable. They should allow us to sell products because not many people gather at our shops at a time. What is the distinction between essential and non-essential works when all shopkeepers have to earn livelihood.”This is while the state government in continuation of orders issued earlier allowed opening of shops dealing in sale of fertilisers, pesticides, ‘kiryana’ and hardware items among others today.The government has also allowed opening of wholesale and liquor vends, but kept ‘ahatas’ (taverns) closed. The orders further stated that the people would be allowed to venture out only on foot or on bicycle, but markets today witnessed a huge rush of commuters on two-wheelers at various places in the city.Traders threatened that owners of shops, who were not allowed to open their establishments, would return their GST numbers if they were not able to do business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/will-open-all-shops-today-say-patiala-traders-248711
06-05-2021||Patiala||Patiala residents continue to flout lockdown norms with impunity||Residents of the city continue to flout ban and curbs enforced by the state government. Officials in the district administration said clear orders for not venturing out of homes had been issued to keep people safe from the pandemic. They said the people must adhere to restrictions imposed by the state government.Huge rush of people in various streets and on roads was witnessed in the city in the afternoon today. While there were curbs on opening of markets and shops, still people violated the norms by venturing out on two and four-wheelers.“People are free from office and school work. As such, they gather in adjacent parks and at roundabouts in the evening hours. Such gatherings should be avoided to successfully implement curbs. But, people don’t follow instructions,” said a city resident.People also visited various shops as police officials tried to maintain law and order. Shops, including those dealing with the sale of non-essential items, like bakeries and clothes, also opened at various locations in the city.Later, in the evening a flag march led by District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit and SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal was held to sensitise people about the grim situation of the Covid pandemic.The District Magistrate appealed to people to cooperate with the administration during the curfew imposed to curb the spread of the virus and ensure strict compliance of instructions issued by the state government.The SSP warned that if people violated curfew then strict action would be taken against them as per the law. He said 539 cases had been registered against offenders, who violated District Magistrate’s orders during the last one-and-a-half-month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-residents-continue-to-flout-lockdown-norms-with-impunity-248713
06-05-2021||Patiala||DC reviews working of  police, civil teams at Shambhu barrier||Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit, along with SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal, today visited Shambhu Barrier, the entry point on the Ambala-Rajpura National Highway for those coming to Punjab, especially Patiala district.The DC reviewed working of the police and civil teams deployed at the Shambhu barrier for checking the RTPCR negative report or vaccination certificate of commuters, who wanted to enter Punjab.It would be ensured that anyone coming to Punjab, especially Patiala, from other states must possess a negative RTPCR test report not more than 72 hours old or a certificate of having jabbed against Covid over two weeks ago, the DC added.In case of non-availability of these two documents, no one would be allowed to enter Patiala district, the DC said. Instructions had already been issued in this regard, the DC added.Teams of the police teams and the civil administration had been deployed at the Shambhu barrier to check persons entering Patiala district from the adjoining areas of Haryana, the SSP said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dc-reviews-working-of-police-civil-teams-at-shambhu-barrier-248714
06-05-2021||Patiala||Allow work from home or face stir, warn Punjab teachers||The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) has decided to launch a protest demanding that they be allowed to work from home keeping in view the surge in Covid cases.PCCTU president Dr Vinay Sofat said the union had raised this demand with the office of Secretary, Higher Education, but the matter was referred to the Department of Home Affairs instead.“This despite the fact that Guru Nanak Dev (GND) University, Amritsar, has allowed its teachers to work from home,” he said. Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa had also assured them of permission to work from home, he added.The union also demanded that monthly grants of colleges be disbursed. “Salaries of over 2,000 teaching and 1,500 non-teaching officials of 136 aided colleges have not been credited after February,” he added.Secretary, Higher Education, VK Meena said, “They raised their demand with our office. We have prepared a proposal and sent it to the Home Department. The Chief Minister’s office will take a decision on the matter.” He said, “GND University is an autonomous body that can take its own decisions.”Responding to the matter of salaries, Director, Public Instructions (Colleges), Paramjit Singh said the grants were not disbursed due to changes in Budget allocation. “Some colleges have not submitted the mandatory grant utilisation certificates. Now, we have decided to block the grant of those colleges and will disburse the grants of remaining colleges in a week.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/allow-work-from-home-or-face-stir-warn-punjab-teachers-248617
06-05-2021||Patiala||Police arrest Patiala youth for shooting dead stray dog||Taking swift action, Patiala police on Wednesday evening arrested a youngster for killing a stray dog with a gun in Patran. The accused has been identified as Taranjot Singh of Khaspur village in Patran division of the district.Patiala police had to take action after Bollywood actor Mansha Bahl and animal rights activist Meet Ashar took up the matter with Patiala police. Notably, Meet Ashar is an associate manager of the Emergency Response Team of PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals)The actor, Mansha Bahl, shared a video of the accused shooting, therein, a sleeping street dog with a .12 bore gun. The actor has demanded strict action against the accused.  Meanwhile, after the video went viral, netizens have condemned the incident and are asking for strict actionLatest update: DSP Patran called me a while back to inform that the gun has been seized, accused has been taken into custody for questioning, will thereafter be formally arrested, also that the FIR has been registered. He will be sending the FIR copy shortly. (1/2) https://t.co/gjNJMrmAd9  Patiala police said the accused had been booked under section 429 of the Indian Penal Code and 11(1) of the prevention of cruelty to Animals Act. Besides, he has also been slapped with section 5 and 27 of the Arms Act.The police added that they had already recovered the dead body of the dog and .12 bore gun. The police said that further investigation was underway while post-mortem of the dog would be conducted at veterinary hospital, Samana on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/police-arrest-patiala-youth-for-shooting-dead-stray-dog-248572
