07-05-2021||Patiala||Police arrest man for sheltering Patiala jail break accused Inderjit Dhyana||The CIA staff of Patiala police have arrested another individual in relation to the Patiala central jail break incident.SSP, Patiala, Vikram Jeet Duggal on Friday evening said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of village Ranipur Kamboa, Kapurthala district was arrested by CIA staff, Patiala police on Thursday.Gurmeet Singh had given shelter to Inderjit Singh Dhyana, who was earlier arrested by the police.Duggal said prisoner Inderjit Singh alias Dhyana of Kapurthala, prisoner Sher Singh of Amritsar and detainee Jaspreet Singh were accused of breaking jail and absconding. A case had been registered against them on April 28.Duggal said that Sher Singh, who had escaped from Patiala Central Jail, was serving his sentence in a murder case. “12 cases of NDPS Act, robbery, theft and others are already registered against Inderjit Singh alias Dhyana in different police stations of Jitla Kapurthala while Jaspreet Singh Nupi has been charged with murder and use of mobile phone in jail,” he said.He said Inderjit Singh Dhyana after escaping from the jail was living with Gurmeet Singh.“A team of CIA staff, Patiala arrested Gurmeet on May 6 as he gave asylum to a fugitive criminal,” he said.Duggal said Inderjit Singh is in police remand till May 11 and is being questioned in depth. He added that Gurmeet will be presented in court and a police remand will be obtained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/police-arrest-man-for-sheltering-patiala-jail-break-accused-inderjit-dhyana-249558
07-05-2021||Patiala||Patiala district seeing second wave peak as 81 succumb in 6 days||The district is witnessing peak of the second Covid wave as 15 patients succumbed to the virus today thereby taking the total death count to 858 since the onset of the pandemic last year. Within last six days, 81 people have died of the Covid in the district.Meanwhile, Patiala district reported around 676 positive cases today. With this, the count of the active cases in the district has risen to 4,321.Of 676 positive cases, Patiala city reported 373, Rajpura 93, Nabha 50, Kauli 31, Bhadson 28, Harpalpur 27 and Kallon Majra 25. Meanwhile, 23 positive cases were reported from Dudhan Sadhan, 18 from Samana and eight from Shutrana.The Health Department said the district was witnessing the second Covdi wave peak because positive cases were touching a new high every day. Moreover, there was a steep rise in the daily Covid deaths in the district, the department added.The positivity ratio had also touched all time high, the department said. At present, the district has a positivity rate of around 15 per cent, highest since the onset of the pandemic. In the first wave the highest positivity rate was 11 per cent in August last year.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “The way cases and deaths are rising, it seems the district is witnessing peak of the second wave. Therefore, we appeal to the people to follow Covid norms and avoid unnecessary movement to decrease the spread.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-seeing-second-wave-peak-as-81-succumb-in-6-days-249320
07-05-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University teachers, pensioners resume stir||After a brief gap post joining of Punjabi University’s new Vice-Chancellor (VC), teachers on the campus have yet again started protests for the timely disbursal of their salaries, grants and other matters.Teachers along with pensioners and non-teaching officials under the banner of the Joint Action Committee (JAC) held a protest outside the VC office in the afternoon today.University teachers said they held a meeting with the VC to solve issues, which remained unfruitful. “The VC is making efforts, but the government is not providing sufficient grants to the university. Our salaries and pensions for March and April are pending while the university has credited salary of Class B officials and those, who have contracted the virus,” said Dr Rajdeep Singh, a member of the JAC.“Many pensioners are getting only Rs10,000 to Rs15,000 monthly. Delay in disbursement of salaries has increased difficulties for them,” he added.“The JAC has held protest while following the Covid norms. We will continue our protest till salary is not credited in our accounts,” he said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-teachers-pensioners-resume-stir-249321
07-05-2021||---||Traders violate DM’s orders, open shops||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 6After various shopkeepers protested in the city yesterday, the police registered a case against seven identified and other 30 to 35 unidentified persons for violating orders of the District Magistrate (DM) and under the Disaster Management Act.The police have also strengthened security in the market areas to check violation of the DM’s orders after shopkeepers yesterday announced that they would open all kinds of shops. Many shops dealing in handloom, household essentials and others items opened today.There was utter chaos on roads in city markets in the morning today. Many shops opened on a call given by the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal violating DM’s orders while others remained shut. Shopkeepers remained present in markets, which created rush, in the morning hours as police officials went around instructing people not to violate DM’s orders.While talking to the mediapersons, the beopar mandal president, Rakesh Gupta, said they would open all shops. Responding to the matter of registration of an FIR against him and others, Gupta said they were firm on their decision to open shops.Meanwhile, city residents raised questions over the state government’s concession given to various businesses while enforcing curbs on others.Residents said new orders were issued every day.“Earlier, the government permitted chemists, shops selling milk and dairy products to open on May 2. Then they allowed shops selling agriculture items, grocery and liquor to open. Traders selling industrial material were also allowed to open their shops two days after. In latest orders the administration has allowed businesses related to fisheries, meat products and import export. This has become a joke now,” they added.Another cloth shop owner at the AC market said, “Only mechanics, cloth shop owners, bakeries and vehicle dealers have been left out. The rush of vehicles is usual in the city. The administration should find an alternative way of dealing with the pandemic.”Officials in the administration said, “The Police Department has been issuing challans to those found violating the norms. We will make provisions for opening of shops as per requirement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/traders-violate-dms-orders-open-shops-249322
07-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Despite high CFR,  rural areas sans Covid facilities||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 6Amid the rising case fatality ratio (CFR) in the rural areas, only three countryside subdivisions — Nabha, Samana and Rajpura — have got Covid facilities that cater to rural patients of the district.Moreover, all three subdivisions have only L2 facility, while no ICU bed is available here to treat critical Covid patients. However, the Health Department blames late reporting for the higher CFR in the rural areas.It has been learnt that there is neither government nor private facility in the rural areas to treat Covid patients.“As a result, patients from the rural areas reach hospitals late for treatment. Make-shift Covid facilities should be created in the rural areas,” said experts. Meanwhile, sources in the Health Department said majority of the staff was already engaged in Covid-related duties. Therefore, running L2 facilities more than the existing ones was not possible, the department added.When asked about setting up Covid facilities in the rural areas, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said they had approved a private facility in the Patran division. “We are planning to give permission to more private hospitals in subdivisions to treat patients in the rural areas,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/despite-high-cfr-rural-areas-sans-covid-facilities-249323
07-05-2021||---||Now, 25 beds for Covid patients at Gurdwara Moti Bagh||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 6As government hospitals in the city are overburdened with Covid patients, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has decided to come to rescue of those suffering with the disease. The SGPC’s internal committee today stated that they had started making arrangements to provide services to Covid patients. The SGPC would provide 25 beds and other medical services at Gurdwara Moti Bagh in the city, the panel added.Committee member Satvinder Singh Tohra said, “The panel has decided to provide concentrators for patients. Oxygen concentrators will be installed at Guru Ramdas Medical College, Amritsar, after which services will be provided to patients at various gurdwaras in the state.”The Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib manager, Karnail Singh Nabha, said, “Medical teams will be deployed by the committee to take care of patients. Apart from ambulances, every basic facility will be provided to patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/now-25-beds-for-covid-patients-at-gurdwara-moti-bagh-249324
