08-05-2021||---||Punjabi University students injured in campus brawl with ‘outsiders’||Patiala, May 8Some students of Punjabi University were injured on Saturday evening in a brawl on the campus. Reportedly, six students were injured in a fist-fight among students of various campus student organisations and alleged outsiders.The incident occurred after the university students had rounded up some men, allegedly in an inebriated state, on Friday evening, and accused them of eve-teasing girls. One of them was handed over to the police. The students also recorded a video of the incident which went viral, and became the trigger of an altercation on Saturday evening.Students said some outsiders, who are relatives of some campus employees, came to the university library and sought justification over students’ allegations posted online.Sandeep Kaur, a student leader of Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), said, “Some men related to those who we had rounded up on Friday evening came to the university and got into an altercation. At least six students, including two girls, were injured in the fist-fight. Some students suffered injuries on their head and were admitted to Government Rajindra hospital.”Ronnei Singh, SHO Urban Estate, said, “We got a call in the afternoon that a scuffle had broken out among students and some other people. At least five persons have been admitted to the hospital. Our team reached the university campus to ensure law and order.”He added that the university authorities were yet to submit a complaint about the incident. “We will take requisite action and register FIR after the complaint is received,” he added.The police are also questioning a man who was detained from the campus on Friday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-injured-in-campus-brawl-with-outsiders-250029
08-05-2021||Patiala||Harsharan Trehan PSPCL’s 1st woman Engineer-in-Chief||Harsharan Kaur Trehan has been appointed the Engineer-in-Chief, Material Management Wing, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). An alumnus of Delhi College of Engineering, Trehan had joined the PSPCL (erstwhile the PSEB) in 1987 as an assistant engineer. Officials of the PSPCL said she has become the first woman technocrat to reach the position in the state power corporation.“During her 34 years of service, she has served on various important assignments,” officials said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/harsharan-trehan-pspcls-1st-woman-engineer-in-chief-249752
08-05-2021||---||Covid-19: 13 dead, 680 test +ve in Patiala district||Patiala, May 7A total of 680 fresh Covid cases were reported in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said 4,208 reports of tests were received of which 680 were found Covid-19 positive. “The number of Covid-19 cases has risen to 37,287 and 541 more patients have recovered. There 4,447 active cases in the district while the total number of Covid-19 deaths, after newly reported 13 deaths has reached 871,” he said.He said highest 403 cases were reported from the Patiala city.Officials said the services of vaccination are being provided at various government health institutions including Mata Kaushalya Hospital, Government Rajindra Hospital, hospitals in Tripuri, Model Town, and all Sub-divisional hospitals and primary health centres among others.The Health Department has collected another 4,543 samples for Covid-19 testing today.The district administration and the Health Department have administered 2.35 lakh Covid-19 vaccinations in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-19-13-dead-680-test-ve-in-patiala-district-249750
08-05-2021||---||Get births, deaths registered from private hospitals||Patiala, May 7City residents can now get births and deaths registered from private hospitals. Municipal Corporation officials said the state government had started an initiative from May 1 wherein the registration for births and deaths can be done from respective private hospitals.According to officials, until now, people were required to apply for a certificate from the MC in case of any death or birth.Rajesh Kaushal, of the Municipal Corporation’s births and deaths branch, said, “This has been the practice since long. But the state government, in efforts part of e-governance has decided to provide such registrations from private hospitals only. Mata Kaushalaya Hospital and the Government Rajindra Hospital issue their own certificates.”He added that the facility is now available at 12 private hospitals in the city. “Other hospitals will also be added to the list. Intimation of those who register at the respective hospitals will reach the corporation, which will then issue the permission of grant of certificates,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/get-births-deaths-registered-from-private-hospitals-249748
08-05-2021||Ravneet Singh||Illegal colonies: Patiala Development Authority files 7 FIRs against builders||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 7The Patiala Development Authority (PDA) has filed seven FIRs against colonisers who developed colonies within the authority’s limits after the due date of March 19, 2018, in violation of the state’s regularisation policy.In a list of such colonies, officials said a number of colonies were found violating the norms.Isha Singhal, Estate Officer, PDA, said, “Two colonies near British School at Sanour village near Patiala-Devigarh road, another at Dalanpur village near the Patiala-Devigarh road, a colony at Shekhupura village at the backside of Punjabi University, a colony at Sanour village on road to Bolar village and another at Sanour, along with one colony at Ghalauri village on the Patiala-Devigarh road,”This was after the PDA in early April said they were contemplating action against a number of colonisers as per the provisions of the regularisation policy of the state government for various colonies.She said a number of similarly identified colonies fell under the ambit of Municipal Corporation, details of which were shared with the respective office. “Meanwhile, responses from a few other colonisers in relation to formerly issued notices have been received. We are looking at their justifications and necessary action as per the policy will be taken,” she added.The regularisation policy for colonies and plots introduced by the state government in 2018 states that colonies developed after the due date of March 19, 2018 shall not be regularised and directs stringent action against the colonisers as per provisions of the policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-colonies-patiala-development-authority-files-7-firs-against-builders-249747
08-05-2021||Patiala||Scrap faulty purchase pacts, engineers tell powercom||The PSEB Engineers’ Association has written to the top brass of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) suggesting improving the working of the PSPCL and taking remedies to “save consumers” from increasing power bills.For the review of power purchase agreements (PPAs) with independent power producers (IPPs) up to 2020, the PSPCL has surrendered unutilised power worth more than Rs 4,000 crore. “The per-unit cost from these IPPs has been increasing almost on yearly basis. Moreover, these IPPs are finding loopholes in the PPAs and have been indulging in litigation resulting in higher power cost to the consumers of the state. The overall impact of all such litigations will be around Rs 20,000 crore over the next remaining 20 years of the agreements,” states the letter.“Long-term exclusive PPAs with the IIPs should be cancelled and like other projects power should be procured only as per actual requirement of the corporation at market competitive rates from these IPPs,” said general secretary of the associationAjay Pal Singh Atwal.“Further, to bring down fuel cost, Pachwara Coal mine needs to be made fully operational. If the captive coal mine allotted to the PSPCL in 2015 is made operational, the PSPCL will save Rs 600 to 700 per tonne of coal on account of cost difference only. Actual savings will be more than this,” reads the letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune.The load curve of Punjab has a huge variation within day time as well as during the year. In summer months, the energy consumed goes up by 120 per cent in comparison to winter consumption. “Even during the day, there is a lot of difference in demand at peak and off peak. To flatten this curve, lowering night tariff in industrial, domestic and commercial in winter months, extending the concept of incentive-based tariff on higher consumption beyond threshold limit in off-peak periods to all categories, can help,” states the letter.The PSEB engineers’ association further says that in line with ‘Pani Bachao Paise Kamao’, incentives can be offered to those AP feeders opting for night supply. Industrialisation will also help in a big way to flatten the curve. “This benefit may specifically be provided to the steel and furnace industry at Mandi Gobindgarh and bicycle industry at Ludhiana,” states president of the association Jasvir Singh Dhiman.“The corporatisation of the erstwhile board into corporation was to enhance its working and to keep it free from bureaucratic processes. Whereas there seems to be a move by management to refer almost everything to Punjab Government rules and regulations, this is a step backwards. It is suggested that the management should consider simplifying rules and regulations and enhancing the efficiency of the corporation instead of referring to Punjab Government regulations at every instance,” claims the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/scrap-faulty-purchase-pacts-engineers-tell-powercom-249654
08-05-2021||Patiala||Man nabbed for sheltering Patiala jailbreak accused||The CIA staff of the police has arrested another individual in connection with the Patiala central jail break case.SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal today said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Ranipur Kamboa village in Kapurthala district, was arrested by the CIA staff yesterday.Gurmeet had given shelter to Inderjit Singh Dhyana, who was arrested earlier by the police. Duggal said prisoners Inderjit and Sher Singh, and detainee Jaspreet Singh, were accused of fleeing the jail and a case had been registered against them on April 28.Duggal said Sher Singh was serving his sentence in a murder case. “Twelve cases under the NDPS Act, robbery, theft and others are registered against Inderjit in different police stations of Kapurthala, while Jaspreet faces charges of murder and use of mobile phone in jail,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-nabbed-for-sheltering-patiala-jailbreak-accused-249659
