09-05-2021||---||Government docs ‘indulge’ in private practice||Patiala, May 8Amid mounting Covid cases and deaths, some of the government doctors, in violation of the service rules, are allegedly indulging in private practices, despite the fact that they are being paid a “non-practice” allowance.In fact, taking advantage of the worsening Covid situation, wherein OPDs and elective surgeries have been halted, some of the doctors are regularly treating patients either at private clinics at their homes or in private hospitals.Reportedly, some of the doctors indulging in such practices even include head of the departments at Government Rajindra Hospital.A health official, pleading anonymity, said, “They are getting salary from the government, but are busy in private practices. During the first wave, these doctors themselves were refraining from treating Covid patients due to the fear of infection. Now, things are changed and doctors are no more scared of the infection. Moreover, new private hospitals have already sprung up to take benefit of the worsening Covid situation.”In one such instance, The Tribune discovered that one of the government doctors, who had been working under the Patiala Health Department, was indirectly running a newly constructed private hospital by some other name. The hospital had already received an approval to treat Covid patients.Meanwhile, sources said some of the health officials, who had an experience of working during the Covid times for a year now, were extending technical help to these private facilities.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “I am unaware of any such incident. The supervisor of the alleged defaulting doctor may be in a better position to comment.”Dr Rajan Singla, principal, Government Medical College, said: “I am unaware of any such practice. If I get any proof against any faculty member, I will take it up with the higher-ups.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/government-docs-indulge-in-private-practice-250201
09-05-2021||---||No let-up in deaths at Rajindra Hospital||Patiala, May 8The daily toll at the Covid isolation facility of Government Rajindra Hospital continues to rise. Thirty-one patients died at the isolation wing of the hospital in the past 24 hours.Of the 31, 14 were from Patiala while 16 were from other districts of the state. One victim was from another state.Meanwhile, only 21 Covid patients were discharged in the past 24 hours.So far, around 230 patients have died due to Covid at the hospital already this month. The death count was 415 last month.Action on SOSSurbhi Malik, in-charge, Covid isolation ward, said they had to technically examine the oxygen flow at the Covid ward after one of the doctors at the ward flagged inadequate oxygen flow at the fifth floor in an SOS.Surbhi Malik said: “We are technically examining the issue of oxygen flow at the Covid ward. We wouldn’t let any lax happen therein. Moreover, the Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) concerned has regularly been checking the oxygen flow.”Surbhi Malik further added that none of the senior anaesthetists had ever raised the issue of oxygen flow with them.The doctor had said there were some issues in the flow of oxygen and requested the authorities to look into it and take appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-let-up-in-deaths-at-rajindra-hospital-250202
09-05-2021||---||Vaccination camp at Satsang Ghar||Patiala, May 8Amid the rising Covid cases in the district, a vaccination camp was organised by the Patiala Health Department and the district administration at Radha Swami Satsang Ghar at Urban Estate today.Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit visited the camp. He said the support extended by religious and social organisations to save people from Covid in the times of crisis was important. He was accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal.Kumar Amit said last year also, during the first wave of Covid, a langar was prepared by Radha Swami Sanstha and delivered to the needy and patients at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. He said vaccination and precautions were the only steps to break the Covid chain. He said earlier, people were scared of vaccine, but now they were coming forward for vaccination.Dr Preneet Kaur, nodal officer for Covid vaccination, said more than 8,000 people had been vaccinated by setting up 50 camps in coordination with the Radha Swami Satsang houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vaccination-camp-at-satsang-ghar-250203
09-05-2021||Patiala||Oxygen concentrators donated||Khalsa Aid, an international NGO, today donated 10 oxygen concentrators to the medical superintendent of Government Rajindra Hospital.Dr HS Rekhi, medical superintendent, said Khalsa Aid had assured all possible help to the hospital during the unprecedented times of pandemic.“Khalsa Aid has given 10 oxygen concentrators. They promised to help us in the future also,” said Rekhi.Rekhi said they were doing what they could to ensure that Covid patients received all possible treatment at Rajindra Hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/oxygen-concentrators-donated-250204
09-05-2021||---||Lukewarm response to farmers’ protest||Patiala, May 8Hundreds of farmers, including women, took out protest marches at a few places against the weekend lockdown imposed by the state government in Patiala today.However, the protest garnered a lukewarm response as not many shopkeepers supported the call for keeping their shops open.Punjab’s 32 farmer unions, protesting the Central farm laws, had given a call for street protests against the lockdown in the state and urged shopkeepers to defy the restrictions. The protests were taken out in various market places in the city, among other places in the state.“We are appealing to shopkeepers to open their shops. We are with them,” said farm leaders. “Lockdown is not a solution to deal with the Covid crisis. The government did nothing to improve the health infrastructure,” they alleged.However, shopkeepers kept their shops shut, barring a few. The police personnel in adequate numbers were present at various places to ensure law and order.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions that is spearheading the agitation against Centre’s three agri-marketing laws, had announced that 32 farmer unions of Punjab today urged people to open their shops and not follow the lockdown.Like several other states reeling under the Covid surge, Punjab has imposed extensive curbs, in addition to measures such as weekend lockdown and night curfew till May 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lukewarm-response-to-farmers-protest-250205
09-05-2021||Patiala||6 students injured in Punjabi varsity brawl||As many as six students, including two girls, of Punjabi University were reportedly injured following a brawl on the campus this evening. The fistfight took place among students and alleged outsiders.On Friday evening, the students had rounded up some youths, allegedly in an inebriated state, accusing them of eve-teasing. One of them was handed over to the police. The students also recorded a video of the incident that went viral on the social media.Students claimed some outsiders, who were relatives of some campus employees, came to the library and sought justification over the online post, triggering an altercation.Urban Estate SHO Ronnei Singh said: “We got a call that a fistfight had taken place. At least five persons have been admitted to the hospital.”The university authorities were yet to submit a complaint in this regard. “We will take requisite action and register an FIR once the complaint is received,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/6-students-injured-in-punjabi-varsity-brawl-250135
