10-05-2021||Karam Prakash||UP resident all praise for Govt Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9In a shot in the arm for Government Rajindra Hospital amid criticism of Covid-appropriate facilities at the isolation ward, a Covid survivor has extended thanks to the hospital authorities for free and good treatment.A resident of Ghaziabad (UP), Sumit, at the time of his discharge said: “My oxygen saturation had dropped to a critical level during home isolation. But I couldn’t get a bed in the National Capital Region (NCR). Consequently, I had to come to Patiala for Covid treatment. The very next day I got a bed at the hospital. The quality of treatment and medical equipment, herein, has changed my perception of government hospitals.”In a video message, talking about the Government Rajindra Hospital, the patient expressed his satisfaction with food and support staff at the isolation ward.Sumit said: “The best part was that I didn’t have to spend a single penny on the entire treatment at the hospital.”Meanwhile, Dr Sara, daughter of another Covid patient, also praised patient care at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/up-resident-all-praise-for-govt-rajindra-hospital-250588
10-05-2021||---||3 arrested for Pbi varsity violence||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9The police have registered a case against 12 identified and 50 unidentified persons for Saturday’s violence on the Punjabi University campus. Those already arrested include an employee, Rajinder Singh Raju; Ashu, a relative of another employee of the university, and Dharminder. The three will now be produced before the court on Monday.Students of various organisations have decided to raise a number of demands with the university authorities, including a ban on vehicles of non-teaching and teaching faculty members.Six students, including two girls, were injured in the clash near the library. Those injured include PhD scholars Varinder Khurana and Gurshinder Singh, and masters students Pardeep Kaur, Ramandeep Kaur, Amolak Singh and Kulwant Singh. Students said Amolak suffered an injury above his eye while Ramandeep had swelling on her neck. They are undergoing treatment at the Government Rajindra Hospital.Meanwhile, Rajinder Singh Raju, former president of Class B and C Employees Association, said he and another person were also injured. He said: “I and Ashu, brother of another employee, were injured. We had to get admitted to the hospital after the students attacked us.”“Four-wheelers of students were banned on the campus years ago due to ruckus. Now vehicles of university employees are involved in the same unruly manner. We want that the university authorities should ban all vehicles of employees as well,” said Sandeep Kaur, a student leader of the Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), while talking to The Tribune.The police said they had registered a case under sections 354 (assault or use criminal force on any woman), 354-A (sexual harassment), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 506 (criminal intimidation), 147 (rioting) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC against 12 identified and 40-50 unidentified persons.Urban Estate SHO Ronnei Singh said: “University employee Rajinder Singh Raju and two persons named in the FIR, Ashu and Dharminder, have been arrested. They will be produced before a court tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-arrested-for-pbi-varsity-violence-250589
10-05-2021||---||Couple booked again for forgery, cheating||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9A con couple from the city, already facing more than 12 criminal cases of fraud and cheating in northern states, has again been booked by the local police for forgery and cheating. The duo used fake documents to first procure a loan to buy a vehicle and later sell it using fake documents, despite accepting money from another buyer.The police have booked the accused under section 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 474 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code. They have been identified as Ashu Singh, alias Parveet Kathuria, and his wife Monika Kathuria, who runs a fashion designing institute. They are residents of Majithia Enclave in the city.The police said the couple allegedly took Rs6.35 lakh from a Patiala resident for an SUV. However, they sold off the SUV to another person by forging documents. The complainant, Sukhwinder Singh, alleged that the couple struck a deal with him for the SUV. However, it came to the fore later on that the couple had purchased the car on loan. They raised the loan from a private bank by submitting fake documents. Later on, one of the accused allegedly forged her ID card and struck a deal with the victim, but sold the vehicle off to another person.“Monika Kathuria forged her voter ID card and changed her husband’s name from Parveet Kathuria to Ashu Singh,” said the police.Civil Lines SHO Gurpreet Bhinder said they were investigating more than a dozen more cases registered against the couple. “We are investigating the case and we have come to know that there are many other cases against them too,” he said. “Raids are on and they will soon be arrested. Our teams are in the field,” he said.Earlier in 2018, Kathuria was arrested for allegedly cheating a local youth on the pretext of sending him abroad. According to the 2018 FIR filed against him, Parveet and his wife Monika Kathuria, both residents of Majithia Enclave here, allegedly cheated Bimal Kaur, a resident of Cheeka in Haryana. The duo allegedly took Rs8.65 lakh from the complainant, assuring her of sending her son, Devinder Singh, abroad. During investigation and subsequent arrest of Parveet, the police came to know about the other cases registered against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/couple-booked-again-for-forgery-cheating-250590
10-05-2021||---||18 more succumb to Covid-19||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9Amid the mounting Covid deaths, the Patiala Health Department today issued a warning to private practitioners for causing the undue delay in reaching patients at Covid-appropriate facilities.The department said many private practitioners had been wasting crucial time by giving a symptomatic treatment to Covid patients until the latter reached critical situation.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said many private practitioners were diagnosing suspected patients clinically sans Covid tests. “Instead of conducting tests, they (private practitioners) are treating patients on their own. This causes delay in patients reaching Covid centres, thereby delaying the appropriate treatment. We have seen many cases wherein the delay proved fatal.”The department said patients were reporting at a late stage which was one of the major reasons for the rising Covid deaths in the district. Sources said many rural medical practitioners (RMPs) in villages were also treating patients on their own sans testing.The department added that patients were coming at a stage where their oxygen level had already dropped below the critical level. “People approach government health centres or hospitals only when the situation becomes critical, thereby making it difficult for the doctors,” said a health official.Meanwhile, Patiala reported 18 Covid deaths, taking the toll to 901 since the pandemic outbreak last year. The district has witnessed a sharp rise in Covid deaths over the past few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/18-more-succumb-to-covid-19-250591
10-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Ghaziabad resident all praise for Govt Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9In a shot in the arm for Government Rajindra Hospital amid criticism of Covid-appropriate facilities at the isolation ward, a Covid survivor has extended thanks to the hospital authorities for free and good treatment.A resident of Ghaziabad (UP), Sumit, at the time of his discharge said: “My oxygen saturation had dropped to a critical level during home isolation. But I couldn’t get a bed in the National Capital Region (NCR). Consequently, I had to come to Patiala for Covid treatment. The very next day I got a bed here. The quality of treatment and medical equipment, herein, has changed my perception of government hospitals.”In a video message, talking about the Government Rajindra Hospital, the patient expressed his satisfaction with food and support staff at the isolation ward.He said: “The best part was that I didn’t have to spend a single penny on the entire treatment.”Many residents of New Delhi and other states are getting treatment at the hospital.The video came a few days after many attendants of Covid patients staged a protest, alleging mismanagement at the ward.Meanwhile, Dr Sara, daughter of another Covid patient, also praised patient care at the hospital.34 succumb to virusThe daily death toll at the Covid isolation facility of the Government Rajindra Hospital continues to rise. Around 34 patients succumbed to the virus at the isolation wing of the hospital and only 16 Covid patients were discharged in the past 24 hours. Of the 34 victims, 15 were from Patiala and 17 from other districts of the state. Two victims were from another state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ghaziabad-resident-all-praise-for-govt-rajindra-hospital-250592
10-05-2021||Patiala||PADB poll will violate Covid norms: Ex-MP||Senior Vice-President of SAD and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra today sought that the Punjab Agriculture Development Bank (PADB) elections should not be held amid the current Covid situation. He said the government was adamant on getting political mileage out of the elections.Chandumajra said: “The state government’s decision is untoward. The matter was already brought to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, and other officials by Sanour MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra. Now, it has been brought to the notice of the Chief Minister who is expected to cancel the elections in view of the pandemic.”He alleged that by deciding to hold the elections, the state government was itself spreading the virus among people. “On the one hand the government has deterred shopkeepers from earning a livelihood, but on the other hand, it is breaking its own rules by holding the PADB elections,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/padb-poll-will-violate-covid-norms-ex-mp-250593
10-05-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab Government, private power consumers owe Rs 3,993 crore to PSPCL||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9Not only the government but even private consumers have also not made payments worth crores to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). The defaulting amount due to the PSPCL at the end of last financial year was Rs 3,993 crore. This is separate from Rs 5,500-crore subsidy amount due from the government for supplying free power to various sectors.Information revealed that of the Rs 3,993 crore, various government departments owe Rs 2,140 crore while Rs 1,853 crore is pending from other consumers.Rs 5,500 cr subsidy pendingThe defaulting amount in the west zone is Rs 1,305 crore, including Rs 601 crore from government departments. In the border zone, the figure is Rs 1,198 crore, including Rs 565 crore from the government and Rs 633 crore from other consumers. In the south zone, the amount is Rs 798 crore, including Rs 595 crore from government departments.Instead of clearing their dues, many consumers have moved courts. “Rather than making payment, many consumers have approached courts to delay the process. There are about 4,700 civil cases pending in various courts to settle the disputed amounts. The cases have been filed by various industrial units regarding bills totalling Rs 147 crore,” said a top PSPCL official.As per the data, most cases — 3,300 — have been filed in Ludhiana. There are total 13.5 lakh defaulting consumers, owing about Rs 2,080 crore. Of this, nearly 6,000 consumers owe more than Rs 2 lakh each to the PSPCL.”There are around 9,700 consumers who owe between Rs 1-2 lakh while 1.32 lakh consumers owe between Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh. Rest owe less than Rs 25,000 each,” said officials.A senior PSPCL official confirmed that last year, the PSPCL had recovered Rs 3,291 crore comprising Rs 1,074 crore from government departments and Rs 2,217 crore from other consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-government-private-power-consumers-owe-rs-3-993-crore-to-pspcl-250467
10-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Dearth of specialists to operate ventilators in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 9The worsening Covid-19 situation has exposed the shortage of specialists in the state to handle life-saving ventilators. Consequently, the government, owing to lack of manpower, had to hand over the ventilators to private Covid facilities.In fact, successive state governments, turning a blind eye towards the health sector, neither added new medical colleges nor could enhance PG seats in the existing colleges for decades.Notably, only 65 anaesthetists, who are supposed to work in intensive care units and manage ventilators, graduate in Punjab every year. Of these, 28 are produced from three government medical colleges. It has been learnt that due to shortage of qualified workforce, the ventilators either are gathering dust or are being handled by the less-experienced professionals. Around 120 posts of anaesthetists are lying vacant in the state.Health experts said the Covid situation, owing to limited PG seats, had shown that the state lacked specialist doctors while neighbouring states were performing better. The experts said the government was focused on purchasing ventilators and other medical equipment, but no one bothered to hire manpower to run them.Dr Harshinder Kaur, professor, GMC, Patiala, said, “One post of professor can make the college eligible for three PG seats, while an associate professor can enhance one PG seat. If the government had timely promoted the faculty to professors and associates, the colleges would have had enough PG seats.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dearth-of-specialists-to-operate-ventilators-in-punjab-250454
