11-05-2021||Patiala||Reshuffle at Punjabi University||In reshuffle of top posts, Punjabi University has re-allocated charges of the offices of Dean (Academic Affairs), Dean (Research), Dean (Student welfare) and Dean (College development council) in anticipation of the Syndicate meeting. The orders regarding changes were released from the university Registrar’s office today.Punjabi University’s former and acting Vice-Chancellor Ravneet Kaur, an IAS officer, had deputed Prof Pushpinder Singh Gill of the School of Management Studies, who also happens to be the senior-most faculty member of the university, as Dean (Academic affairs), a little over a month ago.Instead of him, Prof Balvir Singh Sandhu, Department of Physics, will take care of the work at the Dean (Academic affairs) office. Dr Gill will, however, continue to hold the charge of Dean (External centres).The changes were done as per directions of the university Vice-Chancellor, who has also deputed Dr Anupama, Professor, Department of Economics, as Dean (Student welfare) for a year.The university has also decided to issue orders for replacing Prof Gurdeep Singh Batra, who holds the charge of Dean (Research) well in advance.Dr Ashok Kumar Tiwari, will take charge of the Professor (Pharmacy) for one year from July 10. Similarly, Dr Gurpreet Singh Lehal, Professor, Department of Computer Science, will take over charge of Dean (College development council) for one year from July 1.Responding to the development, Dr Pushpinder Singh Gill said, “I have worked to the best of my abilities and tried to come up to the expectations of the given charge.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/reshuffle-at-punjabi-university-251037
11-05-2021||Patiala||Army to run 84-bed L2 Covid facility at Rajindra Hospital||To assist in handling the pandemic situation at Government Rajindra Hospital, doctors and paramedics of Army will take over one of the floors of the Covid ward of the health facility. An Army team led by seven doctors will take over the second floor of super specialty building, which is a Covid ward of Rajindra Hospital, tomorrow morning.Confirming the development, HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, said, Army doctors would run 84-bed L2 facility at Rajindra Hospital. He further added that the hospital would provide only infrastructure and medicines.“They Army will bring their allied staff. We will have to provide just infrastructure and medicines,” he said.Notably, Covid patient load at the hospital has increased manifold over the past few days.Meanwhile, the daily death toll at the Covid isolation facility of the Government Rajindra Hospital continues to rise. Around 38 coronavirus patients, including four suspected, succumbed to the disease at the isolation wing of the hospital while only nine were discharged during the past 24 hours.Of 38 patients, who succumbed to the disease, 12 were from Patiala and five from other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/army-to-run-84-bed-l2-covid-facility-at-rajindra-hospital-251038
11-05-2021||Patiala||In violation of norms, beneficiaries below  45 yrs get vaccinated||Disregarding directions of the state government and despite shortage of vaccine for deserving beneficiaries, the Health Department is stated to have inoculated many ineligible persons. It has been learnt that many youngsters, who are associated with a political party, got vaccinated despite the fact that their turn was yet to come.Notably, the inoculation of 45 years and below age group is yet to rollout in the state. In one such instance, a 33-year-old Municipal Councillor owing allegiance to the Congress got vaccinated against Covid. Most instances of violations have been reported at the Community Health Centre (CHC) in Tripuri.Ironically, all these youngsters were vaccinated when 45 years and above eligible beneficiaries were turned back from the vaccination centre owing to the shortage of doses.One eligible beneficiary said, “As always, position of a person is above all rules here.”When asked about the anomaly, the Patiala Civil Surgeon said, “Councillors come under frontline workers as they are public representatives. I am not aware of other ineligible beneficiaries getting vaccinated. Today, we will start vaccination of registered construction workers, who are above 18 years.”It is a known fact that the government, both Centre and the state, have not declared Municipal Councillors as frontline workers.Meanwhile, the District Immunisation Officer, Dr Venu Goyal, said, “We will check the list of vaccinated beneficiaries. I am not aware of any such incident. However, I will look into the matter.”Meanwhile, the Senior Medical Officer, Dr Vikas Goyal, said, “The said youngsters have been vaccinated as they brought duly singed employment form meant for frontline and healthcare workers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/in-violation-of-norms-beneficiaries-below-45-yrs-get-vaccinated-251039
11-05-2021||Patiala||Patiala to have 4 new medical oxygen generation units||In order to maintain an uninterrupted supply of the medical oxygen for Covid patients the district administration has decided to set up four new oxygen generation units. The work on one of the units at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital has already started.Divulging details, the Patiala Deputy Commissioner (DC), Kumar Amit, said two units would be set up at Mata Kaushalya Hospital while Community Health Centres (CHCs) in Nabha and at Model Town in Patiala would have one unit each.Officials concerned had already been directed to complete the work on priority basis, the DC added.The DC further informed that the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was constructing one of the medical oxygen unit with a capacity of 10,000 litres per day at Mata Kaushalya Hospital. The unit would cost Rs10 crore, the DC added.The second mini oxygen unit at Mata Kaushalya Hospital with a capacity of 50 to 60 cylinders per day would be set up in collaboration with Nabha Power Limited, the DC said.“I have directed officials of various departments to complete the work of oxygen units ahead of the schedule. They are working as a team to provide better health services to the people during the crisis,” the DC added. Informing about deadlines for the said project, the DC claimed that the new units would be completed within one-and-a-half month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-to-have-4-new-medical-oxygen-generation-units-251040
11-05-2021||Patiala||NPL wins award||Nabha Power Limited (NPL), which owns and operates the 2x700 MW supercritical Rajpura Thermal Power Plant, has won the National Golden Peacock Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Award 2020 under the power generation category. This award has been conferred for NPL’s outstanding achievements demonstrating the highest level of commitments for CSR activities.The Golden Peacock Awards Secretariat had received over 319 applications out of which 119 were shortlisted through a three-tier assessment process.The results of the award were announced on Thursday by Jury chaired by MN Venkatachaliah, former Chief Justice of India, who is also a former Chairman, National Human Rights Commission, and National Commission for Constitution of India Reforms.On the achievement, Nabha Power Ltd CEO, Athar Shahab, said, “We are grateful for the recognition. This prestigious award is a testimony to the impact made by our CSR team that works closely with local communities in diverse areas that include skill building, infrastructure development, water conservation, healthcare, sanitation and education. As a responsible corporate citizen, we shall continue our efforts in these areas.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/npl-wins-award-251041
11-05-2021||Patiala||Traders fear losses as non-essential shops to open only on 2 days — Monday and Friday||Residents thronged markets today after relaxations to open all essential and non-essential shops were issued by the administration. The relaxations have been given for two days — Monday and Friday — in a week. Some coaching institutes also opened offices despite curbs today. Most coaching institutes kept their shutters down while they functioned.Meanwhile, markets including Adalat Bazaar witnessed far less footfall due to threat of the Covid-19 pandemic. There were almost no buyers at readymade garment shops, but there was a rush of commuters on city roads similar to usual working days.Shopkeepers said they were forced to sell their products at low prices. “Some items might get dumped with the change in season. Products get outdated with time while others are perishable. We are facing huge losses because of the lockdown,” said a cloth shop owner in the Ragho Majra area.Another trader pointed out, “We suffered losses when a lockdown was imposed last year. This year delay in development works, including re-carpeting of roads in the area, is affecting our business. The curbs imposed due to the pandemic have ruined our financial condition.”Meanwhile, coaching institutes in Choti Baradari and nearby areas opened for classes despite restrictions on their functioning. A parent of a student taking coaching said, “My son parks his vehicle at a distance and enters the coaching centre. The centre’s shutters are pulled down while students attend classes inside. There is no issue as institute officials and students maintain social distancing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/traders-fear-losses-as-non-essential-shops-to-open-only-on-2-days-%E2%80%94-monday-and-friday-251042
