12-05-2021||---||Cases registered against curfew violators||Patiala, May 11Residents continue to disregard the rules enforced by the district administration to stem the spread of Covid-19. The Patiala police have booked a number of people for venturing out during the curfew hours and opening shops, including liquor shops, during restrictions.The police have registered a case against Gurjit Singh of Nabha for opening his shop during the curfew hours. He has been booked under section 188 of the IPC and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Similarly, the Civil Lines police registered a case against unidentified owners and workers of A to Z wine liquor shop at Officers’ Colony. Officials said Kuldeep Singh and Ram Kumar were seen buying liquor from the liquor vend at 7 pm yesterday. They said the workers at the shop put up the shutters when the police reached there.A case under section 188 of the IPC was registered at the Patran police station after a shop was found open at 9.40 pm during the curfew hours.Similar cases were registered at the Lahori Gate, Julka and Rajpura city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cases-registered-against-curfew-violators-251685
12-05-2021||Ravneet Singh||Online teaching helps reach larger audience||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 11With offline classes and seminars suspended for about a year now, discussions that have moved to the online mode bring along their merits and demerits. This has affected practical and hands-on training of students and participants of seminars, and taken the lectures outside the university’s walls, thus involving more audience.Punjabi University, which regularly organises seminars and discussions on various topics, has shifted to online webinars after classes were first suspended last year. Among many webinars organised online, the one titled, “Basics of photography and mobile photography to shoot like a professional”, was held this week.The university said the participating students and others were informed about the features of various cameras and photography techniques. The university could not provide hands-on training in photography due to Covid-19 restrictions, but managed to keep the students interested during the whole session, the officials concerned said.Dr Manjit Singh Bhamrah, head, department of electronics and communication, which organised the webinar, said: “We can’t carry out continuous teaching. Therefore, such webinars are organised to keep students’ interest intact. The trainers explained the participants in detail about the intricacies of camera and mobile camera usage, including the ISO, shutter speed etc.”He said: “There is no replacement for practical work. But students have become bored while sitting home and such programmes help them divert their mind from a monotonous life.” He added the department planned to hold similar cultural and literary webinars.The online mode has helped involve people outside the campus bounds as well.The university today held a webinar to commemorate the birth anniversary of Maharana Pratap. Dr Mohammad Idris, in charge of Maharana Pratap Chair and Head of Department of History, said around 100 scholars from various universities of India and abroad participated in the webinar.Faculty members said the online mode of holding lectures had created a database worthy of being accessed repeatedly from remote locations. “The content of classes and webinars can be recorded and uploaded on Youtube channels and other sites. It can then easily be accessed by outsiders and university students at later stages. This makes accessing important information easy,” another official said.The university today also organised a “Gurbani kirtan darbar” through the online mode. The Vice-Chancellor, the Dean Academics, along with SGPC President Jagir Kaur, participated in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/online-teaching-helps-reach-larger-audience-251684
12-05-2021||---||DC inspects isolation ward at Govt Rajindra Hospital Patiala||Patiala, May 11Amid the rising Covid deaths at Government Rajindra Hospital here, Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit paid a surprise visit to the Covid ward today. The Covid Care in-charge, Surbhi Malik, accompanied him.The hospital today reported around 26 deaths, including a suspected death, at the isolation wing in the past 24 hours.Officer condemns propaganda against hospitalDeputy Commissioner Kumar Amit termed the malicious propaganda against this apex institute in a section of the social media irrational, far away from reality and totally unwarranted.Wearing a PPE kit, the Deputy Commissioner, along with other officers, inspected the arrangements at the Covid ward and interacted with patients.The Deputy Commissioner said the hospital was serving humanity in right earnest by ensuring quality treatment to Covid patients in this hour of crisis. He said it was gratifying to see that the entire team of doctors, para medical staff, sanitary workers and others were serving humanity zealously.He claimed that the premier institute was serving the people of not only Patiala but also the entire Malwa region and other states.Kumar Amit termed the malicious propaganda against this apex institute in a section of social media as irrational, far away from reality and totally unwarranted.Notably, attendants of positive patients protested outside the Covid ward alleging a lack of patient care at the hospital.During the inspection, the DC found doctors, nurses and ward attendants were performing their duty diligently, and patients were being cared for. Cleanliness at the ward was up to the mark and extra efforts on ensuring cleanliness in the ICU floor were visible. Cleanliness in washrooms was found to be satisfactory and attendants were on standby. The officers asked the staff to adopt a humane approach while dealing with the kin of patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dc-inspects-isolation-ward-at-govt-rajindra-hospital-patiala-251683
12-05-2021||Patiala||Second wave sweeps Punjab’s rural belt||The virus is fast spreading its tentacles across the countryside with rising number of Covid-19 deaths being reported in the rural areas.In the past 10 days, 50 persons have died of Covid-19 in villages across Patiala district. The count may be higher as many deaths go unreported due to lack of testing, say health officials.Reluctant to go for testingSuggesting a high case fatality rate (CFR) in the rural areas, Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said rural deaths were contributing around 34 per cent to the total count, while the rural case count was only 20 per cent.The CFR in rural areas stood at 2.86, compared to 1.73 in the urban areas. As per the Health Department, 3,708 persons tested positive in the rural areas of whom 106 succumbed to the virus between April 1 and May 11.It is learnt that people in villages do not readily go for testing and treatment, until they reach a critical stage. Further, health facilities in the countryside are said to be scant.A health official said: “Villagers do not go for testing until the situation becomes critical. Only a few undergo testing. As a result, many deaths go unreported. A majority of villagers is reluctant to visit health centres or hospitals despite having symptoms.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “We will soon increase testing in villages. Our mobile teams will hold testing camps at villages. Besides, we have already issued warnings to the practitioners there for causing undue delay in sending Covid patients to appropriate facilities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/second-wave-sweeps-punjabs-rural-belt-251512
