13-05-2021||Karam Prakash||At 20, dist sees highest single-day Covid deaths||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 12In highest single-day toll, Patiala district reported 20 Covid deaths today.Of the 20 victims, 11 were from the rural areas. Health officials informed that Covid deaths in rural areas were increasing.Despite rising Covid toll, villagers seemed reluctant for testing and not cooperating, said officials.Dr Aslam Parvez, in-charge, Rapid Response Team, overseeing 100 villages, said, “There is still opposition from villagers for testing and vaccination against virus despite creating awareness. In some villages of the district, residents are opposing testing even after several Covid-related deaths in their areas.”A senior medical officer, pleading anonymity, said, “We have directed medical practitioners in villages to follow a strict protocol if suspected patients comes to them because villagers rely more on RMPs. Villagers are scared to come to the tertiary hospital in Patiala.”Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, while commenting on hesitancy in villages, said, “Special efforts are being made in rural areas to convince villagers to come forward for testing. Senior medical officers of each block in the district have been asked to ramp up testing at the village level. There are only a few cases where opposition to Covid testing has been witnessed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/at-20-dist-sees-highest-single-day-covid-deaths-252116
13-05-2021||---||Army launches Covid facility at Rajindra Hospital||Patiala, May 12The Western Command of the Army today launched a 100-bed Covid care facility at Sri Guru Nanak Dev Super Specialty Block of Government Rajindra Hospital.Doctors and healthcare workers (HCW) of the Army have already started work on the second floor of the Covid dedicated super specialty building of the hospital.Notably, this is the third Covid facility in the state, which has been established by the Army’s Western Command, in collaboration with the civil administration to fight the pandemic.The Patiala MP, Preneet Kaur, who was present at the launch of the facility, said it would strengthen the state government’s effort to fight the Covid pandemic. Moreover, the Army would contribute to the national cause of making the country Covid free, the MP added.A 100-bed L-2 facility of the Army would ease pressure on the hospital management and help them concentrate on treatment of the level-3 patients, the MP said Regarding rumours of mismanagement and lack of care at hospital the MP claimed that facilities and care provided at Rajindra Hospital were at par with any other national medical facility of the country.Notably, as many as 1,711 people had died at the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital since the onset of the pandemic. Besides, the death rate at the hospital was highest among the tertiary care medical institutions in the country.The MP called upon every citizen to wear face mask, take precaution against Covid and help break the transmission chain of the infection.Col Manoj Kumar Sharma, commanding officer of the army unit, said, “Doctors, medical, ancillary and administrative staff will be on 24x7 duty as per the ICMR guidelines. They will also have an ambulance at their disposal equipped with all necessary facilities.”AAP attacks MPMeantime, leader of the local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Prof Sumaer Singh, said Preneet Kaur instead of listening to grievances of attendants of positive patients at the isolation wing was busy in photo ops. He saluted the Army for helping people during this pandemic, however, it was shameful that Patiala MP was trying to gain political mileage out of force’s endeavour, Prof Sumaer added. It was ironical that roads inside hospital, which were in bad shape for months altogether, were re-carpeted a day before the MP’s visit, Prof Sumaer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/army-launches-covid-facility-at-rajindra-hospital-252117
13-05-2021||---||20-minute rain inundates several areas in city||Patiala, May 12Rain lashed city in the afternoon hours today. Though it rained only for about 20 minutes, streets in various areas were under rainwater.Meanwhile members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the market areas in the Ragho Majra area and surroundings witnessed water logging after rain.Kundan Gogia, an AAP leader, said, the city received only marginal rainfall for over 20 minutes, but there was waterlogging in various areas despite the replacement of the old drainage system with new pipes by the Municipal Corporation (MC).Leaders of the AAP pointed out that residents’ of the areas had to commute through waterlogged streets which inconvenienced them. Residents and shopkeepers from several areas in the city called party workers, said Gogia. Party activists visited spots where there was waterlogging after few minutes rain, Gogia added.Meanwhile, officials in the Corporation said laying of sewerage and other civil work was in progress. “These works will be completed soon so that residents do not face any issues during the rainy season,” they added.The MC superintending engineer, Suresh Kumar, said, “The Corporation is cleaning Bada Nullah in the city. We stopped flow of water in the nullah while cleaning it. After completing the work we opened flow of the water.” “Cleaning of nullah will continue for about two more months,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/20-minute-rain-inundates-several-areas-in-city-252118
13-05-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University semester examinations from May 24||Punjabi University has released the date sheet for even semester exams for this academic year. The university will hold the exams through online/offline mode.Releasing a notice, the controller (Examinations) said, “The exams will be held from May 24. Date sheets are being uploaded on the university website. Students must keep checking the site for updates.”Meanwhile, the university authorities said the exams would be held in a blended online-offline mode from 9.30 am to 1.30 pm. This includes the time given for downloading and solving question papers and uploading answer sheets, they added. Among others, the exams of MCom (Semester II) would be held from May 24 to May 26, they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-semester-examinations-from-may-24-252119
13-05-2021||Patiala||Nurses Day celebrated||Gian Sagar College of Nursing celebrated Nurses Day in the memory of Florence Nightingale here today. A webinar was organised on the occasion.Dr AS Sekhon, Dean, Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, who was the chief guest on the occasion, lauded nurses for taking care of patients during pandemic. Dr Davinder Kaur, Principal, Gian Sagar College of Nursing, highlighted theme of the webinar. She said nurses were the backbone of hospitals and clinics, who took care of Covid patients by putting their lives at risk. A cake cutting ceremony was organised on the occasion.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nurses-day-celebrated-252142
