15-05-2021||---||6 tocilizumab vials stolen from Rajindra Hospital||Patiala, May 14Six vials of immunosuppressive drug tocilizumab, which is used in the treatment of Covid-19, have been allegedly stolen from the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital here. Role of insider?The hospital authorities have reported the incident to the police.We have received a complaint from the hospital and have lodged an FIR against unidentified persons under Section 380 of the IPC, said the police.Surbhi Malik, in-charge, Covid ward at Rajindra Hospital, said they had also set up a committee for an internal inquiry.Notably, outsiders are not allowed inside the isolation ward and there is police presence outside the wing where the theft occurred. Moreover, CCTV cameras are in place inside the building.Asked about the role of any insider, Surbhi Malik said, “Too early to make any conjecture. It is a serious issue and is being taken as such. Though, investigation will be conducted by the police, our committee will also look into the matter.”A tocilizumab vial costs around Rs30,000. However, there were reports that the injection was sold for over Rs 1 lakh on the black market.Earlier, attendants of positive patients kept at the isolation ward of Rajindra Hospital had alleged that valuable items of their patients had been stolen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/6-tocilizumab-vials-stolen-from-rajindra-hospital-253074
15-05-2021||---||Staff nurse dies of Covid at Nabha hospital||Patiala, May 14A 53-year-old staff nurse, posted at Nabha Civil Hospital, succumbed to Covid-19, a day after testing positive for the deadly virus.Comorbid conditionSenior Medical Officer Dr Dalbir Kaur said Balwinder Kaur was posted at the Covid ward on a rotation basis. She said the staff nurse was a diabetic and also suffered from hypertension.The health authorities informed that the staff nurse, identified as Balwinder Kaur, had been performing Covid duties at the Nabha hospital.It has been learned that the staff nurse was home isolated on May 12 after she had tested positive. However, her health deteriorated and she had to be rushed to the Nabha Civil Hospital, where she died within a few hours of her admission.Senior Medical Officer Dr Dalbir Kaur said the staff nurse was posted at the Covid ward on a rotation basis.She said the nurse was a diabetic and also suffered from hypertension.Balwinder Kaur had received the first dose of the Covid vaccine last week.Senior health officials said there was a guideline on avoiding assigning Covid duties to healthcare workers with comorbidities.550 new casesMeanwhile, Patiala reported 550 new cases today. With this, the active cases in the district climbed to 4,455.Of the 550 new cases, Patiala city reported 249 cases, Rajpura 66, Kauli 50, Kallon Majra 34, Harpalpur 30, Dudhan Sadhan 28, Shurtrana 23 and Nabha 22. Twenty cases were reported from Samana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/staff-nurse-dies-of-covid-at-nabha-hospital-253075
15-05-2021||---||Anomalies reported in delivery of rations to patients in home isolation||Patiala, May 14Anomalies in distribution of rations to Covid-19 positive patients in home isolation came to the fore after residents claimed that they were provided only wheat flour and rest of the items mentioned on the delivery list were missing.The residents said when they opened the food packets delivered on their doorsteps they found most of the items on the list missing.“I received a call from the administration for delivery of rations. We agreed to collect the rations so that we could give it further to someone in need. But to our surprise, the items on the list were missing. The delivery vehicle that came to our house only delivered 10 kg wheat flour,” said a Lehal area resident.The packets being delivered by the administration mention items, including 10 kg wheat flour, 2 kg black chana and 2 kg sugar.“I received a packet from the delivery persons but it only contained 10 kg wheat flour. While we can afford to buy commodities from the market, there are many poor people who suffer because of this. This could be deliberate or by mistake, the administration should check it,” said an Urban Estate resident.When contacted, Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh said, “We are getting properly packed deliveries from the Food and Civil Supplies office. We have not received any complaint till now. I will get it checked properly.”The administration has deputed officials to contact the Covid-19 positive patients in home isolation on phone and ask them if they want the delivery or not, the SDM informed, adding that “more than 50 per cent people denied the aid”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/anomalies-reported-in-delivery-of-rations-to-patients-in-home-isolation-253076
