17-05-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University, Patiala’s Engineering Department gets Dean||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patialas-engineering-department-gets-dean-253880
17-05-2021||Patiala||Online session with author||Women members of the Patiala Reads Club organised an interaction with author Natalie Jenner last evening.The club held an online session with the author that lasted two hours. Jenner shared her inspiring journey of becoming an author while her husband was battling with lung cancer.Born in England and raised in Canada, Natalie introduces herself as a “recovered lawyer” on her Twitter handle. “Her book, The Jane Austen Society, is a perfect quarantine read,” says Neetu Narula, founder of the club.Natalie Jenner is the author of two books — international bestseller ‘The Jane Austen Society’ and the second novel slated for release in the spring of 2022.“We are looking forward to another meet as the author was impressed with the members and promised to be with us again. We hope to hold such literary interactions with such authors time and again and ensure more avid readers jiin us”, says Cherry Garg, another founding members of the club. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/online-session-with-author-253879
17-05-2021||Patiala||Health Departments warns against indiscriminate use of steroids||Amid the fear of black fungus infection, the Patiala Health Department today warned the quacks and registered medical practitioners (RMPs) against prescribing unregulated steroids and antibiotics to Covid patients.The department said the abuse of steroids and antibiotics could prove fatal for Covid patients. Health officials made an appeal to people to avoid self-medication. “It has been learnt that many people have been taking antibiotics and steroids on their own. The Health Department fears that use of steroids without doctor’s advice could lead to black fungus in future,” they said.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “We have directed the medical practitioners in villages to stop prescribing steroids without Covid tests. It has come to fore that many practitioners in the villages are giving steroids even without getting patients tested for Covid.”Dr Sachin Kaushal, Department of Medicine, Government Rajindra Hospital, said patients start taking steroids even without any symptoms. “Besides, patients who are immunocompromised – having ailments such as diabetes, kidney or liver problems – were also at a higher risk of black fungus. Those who have already recovered were also vulnerable,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-departments-warns-against-indiscriminate-use-of-steroids-253878
17-05-2021||Ravneet Singh||Residents question Mayor’s appeal to raise funds for workers on Covid duty||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 16Residents have raised eyebrows over Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma’s move to exhort people to donate money for contractual multitask workers at Covid wards of the Government Rajindra Hospital.Residents say it was the state government’s duty to ensure funds for employees from the collected tax money.Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, MayorWorkers are appointed on daily wages. No pay has been fixed for them in the pandemic as the situation is unprecedented. The government doesn’t have a procedure to increase their pay. If it does, it will have to raise the pay of all employees.The Mayor, accompanied by representatives of NGOs and Municipal Councillors, recently said: “The Punjab Government could not go beyond the purview of the law and increase the salaries of multitask workers. That is why, the decision to provide financial assistance to the workers caring for Covid patients through social organisations has been taken.”While talking to the media and in a Facebook post, he later appealed to people to donate money for the workers.In an online post today, he said an NGO has decided to donate Rs3,000 each for 20 such workers for three months.The Mayor, along with NGOs, has decided to raise Rs3,000 every month for 300 contractual workers each. The workers are currently being paid Rs8,000 per month as per the government rates.Meanwhile, residents questioned the move stating they were themselves out of business and the government should provide enough money to pay the workers.A resident said: “Why donate? People pay taxes to the state government. It’s the government’s duty to pay them a proper amount…Where’s the tax money? Or was all of it spent on needless interlocking tiles?”Another resident questioned: “If payment for employees is to be collected from general public, then what is the government doing?”Meanwhile, Mayor Sanjeev Sharma said: “Workers are appointed on daily wages. No pay has been fixed for workers in the pandemic as the situation was unprecedented. The government doesn’t have a procedure to increase their pay. If it does, it will have to increase the pay of all employees.”The Mayor accused the media of painting a negative picture of the government.He also pointed out: “Our country is not rich. We can’t run everything with the tax money. We are trying to do as much as we can.” He said we had raised a demand to the state Health Minister for increasing the pay of contractual workers dealing with L3 patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/residents-question-mayors-appeal-to-raise-funds-for-workers-on-covid-duty-253877
17-05-2021||---||Patiala district grapples with vaccine shortage for 45+||Patiala, May 16For the third consecutive day, the Health Department could not inoculate beneficiaries aged 45 and above due to the shortage of vaccine.The Patiala Health Department said those above 45 years would not be inoculated on Monday also. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder said they had not received vaccine for people aged above 45 years. He said: “As we have not received vaccine from the Centre, the drive cannot be carried out for those above 45 years.”The Department clarified that beneficiaries above 45 were being vaccinated from the doses of Central pool while above 18 years were vaccinated from state pool of vaccines.Meanwhile, the Health Department said they vaccinated 3,602 beneficiaries aged 18- 45 today. Meanwhile, long queues were witnessed at various vaccination centres and social distancing norms went for a toss at a few centres.A doctor of the Health Department said: “Hundreds of people gathered at vaccination centres. It appeared like a super-spreader event.”31 deathsAs many as 31 patients, including three suspected Covid patients, died at the isolation wing of Government Rajindra Hospital during the past 24 hours. Only 11 of them were from Patiala while 15 belonged to other parts of the state. Only 12 patients were discharged from the hospital in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-grapples-with-vaccine-shortage-for-45-253876
