18-05-2021||---||Two of 4 ‘black fungus’ patients die at Patiala’s Rajindra hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 18Two Covid patients, who had been found infected with mucormycosis -- popularly known as ‘black fungus’ – died at isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital, here on Tuesday. These were the first such cases at Rajindra hospital which were infected with black fungus.The hospital authorities claimed that both the patients died of Covid and not of the black fungus. Dr RPS Sibia, head, Department of Medicine, said patients were already sick with Covid. “They had black fungus, but they died due to Covid-related complications. Both the patients were on ventilator support,” Sibia said.It has already been reported that four patients – admitted to the isolation wing – were found infected with ‘black fungus’ after clinical confirmation. “Of six suspected patients at the hospital, four have been infected with black fungus,” said Dr Sibia – who is also heading the isolation wing of the hospital.Finally, he said they had received the medicine for the black fungus and treatment of the infected and suspected patients were under way.Meanwhile, it has been learned that sporadic cases of black fungus have been reported in private hospitals as well, however, they have not been documented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-of-4-black-fungus-patients-die-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-254778
18-05-2021||---||Amid good response from 18+, Patiala district falls short of vaccine||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17Amid enthusiasm among 18 to 45 years beneficiaries to get inoculated, Patiala district is running short on Covid vaccines. The Health Department was left with only 600 shots of vaccine today.The Health Department said they had not received due supply of vaccines from the state. So, they would be administering only remaining doses tomorrow, the department added.Owing to limited stock, vaccine would be administered to beneficiaries at only at two sites tomorrow, including Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital and Government Senior Secondary School, Model Town, in the city.Meantime, it has been learnt that beneficiaries, above 45 years, would not be administered vaccine for the next few days. Reason is insufficient supply of vaccine for this group. Vaccine for above 45 years group comes from the Central Government pool.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said he was in constant touch with the higher authorities for the supply of vaccines. “As soon as we get the supply, we will restart our routine vaccination. The response for the Covid vaccination is overwhelming,” he added.Meanwhile, the District Immunisation Officer (DIO), Dr Veenu Goyal, said around 8,617 beneficiaries were vaccinated today. With this development, Patiala’s vaccination count had touched 2,88,203. The response to vaccination drive from 18 to 44 years age group was good, Dr Goyal added.220 vaccinated at District Courts ComplexThe District Legal Services Authority in collaboration with the Health Department organised a second vaccination camp at the District Courts Complex here today. District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Agarwal said 220 judicial officers, lawyers’, staff and paralegal volunteers were administered second dose of the vaccine to protect them from coronavirus.Vaccine was essential to beat Covid pandemic, he added. At a time, when cases of coronavirus were on the rise in the country and precious lives were being lost, vaccination was the only cure, he said. He directed the staff to ensure social distancing, wear face masks and sanitise hands regularly as per the government guidelines to control the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/amid-good-response-from-18-patiala-district-falls-short-of-vaccine-254575
18-05-2021||---||Work on canal-based drinking water supply starts at Ablowal||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17After prolonged delay, the work on canal-based water supply project started at Ablowal village today. The project worth Rs503 crore will provide round-the-clock drinking water supply to the whole city of Patiala and is expected to be completed in 36 months.The tendering process for the first phase of the project to draw water from the Bhakra canal was completed in October last year. Former Union Minister and Lok Sabha member Preneet Kaur inaugurated the project today.Under the project a 115 million litres per day (MLD) water treatment plant will be established at Ablowal village along with a clear water reservoir of 17.28 ML, besides storage and sedimentation tank of 236 ML.A 312 km long new pipeline will also be installed in the city, besides 12 above ground and 16 underground tanks.At present, 134 underground borewells running in the city are depleting underground water. It is expected that the project will prevent depletion of underground water.Preneet said, “The entire project has been designed keeping in view water needs of city residents for the next 30 years.”The project was announced for the first time by then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in 2006. The present government again announced the project after coming to power in 2017.In November 2018, the district administration set up a team to look into the project implementation. Tenders first floated in October 2019 were cancelled twice. The work-order was given in October, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/work-on-canal-based-drinking-water-supply-starts-at-ablowal-254576
18-05-2021||---||Black fungus patients report at Government Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17For the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, Government Rajindra Hospital today reported five suspected cases of mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus.The hospital authorities said of the five suspected cases one was Covid survivor while four were active patients grappling with the virus at the hospital.Dr RPS Sibia, head, Department of Medicine, Government Rajindra Hospital, said they had already sent samples of patients for clinical confirmation. “We have already put patients on the treatment of black fungus. The suspected cases have been reported yesterday. This is for the first time that the hospital has cases of black fungus.”After surfacing of suspected black fungus cases at the hospital they were more alert and keeping a careful watch on patients, Dr Sibia added.Meanwhile, health experts said patients, who were immune compromised and had ailments like diabetes, kidney and liver problems, were at greater risk of contracting black fungus because they were most likely to be on steroids already.Besides, patients, who were kept on oxygen support for longer time during Covid treatment, were also vulnerable, experts added.As to symptoms of black fungus, health officials said, “Common symptoms of black fungus are release of brown discharge from nose, severe pain in cheeks, eyes and teeth, blackening of palette, loosening of teeth, decreasing vision and protrusion of eyes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/black-fungus-patients-report-at-government-rajindra-hospital-254577
18-05-2021||Ravneet Singh||Construction of shops continues near Patiala's Sanauri Adda||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17Construction of many shops near Sanauri Adda in the city continues despite demolition orders issued by the Municipal Corporation Commissioner. Illegal construction continues in the city while residents grapple with Covid pandemic.As many as four shops have been constructed. Ground has been dug up for starting work of more shops adjacent to them.As a matter of fact, the Municipal Corporation (MC) had constructed a Sabzi Mandi near Sanauri Adda recently. All vegetable vendors from Old Sabzi Mandi were shifted to the new site from the Ragho Majra area. As such illegal construction near the site, which is already receiving footfall, has started.Meanwhile, Varun Jindal, vice-president, Bharatiya Janata Party city unit, said, “Even a construction plan can’t be passed at the site. But, Corporation officials have allowed construction here. The land is a lease site. As such no construction plan can be passed for this site.” “Similar illegal construction is being carried out in various parts of the city,” he added.Meanwhile, when contacted, MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “The matter has come to our notice. A notice was issued after which department officials put-up file regarding the matter. I ordered demolition of shops few days ago.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/construction-of-shops-continues-near-patialas-sanauri-adda-254578
18-05-2021||---||Daily interaction with peers root of aggression among students: Study||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17A study carried out as part of a global research alliance on levels of bullying and cyber-bullying experienced by school students during and before the Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown across 16 countries has pointed out that the root of harmful aggression among students lies in their daily interaction with peers. The study called for implementation of programmes to assist school students with social-emotional regulation.Punjabi University’s Associate Professor, Dr Damanjit Sandhu, part of the alliance, said, “The research is being led by Dr Grace Skrzypiec from Flinders University, Adelaide. The findings have been presented during the Indian Academy of Applied Psychology Conference at Punjabi University.”Researchers compared data collected among school students aged between 11 and 16 years regarding their experiences of bullying and cyber-bullying before and during the pandemic, Dr Sandhu added. The data collected regarding bullying as part of a peer aggression study (PAS) of 2017 was used for the comparative study, said Dr Sandhu.Students, who participated in the study during the pandemic, reported way less levels of aggression when compared with normal school days, Dr Sandhu added.During the peer aggression study 99.3 per cent students claimed they experienced bullying in some form, which remained 50 per cent as reported during the lockdown, said Dr Sandhu.This includes teasing, being laughed at, picked on, calling names, left out, spreading rumours, threatening, hit, kicked or pushed by their fellow schoolmates, Dr Sandhu added.In the same line, prevalence of cyber aggression among students also decreased among both girls and boys, said Dr Sandhu.The researchers said 36.1 per cent students reported cyber aggression during the PAS and only 11.3 per cent during the lockdown period. “This points out that peer interaction triggers cyber-bullying,” added Dr Sandhu.Moreover, 90.1 per cent students before the pandemic perceived maximum harm from experiences of aggression in comparison to only 24.2 per cent during the lockdown, said Dr Sandhu.They found that social distancing practiced during the lockdown reduced middle school students’ experiences of aggression, Dr Sandhu added. “Students reported experiencing lower levels of aggression during the lockdown in comparison to previous days due to social distancing. This states that the root of harmful aggression among students lies in their daily interactions with peers or with stress experienced at school,” Dr said Sandhu.“The study, therefore, recommends that programmes to assist students with social-emotional regulation must be implemented in schools,” Dr Sandhu added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/daily-interaction-with-peers-root-of-aggression-among-students-study-254579
18-05-2021||---||Punjabi University student bags 20L package||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17Two students of Punjabi University have bagged packages of Rs20 and Rs10 lakh per annum, respectively.The university authorities said Aman Malhotra, a student of Computer Science Engineering Department, was selected by multi-national company CRED on an annual package above Rs20 lakh. Another student of the department, Manvesh Inder Singh Liddar, was selected by Byju, an online education company, on an annual package of Rs10 lakh, they added. The Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor, Dr Arvind, congratulated students and the department on their achievements.The department head, Dr Raman Maini, said students took initiatives, including initiating start-ups and coding and reaped results. Aman Malhotra, said he started working with professors on projects, including Java, from the first year onwards. Manvesh Inder Singh Liddar said he took part in competitions, interned with a number of companies in marketing and sales while continuing his studies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-student-bags-20l-package-254580
18-05-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab health officials fear spike as labourers arrive in villages||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 17Amid rising number of Covid cases in rural Punjab, the return of migrant labourers has added to the concerns of the government. While farmers are eager to welcome the migrant paddy labour, experts warn of testing and vaccination.Twenty-five villages in the state have already been declared containment or micro-containment zones.The health department claims that regular check-up camps and tests would be conducted to keep tabs on labourers returning from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, but only if reported.Experts suggest that any laxity on part of the farmers could be a threat to villagers. “Testing is the key and minimum 10-day isolation should be mandatory for those entering villages,” they say.Migrants have started contacting farmers and have reportedly assured them of returning to Punjab before the paddy season begins. “They are urging me to ensure their ration and stay even if lockdown is extended after the paddy season is over. They have also asked me to arrange for their safe return if crisis deepens,” said Jasdeep Singh Garcha, who own over 40 acres in Punjab and 20 acres in Uttar Pradesh.Bade Lal, a paddy labour contractor, said: “For the past three generations, my family has been involved in arranging labourers for paddy transplantation. While lakhs of migrants returned to their villages amid lockdown, I have arranged nearly 150 workers from my village in UP. They will be brought in buses next week.” When asked if they will carry Covid-negative reports, he said he did not want to put such conditions, otherwise the labourers would get scared. “Let them reach and we will see,” he said.What worries health officials is that majority of the labourers entering Punjab have refused vaccination in their native state and are even entering Punjab without getting themselves tested. “The only fear is that thousands of these migrants will enter Punjab, as they do every season, but will not be isolating themselves. They won’t even be carrying mandatory Covid-negative report,” said a top health official.Patiala DC Kumar Amit said as per the government directives, it had been decided “to sensitise the rural masses” regarding the seriousness of the spread of pandemic in villages. “There will be sub-divisional and village-level committees to act swiftly to sensitise the rural masses about Covid symptoms and testing, besides vaccination,” he added.Migrants want food, stay if crisis deepens||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-health-officials-fear-spike-as-labourers-arrive-in-villages-254262
