20-05-2021||---||Patiala-Nabha and Patiala-Sirhind roads to be widened: BJP leader||Patiala, May 19The BJP leader and former chairman, Improvement Trust Nabha, Gurtej Singh Dhillon, today announced that the Patiala-Nabha and Patiala-Sirhind roads would be widened with the help of the Centre Government.Gurtej Singh Dhillon, BJP leaderAll expenditure for the road widening projects will be paid through the central road infrastructure fund.During a press conference in the city today, Dhillon said the Patiala- Sirhind road four laning project would incur an expenditure of Rs110 crore while that of Patiala-Nabha road Rs32.52 crore.All expenditure for the project would be paid through the central road infrastructure fund, Dhillon added. The Patiala-Sirhind road was 33-feet wide, Dhillon said. It would be further widened to 72 feet, Dhillon added.Dhillon said he had also appealed to the Punjab Chief Minister to prepare a detailed report of the two projects and send it to the Minister, Road Transport and Highways, Nitin Gadkari, for its timely implementation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-nabha-and-patiala-sirhind-roads-to-be-widened-bjp-leader-255699
20-05-2021||---||Cars parked at scrap market on Patiala-Rajpura road catch fire||Patiala, May 19Cars parked outside one of the shops at the scrap market on the Patiala-Rajpura road here caught fire in the evening hours today. All these cars were no longer used and had been scrapped.Officials of the Fire Department, who reached the scrap market, said the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained.“We received a phone call regarding fire at the scrap market at 7 pm. Fire tenders were sent to the spot to douse the flames. We were able to extinguish fire in one-and-a-half hours,” said Lachman Das, Assistant Divisional Fire Officer.Scrapped cars parked outside only one of the shops at the scrap market went up in flames, Assistant Divisional Fire Officer added.No one was hurt in the incident, said Assistant Divisional Fire Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cars-parked-at-scrap-market-on-patiala-rajpura-road-catch-fire-255696
20-05-2021||---||PUTA to boycott work tomorrow over pending salaries, pension||Patiala, May 19The executive body of the Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA) has decided to boycott all assignments of the university on Friday in protest against non disbursal of their salaries. This is while the university has not been able to pay employees’ salaries for March and April.Dr Avneet Pal Singh, secretary, PUTAThe executive has condemned a delay in disbursement of salaries and pension for March and April. Due to this, all faculty and staff of the university are facing difficulty in discharging their daily responsibilities. The association has strongly demanded immediate release of grant from the Punjab Government for the purpose.After a meeting of the PUTA executive body, Dr Avneet Pal Singh said, “The executive has condemned delay in disbursement of salaries and pension for the months of March and April. Due to this delay, all the faculty and staff of the university are facing difficulty in discharging their daily responsibilities. The association has strongly demanded immediate release of grant from the Punjab Government.”“In protest against delay in payment of salaries and pension by the university administration, the PUTA executive has unanimously decided to boycott all kinds of academic and administrative work on May 21,” he added.PUTA has called upon all heads of departments and deans of faculties to boycott all academic and administrative activities on Friday.This is while the university is conducting various examinations on the campus. The university has released date sheets for various examinations, including regular, special chance and reappear students.Among others, the university is set to hold exams of MSc (Semester IV), MA (Semester III), BA (Semester VI), and MA (Semester IV) Hindi and English on Friday.The university’s regular semester exams will also begin from May 24. Date sheets for these exams have already been released.Teachers said if their salaries and pensions were not released they would intensify their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/puta-to-boycott-work-tomorrow-over-pending-salaries-pension-255695
20-05-2021||Ravneet Singh||Biomedical waste dumped outside pvt hospital irks Patiala residents||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 19Untreated biomedical waste has been found strewn in the open outside a private hospital in the city. Masks, gloves, cotton, packets of syringes and other items were found lying in the open thus raising questions over waste management, which is of utmost priority in view of the spike in Covid cases.Lal Vishwash, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation All hospitals are supposed to manage bio-medical waste as per their own contracts with companies operating treatment plants. The Municipal Corporation can issue challans if there is a lapse on the part of hospitals. I will direct the officials concerned to look into the matter.The hospital, which is near Government Rajindra Hospital, dumped waste outside premises near its entry. When contacted, the staff managing the reception confirmed that the hospital was catering to Covid patients reaching its doorstep.Meanwhile, the lapse has sent alarm bells ringing among nearby residents, who expressed discontentment over the issue.A nearby resident said, “The hospital is keeping non segregated biomedical waste in the open. It is definitely going to harm the general public. Many people come to hospital for treatment and other matters. The authorities concerned should pull up hospital management for such negligence.”Amarinder Singh Bazaz, former Mayor, who also visited the site, said, “Biomedical waste, which should be taken by special vehicle for disposal is lying in the open. It can spread disease. Many people live nearby hospital. Several persons come for their and their families’ treatment at hospital.”“The hospital is also looking after Covid patients, babies and offering physiotherapy,” he added.When contacted, Dr Sameer, who works at the critical care centre of the hospital, said, “The matter of waste management has been discussed with officials of the PPCB. Our garbage bin is otherwise properly covered. Now, we will shift collected waste somewhere elsewhere.”Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwash said, “All hospitals are supposed to manage bio-medical waste as per their own contracts with companies operating treatment plants. The Municipal Corporation can issue chalans if there is a lapse on part of hospitals. I will direct officials concerned to look into the matter.”The area SDM, Charanjit Singh, said, “Proper action will be taken against hospital. They have to follow safety guidelines. Bio-medical waste management is important in view of the Covid pandemic.”When contacted, the PPCB member secretary, Karunesh Garg, said, “Waste management is an important matter. We will look into it immediately and take appropriate action against hospital.”The PPCB SDO, Surinder, said, “We have visited the hospital site. Their waste is not segregated properly. We will send a report for proper action. The hospital authorities have also been directed to manage waste properly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/biomedical-waste-dumped-outside-pvt-hospital-irks-patiala-residents-255692
20-05-2021||---||Patiala district sees dip in Covid cases||Patiala, May 19The district has already started witnessing a dip in average daily cases of coronavirus. The daily positive count in the district has gone down to 500 over the past few days. Patient rush for hospitalisation has also declined.The district today reported only 363 positive cases. Of 363 only 38 were contacts of the past positive patients while 325 were reported from elsewhere afresh.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “Patiala city has reported 153 Covid cases, while Kauli 37, Rajpura 32, Bhadson 29, Shutrana 28 and Dudhan Sadhan 27 cases. Besides, 18 persons have contracted virus in Kallon Majra and 14 each in Samana and Nabha.”With this, the total count of positive cases has risen to 43,542 since the outbreak of Covid last year. At present, the tally of active cases stands at 3,892. Besides, 16 people died of Covid over the past 24 hours taking the total death count to 1,061 since the emergence of virus last year.Rural areas a cause of concernThe Health Department said there was a decline in number of positive cases. However, the rural areas were still a cause of concern, the department added. The department today declared a micro containment zone at Duladi village in Bhadson block of the district after 13 positive cases were reported from the area. With this, the number of containment zones in the rural areas has risen to five. Of these, two are macro containment zones wherein the entire village has to be sealed.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said ASHA workers had already been asked for house to house survey in villages to identify symptomatic patients and test them. “Screening of villages has already started to curb the spread of virus in the rural areas. Besides, testing has also been ramped up in villages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-sees-dip-in-covid-cases-255672
20-05-2021||---||Assn seeks separate wards for +ve kids||Patiala, May 19Amid a sharp spike in children testing positive for Covid-19, the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has recommended a separate dedicated helpline and facility for them.At present, there is no dedicated Covid facility for children and they are being treated along with other patients.In the past two months, the state has reported several cases of adolescents and younger population getting affected. Paediatricians and epidemiologists have sought exclusive wards for children.Experts said unlike mild infections or no symptoms, as was the case during the first Covid wave last year, several children are exhibiting symptoms now.“The reasons behind the surge can be lax behaviour, more transmissible strains or more awareness about testing. But a noticeable medical difference in the second wave is that infected children are more symptomatic now,” said a senior doctor.Experts say as the virus has mutated and the chances of further mutation cannot be ruled out, it can affect children in the coming days, especially if they share treatment wards.“Timely preparedness is the need of the hour to prevent Covid-19 mortality among children and for that dedicated LII and LIII facilities should be earmarked in government and private healthcare centres,” said another senior doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/assn-seeks-separate-wards-for-ve-kids-255451
20-05-2021||Karam Prakash||After protest, AIIMS-Bathinda nurses sent back from Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 19After the allegations of poor accommodation and food by the nursing staff of Bathinda-AIIMS, the nurses were sent back to their parent institution today.Around 50 male nurses – who had been deployed at the isolation wing of Government Rajindra Hospital — were relieved by the Medical Superintendent of the hospital. Owing to the lodging and boarding issues, they could help at Covid ward of Rajindra Hospital only for two days.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Rajindra Hospital, said they had received a request from the authorities of Bathinda-AIIMS to send their staff back. However, Dr DK Singh, Director AIIMS, said, “The Rajindra authorities are sending the nurses back. We didn’t call them.”No water supply, room dingyThe nursing staff of AIIMS had been protesting since last night against the government for not providing liveable housing in Patiala. The nursing staff were putting up at the boys hostel of Government Physical Education College here. The staff had gone on a hunger strike against the alleged ill-treatment by the government. The protesting male nurses said the authorities had asked four persons to stay in a room.The Tribune visited the accommodation site and found that conditions at the hostel were not good. There was no water supply in some washrooms and rooms were dingy. Clogged toilets and broken bath fittings were seen in most of the bathrooms.Mukesh Saini, a nurse, said, “Despite being on the forefront of the pandemic, the government, by giving such accommodation, degraded our profession and insulted us.”The nurses said they had e-mailed a complaint to the district administration, however, the situation didn’t improve.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “I, along with the Medical Superintendent, visited the accommodation and had food in the canteen. The accommodation is good.”Dr Vitul K Gupta, health and human rights activist, demanded strong action against the officials responsible.Stir uncalled for, says SoniChandigarh: “Running away from public service in the hour of crisis is a crime against humanity and the nursing staff of AIIMS-Bathinda have deceived their profession by abandoning the public amid the pandemic.” Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni said on Wednesday, terming the agitation unwarranted and undesirable. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/after-protest-aiims-bathinda-nurses-sent-back-from-patiala-255454
20-05-2021||Patiala||GS Bajpai is VC of Patiala law varsity||Prof GS Bajpai, faculty member, National Law University, Delhi, has been appointed as the Vice Chancellor (VC) of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala, for a term of five years.The professor said he would join the office on Friday. Bajpai is a member secretary of a committee on criminal law reforms appointed by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.The professor said he wanted to focus on faculty development, strengthening research culture on the campus and student initiatives during his tenure. He aims to focus on criminology and access to justice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/gs-bajpai-is-vc-of-patiala-law-varsity-255477
