21-05-2021||---||Vaccination drive for 18+ beneficiaries in dist today||Patiala, May 20The Health Department will vaccinate all those in the age group of 18 to 44 years, including persons with ailments, family members of healthcare workers and construction workers, tomorrow.Officials of the Health Department said 325 Covid cases were detected while nine patients succumbed to the virus in the district today. As such, the number of Covid deaths has now reached 1,070 in the district.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said 4,728 residents were vaccinated in the city today. Beneficiaries between 18 to 44 years age group, including persons with ailments, family members of healthcare workers and construction workers, would be vaccinated in the city tomorrow, he added. Those above 45 years would not be vaccinated tomorrow, he said.The vaccination drive will be held at Government Girls School Girls, Model Town, Children Memorial School, Model Town, Sanjha School, Tripuri, Community Hall at the Police Lines, SDSE School, Sirhindi Gate, Veer Ji Community Centre, Jodian Bhattiyan, Community Medicine Department, Rajindra Hospital, DMW School, Ripudaman College, Nabha, Public College, Samana, Aggarwal Dharamsala and NTC School, Rajpura. Meanwhile, the Health Department said eight cases of black fungus had been reported in the district till now after which it was declared notifiable disease.The department has also removed micro-containment zones from Harinder Nagar and Sidhu Colony. No new Covid cases were detected from these areas, the department added.Divisional Commissioner, DC visit villagesThe Patiala Division Commissioner, Chander Gaind, along with Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit, today visited rural areas, including Assarpur and Bollar Kalan villages, as part of the ‘Covid Mukt Pind Abhiyan’ initiated by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Gaind urged people to come forward for testing and vaccination to contain the spread of the coronavirus. “We will be able to get rid of the virus as soon as we start getting tested and treatment. Most cases have been cured in home isolation,” said Gaind. He exhorted panchayats of both villages to get eligible residents vaccinated to make their area free from virus infection.The DC said as per the special campaign an incentive grant of Rs10 lakh had also been announced for villages with 100 per cent vaccination of residents. Besides, panchayats had been authorised to spend Rs50,000 for curbing the spread of the coronavirus in their respective villages, the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vaccination-drive-for-18-beneficiaries-in-dist-today-256146
21-05-2021||---||Patiala's private hospital challaned for dumping biomedical waste||Patiala, May 20The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the Municipal Corporation (MC) have decided to initiate action against a private hospital for throwing biomedical waste outside premises in the open. The issue regarding violations of the biomedical waste management at the hospital was highlighted in these columns yesterday.Officials at the PPCB said a report for issuing show-cause notice to hospital owners was sent to the authorities concerned.Biomedical waste dumped outside pvt hospital irks Patiala residentsAn SDO of the department said, “We from the XEN office have sent a report on the matter to the higher authorities. Our team found biomedical waste mixed with municipal solid waste lying outside hospital in violation of the norms. It should have been stored properly in a separate room to avoid contamination of other items and spread of the virus.”Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said, “The civic body has issued a challan to the hospital authorities. They will be called for hearing. We have to give them an opportunity to present their part after which the extent of violation will be fixed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patialas-private-hospital-challaned-for-dumping-biomedical-waste-256150
21-05-2021||---||DC lays foundation stone of Road Victims’ Memorial||Patiala, May 20To commemorate the sixth UN Road Safety Week celebrations, the Patiala Deputy Commissioner, Kumar Amit, laid the foundation for Road Victims Memorial today near Maharaja Bhalinder Singh Sports Complex Polo Ground.The work of the memorial has been initiated under the project “Patiala Foundation SADAK” by the Patiala Foundation in collaboration with the district administration and Patiala Media Club.The Patiala Foundation will maintain the memorial for the road crash victims under the “Remember me plaque” initiative. It will provide a permanent memorial to lives lost and devastated through road crashes.“This will not only provide some solace to families of victims, but also raise public awareness towards increasing numbers of avoidable road fatalities. The Patiala Foundation will maintain the remembrance wall in collaboration with Patiala Media Club where family members can raise a plaque with the victim’s name,” said Patiala Foundation chief functionary Ravee Singh Ahluwalia.The Patiala Foundation members Anmoljit Singh, Harpreet Sandhu, Rakesh Badhwar, Pawan Goyal, Vikram Malhotra, Patiala Media Club president Aman Sood and other executive members Gurpreet Chatha and Navdeep Dhingra were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dc-lays-foundation-stone-of-road-victims-memorial-256154
21-05-2021||Patiala||PUTA postpones protest after meeting with Vice-Chancellor||Giving relief to students, who have to sit in exams tomorrow, the Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA) has decided to postpone its protest. This was after the university Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Arvind, today held a brief all-faculty meeting through videoconferencing and discussed matters concerning the administration and environment. The VC had taken charge of the post on April 20 and discussed a number of decisions taken by the university in less than a month.The VC while conversing with professors sought cooperation towards creation of a positive research-oriented environment on the campus. “A university is known for the level of research carried out on the campus. We need to strengthen research work for better output from the university,” said the VC.He repeated his ideas of developing more centres for the campus, including that on data sciences in service of Punjab and Punjabi and on rural entrepreneurship.The university was working on a number of changes and developments, including the one in the working of the examination branch, the VC added.“A separate wing will be made for all university departments, for colleges and other campuses. We need to create an environment, which gives out a message of the long legacy of the university. The university administration is working towards giving salaries to the staff. A few technical glitches have been witnessed in receiving grants from the state government, which are being tackled,” the VC said. The VC added that he would visit all departments and meet faculty members for discussions and better outcome.The PUTA, thereafter, decided to postpone the protest. Dr Avneet Pal Singh, secretary, PUTA, said, “The VC held a meeting with faculty members and assured that our concerns will be taken care of. We have decided not to hold protest tomorrow.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/puta-postpones-protest-after-meeting-with-vice-chancellor-256162
21-05-2021||---||Two months on, ETT, TET teachers continue protest atop BSNL tower||Patiala, May 20The ETT and TET pass teachers, who have been protesting over their demands in the city, today said they were totally ignored by the state government despite their prolonged protest. “Two months have passed since two members of the union climbed atop the BSNL tower behind the post office in the city and carried on with their protest,” they said.During a press conference here today, representatives of the teachers’ union, who wearing black ribbons, said their two members protesting atop tower were facing many challenges. “They have not taken bath for the last two months and their skin has also started peeling off,” they added.The union president, Deepak Kamboj, said, “Earlier in 2016, we had raised our demands when present Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur visited us and assured that our demands will be fulfilled. Even four years after the Congress came to power in the state, the ruling dispensation is still been ignoring us.”Teachers have been demanding separate posts for ETT and TET pass candidates. They want the government to start recruitment of 10,000 ETT teachers and give relaxation in age. They also want that extra marks should not be given to education providers and volunteers during recruitment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-months-on-ett-tet-teachers-continue-protest-atop-bsnl-tower-256164
21-05-2021||Bathinda||Staff back from Patiala, AIIMS forms probe panel||The management of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here today constituted a three-member committee to probe the incident of nursing staff being sent back to the parent institution by Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, after they alleged poor accommodation and food.Wrong to strike work: directorAIIMS Director Dr DK Singh said: “The nursing staff raised the issue of poor food and accommodation provided to them, which can be sorted out within a day or two. But we have learnt they refused to go to work, which is wrong. We have constituted a committee of three doctors to look into this and submit a report.”He said the recruitment of nursing staff had been pending as the building was under construction. “So we don’t require more staff, but owing to the pandemic, we had hired 500 nursing staff and sent them to the government hospitals to provide them manpower during the crisis,” he said.The newly hired nursing staff were given recruitment letters a day before they were sent to Patiala and Mohali for duty.Around 50 male nurses from AIIMS, Bathinda, deployed at the isolation wing of Rajindra hospital, were relieved by the Medical Superintendent of the hospital on Wednesday after they staged a protest over poor boarding and lodging facilities. They stayed at the Covid ward for only two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/staff-back-from-patiala-aiims-forms-probe-panel-255995
21-05-2021||Patiala||Four cops hurt in clash during raid on smugglers||On a visit to check liquor smuggling, four police personnel were injured after being allegedly attacked by a few locals using firearms at Jagatpura village of the district today.Three villagers, too, were injured in the attack. While a head constable and a villager sustained a bullet injury, the police have registered two FIRs in the case.The police said the raid was initially carried out on Wednesday night, but a family of smugglers, against whom over a dozen FIRs were pending, overpowered them. Patiala SP (Investigation) Harmeet Singh Hundal said the police team fired into the air in self-defence as some villagers had attacked them with rods and even opened fire on them. “Head Constable Raja Singh sustained a bullet injury in his thigh, while three other cops were injured after they were attacked with rods,” Hundal said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/four-cops-hurt-in-clash-during-raid-on-smugglers-256007
