23-05-2021||Patiala||Covid cases decline, per day toll highest||Despite decline in positive cases, Patiala district today reported highest Covid-related deaths in a day since the outbreak of the pandemic last year.Twenty people died of coronavirus infection in the district over the past 24 hours. With this, the total death count in the district touched 1,109 since the emergence of the deadly virus.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said Covid deaths would decline in the coming days. “Covid-related deaths are not being reported among fresh cases. Positive patients, who reported two weeks ago, are succumbing to the virus.”The district today reported only 345 positive cases, he added. Of 345 cases, 84 were contacts of the past positive patients while 261 were reported from elsewhere afresh, he said. Patiala city today reported 103 positive cases, Kauli 87, Shutrana 41, Bhadson 25, Rajpura 21 and Nabha 18, he added. Besides, 17 positive cases were detected in Harpalpur and 14 from Dudhan Sadhan, he said.The Health Department said daily sampling for Covid tests was not reduced despite decline in positive cases. Samples of 4,813 persons were collected today, the department added. The department warned that though there was decline in positive cases, yet people should not lower their guard against coronavirus.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-cases-decline-per-day-toll-highest-257117
23-05-2021||Patiala||Dhablan village turns virus hotspot||Dhablan village in Patiala district became a Covid hotspot after 37 fresh cares were reported from the area today. The spike has pushed the total number of active cases in the village to 74. The village has also registered five Covid deaths in the last 30 days. Notably, the village was sealed on Tuesday after it was declared macro- containment zone.The District Epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, who visited village to review situation said, “New cases have been detected during a phased sampling exercise carried out after declaration of the village as macro-containment zone.”A Chandigarh Tribune team visited the village and found that many residents were not coming forward for testing.“We can only request villagers to come for testing and follow Covid appropriate behavior. We have to take the police along with us to avoid any conformation with residents,” said a medical officer, who did not wish to be named. Covid-hit villages, include Passiana, Laut, Ajnauda Kalan, Chotti Rauni, Duladi and Ghaggar Sarai.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dhablan-village-turns-virus-hotspot-257118
