24-05-2021||Ravneet Singh||Over 42 dairy owners deposit earnest money||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 23The Municipal Corporation has received earnest money from more than 42 applicants, of 84 dairy farmers from internal part of the city, to shift to the new 21-acre dairy farming project site at Ablowal village here. Officials in the MC say there are many others who wish not to shift to the new site due to distance and other factors.Surjit Singh Cheema, Municipal SuperintendentAllotment process on“We are expecting over 90 dairy farmers from outer Patiala to submit their earnest money along with letters for shifting to the site. We are in touch with the others. The allotment process is still going on.”The MC had rolled out the project of shifting dairy farms from the city to resolve the prevailing sewerage issues. Work on the project, first announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in 2003, started last year. The officials said as per the survey, 297 dairy farms were identified in internal and other parts of the city in 2018.“Of around 84 dairy farms running in the internal city, which were part of phase I, over 42 have submitted earnest money of 5 per cent of the total amount as per Rs 3,500 per square yard. They will submit the remaining fee in instalments in 10 years,” an official said.The MC officials also said there were many dairy farmers who wished not to shift to the new site. “Some farmers have only a few head of cattle. Many have given up their projects. Others are also concerned over the distance they will have to travel to reach the city to distribute milk,” an official said.Nishan Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the Dairy Farmers’ Union, said: “The allotment is going on but the MC has not yet reduced the price of the land. As such over 35 farmers have already left the profession as it has no longer remained profitable. The others, due to their inability to pay and the issue of distance, are themselves shifting to the nearby areas of Arain Majra, Rawas village near the deer park and others,” he said.Many dairy owners have also given declarations that they wish not to shift to the new site.He added the farmers would shift after the MC completes its work of providing an STP, a hospital and other facilities at the new site. “It will take a minimum of six months to shift after that,” he said.Surjit Singh Cheema, Municipal Superintendent, said: “We are expecting over 90 dairy farmers from outer Patiala to submit their earnest money along with letters for shifting to the site. We are in touch with the others. The allotment process is still going on.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-42-dairy-owners-deposit-earnest-money-257562
24-05-2021||---||Students bring hope in times of despair||Patiala, May 23Rising Covid-19 cases have forced the aggrieved to ask for help on the social media. Students of the Legal Aid Clinic of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Punjab (Patiala), have stepped in to help these individuals by starting an initiative called #DontWorryForPlasma the idea of which initially was to connect plasma donors to Covid patients, but has now expanded to providing any kind of help to Covid patients.The clinic had started the initiative on April 18. It has created a community of thousands of people who share information on available healthcare facilities. It is running six WhatsApp groups for #DontWorryforPlasma, including two dedicated groups for people of the Punjab-Chandigarh region and for the students of the university. Working 24x7, the volunteers arrange hospital beds, oxygen supplies and plasma donors for patients in need, responding to SOS calls even late at night. They verify information and provide it to patients and their relatives who cannot afford to lose valuable time in order to save the lives of their patients. The volunteers are also proactively engaged in encouraging those who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma. Besides, they report to the authorities concerned about individuals indulged in the sale of essential medical supplies on black market. The group has helped hundreds of people in distress.The Twitter handle (@RgnulLAC) and Facebook page of the clinic have been active in spreading awareness about the pandemic by providing important Covid-related information such as necessary Covid guidelines, information released by the government, vaccination registration details etc. These pages also feature important helplines such as 1098 for children in need of care and protection, and helpline for senior citizens (14567) as issued by the Central Government.The faculty coordinator at the clinic stated that the aim of this initiative was to try everything possible to help those in despair due to Covid-19. They are soon going to start a fundraiser that will help underprivileged patients bear their medical expenses on oxygen cylinders, concentrators and hospital bills.The students now plan to help people in rural areas to get registered for the vaccination drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-bring-hope-in-times-of-despair-257558
24-05-2021||---||After cities, Covid-19 ravages rural areas||Patiala, May 23Coronavirus is now rapidly spreading its tentacles in rural areas. Many blocks of the rural area have been hit by the virus.Kauli block is the worst hit with 380 active cases, followed by Bhadson with 231 active cases.Officials of the Health Department said Harpalpur block and Dudhan Sadhan had had 157 and 146 cases respectively. The officials said they had already ramped up testing in villages to check the corona spread.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said ASHA workers had continuously been identifying symptomatic patients in villages and testing them for the virus.Meanwhile, Patiala district reported 340 positive cases and 19 deaths due to Covid over the past 24 hours.Meanwhile, around 34 patients died at the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital over the past 24 hours. Of the 34 deceased, 17 were from Patiala while 15 belonged to other districts of the state. One victim was from another state. One Covid death could not be ascertained. The Covid death count at the hospital stands at 2,054 now. The hospital authorities said 5,484 positive patients had been admitted to the isolation wing of the hospital since the pandemic broke out last year. The death rate at the hospital stands at 37 per cent. However, the hospital authorities claimed that a majority of these patients were very sick.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/after-cities-covid-19-ravages-rural-areas-257555
24-05-2021||---||2 more succumb to black fungus in Patiala||Patiala, May 23Two more Covid patients, who had been found infected with mucormycosis (black fungus), died at the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital here today.The number of black fungus-related deaths have now increased to four at the hospital. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder, said two patients of black fungus had died while two others had been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. Around 14 patients had been found infected with black fungus at the hospital so far, he added.Besides, five patients, who were undergoing treatment for Covid at private hospitals in the city, have been found to be infected with the fungus. “Around 19 cases of black fungus have been confirmed in the district so far. Of them, four have died,” said Dr Satinder.Health experts explained that adverse effects of the treatment of coronavirus on the body caused black fungus. High doses of steroids given to patient to control lungs’ inflammation badly affect the body’s immunity, say the experts. Dr JagpalInder, MS, Ophthalmology, said prolonged oxygen therapy given to Covid patients reduced immunity, thereby, increasing the risk of black fungus infection.He said: “In the first stage of black fungus, there is involvement of nose and sinuses, thereafter, the infection spreads to the eye/orbit. In an advanced stage, infection invades the brain tissue. However, early diagnosis and management ensures minimal damage.”Symptoms||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-more-succumb-to-black-fungus-in-patiala-257554
