25-05-2021||Patiala||Non-essential shops to open three days a week in Patiala||Shops selling non-essentials to open three days a week in Patiala instead of the previous two, a new order from the district administration says.  The order says shops can open Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 9 am to 5 pm.Previously, non-essential shops could open only Mondays and Fridays on account of Covid restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/non-essential-shops-to-open-three-days-a-week-in-patiala-258240
25-05-2021||Patiala||'Every Punjabi must support farmers': Navjot Singh Sidhu after hoisting black flag at Patiala residence||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday hoisted the black flag, in support of the farmers' protest, at his Patiala residence.The Congress leader was accompanied by his wife and former MLA Navjot Kaur. Sidhu's daughter Rabia Sidhu also came forward to support the farmers' protest."From the past three decades, Indian farmers are worried due to rising debts and dropping income. Farmers have been lied to, and now these new black laws have proved to be the last nail in the coffin", said Sidhu."I protest against these laws, and stand in solidarity with my father brothers", said Sidhu.He is currently at his ancestral home."Hoisting the Black Flag in Protest...... Every Punjabi must support the Farmers !!”, read Sidhu's Twitter post.Hoisting the Black Flag in Protest ... Every Punjabi must support the Farmers !! pic.twitter.com/CQEP32O3azMeanwhile, Rabia hoisted the black flag at their Amritsar residence.     She raised the flag at 9:30 am, as an endorsement of her father’s protest against the three farm laws enacted recently by the Centre government, demanding assured MSP and procurement through state government.However, she refrained from speaking to the media, which was denied entry, on the premises.Sidhu has shifted his focus from Amritsar to his birthplace Patiala for the past six months. He has been maintaining distance from the media, except for holding a couple of press conferences at his ancestral house in Patiala. Otherwise, he remains quite active on social media, and keeps launching scathing attacks on his government, be it its failure to curb land, sand and liquor mafia or the state government’s inability to extend a helping hand to the farmers who have been struggling against the corporate invasion into farming.Lately, he has been sternly critical of the CM after the Punjab and Haryana High Court had quashed the probe into the 2015 Kotkapura firing and sacrilege incident.Earlier, Sidhu had announced to hoist black flags atop his two houses on May 26, to demand the repeal of the three agricultural laws, as well as, express solidarity with the protesting farmers.The ongoing Kisan Morcha at Delhi borders will complete six months on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/every-punjabi-must-support-farmers-navjot-singh-sidhu-after-hoisting-black-flag-at-patiala-residence-258207
25-05-2021||---||3 more villages declared micro-containment zones in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 24The Health Department today declared three more villages as micro-containment zones after positive cases were reported from there.The villages, which have been declared micro-containment zones, include Jindalpur village in Bhadson block, Bolar Kalan in Dudhan Sadhan block and Mehmadpur Jattan in Kauli block.The Health Department said nine positive cases were reported from Mehamdpur village and six each from Jindalpur and Bolar Kalan villages.With this development, the number of containment zones in the rural areas has risen to 10. Of these, two are macro-containment zones wherein the entire village has been sealed.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said they would trace contacts of fresh positive cases in these villages. Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said 10 more sampling teams had been deployed in the rural areas following surge in positive cases in villages.With the latest addition, the number of Covid sampling teams had risen to 37, he added. “To ramp up testing in villages, we have deployed more teams. We are going all out to curb the spread of the virus in the rural areas,” he said.Meanwhile, the Health Department said the district reported 251 positive cases today, thereby, taking the total count to 45,183 since the outbreak of the pandemic last year.With 363 recoveries today, the number of active cases in the district declined to 2,932. Besides, the district reported 17 Covid deaths over the past 24 hours. With this, the total death count in the district rose to 1,145.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-more-villages-declared-micro-containment-zones-in-patiala-district-258148
25-05-2021||---||Pandemic forces Patiala civic body to go soft on property tax collection||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 24The Property Tax Department of the Municipal Corporation (MC) is going soft on collection of last year’s pending and this fiscal’s property tax due to the ongoing pandemic.The civic body was not able to collect the estimated amount of property tax due to the pandemic last year. This year too the pandemic has affected tax collection.Taking a lenient view the MC is not sending notices to property owners despite delay on their part in depositing tax dues.Earlier, the MC had planned to collect Rs23 crore tax during last fiscal. This includes property tax and its arrears and house tax arrears. Till December 2020, the MC managed to collect only Rs11.23 crore.The total tax realisation by the end of last year was estimated at Rs14.43 crore.Civic body officials said tax collection was affected due to the pandemic induced lockdown, which reduced earnings of households and property owners.“Taking a lenient view due to the prevailing situation it has been decided not to send notices to people for depositing their property tax dues as their businesses have been affected by the pandemic,” said Raminder Singh, superintendent, Property Tax Department.The MC was sending reminders to people to deposit their tax, he added. “Those, who can manage finances, may deposit their tax dues. We can’t force public to pay tax during pandemic,” he said.Many shops had downed shutters and rented accommodations were lying vacant in the city due to the pandemic, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pandemic-forces-patiala-civic-body-to-go-soft-on-property-tax-collection-258147
25-05-2021||---||Army’s Airawat Division launches veterans’ helpline||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 24The Airawat Division has launched a round-the-clock helpline to enable veterans residing in Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Malerkotla and Barnala districts of Punjab and Ambala and Yamunanagar districts of Haryana seek medical or administrative assistance from the Army.The helpline with a single contact number for seven districts will act as a one-stop solution for resolution of all queries or issues in a time-bound manner.For this, operators of the helpline are well integrated with MH, ECHS Polyclinics, empanelled hospitals, ambulance service providers, veteran sahayata kendras (VSK), station headquarters, station URCs and station institutes.Helpline operators will either provide the required information themselves or will arrange a call back from a medical /administrative officer or office concerned.The query/issue once logged will be pursued by the operator until a veteran declares resolution of the same. In case of non-resolution of an issue, a veteran can request for its escalation to the higher authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/armys-airawat-division-launches-veterans-helpline-258146
25-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Isolation ward at Rajindra Hospital falls short of masks||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 24Amid tall claims of preparedness by the authorities concerned to fight Covid, the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital is facing shortage of non-rebreather masks (NRMs), a medical device that helps deliver oxygen to patients in emergency situations.It has been learnt that doctors on duty at the Covid ward have already asked the authorities concerned to arrange masks immediately. However, the shortage of NRMs continues.Health experts said non-availability of the NRMs could prove fatal for Covid patients. Now, doctors on duty have to ask relatives of positive patients to bring NRMs from outside.In one such case, a city resident, Bunty, whose father was admitted to the isolation ward of the Rajindra, was asked to purchase the NRM from outside hospital. The price of the NRM ranges between Rs300 to Rs500 in the market.A senior doctor, who is on duty at the isolation wing of the Rajindra Hospital said, “Many doctors have already sent an SOS in the official group, but the authorities have ignored it. The situation becomes difficult without NRMs.”Dr Harman Singh Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, said there was shortage of NRMs due to immediate spike in Covid patients, who were hospitalised.“There has been shortage of NRMs for the past few days. However, we have been able to manage masks from here and there. We have already placed orders for the NRMs. The stock is likely to reach hospital in a day or two,” he added.Meanwhile, Surbhi Malik, in-charge, Covid isolation ward, Rajindra Hospital, could not be contacted for comments on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/isolation-ward-at-rajindra-hospital-falls-short-of-masks-258145
25-05-2021||Patiala||Patiala district ranked first in providing services to people, claims administration||The Punjab Government has been upgrading Sewa Kendras from time to time with a view to provide all kinds of citizen centric services to residents. At present, 300 services of 25 departments are running successfully through Sewa Kendras, claims the district administration.In a release here today, the district administration stated, “Patiala district has been ranked number one in the state in providing timely services to the people. In all, 2,25,236 people have been provided services through Sewa Kendras in the last one year.”“This has been possible only because all applications submitted by people through Sewa Kendras have a unique number. It makes processing and evaluation of applications easier. Every application is digitally processed by the Department of Governance Reforms. A record is maintained of the number of applications received by officer/employee concerned. Accordingly, senior officials of the district administration hold daily meetings with their counterparts in different departments regarding the timely disposal of applications,” the district administration added.“Special care has been taken for services related to farmers such as land ‘farad’, non-encumbrance certificate, ‘jamabandi’ and copy of revenue records. Services related to the Police Department such as DDR, copy of FIR and report of missing mobile are also provided through Sewa Kendras,” the district administration stated.“Any citizen can book advance appointment through the link https://esewa.punjab.gov.in/CenterSlotBooking from his/her home over phone. Besides, a courier service is also being launched to deliver certificates at applicants’ homes,” the district administration added.“The department will start a helpline number for public complaints and valuable suggestions. Anyone can find the status of his/her application by filling the application number on link https://esewa.punjab.gov.in/trackStatus. For verifying the authenticity of their certificates applicants can visit https://esewa.punjab.gov.in /certificate verification link,” the district administration said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-ranked-first-in-providing-services-to-people-claims-administration-258144
25-05-2021||---||Three arrested on charge of immoral trafficking in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 24The police have arrested and booked three persons under the charge of Immoral Trafficking Prevention Act. The suspects were arrested following a raid at a house in Prem Nagar. A case under Sections 3 and 4 of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, 1956, has been registered against the suspects at the Civil Lines police station.Those arrested have been identified as Satnam Kaur, who was allegedly running the illegal trade at her Prem Nagar-based house, and Sumit Kumar and his wife Mona Kapoor, both residents of B-Tank Road.Sumit and Mona allegedly brought customers at Satnam’s residence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-arrested-on-charge-of-immoral-trafficking-in-patiala-258143
25-05-2021||Aman Sood||Farmers to go ahead with 3-day dharna, doctors flag concern||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 24Even as the Health Department is ensuring steps to check the “spread of Covid in rural Punjab”, the three-day dharna by farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugarahan) in the CM’s hometown is likely to attract thousands. Experts suggest it could be a “superspreader”.Experts warn that at this crucial time when the number of positive cases just started to decline, any “large gathering could turn fatal”. But the farmer unions are adamant with thousands camping in Patiala.Sources in the farmer unions suggest the members had already mobilised cadres in villages in the Malwa belt to show numbers. “Announcements have already been made and ration and other items have been loaded in vehicles to be moved to Patiala on May 27, a day before the dharna,” they said.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “The farmers should defer their protest as the second wave is not over yet. There is a huge risk of the spread of virus due to such large gatherings.”He said they could hold testing and vaccination camps at the protest site, if allowed by farmers.On Sunday, CM Capt Amarinder Singh had urged farmer unions not to act irresponsibly, considering the total support the government had extended all these months to them on farm laws. BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said: “The CM should instead answer where is the Rs 1,000 crore allocated to the Health Department and why all available ventilators in Punjab are still non-functional. He should answer why out of 2,010 Level-3 beds, only 550 are in government facilities. Government hospitals have one bed per 55,455 persons and people are dying, especially in villages.”He said the dharna would be held to expose the government on hundreds of unfilled vacancies in health sector and how the poor were being fleeced in the name of treatment. DC Kumar Amit said neither permission had been sought for the dharna, nor any such permission could be given. “We are trying to hold meetings with the farmers, urging them not to hold the protest when the virus spread is at its peak,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-to-go-ahead-with-3-day-dharna-doctors-flag-concern-258003
25-05-2021||Patiala||58% labourers in Punjab earn less than Rs 8,000 a month, finds survey||The ongoing lockdown has added to the misery of the migrant labourers, who had suffered massively during a stringent 68-day lockdown last year.This has been pointed out in a recent written policy brief by a former professor of economics at Punjabi University commissioned by internationally renowned Palgrave Macmillan publisher.Dr Lakhwinder Singh, former professor at Punjabi University, says as per a survey of 1,567 migrant workers in urban areas, Punjab’s migrant force comprised 29.87 per cent workers who migrated from rural areas of Punjab, 69.18 per cent from others states.Of these, only 12.50 per cent had educational qualification of Class XII or higher, while 36.95 per cent were educated up to middle class only. One third of the migrant workers are illiterate. The survey also found out that the monthly income of 58.65 per cent of the sampled migrants was less than Rs 8,000. Only 14.36 per cent earned between Rs 10,001 and 15,000. It found out that 55.90 per cent of the migrants were found engaged in unskilled manual work, 33 per cent in skilled manual work and only 5.62 per cent in economic activities.He said the policy to facilitate migration and save them from exploitation had remained inadequate even in normal times. He said all registered migrant workers should be provided a comprehensive social security, including PF, health insurance, maternity benefits, paid leaves, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/58-labourers-in-punjab-earn-less-than-rs-8-000-a-month-finds-survey-258033
25-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Textbook shortage hits Punjab govt schools||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 24Anhad, a Class VIII student of a government school in Patiala, had to buy her SST, Maths, and science books from the market due to shortage of books in the school. Similarly, Gurdish Kaur, a Class VI student, has to struggle for her studies without Maths and English textbooks.The Punjab School Education Board prints and supplies books to the Education Department for further distribution among students free of cost. It has been learnt that thousands of students are compromising their studies due to non-availability of books. The worst-hit are newly enrolled students who took admission in the current session because the Education Department had placed orders as per student count of the previous session.Amarjeet Singh, Patiala education officer, said there was some shortage due to the rise in new admissions. However, orders had already been placed to meet the demand.The Democratic Teachers Front claimed that 80 per cent of English medium books from Classes I to VIII had not reached schools yet.The association said it was ironic that they had been asked to teach students without books. Vikram Dev, state president, DTF, said, “The Education Minister seems more concerned about providing free uniforms to students. However, they need books to study through online classes.”Prof Yograj, chairman, Punjab School Education Board, said, “This year there was a huge shift of students from private to government schools which led to supply shortage. Besides, textbooks of some subjects are to be updated. Textbooks will be provided to schools in the coming weeks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/textbook-shortage-hits-punjab-govt-schools-258044
