26-05-2021||Karam Prakash||Health Department relies on antigen tests to check spread in rural areas||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 25Amid a surge in positive cases in rural areas, the Health Department is relying more on the antigen test than the RT-PCR test. While the latter is viewed as the gold standard test for Covid-19, the sensitivity of antigen is low, consequently, positive cases could go undetected, said health experts.It was learnt that 65 per cent of the tests conducted in villages over the past few days were rapid antigen tests.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder, said they had ramped up antigen testing in rural areas after orders from the state Health Department. Defending the antigen test, he said: “The rapid antigen test gives results quicker, therefore, we can isolate patients immediately. The RT PCR test result takes 24 -48 hours. Moreover, we send for RT PCR samples if an antigen test comes negative — in symptomatic patients.”Meanwhile, sources said the positivity rate had to decline if more antigen tests, instead of the RT PCR ones, were conducted. Earlier, antigen tests were being conducted in containment areas and only in emergency cases.A medical officer working in rural areas said: “The push for antigen tests is not good as many asymptomatic cases will go untraced in rapid tests because sensitivity of rapid antigen is low”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-department-relies-on-antigen-tests-to-check-spread-in-rural-areas-258705
26-05-2021||---||Docs of Rajindra Hospital save eye of mucormycosis patient||Patiala, May 25In a rare but successful attempt, doctors of Government Rajindra Hospital here today saved the eye of a patient infected with mucormycosis, also known as black fungus.A team of doctors performed advanced endoscopic surgery on a patient having post-Covid mucormycosis. They said the orbit of the patient was cleared of the infection and the eye was successfully preserved. The surgery was carried out by a team of the ENT department, led by Dr Sanjeev Bhagat, Dr Dinesh Kumar Sharma, Dr Vishav Yadav along with a team of anaesthesia department.Dr Sanjeev Bhagat, Professor and Head of ENT Department, said: “Early diagnosis and early surgical intervention is required to save the eye and spread of fungus to the vital organs. No treatment works well till we remove the dead necrosed tissue or involved part. The surgery is called endoscopic debridement/orbital clearance. Medical management in the form amphotericin B is to be given along withthe surgery.”Dr Rajan Singla, Director Principal of Government Medical College, Patiala, said: “At present, there are five patients of mucormycosis under treatment at this institute. This isthe first such case in which debridement has been done. A panel of experts is keeping a regular watch on other patients for the need of surgery as and when required.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/docs-of-rajindra-hospital-save-eye-of-mucormycosis-patient-258706
26-05-2021||Patiala||People spreading rumours enemies of society: Gaind||To make the Covid-Free Village Campaign a success, Commissioner, Patiala Division, Chander Gaind visited Patran. He met the president and the vice-president of the Patran Municipal Council, and sarpanches of the most populous villages of Shutrana, Patran and apprised them of the grim Covid situation.The SDM of Patiala, Charanjit Singh, the SDM of Patran, Dr Palika Arora, DSP Bharpur Singh and the SMO, Dr Rajesh Kumar, and other officials were also present.Conversations with the sarpanches, meanwhile, revealed that people in the villages were still showing hesitancy in getting vaccinated against Covid and had some misconceptions, on which Gaind apprised them of the enormity of the pandemic. “People who were spreading misconceptions about the Covid vaccine are the biggest enemies of society and humanity, so we must beware of such people,” he said.“We must come forward to get vaccinated to avoid this deadly virus,” he said.He said due to vaccination, the rate of Covid positive cases in cities was now declining whereas people in the villages are still not getting vaccinated because of misconceptions about Covid, and as such are not taking precautions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/people-spreading-rumours-enemies-of-society-gaind-258707
26-05-2021||---||66 days on, teachers refuse to climb down mobile tower||Patiala, May 25To support the two ETT teachers who have been protesting atop a mobile tower in the city for the past 66 days, the ETT TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union took out a protest march here today. After taking their protest through the streets of the city, the protesters burnt an effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Members of the union, after meeting the two protesting teachers atop the mobile tower, said their health was deteriorating with each passing day.The union claimed that the government’s recent decision to rope in retired teachers for teaching was an attempt to ignore the qualified youths of Punjab.It was learnt that each District Education Officer (DEO) has been asked to send names of the retired teachers from their respective districts who are willing to extend free teaching to students. “This step, if materialised, will destroy the lives of unemployed young qualified teachers. Posts are lying vacant, but the government, instead of giving jobs to unemployed youths, is out to engage the retired teachers,” said the union.Sandeep Sama, president of the union, said the government seemingly was least concerned about the two protesting ETT teachers. “I met the protesting teachers. They have refused to climb down until the demands are met. Both have developed various health conditions due to a lack of proper diet and extreme weather conditions.”Sama said the government should immediately meet their demands and bring the teachers down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/66-days-on-teachers-refuse-to-climb-down-mobile-tower-258709
