30-05-2021||Patiala||Give financial relief to kin of Covid victims: Farmers||Hundreds of farmers under the aegis of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Ugrahan) today continued with their three-day protest in Patiala alleging the Centre and state government had failed to act against the spread of Covid-19.On the second day of the agitation, 1,500 farmers gathered at the PUDA ground ensuring social distancing. They wore masks, carried sanitisers and water bottles.General secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said: “The Punjab Government should tell us where the money allocated to the Health Department was spent. Last year, they got Rs 1,000 crore, but no one knows where it was spent. Why all available ventilators in Punjab are still non-functional? They should answer why out of 2,010 level-3 beds, only 550 are in government facilities. Government hospitals have one bed per 55,455 persons and people are suffering, especially in villages.”Leaders of the union said the state and the central governments had failed in executing their duties in the pandemic. “The state government should provide monetary benefits to the farmers and families of those who died due to Covid along with a government job,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/give-financial-relief-to-kin-of-covid-victims-farmers-260569
30-05-2021||Aman Sood||PSPCL short of equipment, outage fear looms ahead of paddy season||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 29Short of material ahead of the crucial paddy season that starts in a week, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has now asked its field officers “to arrange it”.No cables for maintenance workTariff cut eyewashThe govt is projecting Rs1 cut in tariff of those who have 2-kW connection for first 200 units, which must be free as was the case under SAD. The truth is tariff has been increased. - Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD ChiefWhile the top management claims it is due to pandemic conditions, top engineers claim the management has failed to procure the material in time. “There are practically no cables of different sizes to carry out maintenance work in many districts,” said a senior engineer.Officials confirmed that the industry in Punjab, which is on revival after the last year’s pandemic, is again facing problems as expansion and other works, which started earlier this year, have again been put on hold due to material shortage. In view of the low stock of critical items, the task to allocate material has been given to chief engineers and they have been asked to regulate the material so that there is no major problem during paddy season starting from June 10.The PSPCL Chief Managing Director recently asked all superintending engineers not to approach him for any material and instead coordinate with the chief engineers concerned. The CMD has also sought an explanation from senior engineers in Gurdaspur and Ludhiana who wrote to him directly, citing shortage.Engineers fear manhandling in villages in case of power failure during peak season in the absence of essential material. “This year, the situation is even worse. Distribution transformers, insulators, cables and cable boxes are in limited supply in many districts,” said Ajay Pal Singh Atwal, general secretary, PSEB Engineers Federation.Vinod Gupta, spokesman, All India Power Engineers Federation, said the non-availability of critical material and lax decision making was detrimental to energy security of the state. “Putting onus on field engineers for on-the-spot purchase shows they will be held accountable in case of power pangs,” he said.Denying the allegations, PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said: “There is no financial problem and sufficient material is available. Problems are due to lockdown. We have allowed spot purchase to meet any urgent demand and have extended existing tenders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pspcl-short-of-equipment-outage-fear-looms-ahead-of-paddy-season-260578
30-05-2021||Karam Prakash||I lost my husband, take care of your dear ones: ASHA worker||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 29Amid widespread scepticism in rural areas, a 50-year-old ASHA worker, Karamjeet Kaur, who lost her husband to Covid, is now appealing to residents of her village, Dhablan, to pay heed to Covid symptoms.Karamjeet Kaur reportedly lost her husband due to indifferent attitude towards Covid and its symptoms.Karamjeet, during a house-to-house surveillance, as a part of the macro-containment policy, is asking residents to immediately undergo Covid test if they exhibit any symptom.“Main ta apna kho leya iss bimari naal, tusi na koi apna kho deyo, test krva lo (I have lost my dear one due to Covid, I wish you don’t lose your dear ones. Please come forward for testing),” said Karamjeet Kaur, who joined her duty three days after her husband died.Her husband, Amarjit Singh (50), died of Covid on May 11 after battling the virus for around eight days at the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital.Talking to The Tribune at a health centre in Dhablan village, Karamjeet Kaur said she had taken a vow to go an extra mile to convince residents to seek medical help as soon as symptoms arise. She said: “I think if he (her husband) had taken his symptoms seriously, we would have had better chance at saving him. I don’t want others to lose their loved ones due to ignorance.”Karamjeet Kaur, who earns only Rs2,000 a month for Covid related work is now struggling to make ends meet. Karamjeet Kaur said: “My family blames me for bringing virus to home, which makes me disheartened. I argue that there is community spread, therefore, everyone should take precautions.”The ASHA worker appealed to the Chief Minister to provide financial assistance to the needy healthcare workers who lost their family members to Covid.Appeal to villagersKaramjeet, during a house-to-house surveillance, as a part of the macro-containment policy, is asking Dhablan residents to immediately undergo Covid test if they exhibit any Covid symptom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/i-lost-my-husband-take-care-of-your-dear-ones-asha-worker-260589
30-05-2021||---||At 416, Patiala district sees max Covid fatalities in May||Patiala, May 29With an average of 15 Covid deaths daily, the month of May proved to be the deadliest for Patiala district since the pandemic broke out last year.Of 1,199 deaths since the virus emerged, the district recorded 416 Covid fatalities in May. As per the Health Department data, the district had recorded 196 Covid deaths last month.Health officials said the 45-75 age group had been the worst hit so far. Around 860 deaths had been recorded in this age group.Only 34 person in the 15-30 age group have died of Covid while the count is only three for those below 14 years.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said there was no doubt that the second wave was deadlier than the first one. “The second wave was obviously deadlier because the virus had mutated. Moreover, Covid had entered the hinterland during the second wave.”Meanwhile, Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said: “In the second wave, youngsters, especially in the 20-35 age group, fell prey to the virus. This was not prevalent in the first wave. “Health officials said around 54 per cent Covid deaths took place within the first 24 hours of hospitalisation while 21 per cent had died within 48 hours of admission. It has been learned that Covid patients, especially from the rural areas, were reaching hospital at a critical stage. Health experts said Covid patients, who reached the hospital at a very late stage, had a poor survival rate. Of the total Covid deaths so far, 864 died at the government health institution while 275 at private hospitals.45-75 age group worst hit so farHealth officials said the 45-75 age group had been the worst hit so far. Around 860 deaths had been recorded in this age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/at-416-patiala-district-sees-max-covid-fatalities-in-may-260587
