31-05-2021||Government has failed us||Daily wage earners at receiving end of pandemic||A local leader called us at his residence and promised to extend financial help, but he failed to keep his word. The government has failed us. It is beyond my understanding how the liquor vends (pointing at one situated nearby) remain open 24x7 while we are asked to wind up at 5 pm. —Adalti Ram (40), A roadside tailorSmall workers need some assistanceThe government should identify small workers like him in the informal sector and provide them with some aid. In the pre-Covid times, I earned about Rs500 a day. Now, I am not able to earn even Rs50. As the markets are closed most of the time, I don’t find people on the road. Most people opt for an e-rickshaw. —Jaswinder Singh, A rickshaw-pullerMy earnings have reduced to nilNever in his lifetime has he felt such helplessness. My earnings, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, have reduced to nil. On some days, fruits rot as I don’t find any buyers. People have now started ordering fruits online or buying these from big retail stores. This is really a very tough time. —Samudi Ram, a fruit sellerCan’t fight this hardship for so longI survived the first lockdown because residents helped people like me. We depend on day-to-day earnings. It is very difficult to fight this battle of hardship for so long. We may not survive unless the government does something. Officials come to get our roadside stalls shut but never ask about out well-being. —Ida Deen, A shoemakerWe are facing a double whammyCovid has made the rich even richer and the poor even poorer. There is no business because people avoid physical touch while buying anything. We are facing a double whammy of no financial help from the government, and the increased prices of cooking gas and daily household items. —Joginder Singh, Roadside vendor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/daily-wage-earners-at-receiving-end-of-pandemic-261143
31-05-2021||---||Scant regard for Covid-19 restrictions||Patiala, May 30A number of prominent restaurants and eateries continue to defy the Covid curbs imposed by the district administration. A famous sweets shop at the Leela Bhawan chowk here was found open to customers during the evening hours today.The owners not only allowed visitors to enter the shop to buy various products, but also positioned tables for them to consume food there in violation of the norms.According to the directions of the District Magistrate, the food outlets, including restaurants, coffee shops, cafes and dhabas, cannot provide dining or takeaway facility on their respective premises. However, home delivery of food stuff is allowed.When contacted, those answering the sweets shop landline phone number failed to put the owners on the call or respond to the matter.The SDM, Charanjit Singh, said: “I have informed DSP City-1 Yogesh Sharma to check why such a practice is going on in the city on Sunday evening. We will act as per requisite action.”Meanwhile, a few shopkeepers said this practice was going on under the nose of the administration adjacent to the residence of the Deputy Commissioner. “While almost all shops are shut and their owners are incurring losses due to the curbs, such illegal activity continues under the very nose of the administration and the police,” said a business owner, requesting anonymity. “The administration should treat all businesses equally,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/scant-regard-for-covid-19-restrictions-261145
31-05-2021||---||Squall hits power supply||Patiala, May 30High-velocity winds and rain that hit the city on Saturday evening left the residents of most areas, including Model town and Gobind Bagh, without power supply. Tents of farmers pitched on the PUDA ground, near the Tripuri police station, were uprooted.The squall lashed the city from 10.35 pm to 10.45 pm with winds blowing at 50 km ph. The Meteorological Department said they registered 13.7-mm rainfall which continued from 10.45 pm to 11.45 pm.A resident of Gobind Bagh here said: “The Gobind Bagh area is facing power supply issues. Children are suffering because of power outage.” He said they had registered complaints with the PSPCL.A resident of Urban Estate said the area had been without power since Saturday night. “Electronic items have been damaged because of fluctuating voltage.”Meanwhile, flex boards put up at various locations across the city were ripped through by winds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/squall-hits-power-supply-261146
31-05-2021||---||Structure raised at dhaba site removed||Patiala, May 30A dhaba functioning under a newly raised structure comprising tin sheets and iron bars was removed today, two days after the Municipal Corporation issued a notice to its owner demanding a clarification about the structure.More than a week ago, the MC was questioned regarding the alleged illegal running of the dhaba.Officials of the Municipal Corporation said the land adjacent to the petrol pump at the Fountain Chowk belonged to a dera. They said they had issued a notice through the building branch to those running the business at the site demanding a clarification about the structure raised there and other activities.Municipal Joint Commissioner (JC) Avikesh Gupta said: “We issued a notice to them on Friday. They are supposed to present all related facts before us. We have not removed the tin sheets and other structure, nor yet directed them to do so. They must be doing it on their own.”Even a week after looking into the facts with the help of teams of the land and building branches, the Municipal Corporation officials were not clear whether the business was being run with its requisite permission. Gupta said: “We will check records for the same on Monday.”Meanwhile, former mayor Amarinder Singh Bazaz said a number of illegal activities were going on in the city. “There was a rehri at the very site. Now, they had raised the new structure as the businessman is related to the ruling political party,” he addedHe said: “Another illegal construction is going on at Ekta Vihar in the city but there was no check by municipal officials.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/structure-raised-at-dhaba-site-removed-261129
31-05-2021||Patiala||Centre, Punjab failed to act on Covid: Bhartiya Kisan Union||Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ugrahan on Sunday ended their three-day protest here alleging the central and state governments had failed to act against the spread of Covid-19 or resolve issues pertaining to farmers.Hundreds of farmers observed social distancing, wore face masks, used sanitisers and carried water bottles during their three-day protest at the PUDA ground near the Tripuri police station.Leaders of the union said the state and the Centre had failed to check the spread of Covid-19. “We will soon plan a mass agitation in Patiala again and if need be, will gherao the residence of the Chief Minister,” a farm leader said.BKU Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said: “We are fed up with fake promises of the state government when it comes to loan waiver. Even the central government has only done lip service and is adamant on the three farm laws, which are against the farming community.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/centre-punjab-failed-to-act-on-covid-bhartiya-kisan-union-260884
31-05-2021||Aman Sood||Storm, rain batter Punjab as power outages reported from several districts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 30Heavy rains accompanied by high-velocity winds late Saturday night uprooted electricity poles and trees in many parts of Punjab causing major disruption of power supply. In some districts, supplies were yet to be restored due to shortage of material.The Tribune had highlighted how shortage of material is hitting the field officers and critical repairs are pending.https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pspcl-short-of-equipment-outage-fear-looms-ahead-of-paddy-season-260578Districts like Mohali, Patiala, Sangrur, Bathinda and in parts of Fatehgarh Sahib the power supply was hit due to lack of material following the thunderstorm.“The wind storm of last night has caused widespread disruptions and our engineers are struggling to restore supply due to material shortages”, said a senior Engineer with PSPCL.Also read: In photos: Power outages, trees uprooted across Tricity after rain, high-velocity windsPower outage was also reported at the premier Netaji Subhash National Institute of Sports (NIS) since yesterday night. Engineers are still trying to rectify the fault as some wires have been damaged along with a transformer.A week earlier the PSEB Engineers association had written to management of PSPCL claiming, “It is our bounden duty as a body of professional engineers of the power sector to warn the management that non availability of critical materials like cables, poles, transformers, non availability of sufficient regular staff and lax decision making at management level is detrimental to ensuring the energy security of the State during this critical juncture; and will adversely affect the service of providing 24x7 reliable power supply to the public, farmers and healthcare facilities of the State for which only management will be responsible”.Morinda, Kurali, Chamkaur Sahib go without power after stormThe towns of Morinda, Chamkaur Sahib and hundreds of surrounding villages have been without electricity as a large number of power supply poles were uprooted during the storm. The authorities said they would try to restore power supply to the towns of Morinda and Chamkaur Sahib by evening.It would take at least 24 hours to restore supply to all affected areas.No loss of life or private property has been reported till now.Zirakpur residents had to endure a hot Sunday afternoon as power poles were damaged and trees uprooted in the storm that wrecked the Tricity on Saturday night.Many parts of Zirakpur, Baltana, Kishanpura, Panchsheel area, were powerless till noon Sunday. There was largescale destruction as hoardings and temporary structures were blown away by high-intensity winds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/storm-rain-batter-punjab-as-power-outages-reported-from-several-districts-260695
