03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Hiccups still plaguing MC’s garbage collection system in Chandigarh||Even as the Swachh Survekshan 2021 has kicked off with commencement of the Citizen Feedback component, door-to-door garbage collection in Chandigarh is far from streamlined.Close to two weeks after door-to-door collection of segregated waste by MC vehicles started in Sectors 1 to 30 on December 23, the process is still not organised, much to the chagrin of residents.Apart from this, heaps of garbage are lying unattended in some of the southern sectors, such as Sector 45, where a section of the garbage collectors have gone on strike.The Citizen Feedback component carries 600 marks out of the total 6000. It aims to verify the progress made on a city’s sanitation through direct responses from citizens.“Last year, MC could not encourage the residents for wider participation in the survey. Only 3.19% of the population gave feedback,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations.RESIDENTS’ COMPLAINS POUR IN MC has pressed into service over 100 new garbage collection vehicles after taking over door-to-door garbage collection in Sectors 1 to 30. But, residents complain teething problems continue to plague it.“MC vehicles are not visible and waste is being picked up by private collectors only in most areas of the sector,” said Naresh Batra, president, Sector 18 Resident Welfare Association (RWA).Harish Chhabra, secretary, Sector 29 RWA, said the situation was similar in Sector 29 as well. “Informal garbage collectors collect the waste before MC vehicles arrive,” said Sanjay Malhotra, a resident of Sector 23.In some sectors, both MC and informal collectors are on job. “Some private collectors are also coming to pick up waste, apart from the MC vehicles,” said RS Gill, president of the Sector 8 RWA.In Sectors 7, 15 and 16, the civic body is faring better. “MC vehicles are visiting regularly. Waste is being collected by MC helpers from all storeys, as per the earlier practice. New system is moving well,” said Dr Madhurima Sharma, a Sector-16 resident.GARBAGE HEAPS PILE UPHitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation, said, “For the last five days, due to the strike by a section of garbage collectors and sanitation workers, no garbage is being picked up from houses or streets in southern sectors (sectors beyond Sector 30). The situation is worsening with each passing day.”In Sector 45, residents have been forced to arrange private vehicles. Rajat Malhotra, president, Sector 45 RWA, said, “With garbage piling up on streets and at people’s homes, we had to take this step.”MC commissioner KK Yadav could not be reached for his comment.HOW TO GIVE CITIZEN FEEDBACKThe survey is open from January 1 to March 31Feedback can be shared either through the “SS2021 VoteForYourCity” app or “Swachhata-MoHUA”Survey is also available online at “www.swachhsurvekshan2021.org” and “www.mygov.in”, besides at 1969 Swachhata HelplineAdults who have been residents of Chandigarh for at least six months can give feedbackOne mobile number can be used once for submitting a response||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hiccups-still-plaguing-mc-s-garbage-collection-system-in-chandigarh/story-KDN0wYEgNDQV8ODSLo3UmM.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccine: Maharashtra waits for Centre’s plan amid cost doubts||Maharashtra is waiting for the Centre to roll out its Covid-19 vaccination programme plan after the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) on Sunday approved emergency use of the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech vaccines. While the state has already prepared its plan to vaccinate over 30 million people in the first three phases, however, it is not yet clear whether the vaccine will be free for all. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said they are assuming that vaccines for health workers and frontline workers will be free, but they don’t know what is going to happen later.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state vaccination task force, said the first person in the country is likely to be vaccinated between January 7 and 14, but doesn’t know when Maharashtra will be able to get the stock.Meanwhile, the state on Sunday recorded 3,282 cases, the 18th day of fewer than 4,000 cases, pushing the count to 1,942,136. The toll reached 49,666 after 35 casualties were reported, of which 20 were in the past 48 hours, five were in the past week and the remaining 10 deaths were from before last week, health officials said.Also read: DGCI nod for Covid-19 vaccines: Doctors give thumbs-up, but flag minor issues“We have completed our preparations. Priority of people has been set by the Centre, according to which health workers, frontline workers and later people with comorbidities will be given [vaccine] shots. We have also completed registration of both health workers and frontline workers, infrastructure is ready and staff has been trained. We have also completed a mock drill now,” the chief secretary said.We are assuming the vaccine is going to be free for heath and frontline workers, but when it comes to the general public, we are awaiting clarity from the Centre,” he added.Dr Joshi said, “Maharashtra will have to await further instructions from the Central government. The Centre will be procuring them first, which is likely to happen from next week. After that, they will be distributing the stock among various states. Then, according to the plan made by the Centre, the first group to be vaccinated will be health workers, then followed by frontline workers. The state government will have to work in close coordination with the Central government for both procurement as well as its distribution to various vaccination points and administering it to the first group of people.”According to Dr Joshi, DGCI has made three observations first, the approved vaccine of Serum Institute of India for emergency use. Second, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine has been approved for clinical trials, which will not be based on double blind study. Now people will be given actual shots during the trial and everyone will be monitored post vaccination. Third one is, Zydus Cadila vaccine, which also got approval for phase 3 trial. “It means, in all probability, Covishield will be the first vaccine to be used for starting the first phase. I am expecting that the first person to get vaccinated will be between January 7-14, but when Maharashtra is going to get the stock is yet to be cleared.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state administration is fully prepared and they are waiting for the Centre’s plan for the vaccination drive.“We are waiting for a communication from the Centre on the vaccination programme. The approval for Serum Institute of India’s vaccine is only for emergency use and is also subject to the consent of the patient, which means no one else would be held responsible for any health complications, if any, post vaccination,” Tope said.According to the state’s plan, the vaccination drive is going to be held in three phases meant for priority groups — health workers; frontline workers; people above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities below the age of 50. Of total, 8 lakh, around 7,58,000 health workers from the private and public sector have been registered.Mumbai has clocked 581 cases on Sunday, taking the count to 295,241. Of them, active cases are 8,961. The city has reported only three deaths, which is the lowest single-day toll since March 30. The toll has reached 11,135.Also read: 68 UK returnees found Covid positive in Maharashtra but not with new strainNone of the international passengers who have arrived in Maharashtra are yet to be found infected with the new coronavirus strain found in the United Kingdom (UK). Till Sunday, 70 passengers who arrived in Maharashtra from the UK between November 25 and December 22 tested positive to Covid-19, but it is yet to be confirmed if any of them carry the new, more transmissible strain of Covid-19. The state government is expecting a few reports from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune by Monday.“4,820 UK returnees who had landed between November 15 and December 23 have been traced till date. RT-PCR tests have been conducted on 3,374 of them 70 samples were found positive. We are expecting some report from NIV on Monday,” said state surveillance office Dr Pradip Awate.Of them, 30 are from Mumbai, Pune (13), Thane (8), Nagpur (9), 2 each from Nashik, Aurangabad, Raigad, Buldhana and one each from Nanded and Washim.He said that 64 samples have been referred to the NIV, Pune to ascertain if they are infected with the new variant.The state government has put the administration on alert after discovery of a new mutant strain of Covid-19 that is believed to be much more infectious than all previous strains. It has started a special drive to trace and conduct tests of all those that came from the UK between November 15 and December 23. Further, it is sending the samples of those who have tested positive to NIV, Pune to ascertain the type of virus they are infected with.It has also started contact tracing and testing of those UK returnees who have tested positive.“We have traced 448 people who have come in contact with the UK returnees found positive for Covid-19 and 30 of them have tested positive,” Dr Awate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-vaccine-maharashtra-waits-for-centre-s-plan-amid-cost-doubts/story-eqTaSIPML5HJ7HvGnqIk3N.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to set up Tamil academy||Delhi government’s Department of Art, Culture, and Language on Sunday set-up a Tamil academy to promote the language and culture of the southern state of Tamil Nadu. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the charge of the Art, Culture, and Language department, said, “It is this diversity that forms Delhi’s vibrant and cosmopolitan culture. Delhi has a large population of people from Tamil Nadu and we want to present a platform to the people of Delhi to get a taste of the art and culture of Tamil Nadu.”The Delhi government has appointed a former councilor and member of Delhi Tamil Sangam N Raja as the Vice-Chairman of the academy. In a statement issued by the government, Raja said, “I am glad to see that the Delhi Government under Deputy CM Manish Sisodia has established the Tamil language academy. I am honored to be a part of this academy. The Tamil language and culture have a long tradition in the history of Indian culture as well as in Delhi.” “The Department of Art, Culture, and Language of the Delhi govt has decided that the new academy will introduce various awards to promote and reward the good works of people in Tamil language and culture. The government will also provide language courses through this academy. The Delhi government will also celebrate and organise cultural festivals for the people of Tamil Nadu,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-set-up-tamil-academy/story-KKgiyNlUPieWlQbflAdJtJ.html
03-01-2021||Noida||Farmers’ protests: Heavy rain hits UP Gate, Noida sites, but fails to dampen spirits||Ghaziabad: It was probably the toughest day yet for the thousands of farmers protesting at the national Capital’s border, as they were faced with heavy rainfall since the wee hours on Sunday, while their blankets, tents, eatables and other items were drenched. Refusing to budge from their stance, however, they said they will resurrect the protest sites and will continue to camp there till their demands of recalling the three new laws, and a new law on minimum support price, are accepted by the government. Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand have been on protest at UP Gate in Ghaziabad since November 28, and the Chilla border and the Dalit Prerna Sthal in Noida since December 1. They arrived in hundreds of tractor-trolleys and put-up myriad tents over the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway. However, heavy rain played spoilsport. “Although we had ensured that the entire block of our camp is fully covered, rain water swept in and a number of our bedrolls, blankets and even ration items were drenched in water. We have now asked for about 400 more bedrolls and even more blankets, as wet blankets and bedrolls will lead to health complications,” said Ravneet Kaur, the in-charge of the women’s camp at the UP Gate site. “However, people are still coming in despite the adverse weather. We estimate that the gathering will swell further and we will have to take up additional arrangements,” she added.At the Noida protest sites, one major tent each at both the protest sites collapsed. There were no injuries but the farmers lost their shelter.“The weather has already been troublesome and the rain further aggravated the situation. It is not comfortable for us but this will still not stop us from protesting. We took shelter in the Dalit Prerna Sthal building and despite the weather, more supporters came to join us today from a youth faction and a teacher’s union from Agra,” said SK Giri, national spokesperson, Lokshakti.The farmers used makeshift plastic wraps to cover their food supply and valuables. But they were adamant that the weather in no way will dampen their spirits.“A farmer is used to the cold and rain. We are used to finding shelter under trees and sleeping under open skies. The weather is not an issue for us,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, Bhanu faction.They were also joined by a group of farmers travelling from Barabanki for support. The protestors had already been provided 20 waterproof camping tents courtesy of the Hemkund foundation on Saturday.“There was water-logging in our tents but we were protected from the rain because of the new tents. Our protest will continue and nothing will deter us from our goals. Our fire pits had been drenched but they are back to being operational now. A farmer is very resilient. We are used to hardships,” he said.Volunteers at UP Gate said that the drain pipes of the expressway flushed rain water to the last carriageway, and this affected their camps and even food items stocked in temporary tents covered with tarpaulin. “We need about 100 more tarpaulin sheets for covering our tents, as it is likely that there will be more rain in the coming days. Our stocks of rice, sugar and wheat flour also got spoiled due to the rain. So, we need more of fresh supplies. However, we are battling the odds and will not go back till our demands are met,” said Gurjeet Singh, another volunteer from Udham Singh Nagar (Uttarakhand). “Saturday night, a three-year-old girl staying with her mother developed health complications due to adverse weather and we rushed her to the nearest hospital, where she is recuperating and is stable. So, such weather will affect our people but we are committed to stay put and carry on our fight,” he added. The most affected portions of the protest site were the “fauji tents” (soldier tents) which are generally constructed in the shape of a hut with the use of bamboo sticks and tarpaulin. “We have about 200-250 ‘fauji tents’ and many of these faced a huge water inflow, which has drenched our bedrolls, blankets, clothes and daily items. However, we are trying to get more bedrolls and blankets. Till that time, the occupants will adjust in tents which are not affected or are less affected,” said Vikramjeet Singh, a volunteer at the UP Gate. The dais, which sees daily speeches by leaders at UP Gate, was almost out of order due to heavy water-logging but the eleven farmers, who keep up the 24-hours relay fast, were present at the dais and continued their fast on Sunday. “Due to the situation which unfolded due to the rain, cooked food supplies came in from several villages. The langars at the UP Gate site started but a bit later than usual, as priority was to cover up the food supplies which were stocked in tents and to save them from water,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). “However, farmers are used to these kinds of conditions and everyone came forward to help each other out. The priority is to get more coverings for the tents to protect them from the water. On Monday, we have the next round of talks scheduled with the government and everyone is looking forward to it,” he added.Police said that the weather did not cause any injuries or accidents in Noida.“They are being provided with all amenities. The law and order situation is being maintained. The traffic is affected due to the road closure but it has been moving consistently through diversions via the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway for the past few weeks,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farmers-protests-heavy-rain-hits-up-gate-noida-sites-but-fails-to-dampen-spirits/story-AIG4zXHC9TuBmVou8yL1dP.html
03-01-2021||City||Four nabbed for Mansarovar Park killing after a month||New DelhiPolice on Sunday said they had arrested a man and three contract killers and cracked the murder case of a 47-year-old woman in east Delhi’s Mansarovar Park in November last year.Police said the arrested man was a friend of the victim’s daughter and was miffed at having his advances turned down. The prime suspect, Bilal Malik, had led the attack after the 25-year-old woman, who is pursuing a course in fashion designing, had refused to marry him as he was already married to someone else, said Amit Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara).The officer said that the other three contract killers — Mohd Salam, Mohd Kamil, and Mohd Sahil — had joined him after being offered Rs 4 lakh for the hit.Police said the 25-year-old lived with her two sisters and their 47-year-old mother — who worked for the BSES — in Mansarovar Park. She told police she was in a relationship with Malik for six-seven years, until August last year when she decided to break up with him after realising that the relationship couldn’t continue as Malik was already married.But Malik allegedly wanted to marry her despite being married. “He had been pressuring me to marry him and threatened to harm me if I refused,” the 25-year-old told police in her official complaint.On November 30, Malik allegedly landed up at her house and insisted on marrying her but was turned down.He allegedly left the house and returned with the other suspects in tow. They later took the woman’s younger sister hostage at gunpoint and locked the house from inside.“Having no other choice, I agreed to accompany Malik. But he shot me in my cheek. When my mother tried to save me, another man shot her ,” she alleged.The survivor’s mother sustained a gunshot wound in her neck and wrist and was declared brought dead at a hospital. The suspects all managed to flee.Having tracked the suspects for weeks, the police finally received a tip-off and nabbed Malik with a pistol and five bullets from the Loni-Bhopura Road in East Delhi on Saturday. At his instance, the three other suspects were also nabbed.Police said that Malik, 26, has a wholesale garments business, and is a resident of Ghaziabad. He has a criminal past and had been involved in a theft case and another under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-nabbed-for-mansarovar-park-killing-after-a-month/story-IzPTiuxAzjrgtHxDFu728H.html
03-01-2021||City||Work on fountain on fountain near AIIMS flyover nears end: NDMC officials||New Delhi: The work on the fountain near the AIIMS flyover, close to the steel sprouts, is likely to be completed in March this year, even as the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has floated a separate tender for landscaping and maintenance of the site, a senior official of the civic agency said. Once complete, this will be Delhi’s widest fountain in a public place. “More than 75% of the work has been completed and we aim to finish the project by March. We are in now the last leg of the project, and plumbing and concreting-related work are underway,” said the official, who asked not to be identified.The NDMC had planned the project in May 2018 and then proposed to dismantle the iconic steel sprouts to make space for a water fountain. The Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC) rejected the proposal, after which the NDMC re-worked the design and decided to retain the sprouts.The project was supposed to be completed in two years, but was delayed due to the pandemic, the NDMC official said. “It will be the city’s biggest cascading fountain, with a circumference of 90m,” he said.The lawns, where the fountain is being built, are located on either side of Aurobindo Marg near AIIMS flyover. Another NDMC official said the landscape around the fountain and eight sprouts will also be improved with the help of decorative lights and varieties of flowering plants. “It will be the responsibility of the agency that will be hired through the tender, which was issued on December 18. The agency will also be entrusted with the maintenance of the area around the fountain,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-on-fountain-on-fountain-near-aiims-flyover-nears-end-ndmc-officials/story-Mpd1CGKS2rDVJ61auYHg2L.html
03-01-2021||Noida||In a flash about 40 to 50 people simply disappeared under the debris: Muradnagar roof collapse survivor||Ghaziabad: “The priest at the cremation ground was speaking to us about the rituals to be performed after the cremation when the entire roof came crashing down and all of us got buried. I was standing on the outer edge so half of my body was under the debris,” said Krishan Pal, the son-in-law of a 65-year-old man whose last rites were being performed when the roof of a Muradnagar cremation ground collapsed, killing at least 24. The incident took place around 11.30am at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground when around 50 to 60 people were attending the cremation rituals of Jai Ram, who had died on Saturday night, the police said. Many of the families and the injured said they were rescued after hectic efforts that lasted till 6pm on Sunday. “I could hear everyone crying for help. I was trying to attract the attention of people standing nearby. Then, I almost fainted as I felt that all my energy was lost,” Krishan Pal added.Krishan Pal was brought to MMG District Hospital on Sunday evening with severe injuries to his head and legs. His wife, Poonam Pal, said their son Ashwini (18) and son-in-law Nishant Azad (27) were also severely injured. “My father died around 10pm on Saturday and all our relatives and neighbours were at the cremation. My husband, son and son-in-law were severely injured, and rescued two hours after the collapse. Most of the people who died were our relatives and family members,” Poonam, said. Praveen Kumar, brother of 53-year-old Sunil Kumar, who died in the collapse, said he had stepped out to wash his hands when the roof collapsed.“A huge plume of dust went up, and I heard a loud sound. In a flash, around 50 people simply disappeared under the debris. I stood there dumbfounded. My brother was also buried under the debris. His two minor children are now waiting for him at home,” Kumar said. Manish Tyagi, a resident who was one of the first responders, said he could hear cries for help from beneath the debris.“The construction of the roof was completed around two to three months ago and there were hardly any pillars supporting the structure. So when it collapsed, the whole roof came down in one go,” he said.The district administration roped in earthmoving machines as well as the civil police and teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). “We despatched our teams around 12.45pm on Sunday. Before we reached, the administration and locals had started rescue operations. After ensuring that no person remained under the debris, we called off our operation around 6pm,” said PK Tiwary, commandant of the eighth battalion of the NDRF based at Ghaziabad. Most of the people who died were from Defence Colony, Ordnance Factory Colony, Ganga Vihar and Sangam Vihar among others in Muradnagar. The officials said the deceased were aged between 22 and 60 years..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-a-flash-about-40-to-50-people-simply-disappeared-under-the-debris-muradnagar-roof-collapse-survivor/story-ibZRdcaM1Jr3ixjSoTZ7WP.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||GST authority in Delhi nabs one for ₹831 crore tax evasion||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) authority has arrested one person in the city for evading over ₹831 crore in taxes after a search of a manufacturing unit unearthed the illegal production of gutkha, pan masala and other tobacco products without paying tax, the finance ministry said on Sunday.The search was conducted by the Central GST Delhi West Commissionerate, the ministry said.“Around 65 labourers were found working at the illegal factory. The finished product was being supplied to various states in India. The searches resulted in seizure of finished gutkha and raw materials such as chuna, sada kattha, tobacco leaves and others valued at ₹4.14 crore approximately,” the ministry said. The total duty evasion has been estimated at approximately ₹831.72 crore, it said, adding that the investigation is in underway. One person has been arrested for his involvement in the manufacture and supply of goods without issue of any invoice with the intention to evade tax, as well as in transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing, supplying, or purchasing any goods in violation of various laws that are cognisable and non-bailable offences, it saidThe accused person was arrested and produced before the metropolitan magistrate (MM) of Patiala House court on January 2, and sent to 14 days judicial custody. “Further investigation is underway to identify the key conspirators of the case and to recover the tax dues involved,” it added. Delhi Zone has been making sustained efforts to check evasion of GST, leading to detection of ₹4,327 crore in the current financial year and 15 persons have been arrested in these matters, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gst-authority-in-delhi-nabs-one-for-831-crore-tax-evasion/story-YZQIOvonWnF3i9NWs4e0DP.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||5 Ludhiana students ace CAT, make it to 99-percentile club||Five candidates from Ludhiana, all of them male, scored above 99 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT), the results for which were declared late on Saturday evening. All of them cleared it in their first attempt. Clearing the exam is a pre-requisite for admission into Indian Institutes of Managements (IIMs) across the country. IIM-Indore had conducted CAT 2020 on November 29. The final answer key was released on December 31.Shubham Jain got 99.82 percentile, while Siddham Jain and Peshal Goel scored 99.67 and 99.58, respectively. Ritvik Dhawan and Hemant Singh scored 99.12 and 99.07, respectively. Shubham, 20, is currently pursuing his BCom from Satish Chander Dhawan Government College, Ludhiana. “I first cleared my basics and then focused on mock tests. I used to devote quality hours for self-study and revised whatever was taught during coaching classes everyday. This helped me improve my score in mock tests. I am glad I am able to score well in the first attempt and will now focus on where to take admission,” he said. “My parents were supportive throughout and constantly encouraged me to work hard and perform better,” he added, while expressing gratitude towards his father Sandeep, who is a businessman, and mother Rinki, a homemaker.Siddham Jain wants to pursue his MBA in finance and is currently pursuing BCom from Ramjas College, Delhi. He said that both coaching and self-study made a huge difference to his score. “My teachers were very cooperative and guided me at every step which helped me to enhance my score in mock tests. After every mock test, I discussed the questions with my teachers and took feedback from them,” he said. His father Jatin Jain is a businessman and mother Anku a housewife.Peshal Goel, 21, who hails from Rampura, Bathinda district, said that he took online coaching from a city-based institute amid the pandemic. He added that consistency is the key. His aim is to pursue MBA and learn the basics so that he can start his own business.His father Parveen Goel is a businessman and mother Shefali a homemaker. Ritvik Dhawan wants to pursue MBA from a reputed IIM. “I have worked very hard and I am very happy I could achieve a good score,” he said. Hemant Singh, 22, wants to pursue his MBA from faculty of management studies, Delhi. “I stay in a joint family and everyone supported me. I am thankful to my uncle and aunt who guided me. After pursuing MBA, I will start my own business,” he said. His father Arvind runs a shop and mother Babita is a homemaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-ludhiana-students-ace-cat-make-it-to-99-percentile-club/story-SF32NT9LPRUtJjqKibwDsK.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Photo studio employee found dead under mysterious circumstances in Ludhiana||A 25-year-old employee of a photo studio in Jagraon was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his workplace on Sunday while his colleague was found unconscious.The deceased has been identified as Happy of Jagraon. His co-worker Aman has been admitted to the hospital.Froth was emitting from their mouths, which prompted police to explore the angel of suicide or food poisoning. But, food leftover or poison have not been found in the room, which is on the first floor of the studio.Inspector Nidhan Singh, station house officer at Jagraon city police station, said that nothing unusual has been captured in the CCTV camera installed in the room. He said that Aman, Happy, Rama, Sunny and Anand, employees of Kaka ji studio on Kuchha Malak Road, had slept in the studio on Saturday night.On Sunday morning Rama, Sunny and Anand left, while Happy and Aman decided to stay back.As seen in the footage, Happy and Aman had gone to the washroom at 8.30am and 9.24am, respectively, and gone back to sleep again.The son of the studio’s owner was first to notice them at 12.30pm. He immediately sounded the police and rushed them to hospital.The inspector added that the situation will be clear after recording Aman’s statement. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/photo-studio-employee-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-ludhiana/story-wELOSD0Sc8I7TD3JnBdS0L.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Dues of all park mgmt bodies in Ludhiana to be cleared in a week: Ashu||Punjab cabinet minister and MLA of Ludhiana (west) constituency, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, has assured that pending dues of all 438 park management committees falling under the municipal corporation will be cleared within a week. Ashu was chairing a meeting with all PMCs of the city at Guru Nanak Bhawan here on Sunday.He said that there are 870 parks under the Ludhiana civic body, of which 565 are managed by 438 PMCs. He said that it is for the first time that representatives of all PMCs have been brought together under a common platform to share their views, problems and suggestions.He appreciated their role in increasing the green cover in the city. He said that the social fabric of our society has been strengthened with the formation of PMCs as people from all age groups contribute in managing their respective parks and take pride in doing that.Ashu added that soon, they will start holding a regular competition in which they will give prizes for the best maintained parks. He also urged councillors to ensure that the remaining 305 parks under MC are also maintained by the PMCs. He said that people’s participation is a must for the overall development of any society.Ashu assured that all valid suggestions will be implemented within two months and any other feedback can be submitted in writing with the MC commissioner.While replying to queries related to non clearance of pending dues, Ashu issued strict instructions to the MC officials to ensure that all bills are processed within two weeks and failure to do so will attract strict action. He also assured that all PMCs will get Rs 2.50 per square metre, and in case of smaller parks, MC is working to fixing a particular amount so that it does not put financial burden on the PMCs.The cabinet minister also said that phase 2 of the Sidhwan Canal Waterfront project (from Jawaddi Bridge till Dugri Bridge) will be started in the next 15 days and be completed in six months. He assured that outdoor gyms will be installed in almost all parks within a month.He also stated that his main aim is to increase green cover in the city and his team is looking for vacant spaces in the city where green belts can be developed. He said that several green belts have been developed at those sites that were either garbage dumps or had vegetation. MLA (east) Sanjay Talwar, Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra, MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh among others were present on the occasion.Green man of Ludhiana honoured:JS Bilga, who retired as executive engineer of MC’s horticulture wing, was also honoured on the occasion. He is know as the green man of Ludhiana as was instrumental in a massive tree plantation drive in the city in late 90s. He gave a presentation on how fallen leaves can be converted into compost for use in parks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dues-of-all-park-mgmt-bodies-in-ludhiana-to-be-cleared-in-a-week-ashu/story-EMCYzY3h5XFucl6yUhlQ1N.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab State Talent Search Examination: Show-cause notice to school in-charge for changing exam controller without DEO’s permission||The district education office (secondary) issued a show-cause notice to the in-charge of Government Senior Secondary School (girls), Khanna, for changing the exam controller of the Punjab State Talent Search Examination which was conducted on Sunday without permission from the DEO.The in-charge, Sanjeev Kumar Tandon, was also accused of not adding the controller to the WhatsApp group made by the department for coordination. This made it difficult for officials to contact the controller and get details of the number of students that appeared and remained absent for the exam. Deputy DEO (secondary) Charanjit Singh said, “The show-cause notice has been issued to the in-charge for negligence and changing the controller without taking permission.” Tandon has been asked to submit a reply via email by Monday. If he fails to do so, the report will be sent to the higher authorities to take action against him. As many as 4,104 students took the Punjab State Talent Search Examination at 26 examination centres in the district on Sunday. Around 1,457 students (26%) failed to turn up. Of the 5,561 expected students, 2,098 of Class 8 and 2,006 of Class 10 appeared. The exam was held between 10am and 1pm.The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) had earlier postponed the exam due to administrative reasons. Rajinder Kaur, district education officer elementary-cum-secondary, checked four centres – Government Senior Secondary School, Jagraon (boys), Government Senior Secondary School, Jagraon (girls), Government Senior Secondary School, Raikot, and Government Senior Secondary School, Bassian. “The test was conducted smoothly at all examination centres in the district,” Kaur said.The examination is conducted annually to provide financial help to deserving students from Classes 8 and 10 of government schools and is aims to prevent them from dropping out due to financial constraints. Those who crack the test get Rs 200 every month till they complete Class 12.Lovepreet Kaur, a Class-8 student,of Government Senior Secondary School, Gurm, said, “The paper was easier than the National-Means-and-Merit Scholarship exam. I was able to complete it in the allotted three hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-state-talent-search-examination-show-cause-notice-to-school-in-charge-for-changing-exam-controller-without-deo-s-permission/story-ezhFnHB0OCFvQmaogpUjQK.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana vet varsity lab completes 1 lakh RT-PCR tests||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) has reached a significant milestone by testing more than 1 lakh Covid samples at its testing laboratory.Jatinder Pal Singh Gill, director research and nodal officer of the laboratory, said that the Corona warriors of the university are working three shifts to ensure the results of RT-PCR tests are received in time.The varsity, that started by testing 100 samples a day, is currently testing 1,500 to 2,000 samples.Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of GADVASU, commended the entire Covid laboratory team. He expressed gratitude towards chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma for showing confidence in the university which resulted in the opening of the lab under Mission Fateh.Dr Singh said that the state and central governments are fighting the virus meticulously, and as a result of this, the number of cases are declining steadily. He also spoke on the importance of following the Covid guidelines laid down by the government.Coordinator of the laboratory, Yashpal Singh Malik said, “We have advanced research facilities and our scientists are very skilled. Ten of our scientists and 20 assistants are working from morning to late in the evening for this noble cause.”He also acknowledged the contribution of Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, and his team for their active support. He said that under the guidance of Dr Ramneek and Dr AK Arora, work for the establishment of this lab was started diligently.The V-C and other university officials visited the laboratory on the occasion and encouraged the entire team and appreciated their contribution in this time of crisis.The “Covid-19 Viral Testing Laboratory” at GADVASU was inaugurated on August 10 after getting the Indian Council of Medical Research’s nodPunjab cabinet ministers OP Soni and Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated it with other dignitaries and dedicated it to the citizens of the state.Before setting up of testing lab in the university, scientists including Dr Rajnish Sharma, Dr Mudit Chandra, Dr JS Arora, Dr Neeraj Singh, Dr Harsh Pawar and Dr Omar Khaleel Baba were working at Government Medical College (Rajindra Hospital), Patiala, while Dr Mohan Jairath, Dr Deepali, Dr Jaspreet Kaur and Dr Astha Sharma were deployed at Government Medical College, Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gadvasu-lab-completes-1-lakh-rt-pcr-tests/story-EcEdfWGg3KUwML91iwSCbO.html
03-01-2021||Gurugram||Biker injured on Golf Course Road||A man riding a motorbike on Golf Course Road was severely injured after a fellow biker rammed his vehicle into his. Although the incident took place on December 29, the case was registered on Saturday after the victim gained consciousness, said the police. According to the police, Lakshit Grover, a resident of Vipul World in Sector 48, was out on a trip his biker friends. The group was on their way to a hotel on Golf Course Road for breakfast around 8.30am. The victim was riding a Ducati and was about to take a U-turn, when a fellow biker, who had picked up speed, hit his motorbike. The victim fractured his leg a result of the accident. His fellow riders fled the spot after the accident. The police said the victim was rushed to a private hospital where doctors informed that his right leg was severely fractured. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that Grover had allegedly asked the suspect to drive carefully but he refused to listen to him. “The victim alleged that the suspect had intentionally hit him. He had also exchanged his motorbike with another rider allegedly with the intention of hitting the victim,” he said. Goel said the suspect is a Delhi resident. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others),338 (voluntarily causing hurt)) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Sector 53 police station has been filed. On the other hand, the suspect, who has joined investigation, denied the allegation that there was any personal enmity between the two. He said that even he had suffered injuries and that he had never threatened Grover nor abused him. The suspect’s statement was recorded by the police. The case was registered on Saturday after the victim was deemed fit to record his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/biker-injured-on-golf-course-road/story-MzgIiTp66MypwcjhiTG1pI.html
03-01-2021||Gurugram||10 days of fewer than 100 daily Covid cases||With 71 cases of Covid-19 reported on Sunday, the number of new daily infections in the district has now remained fewer than 100 for 10 consecutive days — the longest such spate in at least five months. In the week ending January 3, Gurugram reported 442 new cases, it’s lowest seven-day aggregate in at least seven weeks, while reporting just one death (the lowest weekly toll in over two months). Sunday was also the sixteenth consecutive day that the new daily recoveries outweighed new daily positives, with 105 more recoveries.Authorities said the prevailing situation has given them a much-needed respite from the mid-November peak, when cases peaked, prompting authorities to increase the reserved bed capacity for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals, for the first time since May. The continued reductions in mortality and positivity rate are allowing authorities more bandwidth to gear up for the impending vaccine roll-out, health department officials said.“We are now in the worst of the winter season, which is when we were anticipating another upward spike in cases. Fortunately, that has not happened. To reach the first peak in June, it took us about four months since our first case. The second peak came much quicker, towards August-end. Then by mid-October, the growth rate was showing signs of a third wave. So, if there is going to be a fourth wave, we would have started seeing an indication of it by now,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.With fewer active patients to monitor, fewer tests to conduct and decrease in contact tracing, department officials said they have adequate resources to prepare for the impending vaccine roll-out. “In mid-November, we were burdened by the sheer volume of cases, but now that the active caseload is low, we have been able to divert resources where needed, so that health workers were duly registered as beneficiaries, vaccine sites were identified, vaccinators being trained and so on,” Sharma said.Emphasising the extent of the slowdown in new cases, Sharma cited testing data over the past two weeks. While there has been a 22% dip in the number of samples tested in the last fortnight, the positivity rate (both daily and weekly) has remained between 2% to 2.5%. This is the third consecutive week that the positivity rate has remained below the WHO’s recommended threshold of 5%. “We have not yet seen such a consistently stable positivity rate in the history of the epidemic in Gurugram. This indicates that the spread is slow enough for our health response to also be stable and organised,” Sharma said.The total number of active patients in the district stands at 828 (down from 1,059 a week ago). Of these, 742 are currently under home isolation, while 82 are in hospitals. Another four active patients are under observation at district Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/10-days-of-fewer-than-100-daily-covid-cases/story-KEnfOLmO5lFvJdpu2yTZBL.html
03-01-2021||Gurugram||Two held for forging road tax receipts||The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) of Gurugram on Saturday arrested two men from the border, at the Sirhaul toll plaza, for allegedly collecting entry road tax from commercial vehicles and issuing forged receipts.The suspects were identified as Lalit and Johny. Two more of the group have been identified and all four of them are from Mohna in Ballabhgarh of Faridabad, said officials. Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA said that the incident came to their notice when a road tax slip produced by a commercial vehicle operator did not match their records and seemed to be forged. “The teams checked the slip and brought him to my office. We were shocked to find that a gang was issuing fake RTA road tax slips to commercial drivers and duping the government,” she said. Aas Mohammad, the cab driver, of Palam in Delhi, during a check on November 19 at Iffco Chowk, produced a slip, which also had a QR code, but did not match with the department’s record when scanned, said officials. Mohammad was penalised Rs 20,000 and he appealed to the officials to look into the matter as many drivers were being duped by the criminals. Yadav said that teams started conducting more checks and found that many such fake online road tax certificates were being produced, causing a loss to the state. “I have been quietly following this for over 10 days getting surprise checks done and identifying these frauds. All we knew initially was that someone comes in a private car occasionally and indulges in this fraudulent business. A taxi driver gave me information,” she said. Yadav said it took 10 days to identify the vehicle and on Saturday, they found two of the gang members selling the fake slips from a car near Ambience Mall. “One of them was sitting with a laptop on a rear seat and his system was connected to a printer. He was printing fake slips from inside the car and was duping drivers posing as RTA officials,” said Yadav. A team led by sub-inspector Praveen Kumar, along with the RTA officials, reached the spot on Saturday and arrested them. The team also recovered fake slips, the laptop and printer from their possession.Yadav said during a preliminary probe, they found that the suspects used to con the drivers into believing them to be RTA officials. A case under sections 420 (cheating),467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the DLF Phase-3 police station. The extent of their operation and the estimated loss the government is yet to be calculated, said officials. They said that at least 60 fake slips were issued every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-forging-road-tax-receipts/story-mihUauqU0ANmMRtcG7BRTI.html
03-01-2021||Gurugram||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccination to be held on January 7||The dry run for administering the Covid-19 vaccine will be held in Gurugram on January 7, according to the district health department officials. Three vaccination sites, including two urban and one rural, have been chosen to carry out the demonstration of Covid-19 vaccination mechanism in the district. The drive has already been conducted at the state headquarters in Panchkula on January 2. It was a part of the nationwide mock drill conducted at 285 vaccination sites across 125 districts to test the mechanism that has been set up to ensure a smooth roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination.In Gurugram, the mock drive will be conducted at three locations – the urban primary health centres in Wazirabad and Bhangrola, and a government senior secondary school in Basai Enclave. “Wazirabad and Basai Enclave are urban areas, while Bhangrola is rural,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.He said that in each of the sites, the dry run will be carried out on 25 healthcare workers, who are already registered on the Co-WIN platform. A team of four vaccination officers and a vaccinator will demonstrate how beneficiaries will be registered, vaccinated and checked for adverse events in separate rooms as per the chalked-out plan. “On Monday, the state health department will hold a meeting with the district officials regarding the dry run and share their learnings as they have already conducted the drive. Through the activity, we will check the end-to-end planned operations, cold-chain points, and tracking of beneficiaries on the digital platform, Co-WIN, which provides real-time information related to Covid-19 vaccination,” said Singh, adding that the teams will also check how vaccines from cold -chain points will be carried to the vaccination sites.“There are 37 cold chain points and a regional vaccine storage warehouse in the district. Our focus will also be on transportation of vaccines to these sites at their designated storage temperature. For this, people handling cold chain points will also be a part of the meeting,” said Singh.Once the vaccine is rolled out, over 32,000 health care workers in the district are likely to get the vaccine jab in the first phase. Over 286 vaccinators have already been trained and 181 sites have also been identified where the vaccination will be given once rolled out. The health department earlier this week sought additional manpower of 1,430 people who will be deployed as vaccination officers 1,2, 3 and 4 at the session sites having a waiting room, a vaccinating room and an observation room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-to-be-held-on-january-7/story-sRh9q3MiVmjzYnVWQdebrI.html
03-01-2021||Gurugram||Two booked for stealing ₹2 lakh from friend’s house||Two men were booked for allegedly stealing ₹2 lakh from their friend’s house in his absence in Sector 55 on December 29. A case was registered on Saturday after the victim returned home and found his almirah ransacked, said the police. According to the police, the victim, Jaikrit Singh of Palam Colony in Delhi, was living in a rented apartment in Sector 55. He is a real estate agent by profession and had befriended many locals for the sake of his business. The police said during the course of his work, Singh became friends with the suspects. Singh said his friends often visited his house and, on December 29, they broke into the house during his absence. “They jumped off the boundary wall and reached the balcony by climbing a car, which was parked in the parking area. I was shocked to see this on the CCTV footage and even tried calling them up. But their number was switched off,” he said. The victim told the police that the suspects knew that ₹2 lakh was kept in the almirah. However, they were not aware that CCTV camera was installed so they jumped into the house and were captured by the camera. Singh informed the police and complained against the suspects, who are residents of Gurugram. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that a case under Section 380 (theft) was registered against the two men. We are yet to arrest the suspects . “Teams have been formed and their call details are being scanned to track their location,” he said. The police are checking their credentials to see if they are involved in any other criminal cases, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-booked-for-stealing-2-lakh-from-friend-s-house/story-OmtSkoQSL7U6gNHl9l2MMM.html
03-01-2021||Gurugram||Rain plays spoilsport in Gurugram on Sunday||The city received a light but prolonged spell of rain on Sunday, which served to clean the air, even as temperatures continued to rise. The minimum temperature on Sunday settled at 11.4 Celsius degrees.Waterlogging was also reported from several areas, but officials said that they easily managed to clear the situation in a short duration as only isolated spots were affected.The rainfall started around 6am on Sunday and continued till late afternoon. However, the automatic weather system in the city failed to record the amount of rainfall received.Several areas of the city also reported power outages and voltage fluctuations since 4am. However, most of the issues were resolved and power restored to the affected areas by the evening.Air quality improvesAs per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, thunderstorm with hail can be expected on Monday, with the temperature expected to rise further over the next few days. The wet spell is expected to continue till January 5, after which cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely to set in again from January 7 onwards at isolated places in the state, as per IMD’s bulletin.While the minimum temperature of the city rose by two degrees to settle at 11.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday from 9.5 degrees Celsius the previous day, the maximum temperature was 16.8 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD’s Palam observatory in Delhi. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the city’s temperature on Sunday. The Palam observatory, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 10 degrees Celsius and 18 degrees Celsius, respectively.Prolonged showers in the first half of the day on Sunday brought about a significant improvement in air quality, with Gurugram recording 260 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin, indicating poor air. This was down from 376 the previous day, which was in the upper end of the very poor category of the AQI.However, Delhi, Noida, Faridabad and Ghaziabad all continued to record very poor air on Sunday as well. Manesar, which typically records cleaner air than Gurugram, saw an AQI of 288 on Sunday.Experts said that winds originating southeast, of speeds between 15 and 20kmph, may have played a more influential role in Gurugram than in other parts of NCR. “What is emerging as a clear trend is Gurugram’s favourable geographic position, where it enjoys favourable meteorology to a greater extent than other major NCR cities,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from east-southeast direction of Delhi with wind speed 10-18 kmph, generally cloudy sky, light to moderate rain/thunderstorm accompanied with gusty winds (20-30 kmph) and possibility of hailstorm at isolated places on 04.01.2021.”.A blanket reduction in air pollution is expected across NCR on Monday, with AQIs across the region predicted to range from the lower end of the poor category to the upper end of moderate category.WaterloggingAccording to officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), waterlogging was reported from areas such as Mayfield Gardens, Palam Vihar, Sector 10 A, Kadipur Road, sectors 27, 28, 47, 49, and 50.MCG’s chief engineer, Raman Sharma, said that since the rains were scattered and generally of low intensity, localised waterlogging took place only for a short duration and that they had to install motor pumps or use suction machines in only four locations.“The rain was of low intensity and scattered. Hence, heavy water accumulation did not occur on the streets or roads. Rainwater receded from stormwater drains in a short time. Only in four locations, such as Kadipur Road and Sector 10A, we needed to install motor pumps to drain out rainwater to the nearest drainage outlet or use suction pumps to clear the choked lines,” said Sharma.Power outageSeveral localities in the city were affected by power cuts on Sunday, including parts of Udyog Vihar, Palam Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Sector 49, DLF Phases 2 and 3, Sector 23, Sector 52 and Sector 56, among others. While power supply to most areas had been restored by evening, residents complained that outages had begun as early as 4am, lasting well into the afternoon.Ravi Pathak, a resident of Ashok Vihar Phase 2, said that his neighbourhood had gone without power for over 12 hours on Sunday. “The power went off around 4am and all day, I tried calling the power department’s helpline number, but to no avail. After a point, I was unable to even call the department as my mobile phone turned off. The connection was restored only at around 8pm on Sunday,” said Pathak.In other parts of the city, residents also complained of receiving murky water. “Whenever it rains heavily in my area, we start receiving totally murky water. I have raised this issue with the authority concerned, but not received any answer,” said Bhaskar Kotwal, a resident of Sector 4.Shiv Sekhri, another resident of Sector 4, raised similar concerns. “This has been a recurring issue throughout the year. The water is not even fit to bathe with,” he said.KC Agarwal, chief engineer, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, did not respond to requests for comment on Sunday. Multiple junior officials, including executive and superintending engineers, also declined comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rain-plays-spoilsport-in-gurugram-on-sunday/story-MbIMb5L82E9yhAUBN7IryJ.html
03-01-2021||Gurugram||MCG terminates the services of contractor after complaints of animal cruelty||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) terminated the services of a Jhajjhar-based contractor hired for catching stray dogs, following numerous complaints of animal cruelty by residents and a report by Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). In the MCG’s notice to the contractor, the civic body has stated that complaints such as non-performance of duties, cruelty towards stray dogs, and misbehaviour with citizens were received against the contractor. However, since the contractor did not resolve the matter and change its way of operating, stop cruelty against stray dogs and submit a satisfactory response to the civic body, despite having been served four show-cause notices, its services were terminated with immediate effect, the notice read.Chetna Devendra Joshi, representative of AWBI in Gurugram, said that she had been alerting MCG officials about the discrepancies and also raising concerns of residents with them that prompted the civic body to take action.“There were many discrepancies in the work of MCG contractor. The previous contractor had agreed to capture and sterilise a dog for around ₹950. The Jhajjar-based contractor had agreed to do the same for ₹630, which raised suspicions. This is because general anaesthesia, used in sterilisation, costs nearly the same amount. Upon further investigation, the AWBI found more issues in the selection process,” said Joshi.Joshi said, as per the rules introduced by the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) for municipal corporations across Haryana, the eligibility for a contractor engaged in capturing stray dogs includes a minimum experience of three years, sterilisation of 3,000 dogs, and a recognition by AWBI. She said that the contractor did not meet any of the listed eligibilities. “When we raised these matters along with the videos of cruelty in the capturing process, as recorded by residents of Gurugram, MCG took cognisance of this matter in October and subsequently served four notices to the contractor,” said Joshi. The treatment of MCG outsourced contractors and workers with regards to stray dogs has been a cause of concern with residents. A two-minute-long video circulating on social media in April 2020 showed around a dozen men, some of them armed with wooden sticks and iron pipes, trying to grab stray dogs, stuffing them into gunny bags, and piling them into a tractor-trolley in Sushant Lok-1. This led to the MCG terminating the services of an outsourced sanitation worker with immediate effect.Coincidentally, the previous contractor’s licence was also terminated in February 2020 after MCG received several complaints of mistreatment of dogs from residents.“The AWBI had submitted a report that the contractor was not following the norms as per their rules and regulations. Upon verification and after giving ample time to the contractor to contest the same, a report of MCG’s findings was submitted to the commissioner for further action. The MCG commissioner has subsequently terminated the services of the contractor,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-terminates-the-services-of-contractor-after-complaints-of-animal-cruelty/story-kl9zlPLy3PHZfw6p1HaCZN.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||9kg heroin seized, 105 criminals nabbed Haryana in 2020||Haryana Police seized 9kg heroin from across the state last year and nabbed 105 ‘most-wanted’ criminals, according to director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava. In 2020, police had also seized 52kg opium, 60kg charas, over 4,141kg poppy husk, 1kg smack, 2,371kg ganja, 5,375 banned injections, over 1.49 lakh prohibited pharma tablets and 5,839 cartons of liquor. DGP Yadava said the Haryana Police’s STF set up to deal with organised crime apprehended 105 hardened criminals and 22 offenders carrying cash rewards ranging between Rs 10,000 and Rs 2.5 lakh. He said the STF crackdown on organised gangs resulted in the arrest of criminals like Raju Basodi, Rajesh Rakbar, Ashok alias Soki, Imran, Sohit Rancho, Manish Baba and Vicky Garg. Haryana Police had declared a collective reward of more than Rs 10 lakh on their arrest, the DGP said. One of the arrested criminals, Raju Basodi, was accused in more than 30 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, and robbery. He was operating his gang from Thailand, the DGP said. “Due to continuous fear and pressure of the STF, most offenders and dreaded criminals opted to stay out of Haryana,” he said, congratulating STF chief Amitabh Singh Dhillon, DIG (STF) Sateesh Balan and the entire task force for their performance. The STF arrested 77 people and recovered 81 illegal pistols, revolvers and 320 cartridges from them, said the DGP, pointing out that STF had also identified a number of most-wanted criminals who were spreading their criminal activities in Haryana and neighbouring states of Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/9kg-heroin-seized-105-criminals-nabbed-haryana-in-2020/story-OReAOjakvx5TstqNXOAaGL.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyers threaten stir if physical hearings don’t resume by Jan 11||Bar Associations of Punjab and Haryana courts will launch an agitation in case no decision is taken to start physical hearings – suspended after the Covid-19 outbreak – by January 11, association members decided at a meeting on Sunday.Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association will also observe a hunger strike on Monday in support of the same demand. All representatives at the meeting convened by Karanjit Singh, chairman of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, wanted the physical hearings to resume immediately. Video conferencing was not effective and satisfactory, they added.Lawyers said they as well as their staff and litigants had been hit badly by the closure of courts.Advocate general, Punjab, Atul Nanda also suggested that courts be opened in a phased manner for physical hearing, with 100% functioning by March.‘No confrontational approach’However, he said, “we have passed through an unprecedented phase and the vaccine may take some time... so we should not have a confrontational approach.”Almost all the speakers at Sunday’s meeting were in favour of a strike. A decision was then taken to set up an action committee of 15 members and headed by the chairman of the Bar Council. It would then coordinate with all Bars to take necessary decisions.The committee would also meet the chief justice of the Punjab & Haryana High Court and request him to give specific directions to all the district and sessions judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to list all the cases in courts.It was also resolved that if no decision was taken to start physical hearings by January 11, the action committee should take recourse to agitation, the manner of which would be decided by the action committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lawyers-threaten-stir-if-physical-hearings-don-t-resume-by-jan-11/story-yZ9uSmUlZZHoVNqJBmTEQM.html
03-01-2021||City||Social security scheme: 110 ineligible people added to beneficiaries’ list||Panipat social justice and welfare officials say accused tampered with official website; FIR registered Irregularities have come to the fore in Haryana’s social security scheme in Panipat district as at least 110 ineligible people have been added to the list of beneficiaries. Panipat police have registered a first information report (FIR) under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unidentified person(s) as the district social justice and welfare department officials alleged that ineligible people were added to the list of beneficiaries by tampering with the official website of the department.In the police complaint, district social welfare officer Satyawan raised the issue and demanded action against the officials and people involved in the alleged scam. He alleged that pensions of around 110 ineligible persons were approved on October 21 last year by misusing the official ID and password of the department. He claimed that the accused allegedly used different IP addresses to add these ineligible beneficiaries. “Officials of the department have access to the data and have the right to give approval to new beneficiaries after the completion of verification of all documents, but some unknown people allegedly accessed the website and documents of ineligible people were approved within hours,” the district social welfare officer alleged in the complaint.The accused have used five different IP addresses and the approval was granted between 9.17pm on October 21 and 12am October 22, 2020. The officer also provided the details of IP addresses and ineligible beneficiaries to the police and sought action against the accused. The FIR in the case has been registered under sections 420, 463, 465, 467, 468, 470, and 471 of Indian Penal Code and a probe has been launched.District social welfare officer Satyawan said the pensions were not disbursed to these ineligible beneficiaries as the officials managed to detect the irregularity within days they were inducted. In the complaint, government official did not give any information about the suspects, but explained the process how the names of ineligible people were included and provided all information to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-security-scheme-110-ineligible-people-added-to-beneficiaries-list/story-CltNMxnsX4giihU44C5ZxH.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Big challenges for municipal corporation in poll year||Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) is set for its mayoral election as mayor Raj Bala Malik’s stint comes to an end after a ‘zero’ year in which hardly any contentious matters could be resolved or projects completed because of the Covid lockdown and continued restrictions. The year 2021 is also significant with MC elections slated for December, making this the last mayoral stint of the current Bharatiya Janata Party dispensation.Malik’s tenure saw the end of the decade-old logjam over the Japyee waste processing plant, as the MC finally took over. However, after the Covid-19 lockdown, spending cuts and revenue losses put Malik in the firing line as she was unable to get additional funds from the UT administration.The 200% water tariff hike announced at one point almost proved to be Malik’s undoing as her own party members urged her to roll it back even as she appeared to be in two minds about implementing it.Now, as she gets ready to leave, Malik, however, will have the satisfaction of knowing that the waste segregation system has been kickstarted with trucks rolling out to collect trash, covering the entire city by January this year.The sewage systems are also being upgraded.In an election year, therefore, the new mayor will have to deliver on the BJP’s promises to catapult Chandigarh among the top Smart City bracket, which looks to be a huge challenge, given the circumstances. His or her key result areas will include:Improving the waste management system: The waste processing plant at Sector 25 is not working at full capacity with MC again planning to invite private players to upgrade and maintain it, a move which previously had disastrous consequences.Improving performance in Swachh Survekshan: Continued poor performance remains a challenge even as Chandigarh failed to break into the ranks of the top 10 cleanest cities Resolving funds crunch: With revenues drying up in a zero year MC’s financial crisis is deepening even as adequate grant in aid is not flowing in from the administration Poll positionWhat should Chandigarh MC’s agenda be in an election year?What should be the new mayor’s priority areas to catapult Chandigarh into the top Smart City bracket? Email your responses and photograph to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by January 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-big-challenges-for-municipal-corporation-in-poll-year/story-ip3Nu6QJBZqzfslWji8iKM.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||PU revises submission dates for student registration returns||Panjab University has revised dates to submit students’ registration returns in view of likely delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The last date for submission of registration returns (documents and records of students who have been admitted to institutes) from principals of colleges/chairpersons of university teaching departments to PU will be January 12 without penalty.From January 13 to 25 the registration returns will be submitted with a penalty of Rs 1,000 and from January 26 to February 5 with a penalty of Rs2,000; which will be increased to Rs5,000 from February 6 to 28. The vice chancellor will also have the authority to accept the documents in the case of hardship, beyond February 28 up to 7 working days before the commencement of the semester examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-revises-submission-dates-for-student-registration-returns/story-iFLkCT0Ff6NdJrnt4KdWDP.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||CAT 2020: Chandigarh tricity students shine||ChandigarhAt least 15 students from the tricity scored more than 99 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT-2020) results declared on Saturday.An estimated 6,000 candidates registered for the tests last year in the region, figures that were much lower than the usual count because of the Covid-19 pandemic.CAT is the gateway for students to India’s top business schools, including the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs). Sargam Bansal, a Punjab Engineering College (PEC) student, who scored 99.17 percentile said, “This year CAT was a different ball game altogether with surprises on account of both number of questions and timing. So the key was to have faith in your preparation and not to be unnerved by the unknown”. Among males, Kshitiz Garg with 99.61 percentile, pursuing engineering from PEC, credited his success to building a strong foundation and taking mocks regularly.Himani Garg from Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College with 99.05 Percentile, reflected on her ability to identify doable questions as her mantra for success.Hirdesh Madan, director of coaching centre Bulls Eye, said, “Interestingly there are a good number of girls in the toppers’ list this time. “I think in 2021 there will be a rise in the number of CAT aspirants as last year’s numbers were adversely affected by Covid-19, which left students confused about career prospects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cat-2020-chandigarh-tricity-students-shine/story-iPunaCOTnIeMcNYjuEyEuN.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||‘Big salute to doctors and frontline workers’: BMC chief after Mumbai records 3 Covid-19 deaths||BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Chahal on Sunday saluted the doctors and frontline workers after Mumbai reported just three deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-10).“The hard work of Maharashtra government and BMC is paying off. I also congratulate Mumbai citizens for their cooperation and support. A big salute to all doctors and frontline workers as well as media who created positive awareness,” Chahal said.Mumbai reported a total of 581 new Covid-19 cases, 697 recoveries/discharges and three fatalities on Sunday. Total cases in the city reached to 2,95,240 including 2,75,464 recoveries/discharges and 11,135 deaths.According to the health bulletin released by the Maharashtra health department, the state recorded 3,282 new Covid-19 cases, 2,064 discharges, and 35 fatalities on Sunday.The Pune division added 663 fresh cases including 289 in city and 110 in Pimpri-Chinchwad, the release said.Nagpur division and Akola division reported 594 and 225 new cases, respectively.The state department said the total cases now stands at 19,42,136 including 18,36,999 recoveries. There are 54,317 active cases in the state and 49,666 fatalities.The case recovery rate in the state now stands at 94.59 per cent while the case fatality rate is 2.56 per cent.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/big-salute-to-doctors-and-frontline-workers-bmc-chief-after-mumbai-records-3-covid-19-deaths/story-Ua2YmezfeAz15xDhMgY58J.html
03-01-2021||City||Mohali traffic SP submits report on making Airport Road’s killer S-curve safer||Installation of mirrors and reflectors and construction of speed breakers are some of the suggestions made by superintendent of police, traffic, Mohali, Gurjot Singh Kaler to make the deadly S-curve on Airport Road safer. On December 4, a woman and her teen daughter lost their lives after a sand-laden tipper hit their two-wheeler at this blind curve near Mata Gujri Gurdwara in Sector 70. Following this, Kaler inspected the spot and prepared a report, which has been submitted to the chief engineer of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). “I have suggested installation of mirrors and reflectors besides construction of speed breakers at the spot. We also observed that crash barriers installed by GMADA have broken and illegal cuts have been made, where commuters take U-turn, risking their lives,” he said. GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said he has received the report and the staff is working on it.According to data provided by the Mohali police, Airport Road saw around 200 fatal accidents in 2019-20, with 17 of them at this S-curve alone, which has been tagged as a black spot. The curve had to be constructed after a gurdwara refused to give up land for the road. Former executive engineer NS Kalsi said it is possible to straighten the road by constructing a new stretch on government land in Sector 77 opposite the existing curve. “When the road was being constructed, we had warned GMADA that the curve will prove fatal, but to no avail. Now, it is one of the most accident-prone spots in Mohali,” he said. In April 2019, Punjab traffic advisor Navdeep Asija, after conducting a three-dimensional safety audit using drones, had revealed major flaws in the design of Airport Road, and stated in is report that it is not pedestrian- and cyclist-friendly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-traffic-sp-submits-report-on-making-airport-road-s-killer-s-curve-safer/story-AXZyaZh5gYKticEqhd8XrI.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Pandemic blues hit Raj Bala Malik’s term as Chandigarh mayor||Covid-19 pandemic overshadowed the one-year term of Raj Bala Malik as the Chandigarh mayor, which ends on January 8. It gave her little chance to prove her mettle.However, her tenure started on a solid note. Unlike 2019, when a rebel candidate fought against the BJP nominee, this time around the party stood united behind her.Next came, the ending of the decade-old logjam over the Japyee waste processing plant, as the MC finally decided to take it over. But, March onwards, pandemic woes hit the MC. Lockdown, spending cuts and revenue loss put Malik’s working style under the scanner, particularly her ability to arrange additional funds from the UT administration. In the coming months, her relationship with the party soured. She came under severe criticism for poor condition of the city roads, water tariff hike and sanitation workers’ strike.At personal front, Malik tested positive for Covid-19 and had to be hospitalised.Weakened within party, targeted by public, oppnAfter the pandemic, all MC General House meets went virtual. In October, BJP councillors, led by the party’s state chief Arun Sood, demanded a physical meet. Malik had just been discharged from the PGIMER, and going against the party, she again called a virtual meeting. In response, all BJP councillors, except one, boycotted it.“There was simmering tension between Malik and Sood. At a time when BJP leaders were publicly criticising MC officials, including the commissioner, Malik was considered to be giving more heed to their advice over her own party decisions,” said a party insider, requesting anonymity.Right on cue, Congress and resident welfare associations also started gunning for the mayor, holding her responsible for the hike of nearly 200% in water tariff. At the same time, MC officials were advising her in favour of the hike, sounding alarm over ₹100 crore losses. In the end, Malik went with her party and a rollback was announced.Meanwhile, despite having dedicated funds for road repair and maintenance, the works couldn’t take off. First, the pandemic lockdown was attributed as the reason. Then, the monsoon was blamed, and thereafter, onset of winters became the culprit. Leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla even labelled her as the, “biggest failure” among all city’s mayors. Things, finally, started looking upIn the last phase of Malik’s term, the MC finally started the long-pending door-to-door collection of segregated waste, though teething problems persist.“The upgrade of five sewage treatment plants has also started, and material recovery stations started to come up. Several of the MC’s integrated online services were launched,” said Malik, defending her term.Her fellow BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said: “Despite the pandemic, many development works and pending infrastructure projects were started. Even though, at times, there were differences between MC officials and the party, Malik ensured that these differences were ironed out.”BOXReport cardAs Raj Bala Malik’s one-year stint as the Chandigarh mayor nears end, HT looks at various highs and lows during her tenureHIGHSMC took over the waste processing plant and started its upgradeDoor-to-door collection of segregated waste kicked offSeveral of the MC’s integrated online services were launchedLOWSCouldn’t effectively manage differences between party and MC officialsTenure plagued by water tariff hike row and sanitation workers’ strikeThe condition of various roads in the city remained poor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pandemic-blues-hit-raj-bala-malik-s-term-as-chandigarh-mayor/story-Ap2ksua11RjwCfvtmVmPFN.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury rises amid light rain in Chandigarh, more showers ahead||After 0.8mm overnight rain, sky cleared up leading to a sunny Sunday and rise in temperature. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), temperature will continue to stay on the higher side as rain is predicted in the city till January 6.Maximum temperature went up from 15.7°C on Saturday to 23.2°C on Sunday, three notches over normal, and making it warmest January day in Chandigarh in two years. The city was also the warmest in the region, and had the highest maximum temperature since December 11, when it had gone up to 28.1°C.Minimum temperature, too, went up from 6.1°C to 11.4°C, highest since December 13, when it was recorded at 13°C.Meanwhile, Air Quality Index of the city, which had become poor on Saturday, remained so (above 200) till Sunday afternoon, before improving and coming down to 157 (moderate) by 7pm. Sharing the forecast, the weatherman said light to moderate rain up to 30mm is expected on Monday and Tuesday, while drizzle is likely on Wednesday. Maximum temperature will remain between 19 and 20 degrees while minimum will be around 8 to 11 degrees. No fog is expected till Wednesday, following which dense fog is likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-rises-amid-light-rain-in-chandigarh-more-showers-ahead/story-MzMk1FaOqeGY0ikTuZVd8N.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 3 more lives in Chandigarh tricity area||Three people succumbed to Covid-19 while 82 tested positive for it in the tricity on Sunday. Mohali district reported 47 cases and two deaths, while 106 patients were discharged. As many as 18,304 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 16,980 have recovered, 345 have died and 979 are still undergoing treatment. In Chandigarh, a 58-year-old man of Sector 61 died, taking the toll to 320, while 16 people tested positive. Of 19,881 cases reported so far, 281 are still active while 19,280 have been cured.Panchkula district recorded 19 fresh cases, but to death. The infection tally stands at 10,046, of which 181 cases are active. While 9,721 people have been cured, 144 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-claims-3-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-KM7XwWN4Dk0FyBjS1bFiZL.html
03-01-2021||City||J&K logs 182 fresh infections, one death; 96% recovery rate||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 182 fresh coronavirus cases and one more death on Sunday taking the total case count in the UT to 1,21,653 and death toll to 1,886.Officials said 79 people tested positive in Kashmir and 103 in Jammu. A person lost his life in Jammu due to the viral infection.They added that 1, 16,792 people have recovered in the UT so far after 205 patients were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 96%. There are 2,975 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 39.16 lakh.A total of 1,187 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 699 in Jammu.Covid vaccination dry run held in SrinagarA dry run for Covid-19 vaccine administration was conducted at Urban Health Training Centre, Srinagar on Saturday. A total of 25 beneficiaries selected from Co-WIN platform participated during the mock drive. Dr Qazi Haroon, state immunisation officer, said three rooms have been set up at the vaccination centres which will be used during vaccination drive. “As part of the nationwide dry run for Covid vaccine, we chose Srinagar, Jammu and Kulgam for the same. We are doing this to avoid loopholes when the vaccine becomes available for use,” said Dr Haroon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-logs-182-fresh-infections-one-death-96-recovery-rate/story-M7oUtog7paew9bUXzMh2VK.html
03-01-2021||City||Gardener’s body found hanging in Chandigarh school||A 25-year-old gardener’s body was found hanging from the ceiling at a school in Sector 44, where he used to work.A resident of Khuda Alisher, he had not returned home on Saturday and is suspected to have committed suicide at night. The body was found in a corridor around 7:30am on Sunday. No suicide note was recovered, but police have ruled out any foul play and initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Jobless youth ends life in NayagaonA 23-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree at Singha Devi locality in Nayagaon on Sunday.Police said he was unmarried and was staying with his family in Nayagaon. He had been unemployed for the past few months due to the lockdown and was a habitual drinker, said station house officer Kailash Bahadur. His body has been kept in the mortuary at the Kharar civil hospital. Ruling out foul play, police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gardener-s-body-found-hanging-in-chandigarh-school/story-4TZwPmBLszaom6s2w5MpQM.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Amid fears of rebellion, BJP to announce name of Chandigarh mayoral candidate on last day of nominations||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s central leadership makes last ditch efforts to have a consensus candidate for the Chandigarh mayor’s post, internal party rifts over the issue are threatening to come out into the open.Continuing with its four-year tradition of last-minute announcement of its nominees for the post of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, the BJP will declare the names on Monday, the last day of filing nominations.“The tradition came into works in a bid to dissuade councillors to go against the party’s decision. In 2019, the strategy failed to stop a rebel candidate from standing up against the party’s nominee. However, this time around, the party is hoping that last-minute declaration would not give such a chance to anyone,” said a senior leader, on the condition of anonymity.BJP national general secretary and state party in-charge Dushyant Gautam had met all 20 party councillors on Wednesday. On Sunday, too, he continued to hold parleys with the local leadership to avoid any chance of a rebellion. “With no consensus candidate being agreed upon by the councillors during their one-on-one meeting with Gautam, they were asked to suggest two names each for the three posts. Their resumes were also taken,” said a councillor, who didn’t want to be named.Winning candidate might need just 13 votesThe fear of a 2019-like rebellion remains a possibility this year too as a section of councillors have expressed unhappiness over the prospects of party state chief Arun Sood getting the nomination. “This year, the concern over rebellion has been heightened. There is a possibility that the winning candidate might need only 13 votes to get elected,” said another councillor.The 26 elected councillors and the city MP, who is an ex-officio member of the House, vote in the mayoral polls. The winning candidate needs 14 votes. In 2020, BJP candidate got 22 out of the 27 votes. In 2019, with cross-voting taking place, the BJP candidate could get only 16 votes while the rebel candidate got 11.“This time around, the lone Shiromani Akali Dal councillor is set to boycott elections in support of the farmers’ stir. Last year, he voted for the BJP. Also, due to poor health, councillor Hira Negi and MP Kirron Kher are likely to miss voting. So, the magic mark could be reduced to 13 as only 24 councillors are expected to vote,” said the senior leader. “The party is also hoping not many councillors would want to go against its decision for the fear of losing their ticket for the House elections later in the year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-fears-of-rebellion-bjp-to-announce-name-of-chandigarh-mayoral-candidate-on-last-day-of-nominations/story-2Y6Dj3k7fu5pHRV8GWSKuK.html
03-01-2021||City||1 lakh chickens die mysteriously in Panchkula’s Barwala poultry belt||Over one lakh chickens have died mysteriously over the past few days at around 10 poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt, which is considered Asia’s second largest with daily production of more than 1 crore eggs. While the poultry farmers’ association is trying to play it down, the authorities have sprung into action and collected samples to know the reason behind this “high mortality”. The report is expected on Monday.Dr Anil Kumar, deputy director, animal husbandry and dairying department, Haryana, said: “There are 80-90 lakh poultry birds in over 110 farms located in Barwala belt. So far, over 1 lakh birds have died in 10-20 poultry farms.”A team of experts from the department visited the farms on Saturday and collected 80 samples besides five carcasses, which have been sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar.“We are expecting the report by Monday,” said Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, deputy commissioner, Panchkula, who held a meeting with Dr Anil Kumar on Sunday evening to take stock of the situation. Ahuja said the deaths have been reported from farms in Garhi Kotaha and Mouli villages.‘Don’t panic, viral infection suspected’Though the exact reason is not known, experts are suspecting it to be some viral infection.“The mortality is on the higher side and there could be a few stress factors. First, it could be the winter season. But as the infection has spread to over 1 lakh birds, we are suspecting it to be some viral infection,” said Dr Kumar, adding that so far, there has been no report of any poultry worker getting infected. “So, most likely, the infection is not the one that is transmitted to humans,” he said.Meanwhile, Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association, which has already suffered huge losses due to Covid-19, suspect extreme cold to be the reason behind the deaths.“There is nothing to worry. There are nearly 1 crore chickens, of which just a lakh at 10-15 poultry farms have died. This is not a big number. It happened because of extreme cold or Ranikhet disease,” said Darshan Kumar, president of the association. He said the sales have not been impacted so far, and accused the villagers of blowing the issue out of proportion. Dr Anil Kumar said: “I cannot recall the last time when these many birds had died. However, we are not suspecting anything worrisome for human health at this moment. There is no need to panic. We are awaiting reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-lakh-chickens-die-mysteriously-in-panchkula-s-barwala-poultry-belt/story-Ci2yq8gmgQkdLbU9fVnMvI.html
03-01-2021||City||J&K to be power surplus after MoUs with NHPC: Admn||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday said it has signed memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) and that it will attract Rs 35,000 crore investments besides ensuring 24-hour power supply in the UT.The MoUs were signed between Power Development Department (PDD), NHPC and Jammu and Kashmir Power Development Corporation in presence of Lt governor Manoj Sinha, Union minister of state (MoS) for power, new and renewable energy RK Singh and Union MoS in PMO Dr Jitendra Singh while various projects of PDD aimed at augmenting power supply in J&K were also inaugurated.“Historic day as mega hydro power projects to make J&K a power surplus region in the country. MoUs signed for implementation of 850 MW Ratle HEP and 930 MW Kirthai-II HEP; execution of Sawalkot HEP (1856 MW), Uri-I (Stage-II) (240 MW) and Dulhasti (Stage-II) (258 MW),” J&K’s directorate of information and public relations said in a tweet.“The MoUs signed today to attract investments worth Rs 35,000 crore for Jammu and Kashmir power sector and would ensure 24-hour power supply to the public,” said L-G Manoj Sinha.He said in the last 70 years, J&K was able to generate only 3504 MW energy. “But in the next four years, we will generate 3,498 MW additional electricity to ensure energy security of the region,” he said.“The 19 distribution and transmission projects inaugurated today would enhance the ease of living here, in addition to playing a significant role in industrialisation and employment generation in J&K,” the L-G said.Despite a number of power projects by NHPC in J&K, the region often reels under darkness, particularly in harsh winters owing to the deficit in local power production and supply. The nascent industrial sector in J&K also faces losses due to the unreliable power supply and distribution system.RK Singh, quoted by official twitter handle of J&K government, said the national average of electricity in rural areas is 20 hours and in urban areas is 22-23 hours. “J&K too will reach the milestone if the pace of development is kept same. We will provide every support to J&K. Locals to be trained and given employment in NHPC ventures,” he said.“J&K to see a new dawn of energy sufficiency and thereby development in all sectors. The mega hydro power projects will not only generate employment but also increase the per capita income of J&K,” said Dr Jitendra Singh.The L-G added that J&K is taking a quantum leap from power deficit to power surplus in the next four years.“For uninterrupted power supply, this is the most significant move by the J&K administration. Clean, affordable and reliable energy is the key for industries, businesses and society to grow. Our vision is to effectively harness hydro energy resources of J&K with a goal to double the energy generation by 2024,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-to-be-power-surplus-after-mous-with-nhpc-admn/story-iAZqlLEhqEDpOtfn8TuVrM.html
03-01-2021||City||Have asked admn to probe Srinagar encounter: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) J&K unit on Sunday said they have asked the Jammu and Kashmir administration to investigate the Lawaypora encounter in Srinagar in which three youths alleged to be militants were killed by security forces on December 30.While the security forces have maintained they were militants, the youths’ families have vouched for their innocence.BJP general secretary Ashok Koul told the media during an event here, “The administration is going to investigate the matter. If anything wrong is found with the encounter, it will be rectified.”Party spokesperson Altaf Thakur also confirmed Koul’s statement.Three youths Zubair Ahmad (24) of Turkawangam, Shopian; Ajaz Maqbool (22) and Athar Mushtaq (17) of Putrigam, Pulwama, were killed in an encounter with the police and army at Lawaypora, Srinagar, on December 30.While the police and army have said the trio was killed in exchange of fire at Hokersar-Lawaypora, their families have rebutted the claim of security forces and said the youths were civilians. Athar was a Class 11 student, Aijaz was pursuing graduation while Zubair was a skilled worker, according to their families and the trio had been home a day before the killings.Almost all the mainstream political parties in Kashmir have raised questions over the encounter after the claims of the families.However, the police have rejected these claims while promising to probe the case from all possible angles. “Background check also reveals that Aijaz and Ather Mushtaq, both overground workers of militants, variously provided logistic support to terrorists. Antecedents and verifications too show that both were radically inclined and had aided terrorists of LeT (now so-called TRF) outfit,” police have said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/have-asked-admn-to-probe-srinagar-encounter-bjp/story-ysHQ3kBAfj51z5ILHG92gI.html
03-01-2021||City||Illegal land mutation: ACB presents chargesheet against ex-revenue officer||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has produced a chargesheet in a local court in Rajouri against science and technology department secretary Shafiq Ahmed, who during his stint as assistant revenue commissioner had allegedly done illegal mutation of state land in Poonch district, officials said on Sunday.The chargesheet was produced before the court of special judge anti-corruption in Rajouri on Saturday.Besides Shafiq Ahmed of Rajouri, Zaffar Iqbal Jagil of Mendhar (then patwari in Poonch) and beneficiary Masood Ahmed of Haveli in Poonch were also named in the chargesheet. They have been booked under sections 5(1) (d) and 5(2) of the J&K PC Act, Samvat 2006 and sections 120-B and 201 of the Ranbir Penal Code.The instant case was registered after verification by the vigilance organisation (now ACB) into the allegations that Zaffer Iqbal, issued ‘Fard Intikhab’ (authentication of property with reference to original record) in respect of forest/state land to villagers who further sold it to a land grabber.During verification, relevant revenue record of Degwar, Maldialian and Ajote villages of Haveli tehsil in Poonch were scrutinised. It was found that then patwari Halqa Degwar/Ajote Zaffer Iqbal Jagil illegally prepared mutation in violation of provisions. Illegal possession of beneficiaries on the land has also been established.The next date of hearing has been fixed as February 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-land-mutation-acb-presents-chargesheet-against-ex-revenue-officer/story-0lBLDLscrwzan3XMmd3ddJ.html
03-01-2021||City||Phase 1 of Sikyong election: Tibetans in exile brave the chill to cast their vote in Dharamshala||Tibetans living in exile here braved the chill to cast their vote on Sunday in the first round of elections to elect the next president or Sikyong and members of the 17th Tibetan Parliament-in-exile.More than 80,000 Tibetan voters settled across the globe will decide the fate of eight candidates in the fray for Sikyong’s post and 150 contestants vying for 45 seats of Members of Parliament.The voters wore masks, maintained social distance and used hand sanitisers as they cast their ballots.The second round of elections will be held on April 11. Tibetan elections hold relevance as these come amid the height of Indo-China tension.Speaking to media persons after exercising his franchise, incumbent Sikyong Lobsang Sangay said: “In spite of the pandemic, Tibetans are taking part in the elections. So, this is a momentous and historical event because even though we are in exile, we are exercising a fundamental right whereby we are walking shoulder to shoulder with other democratic countries around the world and that’s a gift the Dalai Lama has bestowed on us.”The contenders include the representative of the Dalai Lama in Delhi and former CTA home minister Kasur Dongchung Ngodup; former representative of Dalai Lama to North America Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang, former speaker of the parliament-in-exile Penpa Tsering and incumbent deputy speaker Acharya Yeshi Phuntosok.Nearly 150 candidates are contesting for 45 seats of the parliament - 10 from all traditional provinces of Tibet; two from each of the four schools of Tibetan Buddhism and the pre-Buddhist Bon religion. In addition, two representatives each are elected from Tibetan communities located in North America and Europe; one from Australia and Asia- which exclude India, Nepal and Bhutan.The results of the first phase will be declared on February 8 while the final results of the election will be declared in mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phase-1-of-sikyong-election-tibetans-in-exile-brave-the-chill-to-cast-their-vote-in-dharamshala/story-swEXMQPYITwH2XzZkPdkoJ.html
03-01-2021||City||2 dead in head-on collision between car and truck near Indapur||PUNE: Two people in a car were killed after a head-on collision with a truck in Indapur, near Pune, on Sunday morning.The deceased driver has been identified as Pandurang Sitaram Tathawade (58), while the deceased co-passenger has been identified Rukmini Pandurang Tathawade (58), both residents of Khadki and natives of Pabal, Shirur.The two were heading from Indapur towards Bavda, while the truck was heading in the opposite direction.The car was a Tata Nexon registered in Pune. The truck was also a Tata truck, also registered in Pune.The unidentified truck was abandoned by the driver who fled the spot after the accident, according to the complaint.The bodies were taken to government hospital in Indapur for a post-mortem before being handed over to the family members.A case under Sections 304(a), 279, 337, 338, and 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184,143,177 of Motor vehicle Act has been registered at the Indapur police station against the truck driver. Assistant police inspector Ajit Jadhav of Indapur police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-dead-in-head-on-collision-between-car-and-truck-near-indapur/story-uI2sLd8AQskgQ2CWuU9DbM.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Pune reports three deaths, 545 new cases||On Sunday, Pune district reported three deaths related to the Covid19-infection over the past 24 hours, as per the state health department. The city reported 545 new cases, which takes the final count of Covid-19 cases to 3.74 lakh, of which 3.52 lakh have recovered. The death toll for Pune district, state health department, is 7,807. A total of 14,200 cases are active, undergoing treatment in hospitals, or in home isolation. All the three reported deaths were from PMC area which took the PMC toll to 4,411. The death toll in PCMC is 1,277 and Pune rural stands at 2,082. The city reported 289 fresh cases taking its final count to 1,91,969. PCMC reported 110 new cases, taking its count to 93,863 and 146 new cases in Pune rural put the rural count at 88,440. The state health department reported that 2,064 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to 18.26 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.59%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.56%.Currently 2,47,972 people are in home quarantine and 2,969 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-three-deaths-545-new-cases/story-glc004sHihREj36Q0WGyNO.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Waiter arrested for cloning cards, swiping Rs 95,000||A man working as a waiter at a restaurant was arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Sunday for using a skimmer on the card swipe machine used at the restaurant and cloning the cards swiped through it. “So far we are not sure if he has done this with other customers. The work was done by the cyber crime cell and told to us. We have arrested him today (Sunday) and produced in the court. We will know more after interrogation,” said police inspector (crime) Kadam of Bhosari police station. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Umesh Anvekar, (35), of Srinagar in Pimple-Gurav area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. Anvekar had visited a restaurant and bar called Madhuban in Landewadi, Bhosari.He had visited the restaurant along with few acquaintances on December 4. A few days later, transactions were made from cards owned by three of the people who dined at the restaurant without their knowledge, according to the complainant. One of the three cards was swiped for Rs 50,000, the second one for Rs 25,000 and the third one for Rs 19,500. Consequently, a total of Rs 94,500 was swiped through three cards, according to the police. Upon investigation, the cards were found to have been cloned through information stolen through a skimmer that was probably installed in the machine used at the restaurant. A case under Sections 379 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 43 with 66, 66(c), 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/waiter-arrested-for-cloning-cards-swiping-rs-95-000/story-iotG14wODygTPFnt0wgaUL.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Four arrested for murder of man in Hadapsar||Four men were arrested by Pune rural police for the murder of a man whose body was found callously abandoned by the roadside in Magarpatta on Friday. The four were identified as Narayan Shankar Vyas, (30), a resident of Sathevasti in Sadeteranali, Hadapsar; Jitesh Tukaram Kadam (31) ,a resident of Malwadi, Hadapsar; Santosh Sundar Pujari (35), a resident of Janwadi, Gokhalenagar; and Sampat Maruti Kalantre (41), a resident of Machi market in Hadapsar, according to the police. “Yes, the case was already registered in Hadapsar and then transferred to us. We have arrested all four people who are suspected to have been involved,” said senior police inspector Suraj Bandgar of Loni Kalbhor police station. The deceased was identified only as Santosh (34), who lived in Malwadi, Hadapsar along with some unidentified roommates, according to the police. His body was found wrapped in a piece of cloth and disposed at the side of the road near Lohiya Garden in Magarpatta, Hadapsar. A case under Section 302 (murder) and 34(common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar and then Loni Kalbhor police station. Vyas is a native of Bhilwada in Rajasthan and had temporarily employed the deceased man on December 31 for a catering order that Vyas had accepted. The police was informed by an onlooker about four men in a pick-up truck who had dropped a body near a kiosk near Lohiya Garden. The police traced the truck with the help of technical analysis and found it to have been owned by Vyas, according to a senior official. Meanwhile, the body was sent for post-mortem at Sassoon General Hospital and it was declared by the doctors that the man died of asphyxiation and was, therefore, found to have been murdered, according to senior police inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Hadapsar police station. The motive of the murder could not be ascertained immediately. However, the four men will be produced in court to be remanded to police custody for further investigation, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-arrested-for-murder-of-man-in-hadapsar/story-ugs30QiQCA1jh2GgOJsWyJ.html
03-01-2021||City||Key accused in Gudiya rape-murder case gets life term for murder bid||Additional sessions judge at Nahan Jaswant Singh, on Sunday sentenced Anil Kumar to life imprisonment in a case of sexual harassment and assault on a Nepalese woman of Pacchad in 2014. A penalty of Rs 25,000 was also imposed on him.Kumar is also the main accused in the infamous Gudiya case where a 16-year-old girl of Kotkhai was murdered after being raped in July 2017.The incident dates back to 2014 when Kumar attacked the woman with a billhook knife when she was grazing cattle in the forest area. On seeing the woman alone, the accused assaulted the woman and when she resisted, he snatched the billhook knife from her and attacked her, said additional district attorney Ekalaya Singh. The woman suffered grievous injuries in the attack. She was found unconscious in the forest by her relatives who later called for the emergency ambulance services. She was hospitalised to the civil hospital in Sarahan and later referred to the regional hospital in Nahan.Police had recorded statements of the woman after she was discharged from the hospital. Kumar was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation for the rape and murder of a Class 10 girl who was found dead in the Halaila forest in Kotkhai on July 6, 2017, two days after she was reported missing.The CBI had arrested a 25-year-old lumberjack identified by DNA testing who allegedly raped and killed a 16-year-old girl in Kotkhai near Shimla, exonerating six people arrested by Himachal Pradesh Police in the case.The rape and murder of the schoolgirl led to widespread protests in the state and when one of the six suspects arrested by the state police, Suraj Kumar, died in custody, allegedly after he was severely beaten, protests intensified and led to the case being transferred to the CBI. The probe was divided into two parts. One pertained to the custodial death of one of the six suspects arrested by state police and the second focused on the rape and murder of the girl.In the case of the custodial death of Suraj Singh, the agency charge-sheeted nine policemen including an officer of the rank of inspector general, charging them with murder, wrongful confinement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/key-accused-in-gudiya-rape-murder-case-gets-life-term-for-murder-bid/story-g6QLTfjZkqoq50A42yqCWI.html
03-01-2021||Bhopal||‘Strict law to be enacted against stone-pelting, vandalism’: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday there would be a strict law to deal with the crimes related to stone-pelting and damage to public and private properties in Madhya Pradesh.“Stone pelters are enemies to the society whoever they may be. Stone pelting is not a simple crime which may cause loss of life, create an atmosphere of fear and terror and result in stampede and chaos. There will be a rule of law in Madhya Pradesh. Such criminals are not petty criminals. They will not be spared”, said chief minister responding to questions from journalists on certain stone-pelting incidents that took place in Malwa region during Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and associated organisations’ public awareness rallies in December last week ahead of its donation seeking campaign from January 14. The CM added, “There is no strict punishment for such a crime so far. We are going to come with a strict law to deal with such crimes. But there is not just the crime of stone-pelting only. Many a time, trouble makers damage the public property, set it afire and damage private properties too, like someone’s shop is set afire or any other private property is vandalised. This is an unpardonable crime.”He said democracy has allowed people to express their views peacefully but no one should indulge in arson, stone-pelting and vandalism.“That’s why the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has decided that there will not only be stringent punishment for the crime regarding damage to properties but also penalty will be realised from such persons for such a crime. If need be, such persons’ properties will be confiscated for realisation (of penalty) and compensate the damage,” he added.Also read: Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talks“I have already issued instructions to authorities regarding the new law and work is going on on the same. Soon, there will be such a law,” he told journalists.There were incidents of stone-pelting on VHP and associated organisations’ public awareness rallies in Ujjain on December 25 and in Indore on December 29. FIRs against about 100 persons were lodged from both sides and several accused were arrested. Provisions of the National Security Act (NSA) were invoked against six accused in Ujjain who were allegedly involved in stone-pelting. House of one of the accused allegedly constructed illegally was razed in Ujjain in a joint operation of district administration, police and the civic body, as per the police and administration authorities.Reacting upon the CM’s announcement, state Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Any strict law against stone-pelting is a welcome step but the CM should also have spoken about the crime about taking out religious rallies without permission, barging into the shrines of a particular religion, coining provocative slogans against the religion, vandalising the particular community’s properties including shrines as were witnessed in Malwa region recently. Is this not a crime in the eyes of the CM? Will he make a provision for stringent punishment on such crimes also?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/strict-law-to-be-enacted-against-stone-pelting-vandalism-cm-chouhan/story-MKIUWe59tjjgzbxv383aLN.html
03-01-2021||City||Himachal Police orders after video of cop beating man in Atal Tunnel goes viral||A video clip showing a man being thrashed by cops in Rohtang’s Atal Tunnel has gone viral on social media, prompting the Himachal Pradesh Police to initiate a probe.In the 1.8-minute-long video, the man is seen bent over with his arms looped behind the legs to hold his ears. He is kicked in the face and slapped by the personnel.The incident took place on Saturday, the police said.“Prima facie, one police constable, and some BRO personnel were involved in this incident,” said Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh.The Atal Tunnel has been witnessing a heavy tourist influx after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated it in October last year. However, hooliganism and the unruly behaviour of tourists are leading to law-and-order problems, particularly for tribal commuters who travel between Manali and Keylong on a daily basis.A group of unruly tourists, in an inebriated condition, created a chaotic situation inside the tunnel while the cops on duty were busy rescuing the tourists who were stranded beyond the north portal of the tunnel after vehicles got struck on snow-laden roads. ““Numerous incidents of tourists dancing with loud music inside the tunnel have been reported to the police, also they don’t keep a check on the speed limits,” said a police official.Five occupants in the vehicle from Haryana were drunk and consuming hookah and danced inside the tunnel with loud music. The occupants consumed hookah and had parked the vehicle in the middle of the road which led to a traffic jam. An average of about 1,700 vehicles enters the tunnel from the south portal and approximately 1,600 exits from the south portal on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-police-orders-after-video-of-cop-beating-man-in-atal-tunnel-goes-viral/story-MiR7ZrZZ4iCmnuiu9AxcXI.html
03-01-2021||City||Zirakpur businessman gets extortion call, FIR lodged||Zirakpur police have booked an unidentified person for threatening a businessman of circulating objectionable videos of his wife and daughter and trying to extort Rs 1 lakh. The complainant, who lives near VIP Road, Zirakpur, said he received a phone call with the threat and demand for money. Zirakpur station house officer Omkar Singh Brar said they were on the trail of the caller and a case under Sections 420, 419, 384, 506 and 120 of the Indian Penal Code had been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-businessman-gets-extortion-call-fir-lodged/story-Wl7YAbgFCcokLCvcsbDynL.html
03-01-2021||Jaipur||Cold conditions prevail in Rajasthan amid rains||Cold conditions prevailed in most parts of Rajasthan which also received rains on Sunday, with Mount Abu, the state’s only hill station, recording a low of zero degree Celsius, the meteorological department said.Eranpura Road recorded a minimum temperature of 4.8 degrees Celsius followed by 6.2 degrees Celsius in Phalodi, 6.4 degrees Celsius in Jaisalmer, 7 degrees Celsius in Bikaner, 7.3 degrees Celsius in Sriganganagar, 9.3 degrees Celsius in Barmer, 9.5 degrees Celsius in Dabok and 13.5 degrees Celsius in Jaipur.  Kota received 15.2 mm of rainfall, Bundi 5 mm, Sawai Madhopur 3 mm, Banasthali 0.4 mm and Jaipur 0.2 mm.  Maximum temperatures in the state were recorded between 17 degree Celsius and 28 degree Celsius at most of the places, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/cold-conditions-prevail-in-rajasthan-amid-rains/story-k0KcKWRzg3JUi5eITxfU2J.html
03-01-2021||City||Production level of industries 79% in December: MCCIA survey||PUNE There was a marginal increase in the production level of industries in Pune in December, according to a survey conducted by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA).As many as 150 firms participated in the survey.According to the survey the current level of production of these industrial units increased from 78 per cent in November to 79 per cent in December while the number of employees working has stayed the same at 82 per cent.Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCIA, said, “While the weighted average shows only a marginal increase in production this month, the large companies show between 85-95 per cent recovery on an average and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are catching up especially in the last couple of months.”“Across the board, companies are more optimistic about full recovery in this month’s survey responses as compared to last month,” he said.According to the survey 27 per cent of the companies said their production was already at pre-Covid levels. Whereas 23 per cent of the respondents said that they expect their production levels to go back to the pre-Covid levels in less than three months. Also, 31 per cent of the respondents said they expect it to take between three to six months, 13 per cent said it would take between six and nine months, four per cent said it would take beyond nine months and two per cent were uncertain.Sudhir Mehta, president, MCCIA, said, “While there is the month on month progress, MSMEs are facing some acute challenges.”“One of the key challenges faced in recent past is that of escalating raw material prices, especially that of metals like iron, steel and aluminium and even plastic. This is making operations of many inviable. We appeal to the government to take note of this and intervene appropriately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/production-level-of-industries-79-in-december-mccia-survey/story-UKFwpc2uVvneMy2yBP4dLK.html
03-01-2021||City||Expect cloudy skies this week in Pune: IMD||PUNE The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday forecast cloudy weather in the city this week.The day and night temperature is likely to rise making January‘s first week a bit warmer than usual.“The day temperature this week will be around 29 degrees Celsius whereas night temperature will be around 15 degrees Celsius. The skies may be cloudy throughout the week in Pune,” said IMD officials.The day temperature reported was recorded at 30.4 degrees Celsius which was 1.4 degrees more than normal.The night temperature in the city was also reported to be 4.2 degrees more than normal. That is, the expected night temperature was 10.5 degrees Celsius whereas the reported night temperature was 14.7 degrees Celsius.The weather department has forecast that on January 6 and 7, some parts of Konkan and Goa and Madhya Maharashtra may witness light rainfall. During this time, Vidarbha and Marathwada will have dry weather.The highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra was reported at 34.8 degrees Celsius at Panjim. And the lowest minimum temperature in the state was reported at 13 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/expect-cloudy-skies-this-week-in-pune-imd/story-O7LoGcQp4VsdEGV358zLIM.html
03-01-2021||Patna||‘Don’t need anybody’s offer’: JDU chief on rejoining Grand Alliance||Amid growing voices from the RJD to the JD(U) to rejoin the grand alliance (GA), Janata Dal (United) national president RCP Singh said his party was a strong entity in itself and does not need support from anybody, giving a rebuff to the opposition party. “The JD(U) exists on the strength of its leader and does not need any offer from anybody. We have not put any application seeking support from anybody,” he said, in an oblique attack on the RJD. Singh was speaking to reporters after attending an event to mark the birth anniversary of social reformer and educationist Savitribai Phule in Patna. Incidentally, the JD(U) president’s remarks, to underline that his party was not giving any weightage to the RJD’s feelers to cross over to the GA, comes a day after former deputy chief minister and BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi alleged that jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad was calling up his party MLAs from paid ward at RIMS, Ranchi to engineer defections. The senior BJP leader’s attack on the RJD chief could be seen in the context of RJD leaders asking the JD(U) to cross over to the RJD-led GA and former minister Shyam Rajak’s recent claim that around 17 JD(U) MLAs were in touch with the RJD. Also read: Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talksThe RJD’s pitch to offer JD(U) to realign with the GA has gained momentum in last few weeks after there was a bit of strain between JD(U) and BJP following the Arunachal Pradesh episode where seven JD(U) MLAs switched to the saffron party.However, chief minister Nitish Kumar, in the last few days, has rubbished theories of any rift within the NDA and also asserted his party was intact. That apart, in his tweet, Modi also said the JD(U) and BJP, having a friendship for over two decades, had witnessed a bad patch because of elements jealous of the bonhomie between the two old allies but the phase passed off. Besides, he also said, the opposition is feeling restless when the people’s mandate has once again been given to the NDA. On its part, RJD state spokesperson Mritunjan Tiwary said today that senior BJP leader Modi was in the habit of making all sorts of allegations against RJD chief. “Modi’s allegations against RJD chief Lalu Prasad of trying to destabilise the government by promoting defections are all baseless. The NDA should first keep its own house in order,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/don-t-need-anybody-s-offer-jdu-chief/story-kGUolFUaIwZXMi3wR573wK.html
03-01-2021||Dehradun||AAP’s debate challenge: Uttarakhand min says politics serious subject, not theatre that AAP wants open debate||Amid the ongoing debate challenge politics between Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik, the latter has written a four-page open letter to Sisodia in which he has called him a “tourist politician to Uttarakhand”. Kaushik released the letter on social media on Sunday in which he also attacked the AAP government in Delhi by alleging it of “duping” people of Delhi in its seven-year rule”. Kaushik’s open letter has come in response to Sisodia’s letter dated December 31 wherein he had invited Kaushik for an open debate in Dehradun on January 4 on the development works done by the BJP government in its three and a half years of tenure. Kaushik in his letter stated, “Uttarakhand welcomes crores of tourists each year. It doesn’t have any problem in welcoming a tourist politician like you.”Replying on Sisodia’s debate challenge, he said, “As far as the debate challenge is concerned, any of our leader, minister or even a small party worker is ready for it anywhere. But Sisodia should understand that politics is a serious subject and not any theatre show that he wants with the open debate.”Also read: Farmers, govt hopeful of positive outcome day before 7th round of talksAttacking the AAP, he termed it as a party with a “migratory” mindset. “Everyone in the country knows about it. Sometimes their leadership tries to leave Delhi and head to Uttar Pradesh and then it tries for chief ministership of Punjab. Now they have turned towards Uttarakhand. However, people of our state are very aware and believe only on development-based politics and not AAP’s hope-selling politics due to which people of Delhi are suffering,” said Kaushik.Citing Sisodia’s challenge to list five development works in health, education, power, water, employment and others, Kaushik alleged that “AAP’s Delhi government has failed on all these fronts but it is asking Uttarakhand’s BJP government which has done several hundred works on these fronts.”“In education, the AAP government promised to open 400 libraries in Delhi but not even 1/4th have been set up. Also, it has falsely praised itself by supplying water for only two hours a day in many areas. Their Mohalla Clinics have also been locked, on which they thump their chests. There is also a constant dropout of children from government schools in Delhi. On the other hand, if Sisodia checks the works done by us, he will know the reality,” said Kaushik. He also took a jibe on Sisodia’s letter which stated the year 2020 instead of 2021 as the debate date. “It just shows how much he is serious with facts and figures. He should first do proper homework and check the facts before coming for a debate.”On Kaushik’s letter, AAP Uttarakhand president SS Kaler said, “If Kaushik doesn’t come forward for the debate on Monday, it will show that there are no development works to show. We will then go among people to expose this government. This will enable people to look for themselves at development claims while voting in the next assembly elections in the state in 2022,” said Kaler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/tourist-politician-uttarakhand-minister-madan-kaushik-s-dig-at-manish-sisodia/story-skrbg3oD2jKr9R2gEdtcUM.html
03-01-2021||City||Covid rules put single-screens in permanent closure territory: cinema owners||PUNE While multiplexes in the city were hoping gain some traction in terms of moviegoers returning to cinemas, not least because the Wonder Women movie opened in the last week of 2020, single screen theatres have not re-opened; and fear that re-opening may not be possible, right now.With city-based multiplexes complaining of being allowed not more than 50 per cent occupancy in terms of seats, single theatres are on the brink of closure.Following thegovernment of Maharashtra order to open halls/ theatres/ multiplexes/ drama theatres, on November 5, 2020, single-screen theatre owners had decided not to open.Sadanand Mohol, president, Single-screen theatre owners association and owner of Vaibhav theatre in Hadapsar, said, “We are sticking with our decision and have not opened the doors of our theatres. Now it does not seem feasible with 50 per cent occupancy and with no eatables allowed inside the theatre. Fourteen theatres within Pune district, as well as 520 theatres in Maharashtra, are suffering with no business at all. If we were to open now, it will be double the cost for us, besides maintenance, which is not a good idea.”The notification also states that no eatables will be allowed inside the cinema halls/ theatres/ multiplexes/ drama theatres.Deepak Kudale, ex-president of the association, said, “There are limited films that are being screened and none that could get us a good audience. Besides, even with 50 per cent occupancy, we are getting low audience numbers as they are cautious and prefer to wait for the vaccine.”Multiplex Owners Association’s Arvind Chaphalkar, said, “We opened screens, but there are only few films running and even with 50 per cent occupancy, we get only 10 to 15 per cent audience. We are thinking of shutting down the multiplexes again if things don’t turn around. We have been hearing about 100 good films in the pipeline for release, but I guess distributors are also waiting for 100 per cent occupancy to release them.” Chaphalkar owns the Citypride multiplex in Kothrud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-rules-put-single-screens-in-permanent-closure-territory-cinema-owners/story-qsfp4RRUG2UmQHS1bFLYLO.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Jai, Nitika finish at the top in 16km cyclothon at Chandigarh||Jai Dogra clinched the top honours in the men’s 16km cycle race in the Daily World Chandigarh Cyclothon that started from Sukhna Lake on Sunday. Himmat Sinz won silver, while Jatinder Kumar bagged the bronze medal. In the women’s 16km event, Nitika Sharma won gold, while Rashdeep clinched silver and Chinu finished third.In the men’s 10km race, Sudhir Sindhu finished first, followed by Sumit Gupta and Rajesh Kumar.Anushka emerged first in the women’s 10km race, while Sanvi Gupta came second and Megha bagged the third position. Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore, who was the chief guest, also participated in the cyclothon.Suresh Kumar, chief principal secretary to the Punjab chief minister, was the guest of honour.Results16km men: 1. Jai Dogra, 2. Himmat Sinz, 3. Jatinder Kumar.16km women: 1. Nitika Sharma, 2. Rashdeep, 3. Chinu.10km men: 1. Sudhir Sindhu, 2. Sumit Gupta, 3. Rajesh Kumar.10km women: 1. Anushka, 2. Sanvi Gupta, 3. Megha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jai-nitika-finish-at-the-top-in-16km-cyclothon-at-chandigarh/story-WXAwtZcx4alr7fn7LEfGyH.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||To revive Kangra art, serve it on a plate||Kangra or Pahari art is thought to have originated in the 18th century in Guler, a hill state in the Himalayas, after a family of Kashmiris trained in the Mughal art style settled there. Soon, as they mixed with other local artists, a new art form emerged. Portraits of royals of the Mughal court or love scenes were replaced by paintings of Radha and Krishna, immortalising their divine love.Today, the fading Kangra art form is being revived through Project Srijan, an initiative by the local administration, which was launched in the Rait block of Kangra district in October this year, to provide ideation and marketing support to artists of Kangra style.Those specialising in the Guler and Basohli styles of painting and are known for their traditional black pottery, have been roped in to revive the era of Ras Nayikas and Krishna Ras.“From the detailed vegetations depicted in Kangra style to the beautiful yellow backgrounds of the Basohli style, we have continually been working with artisans to develop new products with Kangra style paintings,” says Latika Sehajpal, block development officer, Rait.The exorbitant costs of the paintings led to a disconnect between art and the masses. “Digital paintings have also taken over the market of hand-painted art forms,” adds Sehajpal.Kangra administration takes initiative to create affordable objet d’art with prints of the art form at affordable costs. “We have developed the paintings on glass plates, wooden stands, slates, and small glass framed paintings in an affordable range of Rs 2,000 to Rs 3000 and do not compromise on the beauty and detailing of the paintings,”she says.More innovations are being worked out. Earthen clay plates are being created in collaboration with experts in black pottery from Dharamkot village near Dharamshala.These plates are then painted in Basohli and Guler styles.Black pottery is an ancient technique of pottery and is done in only a few pockets of India, including Nizamabad (Uttar Pradesh) and Longpi (Manipur).“More products are being developed to revive painting styles and are being procured by government offices as ideal gifting options. A new marketplace in Dharamshala is also being finalised for providing brick and mortar outlets to these products,” says Sehajpal.The project now covers bamboo and cloth painting artisans to develop products such as bamboo fruit trays, outdoor decor and wall with traditional bamboo products.“In 2021, all these products will be sold online through Instagram,” said Sehajpal.The products are on display at an exhibition in Shimla.For financial assistance to artisans under this project, Sehajpal says two schemes, the Mukhya Mantri Gram Kaushal Yojana (MMGKY) and National Rural Livelihood Mission, have been dovetailed.Under MMGKY, a batch of five students learning each art form – Basholi, Guler and black pottery – has been started this year. The master trainers and the trainees are both getting financial assistance to preserve and propagate the painting styles||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/to-revive-kangra-art-serve-it-on-a-plate/story-qLI6QAeGgyJYtkCshIfuuM.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||Kurla railway station to get 80 electric bikes from February||Commuters will be able to travel using electric bikes from Kurla railway station from February.The Central Railway (CR) along with mobile application-based electric bike-sharing platform Yulu will be introducing 80 e-bikes outside the west side of Kurla railway station.The bike services are being introduced particularly to provide connectivity between Kurla and Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC).Commuters will have to download the mobile application and pay ₹5 to unlock the e-bike. They will be charged ₹1.5 per minute for the ride.After downloading the Yulu mobile app, passengers can scan the quick response (QR) code or enter the vehicle number to unlock the bike.“The e-bikes have received good passenger response in BKC. There were requests from passengers to introduce the services on other railways as well. To increase last-mile connectivity, we will be introducing the service at Kurla railway station.” said a senior CR official.E-bikes are currently available at BKC.The zonal railway awarded the contract for parking, operating and charging e-bikes to Yulu for one year. Additional area near Kurla railway station for parking of the e-bikes is also being looked into by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Further, CR is also working on introducing e-bike services at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Ghatkopar, Thane, Mulund and Bhandup railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kurla-railway-station-to-get-80-electric-bikes-from-february/story-crYcuUHzfDYt1k6UQ2iVeL.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Deputy CM Ajit Pawar asks committee to submit report on Mulshi dam||Pune district guardian minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has instructed the committee, appointed to explore whether Mulshi dam can supply water to Pune district, to submit its at the earliest. He added that the state government is awaiting the report so that they can decide if water can be drawn from the reservoir for irrigation and drinking purposes for Pune.The state government is planning to allot Mulshi dam water, currently being used by a private company for power generation, for drinking and irrigation purposes. A committee was constituted by the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government to explore the same. On Friday, Pawar during his programme in Pune, asked the committee to submit its report and also asked the private company to go slow on power generation since there is adequate supply of electricity in the state. Pawar said, “During the previous government, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had appointed a committee to study the Mulshi dam contract with the private company. Right now, the dam’s water is used for hydro electricity generation. I am following up with the committee and have instructed them to submit the report as early as possible, so that the state government can take a decision on it.” Pawar was speaking during the inauguration of the Bhama Askhed project, which will meet the water requirements of 10 lakh people living in the eastern parts of Pune.“India currently has surplus energy. The water is needed more for drinking and irrigation purposes. There is always a conflict in Pune district over the issue of water. Despite having Mulshi dam in the district, water is not being used for drinking. We think water from Mulshi dam should get to the Pune city and district,” said Pawar.Pune district has not been drawing water from the Mulshi dam. The Mulshi dam water is controlled by a private company, which utilises the water for hydroelectricity generation. The hydropower project located in Mulshi was established in 1927. Pawar said, “I met the officers from the irrigation department and instructed them to submit the report early.” Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis who was also present during Friday’s function, said, “We need to treat water as a precious commodity. Pune’s population is increasing and various industries are located in and around Pune city. We need to properly plan the usage of water.” The officer who is heading this committee was not available for comment despite repeated attempts. Meanwhile, BJP’s state unit president Chandrakant Patil has also appealed to Pawar to sort out Pune city’s water problem permanently given that civic limits will have 23 more villages soon and city’s population will increase by 5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-asks-committee-to-submit-report-on-mulshi-dam/story-mZ6nuFY9Ed9kLCnOTAuHuO.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||300 stranded tourists rescued near Atal Tunnel||More than 300 tourists stranded in snow near the Atal Tunnrel in Rohtang Pass were rescued safely by Kullu police on Sunday, even as the state meteorological department issued an orange alert for Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts for January 5, forecasting heavy snowfall which was likely to hamper transportation, water and electricity supplies.The tourists who were rescued had left from Manali on Saturday morning for Lahaul, but were forced to return at night after not getting accommodation. Their vehicles were then stranded near the tunnel because of snow and slippery roads, said superintendent of police (SP) Kullu Gaurav Singh. Lahaul and Spiti police then coordinated with their counterparts in Kullu to clear the tunnel.As many as 70 vehicles, including 14 multi utility vehicles (Maruti Gypsy), a 48 seater bus, a 24 seater police bus and a police quick reaction team (QRT) were deployed for the rescue mission, Singh said.Meanwhile, even as snowfall continued in the higher reaches and rain in the middle and lower hills on Sunday, the road to Dodra Kawar in Shimla district’s Chanshal, which received 60cm fresh snow, was blocked.  Gondla received 21cm snow, Koksar 13cm, Pooh in Kinnaur district received 10cm, Manali 9 cm and Kalpa 6cm. Apart from this, Keylong received 9mm rain, Bilaspur 8mm, Dharamshala 7.8mm while Shimla and Solan recorded 3mm rain each.Rain and snow was forecast by the MET department in the state up to January 6.Yellow warnings were also issued for the higher, middle and lower hills for January 4 and for the lower hills for January 5.Manmohan Singh, director of the state MET department, said weather was likely to remain clear after that till January 9.“Minimum temperatures increased by two to three degrees while maximum temperatures went down by five to six degrees during the last 24 hours” he added.Shimla on Sunday recorded a low of 5.9°Celsius and Kufri 3.1°C.Prominent tourist destinations including Manali, Dalhousie and Dharamshala and recorded minimum temperatures of -1.4°C, -0.4°C and 5.4°C, respectively.Una recorded a low of 7.7°C , Solan 4.5°C , Bilaspur 6.5°C, Hamirpur 6.8°C, Nahan 8.1°C, Mandi 6.1°C and Kalpa -0.6°C in .Keylong, headquarters of tribal district Lahaul-Spiti remained the coldest place in the state at -6.1°C minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/300-stranded-tourists-rescued-near-atal-tunnel/story-qRHm9T00ovNHJBttihQ8iP.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||IMD predicts thunderstorm with moderate rain in Delhi, adjoining areas during next 2 hours||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday said thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of entire Delhi, Palwal, Hodal (Haryana), Nadbai, Nagar, Deeg, Laxmangarh, Bharatpur, Mehndipur Balaji (Rajasthan), Barsana, Nandgaon, Khataoli, Gulaoti, Chapraula (Uttar Pradesh) during the next two hours.Several parts of Delhi recorded moderate rain and thunder showers early this morning. It continued to rain in many parts of the city and neighbouring parts of northwest India. Delhi recorded 25.1 mm rain in the past 24 hours till 8.30am this morning. The normal rain expected in the entire month is 27.1 mm.Weather department officials said that current cloud patch has almost crossed the Delhi region. However, another patch is approaching towards Delhi region from northeast Rajasthan and southeast Haryana, which is most likely to give moderate to intense spell of rain over parts of Delhi and neighbouring areas during next 2-3 hours.The minimum temperature recorded till 6.30am was 9.9 degrees Celsius.A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over central Pakistan. It is likely to remain practically stationary during subsequent 2-3 days. An induced cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood and it is likely to persist over the same area during the next two days.The confluence of south-westerlies in association with the western disturbance and lower level south-easterlies is very likely to continue over plains of northwest and adjoining areas of central India during January 3 to 5, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin.Under the influence of these systems, moderate and widespread rainfall/snowfall is likely to occur over western Himalayan region during January 4 to 5 with its peak intensity.Widespread rainfall accompanied with thunderstorms are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh with maximum intensity on January 3 and 4.Hailstorm is likely at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana-Chandigarh, west Uttar Pradesh and Delhi during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/imd-predicts-thunderstorm-with-moderate-rain-in-delhi-adjoining-areas-during-next-2-hours/story-2c2MhriwlekYcAb3CU3d4N.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Key to conducting exams during a pandemic is micro-planning: Shakuntala Kale||Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has declared the dates of Class 10 and 12 examinations. Manasi Deshpande spoke to former chairperson of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE board) Shakuntala Kale, who retired from the post on December 31, about the planning and execution of the SSC and HSC examinations in Maharashtra and her experience in fulfilling the responsibilities during the pandemic.MSBSHSE board has just completed the re-examinations of SSC and HSC. What are the board’s plans for the regular SSC and HSC examinations to be conducted this year?It will depend on the situation as we move ahead this year. If the current condition (related to Covid-19 cases) continues then it will be possible to conduct exams in April-May. The board and its staff now have the experience of conducting exams during a pandemic, as we have successfully completed the re-examinations. We had set protocols for these exams - only 12 students in a block instead of 25 to ensure physical distancing, students were only allowed to take a pen and writing pad inside the examination hall, a mask was compulsory, thermal scanning was done at the entrance and all the examination centres were sanitized before the examinations. The board had provided financial aid to schools for this process. The key is micro-planning. Has the board decided the format of the question papers?If this situation persists then examination could be conducted in the routine format.What difficulties did you face in preparing and declaring the results of examinations conducted in 2020? How was it overcome?HSC examination was over before the lockdown and a SSC question paper was cancelled. But the challenge was to evaluate and then consolidate lakhs of answer sheets as there was transportation problem during the lockdown. We worked really hard to make this happen. When our evaluators, moderators could not reach us, the board reached out to them. Since you took charge of this responsibility, what was the most challenging task you had to face?As the head of this office, there are several responsibilities. Every year more than 17 lakh students appear for the SSC examination and more than 12 lakh students appear for HSC examination. It is a challenging task to conduct these examinations on schedule and declare the results on time. But in the last 55 years since the establishment of the board this year’s situation was unique. We never had to face such a challenge before. However, with the support of my team and everyone’s cooperation, we overcame the hurdles that came in our way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/key-to-conducting-exams-during-a-pandemic-is-micro-planning-shakuntala-kale/story-0u7GzHv1GWMJad4eosxwPI.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Pune civic body introduces “plug and key” garbage processing units||Currently when locals are protesting against setting up a garbage processing plants in their area, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has come up with a solution of “plug and key” units to save time and money.The new units installed on vehicles with different types of mesh attached with a conveyor belt will segregate dry garbage. Post segregation of garbage, the residue will be sent to scientific landfilling in Uruli Devachi garbage depot which is permissible as per National Green Tribunal (NGT) order.The civic administration claims that it is the first kind of mobile project in the city, which the PMC has brought in at Ramtekadi.Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The project will save time, money and minimum manpower. There will be no civil work to set up the plant. It will start just to plug and key and the processing will be done on machines. We need only fuel to run the machine.”Madhav Jagtap, deputy municipal commissioner, solid waste management department, said, “The project will run on two mobile vans. It doesn’t require much land like other garbage processing plants.”“At present, we cannot dump garbage at Uruli garbage depot as per NGT order. So, we will segregate the garbage and use it for different purposes. The contractor will make refuse-derived fuel (RDF) from the residue of garbage,” he said.At present, the PMC is facing resistance from locals in three major garbage processing plants which are located at Sus, Ambegaon and Keshavnagar areas. Residents are opposing a plant due to bad odour and filth. Besides that, PMC doesn’t find open space to set up garbage processing plants within the city as well as out of the PMC limit. Even the government is not keen to give land to PMC. The government had allotted land to the corporation in Pimpri-Sandas area in Pune district. It is a forest department land. However, it has not been handed over to PMC for more than five years now.The PMC standing committee approved a project on December 29 expediting the process as there is 45,000 metric tons of garbage laying without processing at Hadapsar.Officials said, “The mobile processing plant - also referred to as “plug and key” as it can be moved anywhere and make applicable - requires a small piece of land. The unit will be running in Ramtekadi industrial area on PMC’s land. “Sanket Jadhav, junior engineer, solid waste management department, said, “The process is used in the mining industry to segregate material of different size. On the machine, there are different types of mesh attached with a conveyor belt which segregate dry garbage. It requires only 15,000 square feet of land to segregate garbage. After segregation of garbage, the residue will be sent to scientific landfilling in Uruli Devachi garbage depot which is permissible as per NGT order.”“At present, the contractor will use two machines for garbage processing. It is a pilot project which will run for two months and after that, a proper tender will be floated,” he added.Requirement for conventional processing plantThe civic body requires 2 to 2.5 acre of land to set up 200 metric ton conventional processing plant and it also needs a 1,000KVs electrical connection. PMC is awaiting permission from the Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board (MSPCB) to run the project. The overall time is around eight months to start the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-introduces-plug-and-key-garbage-processing-units/story-ohEOg1EPnrO6ye8gAP7PLP.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Only 28% Pune schools submit Covid precautionary report ahead of reopening||Till Saturday, only 28 per cent schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits have submitted comprehensive precautionary details ahead of school reopening from January 4. Moreover, only 32 per cent of parents have given consent letters to send their children to school from January 4.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) stands firm on their decision to reopen classes for students studying in 9 to 12 next week. Officials said that as schools reopen, more students will start attending. Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner, PMC, said that of 529 schools in the PMC limits, private as well as PMC run, about 150 school managements have submitted their preparatory measures so far. “Some of them are still submitting their reports. The details will be available by January 3. Moreover, only 32 per cent parents with the PMC have given consent to send their children to school from January 4,” said Jagtap.He added that so far we have received 2,835 consent from parents whose children study in Class 9 12 in PMC-run schools. There are a total of 8,759 students in these classes, said Jagtap.He further added that over 80 per cent teachers from PMC-run schools have been tested for Covid-19 so far. “Teachers from one of the schools tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, but they have been asked not to come to the school. The schools have also been sanitised,” said Jagtap.“We had meetings with the headmaster and teachers’ association who have also supported us. Though there are some parents who are scared because of which the consent letters are less. But we are hopeful that more parents will agree as schools restart,” said Jagtap.He further added that some parents have transferred their children to Pune rural schools as they have started offline classes.Shivaji Daundkar, education officer with the PMC, said that around 80 per cent teachers have been tested for Covid and all tested negative.It is mandatory for teachers to undergo Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) test before the reopening of schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/only-28-pune-schools-submit-covid-precautionary-report-ahead-of-reopening/story-Q6WAJxjy6Gizg7Ub5ev6sL.html
03-01-2021||Pune||No technical glitches, fully prepared for vaccination, says Pune admin after dry run||The administration successfully completed its first dry run for Covid-19 vaccination wherein the software and the technical part involved in the vaccination process was put to test. The officials involved said that there were no technical glitches observed during the dry run.The dry run was conducted in three sites at district hospital Aundh, primary health care centre, Maan and at the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation-run Jijamata hospital.After the dry run conducted the administration has now said that now they are fully prepared to administer vaccines for health care workers under the first phase.Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, district civil surgeon, Aundh district hospital, said, “The dry run was to assess the preparedness of the administration in terms of the technical preparation. It is similar to the election process and includes the observation room. We have to verify the beneficiary’s Aadhar number and check if the name is enrolled on the app, then administer the vaccine and also update the daily doses used.”A few doctors, however, said that the vaccination process might get delayed as it takes more time to verify the details and update the COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) application.Co-WIN is an upgraded version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN), an indigenously developed platform in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.One of the health officers from PMC said that the technical part in the vaccination drive is time-consuming and unnecessary. The office requesting anonymity said, “It is futile to update the data of each beneficiary and also vaccinating those as per scheduled appointment instead of a first come first serve basis. If someone misses their appointment then they have to reschedule their appointment which is a tedious process. Also, all the details have to be updated regularly on the app after every vaccination which will be technically difficult in case of thousands of beneficiaries.”The state government in its letters to all district administrations wrote that the dry run was conducted to ensure physical verification of all proposed sites for the adequacy of space, logistical arrangements, internet connectivity, electricity, safety among others. Each session site must have separate entry and exit in a ‘three-room set-up’ (waiting room, vaccination room & observation room) with adequate space outside for awareness generation activities.A total of 1.10 lakh health care workers in the district are eligible for vaccination in the first phase out of which 89,000 have registered on the Co-WIN application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-technical-glitches-fully-prepared-for-vaccination-says-pune-admin-after-dry-run/story-01TMTGvRwnPA0YwHvcGUUP.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Yourspace: Fitness, family top new year’s resolution list||I have been thinking for the entire 2020 that I will get in shape by losing weight and it was my top resolution for that year. But I could not do anything during the 12 months. This year, I am planning to “exercise more” and “stay fit and healthy”. It’s easy to say that it is enough to start an exercise and follow a strict diet programme, but the real challenge is to start implementing it in real life and give steady results which will be easy to stick to in the long run. Also this year, I will extend the previous resolution by switching to a healthier diet and avoid junk food. I think that a strong determination and some basic tips from experts will help me slowly develop healthier eating habits and fit body for 2020 and beyond. It is indeed a major embarrassment when people pay attention towards one’s bulging tummy. It will be hard to follow, but I am going to act on my resolution without fail.Shweta GhuleTo devote more time to self-careMy resolution for 2021 is to do physical exercises and wake up before everyone else in the house in the morning. It is a tough task. I can never achieve and I am not physically fit. I am not strong enough to be a gym person or an early morning walker who goes for long strolls. All I know and am confident is that I will definitely try to become a better personality by personal grooming and maintain my body for 2021. I believe that individuals must resolve to love their self and accept themselves as they are and work passionately towards their goals of self-improvement. One should always be positive and put the best foot forward for self-improvement. One must take charge of emotions and see people you love getting emotionally attached to you. I resolve to devote at least two hours for myself in the mornings and evenings. I had decided to take it up last year, but again the plans were put on hold. I regret to have lost last one year in rumination.Radhika MhaskeTo stop wasting and become more productiveI believe that resolutions are often made to do away with bad and useless activities which occupy our lives during the entire year. The useless activities that consume time by way of unproductive behaviour and yield nothing are to be erased and replaced with new activities that never go in waste and bring productive changes in the personality of a person. It’s very hard to avoid unwanted activities that kill our time and take a major chunk of lifetime. As a student, time is the most precious thing which I want to use for my growth and development. If I waste time then my life will be wasted. My resolutions are to get up earlier in the morning, getting organised, learning something new each passing day, exercise regularly, be more assertive, eat healthy food, enjoy every moment of life, proactively help others specially the poor and needy people, stop wasting time and doing hard work for achieving success. In order to attain my resolutions and goals which are the same as last year, I will bring many changes in my daily life. The same opportunity I missed a year ago due to laziness. One of the biggest cause of killing time is excessive use of social media, specially Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, email and YouTube. This year, I will limit the time I spend on social media and ensure that my new year resolutions see the light of the day.Michael DorairajTo be a better family memberI will respect elders and avoid pressure of college friends to indulge in negative activities like smoking and drinking. I would also try to have healthy food and stick to a fitness regime. I would choose to watch good films online and devote time for studies for my university exams. This year, I will attend motivational talks and avoid negative persons. I will seek parents’ guidance when I face any difficulty. I would try to control my anger and engage in constructive work. Many students don’t do house works and I am one of them. I will not become a messy housemate and commit myself to help parents. I will wash dishes after meals and clean kitchen. A clean house makes us at ease, and help to prioritise work and deadlines. This is the best way to help our family members happy.Shantanu BhilareTo spend more time with near and dear onesIn 2020, I want to get involved with volunteering, a chance I missed. I will help my local community and make a difference to the people around me. I may not get paid, but dedicating time and skills to different projects will help me to gather skills one would do in a paid job, and more. Volunteering is an experience which changes your personality and makes you a better person. I would like to slow down my life, because it has become too busy, leaving me with no time for reflection, introspection and communication with my family and friends. Sometimes it seems like my nearest and dearest people receive too little attention and care from me, so this gap will be filled and I will spend more time with my parents and near and dear ones. I would like to state that I will not keep waiting for New Year resolution and will realise my plan in the present .It is not necessary to wait for the new year in order to change your life, because some alterations can and must be done immediately to change your dull and monotonous life.Neha SinghChange does not follow a deadlineMy new year resolution is to not have a New Year resolution at all. If there is anything my past failed resolutions have taught me, it’s this: Change doesn’t follow a deadline. It’s a mindful and gradual process that one needs to invest in over time. So, if someone really wishes to make a change in their life, they need not wait for the New Year. It can happen anytime. Change comes from within so listen to your heart, put your mind to it and make a gradual shift towards your goal.Aditi Roy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-fitness-family-top-new-year-s-resolution-list/story-kImPTMHEKdVxFlFZTEpdlL.html
03-01-2021||Bhopal||Shivraj Singh Chouhan inducts 2 new ministers in MP Cabinet||In the first expansion post state Assembly by-polls, held in November last year, two new ministers were inducted in Shivraj Singh Chouhan Cabinet on Sunday. Tulsiram Silavat (66) and Govind Singh Rajput (67) were re-inducted days after they had to resign from the Cabinet in October last year since they had completed six months in their respective offices without becoming members of the state Assembly. Silavat and Rajput, both loyalists of senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, won the by-polls on BJP tickets with impressive margins. While Silavat’s victory margin was more than 50,000 votes from Sanver Assembly constituency in Indore district, Rajput won Surkhi seat in Sagar district with a margin of more than 40,000 votes. Governor Anandiben Patel administered the oath of office and secrecy to the two ministers at Raj Bhavan premises on Sunday afternoon in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. With the induction of two ministers, Chouhan cabinet now has 31 ministers, including Chouhan and there are still four ministerial berths vacant. The 31 ministers include 24 cabinet ministers and 7 ministers of state. Congress was prompt to attack the chief minister after the cabinet expansion. State Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “The cabinet expansion has proved once again that Shivraj Singh Chouhan is not a strong (majboot) but a hapless (majboor) chief minister, who inducted those imported in the BJP but left out more than 12 committed BJP leaders, who deserve to be in the Cabinet. He seems to be under tremendous pressure that despite having four vacant ministerial berths, he had to ignore the claim of several senior BJP leaders.” Also Read: MP farmer and his son found dead in suspicious circumstancesState BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai responded by saying that the Congress should first look inwards. “It would have been better if the Congress leaders would have spoken about the composition of the then Kamal Nath cabinet. Nath had neglected and insulted several MLAs who deserved to be in his cabinet. Insult to senior party leaders was one of the major reasons behind the resignation by 22 Congress MLAs, including six ministers from the state assembly and later their joining the BJP in March. The exodus didn’t stop there. Three more Congress MLAs resigned in July and joined the BJP. The fact is that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan gave respect to the deserving MLAs by inducting them in his cabinet,” Bajpai said. The Chouhan government strengthened its majority in the 230-member state assembly by winning 19 of the 28 seats in the by-polls in November last year.The BJP has 126 members in the assembly.Earlier, Chouhan had expanded his cabinet on July 2, 2020 with 28 new ministers including 20 cabinet ministers and eight ministers of state. Twelve of the 28 ministers were ex-MLAs, who later contested the by-polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/shivraj-singh-chouhan-inducts-2-new-ministers-in-mp-cabinet/story-WNgBtrq6bQjmAdRy0c3u1L.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Man booked for sexual harassment of daughter’s friend||A case of sexual harassment was registered against a 43-year-old man for allegedly kissing his daughter’s friend on New Year’s eve in Manjri, Hadapsar.He was arrested on Friday and released on bail by a local court.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 19-year-old woman.“She is friends with the accused man’s daughter. On December 31, she had gone to visit her friend next door and that is when the man allegedly pulled her and kissed her. A complaint is registered and investigation is underway,” said senior police inspector Balkrushna Kadam.The complainant is a third-year science graduate student.“The accused works in the private sector in Ahmednagar and only visits his house in the city once a week. After the incident, the girl got scared and ran home. She then came to the police. We arrested him and took him to court. The court put him in judicial custody and later granted him bail,” said assistant police inspector MD Patil of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case.A case under Section 354 (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Hadapsar police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-booked-for-sexual-harassment-of-daughter-s-friend/story-EFF73SECfSuQ5Y4ifbruXM.html
03-01-2021||Pune||13 UK returnees test positive for Covid-19 in Pune district, samples sent to NIV for genome sequencing||As many as 13 people, who had travelled from the United Kingdom to Pune district have tested positive for the Sar-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection as of January 2, said officials.Their swab samples have now been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for genome sequencing which would determine if the stain has the new variant of the novel coronavirus.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “It takes at least ten days to get the genome sequencing results and we have not got any of the results as of yet. We are regularly following up with the patients for testing and awaiting test results.”The administration has till now been able to trace 968 out of the 1,027 UK returnees who came to Pune between November 25 and December 23.Out of the 13 who have tested positive, six each are from PMC and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) regions and one from Pune rural area.While the district administration has been able to trace every passenger (81) who returned from the UK to the rural areas of the district, two passengers from PCMC and 57 from PMC have not been able to be traced yet. A total of 59 are yet to be traced said the administration.The PMC has been repeatedly requesting passengers to report to the administration with their negative RTPCR and opt for negative reports.Those who have returned to the country before December 22 have to submit a negative report to the administration or could contact the PMC at 020-25506800/01/02/03||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/13-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-pune-district-samples-sent-to-niv-for-genome-sequencing/story-a4LSgBsjgMEGoamjIQNdAL.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Man found dead on roadside at Hadapsar was murdered: Police||The man whose body was found on the roadside in Magarpatta, Hadapsar was murdered, according to the police.The deceased has been identified only as Santosh (34), who lived in Malwadi, Hadapsar along with some unidentified roommates, according to the police.His body was found on Friday and was wrapped in a piece of cloth and disposed at the side of the road near Lohiya Garden in Magarpatta, Hadapsar.The body was disposed off by a man named Jayesh Kadam (32), a resident of Hadapsar and a caterer in a fit of fear, according to senior police inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Hadapsar police station.“The deceased was working for a caterer in Loni Kalbhor area. The employer has been identified as Narayan Vyas (30), and he ran a catering service. Santosh originally worked for Jayesh Kadam and had gone to work for Vyas on December 31 for one assignment. He was awake until 10 pm that night and slept at Vyas’s place. The next morning, Kadam got a call that he was not moving. Kadam went to where Santosh was, saw that he was dead, and put him in a tempo and tried to find the room where Santosh lived in Malwadi but could not find it. He says he was scared about being in possession of a dead body and threw it at the roadside,” said Kadam.The police meanwhile, had sent the body for post-mortem at Sassoon General Hospital. Upon autopsy, the man was found to have been strangled, according to the police.Therefore, a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station and transferred to Loni Kalbhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-found-dead-on-roadside-at-hadapsar-was-murdered-police/story-EHAoT4IERqSkNqo3vktHZK.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Four minors apprehended for setting three vehicles ablaze in Kothrud||Four minors out of a group of five to six unidentified men were apprehended for setting three motorbikes and shutter of a shop on fire in Kothrud in the early morning hours of Friday.“They were led by a man who has a history of body offences. He does not live here. He comes to the city and commits offences. He is yet to be arrested,” said police inspector (crime) Balasaheb Bade of Kothrud police station.The police do not suspect any specific reason for the vandalism. However, those booked in the case are suspected to have been inebriated when they set the vehicles on fire.“Three motorbikes were set ablaze. The shutter of one of the shops was partially burnt and the glass of one van was broken. We have arrested four people,” said senior police inspector Sunil Tambe of Kothrud police station.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sanket Katwal (26), a resident of Shiv Shaktinagar of Samarth Colony in Kothrud where the incident happened. Katwal owned one of three vehicles that were charred.A case under Sections 435, 436, 427, 504, 506, 34 and rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Kothrud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-minors-apprehended-for-setting-three-vehicles-ablaze-in-kothrud/story-yE7U51BoUsr4iF2NfeL6hN.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Pune International Film Festival postponed to a later date||The Pune International Film Festival (PIFF) has been postponed to a later date, said organisers on Saturday.As the 51st edition of International Film Festival of India (IFFI) will kick-start in Goa from January 16 to 24 so PIFF has been postponed.IFFI, the official film festival of India, was scheduled to be held in Goa from November 20-28 last year.Dr Jabbar Patel, director, PIFF, said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic schedules of most of the film festivals have been postponed. We will soon be calling for a government council meeting and the dates will be decided.”Earlier, the organisers of PIFF had announced on their web page and through social media to hold the 19th edition of PIFF between January 14 to 21.“We had planned to organise the festival from January 14, but now with IFFI schedule, we will have to look at different dates. We are in the process of getting the films for competition and a good number of Marathi films have arrived at our offices as an entry for the prestigious Marathi film competition during PIFF,” said Aditi Akkalkotkar, deputy director- coordination and communication, PIFF.The week-long film festival that brings international cinema to the city, is usually held during the second week to January every year. Like IFFI, which the Information and Broadcasting Ministry has announced is to be held as a hybrid festival with screenings of films taking place virtually and some physically, PIFF too intends to hold it similarly.“It has become the norm for international film festivals to be held in such a hybrid way and we are ready for this platform too,” said Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-international-film-festival-postponed-to-a-later-date/story-aC6RBdTxTPF9T91cv98ejO.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal lauds scientists, doctors after approval to 2 Covid-19 vaccines||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that approval for the emergency use of two made in India vaccines will give a positive direction to the country’s fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Congratulating the countrymen, Kejriwal saluted the scientists and doctors for the achievement.“Congratulations to all the countrymen. Approval by DCGI to emergency use of two made in India vaccines will give a positive direction to the country’s fight against corona. Salute to the scientists and doctors whose hard work helped us reach here,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The approval was granted by the DCGI following the recommendation by the Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).Union health minister Harsh Vardhan termed it a “watershed moment in India’s battle against Covid-19”.The World Health Organisation (WHO) also welcomed the move, saying it will “help intensify and strengthen the fight against the pandemic in the region”.“The use of vaccines in prioritised populations, along with continued implementations of other public health measures and community participation will be important in reducing the impact of Covid-19,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region.Pfizer had also applied for regulatory approval for its vaccine on December 4 but not much progress has been made on it after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-lauds-scientists-doctors-after-approval-to-2-covid-19-vaccines/story-aC6Dk6LTJDQYsc2vqlKIIN.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi BJP launches drive against AAP over corporation funds||The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday held a “public awareness” campaign to inform people that the Delhi government owes the three municipal corporations ruled by the party Rs 13,000 crore and demanded immediate release of this fund.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, along with MPs and other senior leaders, held a protest at the booth level, and distributed pamphlets informing people about how the corporations are unable to pay salaries and pension to its employees. Gupta said, “We want to tell people of Delhi that the government is not releasing the pending dues worth Rs13,000 crore to the corporations.” After the mayors and BJP councillors called off their protest outside Delhi chief minister Arvind kejriwal’s residence in December, the BJP has said that they will continue the protest in a different form.Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said that this protest was part of the BJP’s continuous campaign to demand its dues from the government. “The corporations have been facing huge financial problems and the government has turned a blind eye to their demands. On Sunday, our leaders and party workers protested at the booth level and will be going from door-to-door to distribute pamphlets to inform people how the government owes the corporations Rs 13,000 crore.”Khurana said that the party aims to connect with five million people during its campaign.Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has denied the allegations. The party has in the last few weeks accused the BJP of a 2500 crore scam in the civic bodies. In a statement, the AAP said, “Due to the rampant corruption of the BJP ruled corporations in the last 15 years, today they have no other way of spreading a lie regarding the AAP government. The claim that the AAP govt owes an imaginary Rs 13,000 to the corporations is a mere drama by the BJP. Citizens of Delhi gave BJP the responsibility of the MCD so they were supposed to take care of the sanitation of Delhi; they did not perform their duties but made MCD a den of corruption. AAP has run the Delhi government in profit and if the citizens of Delhi give us the responsibility, we will do the same in the municipal corporations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-launches-drive-against-aap-over-corporation-funds/story-27ioDbjgr7dVMPO7X7InVJ.html
03-01-2021||Jaipur||Bird Flu in Rajasthan: 7 crow deaths in Jaipur, teams sent to districts||The Bird flu scare continues to grow in Rajasthan with deaths of seven more crows reported on Sunday at Jal Mahal in Jaipur, taking the toll to 252. The animal husbandry department has sent teams to districts and set up a state-level control room to monitor the situation. The first-ever incident of bird flu in Rajasthan is a serious concern for the government and for the people, who are already struggling with Covid-19. The bird flu (Avian Influenza) caused by the virus H5N1 is contagious and fatal. In March 2020, the death of dozens of crows due to Bird Flu was reported from various parts of Bihar, which sparked fear among the residents amid the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. In 2006, the death of chickens due to this flu was reported from Maharashtra. Principal secretary, Animal Husbandry, Kunji Lal Meena said deaths due to this virus are mainly reported among crows and majority of cases have been reported from Kota and Jodhpur division.“The flu is dangerous and guidelines have been issued. All the field officers and others have been asked to be vigilant. The poultry farm owners are asked to be more vigilant and effective monitoring is being ensured at all sites, especially at wetlands, Sambhar Lake and Kaila Devi bird sanctuary,” said Meena. Also Read: Gehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in JaipurMeena said the death of crows was first reported on December 25 from Jhalawar and the samples of the dead crows were sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) at Bhopal, which confirmed Bird Flu as the cause of deaths. Till date, the death of 100 crows is reported from Jhalawar, 72 from Baran, 47 from Kota, 19 in Pali and seven each from Jodhpur and Jaipur. Department secretary, Arushi Malik said the government of India’s guidelines for containment of Bird Flu are being followed and an alert has been sounded in all districts. Department additional director, Bhawani Rathore said, “The situation is not alarming but we are vigilant, ensuring that this virus does not enter domestic animals. The guidelines are followed and dead animals are buried.” He said that over 75 samples have been sent from various places for testing. Chief wildlife warden, ML Meena, said the department has sounded an alert and field staff is asked to be more vigilant. The Avian Influenza has been confirmed only in Jhalawar but directions have been issued to track water bodies and suspicious deaths of birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bird-flu-in-rajasthan-7-crow-deaths-in-jaipur-teams-sent-to-districts/story-kI0AwKwmdNsLPJ2FcdvytN.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Healthcare, frontline workers to be vaccinated in first phase in Delhi: Satyendar Jain as Centre approves 2 vaccines||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday healthcare and frontline workers will be administered the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the first phase in the national capital, even as the Drugs Controller General of India gave final approval for the emergency-use of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech shots.“There are three lakh healthcare workers and six lakh frontline workers in Delhi who will be administered with the Covid-19 vaccine,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The health minister had said on Saturday all residents of Delhi, who were eligible, will be given the Covid-19 vaccines free of cost and that the government had made all arrangements from storing the shots to administering the doses. “The Delhi government already provides free medicines and treatment to residents of the city. The vaccine against Covid-19 will also be provided free of cost to the people of Delhi, once it arrives,” he said while addressing reporters.Also Read| Covishield vs Covaxin against Covid-19: All you need to knowChief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced on December 24 last year that the Delhi government had identified 5.1 million people, who come under the Centre’s ‘priority category’, would be administered the vaccines in the first phase. Kejriwal said that each of these people was being registered and an SMS would be sent to their phones notifying about the date, time and place of vaccination. The chief minister highlighted that the ‘priority category’ was divided into three parts: healthcare workers, frontline workers, and the elderly and those with comorbidities adding that each person will be given two doses of the vaccine. In the first phase, healthcare workers & frontline workers will be vaccinated. There are three lakh healthcare workers & six lakh frontline workers in Delhi who will be administered with the COVID vaccine: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain https://t.co/2nt2ogyq93 pic.twitter.com/jkNScrMTyqThe national capital registered 494 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the lowest in seven months. The total cases are now over 626,000 of which 10,571 people have died. The active cases have dropped to 5,342 while 610,535 have been cured or discharged. Health minister Jain warned that though the third wave is going down, one needs to be careful and observe all precautions.Also Read| ‘Congratulations India’: PM Modi tweets after nod to Covid-19 vaccinesDCGI VG Somani said the overall efficacy of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine was 70.42%, while Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was “safe and provides a robust immune response”. The British-developed Oxford-AstraZeneca shot is being made locally by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and will be branded Covishield, while Bharat Biotech has teamed up with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to make the vaccine.Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter right after the regulator’s announcement and said the approvals were a decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight that accelerates the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/healthcare-frontline-workers-to-be-vaccinated-in-first-phase-in-delhi-satyendar-jain-as-centre-approves-2-vaccines/story-SawPaJ8ZLRJ1FqdppF4bGK.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Rains, waterlogging cause inconvenience to farmers protesting at Delhi borders||Waterlogged tents, soaked firewood and blankets, and cold conditions -- farmers camping at Delhi borders in protest against new farm laws had a difficult morning on Sunday due to overnight rains. The continuous downpour led to waterlogging at agitation venues and waterproof tents did not help much, according to the protesters. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is a member of Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, said farmers have waterproof tents but they cannot protect them from biting cold and waterlogging. “The situation is very bad at protest sites due to rain which has caused waterlogging. There is so much cold after the rains, but the government is not able to see our misery,” he said. Gurwinder Singh, who is camping at Singhu Border, said there is waterlogging at some places as civic facilities are not up to the mark but asserted that the weather will not dampen the spirit of farmers who have been protesting for over a month. “Despite facing several problems, we will not move from here until our demands are met,” he said. According to a MeT Department official, heavy rainfall was reported in areas across Delhi and minimum temperatures have increased due to clouding and easterly winds. “Safdarjung observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 degrees Celsius, an increase of 6.7 degrees with 25 mm rain. Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius with 18 mm rain. Rain with hail storm is expected until January 6,” the official said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for more than a month, demanding repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and other two issues. Bharatiya Kisan Union Ugrahan leader Sukhdev Singh, whose Union is leading the protest at Tikri border, said arrangements made by farmers to brave the cold weather are not helping much because of rains and subsequent waterlogging. Veerpal Singh, a protesting farmer, said their blankets, clothes and wood are soaked.“Our clothes are soaked due to waterlogging caused by rains. Besides, we are facing difficulties to cook food as rain water has also soaked firewood. We do have an LPG cylinder but not everyone here has it,” he said. Dharmveer Yadav, who is camping at Ghazipur border protest site, said farmers will not move an inch from their agitation venues.“We are ready to face any problem, be it heavy or storm, but we will not leave this place in any condition until our demands are met,” Yadav said. Rainwater also entered camps at Burari ground and the protesters were seen draining the water out and rearranging their belongings to prevent from soaking in water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-waterlogging-cause-inconvenience-to-farmers-protesting-at-delhi-borders/story-mgYy5hEVNy6pll8gwlWAaK.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi borders remain closed due to farmers’ stir, traffic diverted||Several borders of the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Sunday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws. Delhi-UP border at Chilla and Ghazipur has been closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad. For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, the traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed. The traffic police on Sunday morning tweeted: “Singhu, Auchandi ,Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.”Motorists can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Faridabad stretches opening between the two states. The ongoing farmers’ protest entered day 39 on Sunday. The leaders of several farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders will be meeting the Centre for another round of talks on Monday to discuss the three contentious laws. They have demanded the scrapping of legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-borders-remain-closed-due-to-farmers-stir-traffic-diverted/story-m5R8CTrVbNdKMn8fhgrTbP.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||68 UK returnees found Covid positive in Maharashtra but not with new strain||None of the international passengers to have arrived in Maharashtra recently were found infected with the new coronavirus strain seen in the United Kingdom. Till Saturday, 68 passengers who returned from the UK between November 25 and December 22 have tested positive for Covid 19 but not with the new strain.“4,474 UK returnees who had landed between November 15 and December 23 have been traced till date. RT-PCR tests have been conducted on 3,278 of them 68 samples were found positive but they are yet to be found infected with the new variant,” said Maharashtra surveillance office Pradip Awate.Also Read: India reports 18,177 Covid-19 cases, 217 deaths in 24 hoursThe samples of those testing positive were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune to ascertain the type of virus they are infected with. Results for six of the 68 covid-19 positive passengers are awaited. 29 of these Covid-19 positive travellers are from Mumbai, 13 are from Pune, seven from Thane, nine from Nagpur, two each from Nashik, Aurangabad, Raigad, Buldhana and one each from Nanded and Washim.The state government has put the administration on alert after the discovery of the new mutant of Covid-19, believed to be much more infectious than all the previous strains.The state government has also started tracing contacts of those who tested positive.“We have traced 426 people who have come in contact with the UK returnees found positive with Covid-19 infection and 26 of them have tested positive,” Dr Awate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/68-uk-returnees-found-covid-positive-in-maharashtra-but-not-with-new-strain/story-yFEc8MQ7X3bU0SYZRWpgAM.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Chilla, Gazipur borders closed, Delhi Traffic Police urges commuters to take alternative routes||In view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation at the gates of the national capital, the Delhi Traffic Police on Sunday appealed to citizens to take alternative routes as Chilla and Gazipur borders remained closed due to the protests.“Traffic Alert The Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” Delhi Traffic Police wrote on Twitter.The police said that the following borders are open to Haryana -- Jharoda, Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, and Dundahera with Covid-19 precautions.“Traffic Alert Available Open Borders to Haryana are following- Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders. COVID PRECAUTIONS: WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE,” Traffic Police said in another tweet.While Tikri and Dhansa borders were closed for any traffic movement by police and Jhatikara border is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers, and pedestrian movement.“Traffic Alert Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement. COVID PRECAUTIONS: WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE,” Traffic Police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chilla-gazipur-borders-closed-delhi-traffic-police-urges-commuters-to-take-alternative-routes/story-A6NdSDB0gqUlh9jhcN3s1I.html
03-01-2021||Bhopal||MP farmer and his son found dead in suspicious circumstances||A farmer and his son were found hanging from a tree under suspicious circumstances in an agricultural field in Jabalpur district, 370 km east of Bhopal, on Saturday morning, said police. “In the preliminary investigation, it was found that the 52-year-old farmer and his 28-year-old son died by suicide. They had a fight with each other on Friday night as the son spent a part of the payment received after selling paddy crop on unimportant things, said Anni Lal, town inspector of Majhgawan police station. “The farmer’s wife said recently her husband had sold paddy crops and received payment. She didn’t know the exact amount. But her son spent some money without asking his father. On Friday night when the farmer came to know about it, they had a fight over this issue,” said the police officer. Also Read: 70-year-old dies by suicide at UP Gate protest siteOn Saturday morning, the son went to an agricultural field and allegedly took his own life by hanging himself from a branch of a tree. A few minutes later, the farmer reached the field and hung himself too. Later, villagers informed the police, said the officer. Police are investigating the matter. (with inputs from Monika Pandey from Jabalpur )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-farmer-and-his-son-found-dead-in-suspicious-circumstances/story-kRLhKjsWahd0vjSwWjslgJ.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP chief expresses disappointment over Saamna’s coverage of its leaders||Maharashtra BJP President Chandrakant Patil has in a letter to Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana’s Editor Rashmi Uddhav Thackeray expressed disappointment over the language used for BJP leaders in the newspaper.“I am writing this to you due to the language used for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, other BJP national leaders and Maharashtra BJP leaders. Being the editor you are responsible for the content and language used in your newspaper,” Patil wrote in his letter.“I very well know about you as a person and I am sure that you are also not fond of such language,” he added.Patil requested Rashmi Uddhav Thackeray to rethink over the language used in Saamana for the BJP leaders.“If you think that my request is not right and language used in your paper is right then you can happily continue using it,” he added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-chief-expresses-disappointment-over-saamna-s-coverage-of-its-leaders/story-WEKK4Oq9ZsxYsDjl32M0JO.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Wanted in 10 cases, 25-year-old man held with jewellery, cash, stolen mobile phones in Chandigarh||A day after a mobile store owner reported theft in his house in Sector 22, a 25-year-old Ram Darbar resident was arrested with cash, diamond and gold jewellery, and 20 mobile phones, the police said on Saturday.The accused, identified as Guarav, alias Gora, of Phase 1, Ram Darbar, was on Saturday produced before a court and remanded to one-day police custody.Complainant Sandeep Kumar had told the police that on December 31, he was at the shop with his wife and son, and when he reached home at around 8pm, he found the almirah was open and ₹10,000 cash along with two diamond rings, a gold ring and a gold chain were stolen.Accused caught on cameraThe police on scanning the CCTVs installed in the area had spotted the accused coming out of Sandeep’s house. On January 1, the police had received a tip-off that the accused was seen near the Sanatan Dharma Mandir in Sector 23.Police said Gaurav was a habitual offender and had been operating in the city since 2011. He used to target homeless people sleeping outside shops and liquor vends and steal their mobile phones. Gaurav has 10 cases registered against him of theft, robbery, NDPS Act, attempt to murder and sexual harassment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wanted-in-10-cases-25-year-old-man-held-with-jewellery-cash-stolen-mobile-phones-in-chandigarh/story-m6rNzaxGeD7NnRioaeF3yO.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine dry run: Chandigarh health dept to suggest staggered timings||The UT health authorities will suggest providing staggered timings to the beneficiaries during the actual Covid-19 vaccination drive.The observation was made during the dry run conducted at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 and civil hospitals in Sector 22 and Manimajra.“The trial process went smoothly, but we found that the beneficiaries could be provided with time slots with around 1 to 2 hours difference so that they don’t have to wait for too long. The whole activity can take upto 5 to 6 hours if all of them come at the same time. Centre will be apprised about this,” said a senior UT official, who was part of the activity.UT authorities said the arrangements were made as per protocols and the dry run was conducted to anticipate issues, bottlenecks, challenges with regards to the vaccination drive.An official spokesperson said that the health department had ensured that all members of the vaccination teams were sensitised, trained and provided with logistics.“The time slot was 10am to 12pm for 25 beneficiaries at each site. The beneficiaries reached in time, were verified to make an entry on the CoWIN app, mock vaccination was administered, validation of completed vaccination was done on CoWIN, confirmation messages were successfully generated and received by facility in-charge; beneficiaries were made to wait under observation for 30 minutes and finally sent home after giving them a number on which he/she could contact in case of any problems,” an official statement said.Teams from PGIMER and GMCH-32 visited the session site at GMSH-16 for observing the dry run for emulation at their facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-vaccine-dry-run-chandigarh-health-dept-to-suggest-staggered-timings/story-wrB7qMVFHGsNiA8mBCuvQO.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||‘Resume physical hearings’: Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association to hold hunger strike on January 4||The Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) will observe a hunger strike on Monday demanding resumption of physical hearings that have been suspended since March 21 due to the pandemic.PHHCBA president GBS Dhillon said that virtual hearings will take place as per schedule announced by the administration on Monday. However, Bar executive members and employees of the association will observe a hunger strike between 10am and 4pm. As many as 250 lawyers and 100 clerks have announced their participation.The cases listed for hearing in January have been adjourned for April and May. Cases are being taken up through video-conferencing only. The lawyers’ body, with 4,000 members, has for nearly six months now been demanding for partial opening of courts for physical hearings.“Future strategy, too, will be decided that day by the general house of the Bar,” Dhillon said, adding that not only lawyers but litigants and employees had also been badly hit due to non-resumption of physical hearing in courts.Out of 25 high courts, only 15 were holding virtual as well as physical hearings: “In a phased manner, we want that the high court should also start physical hearings”, he said, adding that almost every other sector had been reopened either partially or completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/resume-physical-hearings-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-bar-association-to-hold-hunger-strike-on-january-4/story-0P6lD9I5J6wj6P0NAEAHnJ.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Intense thunder, lightning and rain over several parts of Delhi||Several parts of Delhi recorded moderate rain and thunder showers early Sunday morning. It continues to rain in many parts of the city and neighbouring parts of northwest India. Delhi recorded 25.1 mm rain in the past 24 hours till 8.30 am this morning. The normal rain expected in the entire month is 27.1 mm.“There is intense thunder and lightning and light to moderate rain in different parts of the city now,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting system.Weather department officials added that current cloud patch has almost crossed the Delhi region. However, another patch is approaching towards Delhi region from northeast Rajasthan and southeast Haryana, which is most likely to give moderate to intense spell of rain over parts of Delhi and neighbouring areas during next 2-3 hours.The minimum temperature recorded till 6.30 am was 9.9 degrees Celsius.A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over central Pakistan. It is likely to remain practically stationary during subsequent 2-3 days. An induced cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood and it is likely to persist over the same area during the next two days.The confluence of south-westerlies in association with the western disturbance and lower level south-easterlies is very likely to continue over plains of northwest and adjoining areas of central India during January 3 to 5, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin.Also Read: Met predicts hailstorm in Delhi on MondayUnder the influence of these systems, moderate and widespread rainfall/snowfall is likely over western Himalayan region during January 4 to 5 with its peak intensity on January 4 and 5.Widespread rainfall accompanied with thunderstorms are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh with maximum intensity on January 3 and 4.Hailstorm is likely at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana-Chandigarh, west Uttar Pradesh and Delhi during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/intense-thunder-lightning-and-rain-over-several-parts-of-delhi/story-msS2mdcRvJWkYdBw0jgKyI.html
03-01-2021||City||Former employees, grocery store owner held for snatching ₹2.5 lakh cash in Mohali’s Phase 9||The Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) of Mohali police have arrested three persons, including two former employees and a grocery store owner, for snatching a bag containing ₹2.5 lakh cash from a chemist shop owner in Phase 9 and injuring him on December 30.The accused were identified as Chetan Sharma, 21, Sumesh Bansal and Vikramjeet Singh, 26, all residents of Kharar. Police said that Sumesh runs the Bansal grocery store on Randhawa road in Kharar.Sacked employees snatched cashPolice said that accused Chetan and Vikramjit used to work at the victim, Puneet Goyal’s shop and were sacked a few days back. They were aware that Puneet takes the day’s cash home and a conspiracy to snatch the bag was hatched.On December 30 at around 11pm, Goyal was returning home with the day’s collection and was parking his vehicle when three persons on a motorcycle had attacked him with a hammer and rod, and snatched his bag containing ₹2.5 lakh cash.The accused were caught on CCTV installed in the area. The police recovered a motorcycle, cash, weapons, and hammer and rod used in the crime. A case under sections 379B (snatching), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-employees-grocery-store-owner-held-for-snatching-2-5-lakh-cash-in-mohali-s-phase-9/story-0DU3o53mDzARN741W3nrUO.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Thieves decamp with items worth ₹3 lakh while family sleeps in Chandigarh’s Mauli Jagran||Two thieves decamped with jewellery and other valuables worth ₹3 lakh from a house in Mauli Jagran as the family slept on the first floor, the police said on Saturday.The duo was caught on a CCTV camera installed in the area. The owner of the house, Vikas Gupta, who was also sleeping on the first floor of the house at the time of theft, said that on Saturday morning, he found the lock of the ground floor broken.The accused had entered the house at 2.30am and left in half an hour, as per the CCTV footage. Police have registered a case of theft.iPhone stolen at Sukhna LakeA girl hailing from Sonepat in Haryana has reported theft of her mobile phone, the police said. In her complaint, the girl said that an unidentified person had stolen her iPhone from her jacket pocket at the counter of Sukhna Lake Restaurant on January 1. A case of theft was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/thieves-decamp-with-items-worth-3-lakh-while-family-sleeps-in-chandigarh-s-mauli-jagran/story-8BZXCr1ZA45tabbKibOGuM.html
03-01-2021||City||Covid vaccine dry run conducted in Panchkula||To ensure smooth implementation of Covid-19 vaccine rollout in the state, the health department on Saturday conducted a dry run in Panchkula district, as planned by the Union minister of health and family welfare (MOHFW).The dry run took place at two rural dispensaries in Raipur Rani and Kot and at two urban dispensaries of sectors 4 and 8. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora, who visited the spots said, “The primary aim to conduct the dry run was to exercise end-to-end testing of Covid-19 vaccination rollout so as to identify the challenges, which will further help in formulating detailed plans for actual implementation of the rollout and also to provide confidence to programme managers at various levels.”“The dry run will also help monitor and review the preparedness at the district and block levels and gather empirical data,” he added.Panchkula chief medical officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “At every centre, a team of five members will do data entry, take old history of the person, will download the app, administer vaccine and keep the patient under observation for 30 minutes.”She said that the systems were in place and most likely, they will receive the vaccine by month-end.Another dry run has been planned across Haryana on January 7. As per guidelines issued by the Government of India, the Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially, starting with health-care workers (HCWs), followed by frontline workers like municipal and sanitary workers, state and central police force, civil defence and armed forces. Next will follow the population above 50 years of age and those below 50 years of age with comorbidities.Dr Jasjeet said that there were nearly 6,000 HCWs and frontline workers in Panchkula who will be vaccinated first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-vaccine-dry-run-conducted-in-panchkula/story-kNbgzWcP6DlMO6pXVKCegN.html
03-01-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in Jaipur||The Congress party’s Rajasthan unit, lead by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress Rajasthan chief Govind Singh Dotasara and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, will on Sunday hold demonstrations against the recently passed farm laws at Jaipur’s Shaheed Smarak demanding for their repeal.Thousands of farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 claiming that these laws allow corporate farming and will be beneficial for the multinational companies in the agricultural sector.Gehlot had on Thursday lashed out at the Centre for forcing farmers to welcome New Year on the streets amid freezing temperatures. “It is sad that our farmer brothers and sisters, who are protesting, would welcome the New Year out on roads and away from homes. A sensitive, responsive govt would never let this happen!” Gehlot had tweeted.The Rajasthan government will also launch a week-long campaign ‘Kisan Bachao-Desh Bachao’ on Tuesday under which ministers, party workers and public representatives will visit villages in the state demanding the rollback of the three laws.The farmers and the Centre will sit for the seventh round of discussions on January 4. Leaders of the farm unions have warned to intensify the agitation at Delhi’s borders if the demands are not met.The farm leaders have said that protests will begin from January 6 for two weeks if the laws are not repealed by the government. “This is our ultimatum. If all issues are not resolved and our demands not met by Republic Day, then we will start entering Delhi. The government is saying that 50% of the demands have been met. But the government has shown no signs of meeting our biggest demands,” farmers’ rights activist and Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/gehlot-pilot-to-lead-protests-against-farm-laws-in-jaipur/story-sLaNdiN6mnpGWVBBoTaRuI.html
03-01-2021||Lucknow||BJP to chalk out strategy ahead of panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is set to hold a meeting on Sunday to formulate a plan of action for the upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. Radha Mohan Singh, the BJP’s national vice president and in-charge of the state affairs, will be a part of the meeting. The BJP’ state unit vice president and member of the legislative council Vijay Bahadur Pathak had earlier said that various key issues would be taken up in the meeting apart from the discussion of panchayat polls. “Besides, the meeting will also discuss a work plan for taking the achievements of the Yogi Adityanath government, which is completing four years in office on March 19, among the people,” Pathak had said.He also said the state government’s commitment to conduct the panchayat elections within six months. An official date hasn’t been announced yet.Also Read| BJP govt crossed all limits of injustice, atrocities; farmers will bring them down: Akhilesh YadavThe ruling BJP will be contesting against the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiv Sena are fresh competitors to arrive in the panchayat polls.Delhi chief minister and the AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal after making the announcement on December 15 accused all parties in UP of betraying people as each government crossed the other one in terms of corruption. Kejriwal said that politics in the state lacked good intent and the AAP could change that.Meanwhile, Bhim Army’s president Chandrashekhar Azad said on December 22 that his party would also field candidates in the panchayat polls before the 2022 assembly polls in the state.Also Read| AAP will contest 2022 UP assembly elections: KejriwalThe State Election Commission in Uttar Pradesh had prepared the initial draft of the voters’ list from December 28 to January 3. The list will be available with the assistant electoral registration officer or the booth level officer. In November, the booth level officers had conducted a door to door survey to gather information about the voters. They registered the names of those people who would attain the age of 18 on January 21 this year and also struck off the names of the duplicate and deceased voters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-to-chalk-out-strategy-ahead-of-panchayat-polls-in-uttar-pradesh/story-gBcPlMshxDU6qAf03MBgkO.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR receives early morning showers for second day in a row||Delhi and areas of the National Capital Region (NCR) received scattered rainfall early on Sunday. The region had received morning showers on Saturday as well which led to a drop in temperature.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday had predicted that parts of Delhi-NCR will receive light to moderate rainfall accompanied with thunderstorms. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over some parts of South-Delhi (Ayanagar, Deramandi, Tughlakabad), Gohana, Ganaur, Panipat, Sohna, Manesar, Faridabad, Ballabgarh, Nuh (Haryana), Nagaur, Laxmangarh, Rajgarh, Alwar, Dausa, Mehndipur (Rajasthan), Khataoli, Dadri, Noida, Chapraula, Ghaziabad and Aligarh… during the next 2 hours,” the weather agency tweeted.03-01-2021 0455 IST Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over some parts of South-Delhi (Ayanagar, Deramandi, Tughalkabad ), Gohana, Gannaur, Panipat, Sohna, Manesar, Faridabad, Ballabgarh, Nuh (Haryana),pic.twitter.com/QONzwqfgef03-01-2021 0650 IST Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over many parts of entire Delhi, Gurugram, Farukhnagar, Kosli, Manesar, Sohna, Faridabad, Bhiwadi, Rewari, Bawal, Ballabgarh, Nuh, Tijara,Hodal (Haryana), Alwar, Kotputli (Rajasthan), Khataoli, Dadri, Noida, Greater-Noida, Indirapuram, Chapraula, Pilakhua, Ghaziabad, Bhajoi, Aligarh, Jattari, Atrauli, Siyana, Loni-Dehat, Bagpath, Khekra, Modinagar,Jattari, Badayun, Atrauli, Siyana, Loni-Dehat, Modinagar, Hindon-AF station, Najafgarh, Jahangirabad, Khurja, Etah, Kashganj, Amroha, Moradabad, Bhajoi, Chandausi, Iglas, Deeg, Agra, Mathura, Hathras and Narora (UP) are also expected to receive light to moderate amounts of rainfall, according to the IMD.This is the second day in a row that Delhi has received rainfall in the early hours of the morning. The city had received rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning on Saturday. IMD had said on Friday that parts of northwest and adjoining central India will experience a wet spell which will lead to a light to moderate fairly widespread rainfall and snowfall over Western Himalayan region between January 4 and January 6.The minimum temperature in Delhi-NCR rose to 7°C on Saturday due to cloud cover. The weather agency has predicted that several parts of Delhi, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will experience cold day conditions between January 3 to January 4. It also warned that parts of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will experience cold wave conditions around the same time.“Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are prevailing over many parts of plains of northwest India and adjoining central India. These are likely to continue over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during next 24 hours and abate thereafter,” IMD had said on Friday.IMD also predicted that Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh will wake up to dense fog between January 3 and January 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-receives-early-morning-showers-for-second-day-in-a-row/story-oZyVlOtZ1W9ghxjGEmyM5H.html
03-01-2021||City||Farmers, anganwadi workers protest outside BJP leaders’ houses in Kaithal||High drama was witnessed in Kaithal City on Saturday as hundreds of farmers and members of Anganwadi workers’ union held a protest outside the residences of Haryana minister of state for women and child welfare Kamlesh Dhanda and local MLA Leela Ram Gurjar. Heavy police force was deployed to control the protesters, but farmers removed the barricades with the help of tractors and reached near the residence of Dhanda.They have been demanding the resignation of Dhanda to support their ongoing agitation against the three agriculture laws. Earlier, the protesters had reached the residence of Kaithal MLA Leela Ram Gurjar and demanded an apology from him for his alleged statement likening the protesting farmers to terrorists. “We have come to the residence of MLA Gurjar to ask him to find out the terrorists amongst us,” the farmers associated with BKU (Charuni) said. They also threatened to boycott them if they failed to support their agitation.“We had voted for them so that they could raise our voice, but they failed. Now, we demand the minister and the MLA to resign from the BJP to join our protest and we will ensure their win again,” the protesters said.Kaithal superintendent of police Lokender Singh said the situation was under control as the protests ended peacefully. He said that no FIR has been registered against any farmer. This is the second such protest in Kaithal in the past one week. The Kaithal police had booked around 100 unidentified farmers for threatening Kamlesh Dhanda and JJP MLA Ishwar Singh and blocking their way on December 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-anganwadi-workers-protest-outside-bjp-leaders-houses-in-kaithal/story-OwG65FBrK5BPrxYnjssPaN.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||30 million people to be vaccinated by August in Maharashtra||Maharashtra is all set to roll out its Covid-19 vaccination drive, said state authorities, after a dry run was held in 12 facilities across four districts on Saturday. The state government has trained 18,000 vaccinators, set up 4,200 centres, 3,145 cold chain systems and will vaccinate more than 30 million people in three phases till August this year. Meanwhile, the state has not found any person arriving from abroad infected by the new strain of coronavirus found in the United Kingdom (UK). State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state machinery was all set. “The dry run was conducted successfully. The [dry] run helped the people involved to understand the set- up required for vaccination. Each vaccination facility will have an observation room and an information cell to ensure proper awareness and will take care of any complications during the drive,” he said.According to state government estimates, 30 million people will be covered in the vaccination drive’s first three phases meant for priority groups —health workers; frontline workers; people above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities below the age of 50. Of them, 800,000 are health workers from the private and public sector and 758,000 of them have been registered so far. The registration of the people in other categories is being done by their respective departments at the district and corporation level. Once the vaccination drive is given a go-ahead by the Centre, the vaccination of these categories will be done and is expected to take six to seven months. “The vaccination centres at primary health centres at the taluka level and hospitals at district level will have batches of 100 people each. Multiple batches could be vaccinated daily at these centres. There are no guidelines issued by the centre so far for the vaccination of other categories of the population,” said Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare, and director, National Health Mission. According to an official, the vaccination of the remaining categories of the population is expected to be undertaken after these three phases. “However, we expect the Centre to allow the vaccine to be sold in the market for vaccination through private health care machinery,” said another official from the health department.Maharashtra, meanwhile, reported 3,218 new infections, taking the tally to 1,938,854 and toll to 49,631 after 51 new deaths on Saturday. The state has been clocking fewer than 4,000 cases for the past 17 days despite the projection of authorities of a spike in cases in the last week of December and first week of January. With the addition of 593 new cases and seven deaths, Mumbai’s tally touched 294,660 and toll was pushed to 11,132. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.56%, while the recovery rate stood at 94.64% as 1,834,935 patients have reported to have been recovered so far. State has 53,137 active patients in various Covid-19 facilities. Pune, the second-most affected city in the state, saw no deaths for a second consecutive day on Saturday. The cases in Pune city dropped to 250.Meanwhile, the state has so far not found anyone with the new variant of the virus found in the UK among the international passengers who had tested positive during a special drive. Till Saturday, 68 passengers who arrived in Maharashtra from UK between November 25 and December 22 tested positive during the state’s special drive taken to trace them. 62 samples had been sent to NIV, Pune for genomic sequencing. 29 of them are from Mumbai, 13 from Pune, 7 from Thane, 9 from Nagpur, 2 each from Nashik, Aurangabad, Raigd and Buldhana and one each from Nanded and Washim.For the vaccination drive, the government has set up 27 storage facilities at the block level, 34 at district level, one each at division level and a central facility at the state level. “It is like any other vaccine like BCG, pulse polio for us. Once the go-ahead is given by the Centre, the vaccine will be distributed through these storage facilities to the vaccination facilities at primary health centres and district hospitals, medical colleges for actual vaccination,” Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-million-people-to-be-vaccinated-by-august-in-maharashtra/story-s60ErmI1oHqIJjnW6az8fO.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Summon me for law and order, not my officers: CM to Badnore||Taking exception to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore summoning the state’s chief secretary and the director general of police (DGP), chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday said he (the governor) should have sought a report on law and order directly from him, as he also holds the charge of home department. On Wednesday, Badnore had summoned the two officers to the Raj Bhavan seeking a report on the law and order situation after at least 1,500 mobile towers were vandalised across the state. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan had met the governor on Friday, with DGP Dinkar Gupta meeting him on Thursday. Joining issue with the constitutional head of the state, the CM said he (Badnore) was responding to the malicious and politically motivated propaganda of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “The BJP’s falsehoods on law and order collapse are a tactic to divert attention from the issue of farm laws and the farmers’ agitation,” he claimed. He added that the BJP was indulging in a vicious game-plan to undermine the peaceful agitation of the farmers by terming a few minor incidents of damage to mobile towers as a law and order problem. “These damaged towers can be, and are being repaired, but what about the lives of the farmers lost in the bitter cold at the Delhi borders, where they continue to fight for their rights, amid total apathy from the BJP-led government at the Centre?” the CM questioned, expressing shock that not a single BJP leader had expressed concern over deaths of protesting farmers, some of whom had committed suicide. Amarinder also slammed the state BJP leadership for adding fuel to the fire, with their irresponsible statements, in an already surcharged atmosphere that the draconian farm laws had triggered. Instead of slandering farmers with terms like ‘Naxalites’ and ‘Khalistanis’, the BJP should press its central leadership in the Union government to heed the voice of farmers and revoke laws threatening their livelihood, he added. Terming it as ‘unfortunate’ that the governor had bowed to these antics of the BJP, the CM observed that it had taken just a day for the former to react to the party leadership’s complaint of purported law and order collapse in Punjab. “This is in sharp contrast to the prolonged delay in sending to the President the State Amendment Bills, passed by all political parties (barring the BJP) in the Vidhan Sabha, for assent,” he pointed out.Responding to Amarinder’s statement, Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said, “The CM should not behave like a Maharaja. He should respect the constitutional head of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/summon-me-for-law-and-order-not-my-officers-cm-to-badnore/story-4CQYRt2nL0aj7RzTLMjm1N.html
03-01-2021||City||Irregularities detected in appointments made under NHM in Panipat||Contractual appointments under National Health Mission (NHM) in Panipat have come under scanner following the detection of “irregularities” in the hiring made in 2019.The matter came to light when an applicant raised the issue with the authorities concerned and an internal investigation by the city magistrate followed. Now, the state director of NHM has written for the cancellation of dubious recruitments.It is worth mentioning here that the recruitment for 64 posts of GNM (general nurse and midwives), ANM (auxiliary nurse midwives), and PPM coordinator were conducted by the local health authorities on contractual basis in 2019. However, few days later, an aspirant Ranbir Singh, who had applied for the post of PPM coordinator, filed a complaint on the CM window on January 24 last year, alleging irregularities and favouritism in the recruitment.Reacting to the complaint, the department concerned ordered an inquiry under Panipat city magistrate and in the investigation report, it was highlighted that improper procedure was adopted by the selection committee. Director, NHM, Haryana, has written to the Panipat chief medical officer, seeking cancellation of doubtful recruitments and details of the members of selection committee and selected candidates, who have been given the benefits under local area weightage.As per the letter, complainant Ranbir Singh alleged that there were irregularities in the marks fixed for the local candidates as the local area weightage. According to him 20, 15 and 10 marks were fixed for the candidates as per their location, but the selection committee gave 20 marks to all candidates, which he said was a clear violation of the guidelines laid by the government.Also, it was found in the investigation that documents of one of the selected candidates were also questionable as he had furnished residential proofs of both Panipat and Karnal districts.Complainant Ranbir Singh also said that the letter written by the director, NHM, Haryana, was enough to prove the irregularities and demanded that an FIR be registered against the members of the selection board, besides cancellation of the entire recruitment.Director, NHM, Haryana, has sought a list of those candidates, who were given 20 marks for local area weightage and cancel their recruitment with immediate effect and submit the report to his office.The director has also written to the director, general health, for disciplinary action against members of the selection board of Panipat district. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma confirmed that he has received a letter from the office of director, NHM, Haryana. He said the matter will be investigated as the recruitment took place even before his appointment in Panipat. “I will look into the matter and will submit a report to the director,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/irregularities-detected-in-appointments-made-under-nhm-in-panipat/story-oBOLgLXqv4e7Eje47vkQJI.html
03-01-2021||City||AAP’s Haryana chief likely to join as physical training instructor||The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) Haryana chief, Naveen Jaihind, who had withdrawn himself from active politics in February last year after his wife Swati Maliwal, Delhi Commission For Women’s chief, announced their divorce, is now mulling joining the Haryana government as a physical training instructor. The Haryana Staff Selection Commission had published the result for the 1,983 posts of physical training instructor in October 2020, and Jaihind had made the cut.Jaihind, who has yet to join service, said he had appeared for the written test at a Kurukshetra centre in August.“I had applied for the post many years ago before joining politics. I appeared in the exam just to check my knowledge and was confident enough to crack it. I was a critic of the BJP government, but this recruitment drive was conducted in a free and fair manner. I am still pondering whether to join this job or not. I have no interest in returning to politics now,” he added.He said he has four months’ time to make a decision in this regard. On being asked about the reports of him calling Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar after the exam’s result, Jaihind said he doesn’t know who is spreading such rumours.“I am devoting my time on meditation and workout. I am away from social media and neither reading newspapers nor watching TV,” he added.A holder of master’s degree in physical education from Maharshi Dayanand University, Jaihind was planning to join as director of physical education, but couldn’t during the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government.Jaihind, who enjoyed close proximity with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, was made the AAP’s Haryana unit convener in 2016 after the suspension of Yogendra Yadav over his anti-party activities. The party had declared him the chief ministerial candidate for the 2019 assembly elections in Haryana, but he chose not to contest. The 39-year-old leader contested the parliamentary elections from Faridabad and forfeited his security deposit as he polled only 11,112 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-s-haryana-chief-likely-to-join-as-physical-training-instructor/story-EZ9eXT0lnmrfwEisLSuaWO.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay researchers’ artificial intelligence model to identify malaria parasites||Researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), in collaboration with three hospitals in the country, have used proteomics technologies and made artificial intelligence based-models that can help in differentiating the two major species of malaria parasite — P falciparum and P vivax— for better malaria diagnosis.The artificial intelligence (AI)-based models can be used for the diagnosis and prognosis of the two species of malaria parasite based on the changing trend of proteins in human blood. Funded by the department of biotechnology, Government of India, their study and findings were published in the journal Communications Biology – Nature, in November last year.As part of their project, the researchers collected blood samples from patients with severe and mild cases of falciparum malaria, vivax malaria, and dengue, as well as from a healthy group of people. These samples were collected from Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, a P falciparum endemic region; Sardar Patel Medical College, Bikaner, a P vivax endemic region, and Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital, Mumbai, a P vivax endemic region.Read more: Covid-19 measures lead to dip in seasonal ailments in MumbaiThey comprehensively analysed all the proteins from the blood plasma and quantified and identified the human proteins. Having identified these proteins, the researchers compared their amount in mild and severe cases of falciparum malaria, vivax malaria, and dengue.“Malaria cases in India are contributed majorly by the malaria-vulnerable population, which includes workers at construction sites in malaria-endemic regions – regions without a proper drainage system, leaving standing water for days to facilitate mosquito breeding – and people without awareness of the harmful effects of the standing water in their localities during the malaria season. The major issues at the time of disease are quick diagnostic aids which can tell about the causative agent of the disease,” said Shalini Aggarwal, research fellow, department of biosciences and bioengineering, IIT-B, who was part of the study.The standard method for diagnosing malaria is using a microscope to examine blood samples of suspected patients to spot the parasites. However, it may not help in the prognosis of the infection. Other ways of diagnosis include rapid diagnostics test (RDT) and nucleic acid amplification (NAA).“In the case of malaria, P falciparum, P vivax and other species are not differentiable by using RDTs and ideally need an expert eye along with intensive work of looking at 100 fields of blood smear using microscopy, the gold standard for malaria diagnosis,” Aggarwal added. “In malaria season, the number of cases is high, resulting in an increased burden on clinicians for manual diagnosis. Hence, if the diagnosis along with timely progression prediction from non-severe malaria to severe condition before the development of clinical manifestations is made for clinicians, then the treatment can be specific and efficient,” she added. Currently, the researchers, under the guidance of Sanjeeva Srivastava, professor, department of biosciences and bioengineering, IIT-B, are working on a diagnostic kit prototype. “The kit can be used to compile these panels of proteins for diagnostics and prognostic purposes. Once this prototype is ready we will compare the kit with the currently used RDT kits. As our study involves a panel of proteins, it will help in the reduction of false-positive and false-negative results,” added Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-researchers-artificial-intelligence-model-to-identify-malaria-parasites/story-0I8qWAiyMkrx3QMAKrIDEI.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||New lines between Thane and Diva to pave way for 100 more CSMT-Kalyan locals||Passengers travelling on the Central Railway’s mainline between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan station can expect around 100 new local train services. This will be made possible as work on the fifth and sixth railway line corridors between Thane and Diva railway stations is expected to be completed this year. Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) has completed the work of laying 17 of the 20-km-long tracks for the additional railway lines between Thane and Diva railway stations.After the completion of the railway lines along with the segregation of outstation trains at Kalyan yard, 100 new local train services are likely to be introduced between CSMT and Kalyan station. The girder-placing for a flyover at Mumbra, required for the construction of the railway lines, has been undertaken by MRVC and will be launched by the second week of this month. The work for the flyover is expected to be completed by February.“The work on the railway lines between Thane and Diva stations is nearing completion and we’re aiming to complete it by June. Work on 31 minor and three major bridges, platforms and foot overbridges are also being completed,” said a senior MRVC official. After the completion of laying of the tracks and construction of the bridges, MRVC and CR will undertake blocks to connect the railway lines with Thane and Diva suburban railways stations.“A detailed planning will be done to undertake power blocks and termination of train services, which will be required to connect the fifth and sixth railway lines,” said a senior CR official. The proposal to introduce fifth and sixth railway lines between Thane and Diva railway stations was sanctioned in 2008 and is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP)-2B. The estimated cost of the project has now increased from ₹130 crore to ₹440 crore.The additional lines will reduce rail traffic congestion by segregation of local and outstation train traffic and allow railways to operate new services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-lines-between-thane-and-diva-to-pave-way-for-100-more-csmt-kalyan-locals/story-qHqSVJSGzXBHDLnZOurHmK.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logged 10,747 cases, 189 deaths in December; lowest in 6 months||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 10,747 Covid infections and 189 deaths in December, the lowest monthly count since July. This is also the first time in six months that monthly fatalities due to the disease were below 200. The UT witnessed a 71% fall in Covid cases and 60% drop in deaths as compared to September when cases in the region were peaking at 37,372 and deaths at 478. There was also a 30% drop in cases and 12% drop in fatalities in the UT against the November tally when J&K had recorded 15,434 cases and 216 deaths. As many as 293 people had succumbed to the virus in October, 478 in September, 326 in August and 279 in July.December also recorded the lowest average daily case count since July. December saw 346 average cases per day while 514 daily cases were reported in November, 632 in October, 1,245 in September, 559 in August and 414 in July.On an average, six daily deaths were recorded in December, seven in November, 10 in October and 16 in September.Qazi Haroon, officer on special duty with the health department who is to assisting the government with corona mitigation efforts in Kashmir, said authorities were preparing for the vaccine to arrive in January. “The vaccine will be coming this month and we will be first vaccinating the health workers,” he said. Active cases in J&K have dropped to 3,016, which accounts for 2.48% of the 1, 21,227 cumulative cases. 244 fresh cases reported in J&KJ&K recorded 244 fresh coronavirus cases and one death on Saturday, taking the total case count in the UT to 1,21,471 and death toll to 1,885. Officials said 137 people tested positive in Kashmir and 107 in Jammu. Around 1,16,587 people have recovered in the UT so far , taking the recovery rate to 95.97%. A total 1,187 people have succumbed in Kashmir and 698 in Jammu. Dry run A dry run for Covid vaccination was conducted in Srinagar, Jammu, and Kulgam. Financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo inaugurated and monitored the exercise. In Jammu, the vaccination was administered at select sites such as the Government Hospital, Sarwal and community health centres in Marh and Bishnah. In Srinagar, director health services, Kashmir, Dr Samir Mattoo, supervised the exercise at Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial Hospital and urban primary health centres in Nishat and Batamaloo respectively. At Kulgam, the vaccination was administered at the district hospital and community health Centres of Yaripora and Kujjar. Mock drill in Leh A mock drill for administering the Covid vaccination was carried out at the Ladakh Heart Foundation in Leh. Commissioner secretary Rigzin Samphel said 5,000 frontline workers will be vaccinated on priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-logged-10-747-cases-189-deaths-in-december-lowest-in-6-months/story-sGaKYhxoJZI392e1Ou9QOO.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan water pipeline fault hits supply for 45L people||Around 45 lakh residents of several areas in Bhiwandi, Thane, Mira-Bhayandar and 34 villages in Bhiwandi taluka, faced irregular water supply on Saturday as the main pipeline of the Shahad-Temghar Water Supply Authority (STEM) located at Shahad, Kalyan got damaged in the morning. The pipeline repairs were completed by 7pm on Saturday and the supply was expected to resume late at night.The 305MLD of water supply from STEM to these places remained shut for the day.STEM officials said that the pipeline burst occurred due to the regular power failure in the premises since Friday.“The pipeline is 30 years old and it could not take the load when there was constant power failure that led to the burst. We supply water to cities like Thane, Bhiwandi, Mira-Bhayandar and also 34 gram panchayats that have around 45 lakh residents. The entire supply of 305MLD of water was stopped due to the incident,” said Sanket Gharat, general manager, civil works, STEM.“The repair work was completed by Saturday evening and accordingly the local civic bodies were informed to resume the supply late in the night,” added Gharat.An MSEDCL officer, not wanting to be named, said, “There was a power failure to the STEM due to a broken conductor on Friday night. The line was restored later on after repair work.” A total of six engineers from STEM and 20 labourers arrived at the spot for the repair works on Saturday morning.As per the officials, this particular 1,850mm diameter pipeline is located near the Ulhas river that is adding hurdles to repair the pipeline.The STEM supplies 122MLD of water to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and 75MLD of water to the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) and 11MLD to the 34 villages.The STEM officials claimed that replacing the 30-year-old pipeline was already under way in phases. “We have already completed the work of replacing the 2km pipeline. The development plan for the remaining 10km is also ready. It will be taken up soon,” said Gharat.Following the incident, the TMC managed the water supply in the city with 210MLD of water by zoning.Vinod Pawar, deputy city engineer, TMC, said, “Due to the incident, 122MLD of water was less in our system on Saturday. We had to manage with 210MLD water through zoning by equally distributing it to all areas. The entire city received a reduced water supply for six hours.”In Bhiwandi also, the supply was affected in various parts of the city with no water supply on Saturday morning.The areas affected were Kamatghar, Dhamankar Naka-Patel compound, parts of Shanti Nagar, Narpoli, Raojinagar, Ashok Nagar, Chavan Colony, Navi Vasti, Bala Compound and nearby areas.LP Gaikwad, water department officer of BNCMC, said, “The water supply to these areas was completely shut for the day due to the disruption. Residents were asked to use the stored water. In case of emergencies our two water tankers were ready to supply water.”A resident of Bhiwandi Kharbav, one of the 34 villages, advocate Bhavesh Pawar, 28 said, “This was not the first time the water pipeline of STEM damaged and caused water shortage. Every day, we get less water and on Saturday there was no supply. How are we supposed to store water for daily use?”Another resident from Kamatghar, Bhiwandi, Jayesh Lokhande ,37, said, “We came to know in the afternoon about the pipe burst and that there won’t be any supply. We had to depend on the small stock of stored water and buy drinking water from outside as there was no fresh water supply.”PIPELINE BURST IN KALYAN A valve of a pipeline at Birla College Road in Kalyan (W) damaged after a vehicle hit it on Saturday morning. Thousands of litres of water was wasted in the incident as the water rose like a fountain and kept spreading on the entire road.Pedestrians and shopkeepers gathered at the spot while the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC) water department was also informed. The repair work of the valve was done in 30 minutes. As per the KDMC officials, the incident did not affect the water supply in the city.Executive engineer of water department of KDMC, Rajiv Pathak, said, “The valve was damaged after a vehicle hit it on Saturday morning. The repair work was taken up immediately and finished in 30 minutes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-water-pipeline-fault-hits-supply-for-45l-people/story-6ZvMubwNWBvu15XcyT0jaM.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||Foreign national arrested by Mumbai Police with cocaine worth ₹50 lakh||During patrolling on the New Year’s Eve, officers of the anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of the Mumbai Police arrested a foreign national in Santacruz (East) and recovered 204 gram of cocaine worth ₹51 lakh from him.The arrested accused, Honore Gahie, 44, is from the Republic of Ivory Coast and came to Mumbai in 2017 on a business visa. He has been allegedly staying illegally in India for around a year after his visa expired. According to police, he was residing at Turbhe in Navi Mumbai.Gahie is allegedly a major supplier of cocaine in Mumbai’s western suburbs. “We are checking his call data records to trace other persons from whom he took the supply of cocaine. It appears that he is directly in touch with some customers, but we are also checking if any drug peddlers were in touch with him,” said Datta Nalawade, deputy commissioner of police, ANC.ANC units across the city were instructed to keep vigil in their respective jurisdictions on New Year’s Eve. Accordingly, officers of the Bandra ANC unit were on patrol when they noticed Gahie sitting in his car, parked near Diamond AWWA Hostel in Santacruz (East).The police team conducted a search of the accused after he hesitated to answer their questions. “We found cocaine in his possession,” said police inspector Anil Wadhwane of the Bandra ANC unit.The seized cocaine is of pure quality, and Gahie revealed that he was supplying drugs for almost six months. Police are now inquiring about his other source of income and what he was doing in the city earlier.A case has been registered against the arrested accused under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, and he was produced before a court and remanded to police custody till January 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/foreign-national-arrested-by-mumbai-police-with-cocaine-worth-50-lakh/story-ix39P0bRNSW6g3TISzd2cP.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Migratory birds continue to die, officials shut HP’s Pong wetland||With the inexplicable death of migratory water fowls continuing to rise in Pong Dam Lake, authorities have closed the wetland to both locals and tourists. Over 1,000 birds of different species have mysteriously died since the first deaths were reported on December 28. Preliminary postmortem reports have ruled out poisoning. Forest minister Rakesh Pathania had ordered a probe into the matter soon after the dead birds were found. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, who issued an order to cease all activities, said, “Samples have been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly and Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, to ascertain the cause of the birds’ death. The possibility of a disease cannot be ruled out.”In case the birds are found to be suffering from a contagious disease, preventive measures will be taken in and around 10km of the reservoir, as per protocol, he said, adding that since the disease may also be dangerous to animals and humans, no people or livestock will be allowed in and around 1km of the wetland till further orders.Around 9km area around the lake has been designated an ‘alert zone’, which will be strictly monitored. Chief conservator of forest (wildlife), north, Upasna Patyal said, “The field staff reported the sudden death of four bar-headed geese and one common teal in Fatehpur area of Pong on December 28. Next day when the staff surveyed the wetland area more than 400 birds were found dead. The number has now crossed 1,000. Members of other species such as the shoveler, river tern and black-headed gull were also found dead.” Patyal said, “The birds were seen acting strangely before their deaths. They were not able to take the flight, despite having healthy wings. They tried to flap but died a little while later.” She said over 20 samples had been sent for testing to different labs, including the Wildlife Institute, Dehradun. The reports will take a few days to arrive.The Pong Dam Wetland—an International Ramsar Site— hosts more than 1 lakh migratory birds of over 100 species, that fly thousands of kilometers from the trans-Himalayan Region and Central Asia in winter every year.The Pong Dam Lake, constructed on the Beas river in 1960, was declared a bird sanctuary in 1983 and given the status of the wetland of national importance in 1994. In 2002, it got the status of a Ramsar site.Last year, 1.15 lakh birds of 114 species were spotted on the wetland. The bar-headed geese are most plentiful in Pong. Other prominent avian visitors include the northern pintail, the Eurasian coot, the common teal, the common pochard, the northern shoveler, the great cormorant, the Eurasian wigeon and the ruddy shelduck.The fortnightly census conducted on December 15, recorded around 57,000 migratory birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migratory-birds-continue-to-die-officials-shut-hp-s-pong-wetland/story-UGOFoemLxmdZr8S0vvqmdO.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Tibetans-in-exile set to vote in first phase of global election||Around 80,000 exiled Tibetans will participate in the first phase of the global election for Sikyong — president of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) — and members of the 17th Parliament-in-exile on Sunday amid the pandemic. The final round of the two-phase election will be held on April 11, 2021. The votes will be cast through ballot.As per the CTA election commission, of the 80,000 voters 56,000 live in India, Nepal and Bhutan while 24,000 are in other countries.Eight candidates are in fray for Sikyong, including representative of the Dalai Lama in New Delhi and former CTA home minister Kasur Dongchung Ngodup, former representative of Dalai Lama to North America Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang, former speaker of the Parliament-in-exile Penpa Tsering and incumbent deputy speaker Acharya Yeshi Phuntosok.Incumbent Sikyong Lobsang Sangay was the first elected political leader of exiled Tibetans. An individual can serve only two terms as a Sikyong.Around 150 candidates are vying for 45 seats of members of parliament—10 representatives from each of the traditional provinces of Tibet – U-Tsang, Dhotoe and Dhomey; two from each of the four schools of Tibetan Buddhism and the pre-Buddhist Bon religion.Besides, two representatives each are elected from the Tibetan communities in North America and Europe; and one from Australasia and Asia (excluding India, Nepal and Bhutan).Polling stations have been set up and social distancing, wearing masks, sanitisation will be observed.Dharamshala settlement officer and head of the Dharamshala regional election commission Kunga Tsering said elections will be held as per the Covid SOPs issued by the Government of India and CTA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tibetans-in-exile-to-vote-in-first-phase-of-global-election-today/story-YIKFPLVtLHWyXMR5IJRAUN.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||Medical college admissions: Almost 90% vacant seats after common rounds are in institutional quota, reveals data||The seat vacancy list across medical and dental institutes in the state was released on Friday, revealing that almost 90% of the seats left after the common admission rounds are under the 15% institutional quota. These seats are not up for grabs in the stray vacancy round scheduled to take place in the coming week.“Since the admissions deadline has been extended by two weeks to January 15, this stray vacancy round is being conducted to re-allot the vacant seats to interested candidates. However, unlike the first three common admission rounds, the stray vacancy round will be conducted physically at the institute level and not online,” stated a notification released by the Medical Council Committee (MCC) on Friday.MCC conducts counselling for 15% all-India quota (AIQ) seats, all deemed institute seats as well as admissions to central universities. The stray vacancy round is conducted at the institute level, for which the list of eligible candidates is forwarded by MCC to the respective institute. “In the stray vacancy round, a list of eligible candidates for both all-India and state institutes will be uploaded on the MCC and state CET (common entrance test) websites soon. Interested students will then have to apply to respective colleges/universities of their choice,” states the notification.Every year, maximum seats that go vacant across medical and dental institutes remain in the 15% institutional/management quota. Experts believe that this trend continues year after year, especially because of the high fees charged for seats under the institutional quota.“As per the Fee Regulating Authority (FRA), private college managements are allowed to charge up to five times the fees of a regular seat, for seats under the institutional or NRI (non-resident Indian) quota. This is the main reason why such seats have no takers and end up being returned to the respective colleges after common admission rounds,” said an official from the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-college-admissions-almost-90-vacant-seats-after-common-rounds-are-in-institutional-quota-reveals-data/story-SHkMX41UN6xXQaN3kDoaQO.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police gets 20 more Segway electric scooters||State home minister Anil Deshmukh inaugurated 20 more Segway electric scooters for Mumbai Police personnel on Saturday. Ten each of these two-wheeled, self-balancing scooters will be deployed at Worli and Carter Road in Bandra.Fourteen Segway electric scooters are already deployed in the city – 10in south Mumbai and four are being used for patrolling in Worli since November last year.Environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, actor Akshay Kumar and senior police officers including Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil were also present for the programme. Businessman Parth Jindal of JSW Cement, who sponsored the Segway electric scooters, was also present at the event.“We had started self-balancing scooters for patrolling in February 2020 at Nariman Point, before the lockdown. Now we are deploying the scooters in Worli and Bandra. In the future, we plan to start patrolling by such electric scooters at every promenade in the city, for effective policing,” Deshmukh said while speaking at the event.Thackeray said, “The state government has been helping the police force with modern technology and also for housing. But if the private players are coming forward and helping force with such things, it is good for all of us.” The Mumbai Police have done great work and they work day and night for citizens and society, added Thackeray. Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh said that the electric scooters are being provided to the police force for improved policing, visibility and mobility.Jindal promised to provide more such vehicles for patrolling at other places in Mumbai. “It gives me great pride to donate these scooters to the Mumbai Police. We have seen the police all over the world using these devices to patrol better,” said Jindal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-gets-20-more-segway-electric-scooters/story-wmgW3gWvcCVuNQUNT4R5yO.html
03-01-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan issues fresh Covid-19 guidelines, night curfew in 13 districts to continue||In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and the emergence of a new variant of the virus, the state government on Saturday decided to continue the lockdown in containment zones, and night curfew in 13 districts. Schools and colleges will remain closed till January 15. The government issued guidelines for surveillance, containment, and caution for the period between January 1 and 15. “Rajasthan is at a critical juncture in its fight against Covid-19. The need of the hour is to keep on maintaining the same vigilance against the spread of Covid-19,” said Abhay Kumar, principal secretary, home, issuing the guidelines. Accordingly, after taking into account the prevailing Covid-19 scenario in the state, and the fresh surge in cases globally, particularly the emergence of a new variant of the virus in the United Kingdom, the guidelines are issued, he said. Also read: Day 1 of dry run concludes as two Covid-19 vaccines await final nodRajasthan has recorded 309,319 Covid-19 positive cases and 2,705 deaths. Currently, the number of active cases is 8,795 according to the health department data. The lockdown shall remain in force across containment zones till January 15. “Effective demarcation of containment zones in vulnerable and high-incidence areas is key to break the chain of transmission of the virus. The zones will be demarcated by the collectors following the guidelines issued by the Centre. Only essential services will be allowed in these areas and intensive house-to-house surveillance will be conducted.” The state government has increased the number of districts where night curfew will continue in 13 districts from 8 pm to 6 am – Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagaur, Pali, Tonk, Sikara and Ganganagar. However, it will not apply to factories with production of continuous nature and night shift, IT companies, chemist shops, and marriage halls, among others. In areas outside the containment zones, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes will remain closed till January 15. Cinema halls, theatres, entertainment parks will remain shut, and social, religious, or any large congregation will not be permitted. “Every citizen should maintain due caution and strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy, focused on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-issues-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-night-curfew-in-13-districts-to-continue/story-carusWS5IAGLx5cOa9N2dJ.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: The song of the road to Delhi plays on||Sung loud and clear in this winter season in Punjab are songs of protest, resistance and also celebration. The singing star of the farmers’ protest is 1984-born Kanwar Grewal, born in a Bathinda village and Punjabi University (Patiala), alumnus, who gained recognition as a Sufi singer. His songs have set the beat for the agitation with lyrics sung with conviction from the stage on Delhi’s Singhu border. His two songs which have taken the shape of anthems of the protest are: Faslan da faisla kissan karange (The decision on the harvest will be done by the farmers) and Pecha pai gaya Centre naal (The fight is with the centre). The latter takes its lyrics from the imagery of kite-flying and calls out to the farmers to fill trolleys and move on for the Centre has to be confronted.The support of the people coming to the protesting farmers on the roads leading to Delhi from the Punjab and Haryana borders is growing phenomenally every passing day with more people joining in with enthusiasm and bravado. Perhaps such enthusiasm has not been seen since the times of the struggle for freedom which brought Independence to the country in 1947 but not without Partition and unprecedented migration in world history for the regions of Punjab and Bengal.It is interesting to note how the substance of the songs has changed with the wave of dissent that has swept through the bread basket of the country. Punjabi songs had fallen into stereotypes over the past decades glorifying violence, alcohol, and gender bias in which the Punjabi woman was reduced to nothing but a sex symbol. This wave of dissent seems to have shaken the people from shedding decadence and moving to struggle. Significantly, the struggle is not just of the dominant macho landed class of the Jats, but it is being supported by the Dalits and several sections of the Punjabi Hindus too. The protest which is taking the shape of a movement has with it the Left-wing groups which were largely at odds with the militancy movement with Khalistan as its goal. Gender roles too have changed as one finds women at the helm of affairs playing leadership roles. The intellectual elite cutting across regions too are with the new wave and so also people from the fields of arts and literature.Coming togetherWriter-journalist and Dalit activist Des Raj Kali, who often rides out on his motorcycle to the protest sites, says that this struggle of the farmers has filled many of the fissures that existed in Punjabi society. “In Punjab today, the farm labour, Dalits, intellectuals and women have come forward to join the peaceful protest started by the farmers,” he adds To a great extent the Dalits have supported the struggle disenchanted by the dishonour shown to the Constitution of India, framed by none other than Dr BR Ambedkar, the saviour of the downtrodden victims of caste prejudice. “At one of the rallies, I saw something that came as a surprise. A Jat was sitting there with a book by Ambedkar on his lap.”New concernsThe other very noticeable earnest role is that of the youth in the protest. The slogans say it all. One finds banners and posters stating clearly: “We are farmers not terrorists”. Poet Sushil Dusanjh, an active executive member and former general secretary of the Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha (the central literary cadre of the Communist Party of India with branches all through Punjab), says:”The young are making a clean break with the violent communal past for it brought no good to Punjab. This is a wave that is carrying with it our progressive poets, artists and performers. It is indeed a protest with poetry and not guns.”Amen! Sushil is penning poetry that describes the lot of the farmers and their struggle using idioms from Punjabi folk songs: Jat khet vich kharha puchhe rab nu, Dahne mere kaun lai gaya, Jinde meriye! (Standing in the fields the farmer asks, Who has robbed me of my grain, O’ my love!).The other slogan that the protest has brought us which goes straight to the heart is the condemnation of drugs contrary to the stereotyping of Punjabi youths as cocaine addicts in a Bollywood film Udta Punjab. The poster cries out: “Udhta Punjab Nahi, Padhta Punjab,” indicating that ours is not a stoned Punjab but a literate Punjab. All protest sites have libraries aplenty and the young are actually reading books as they camp there, artists are doing on-the-spot paintings and tractor trolleys have been put together to create a makeshift cinema hall to screen inspirational films in Trolley Talkies.Women have been hailing the protest and visiting the borders piled in jeeps and cars. Heartening to know that some even deserted friends and families in groups to be with the protestors on New Year Eve and raise the toast of hot ginger tea in cold and foggy weather. Among them was Chandigarh’s much-admired activist-psychiatrist Simmi Waraich, who drove her women friends all the way to Singhu on Thursday.What will be the course of this protest well begun? City’s author-activist Ranjit Powar, another one doing rounds of protest sites with women friends, says: “Whatever be the outcome of the farmers’ agitation, it will leave a lasting impact on the minds of the people, even those who have just brushed past it is an episode of solidarity, self-discipline, women power, youth energy and sincerity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-the-song-of-the-road-to-delhi-plays-on/story-ah5N1sZKdJJA9aFfPoEgNO.html
03-01-2021||Mumbai||2 held for murder of Mumbai woman at New Year’s Eve party||Khar police arrested two people for the murder of 19-year-old Janhavi Kukreja on Saturday. The autopsy indicates Kukreja, who had attended a New Year’s Eve party with the accused, was beaten to death.Shree Jodhankar, 24, and Diya Padankar, 19, were arrested and charged under section 302 for murder and 323 for assault, on Saturday. “We have arrested the two based on circumstantial evidence and statements of witnesses who attended the party,” said Gahanna Kaberle, senior inspector, Khar police station. Kaberle said the organiser of the party will also be booked. According to the autopsy report, the victim was brutally beaten approximately around 2.30am and the body showed injury marks on her hip and thighs. “These injuries indicate that Kukreja was badly beaten with an intention of killing her,” said an officer from Khar police station. The autopsy lists skull fracture as the cause of death. On Thursday, Kukreja, Jodhankar and Padankar were among 10 people who attended a New Year’s Eve terrace party at Bhagwati Heights in Khar. During the party, Kukreja, Jodhankar and Padankar got into a fight and the police suspect the fight may have been caused by Kukreja accusing Jodhankar of cheating on her with Padankar. An officer familiar with the investigation said the fight turned violent with Jodhankar and Padankar hitting Kukreja. Khar police investigating the case said that at 2.30am, Janhvi left the rooftop after a heated argument with her alleged boyfriend and the girl he was making out with. However, after allegedly killing her, Jodhankar and Padankar returned to the party, which led the others attending the party to think that Janhvi had gone home.It was not until 6am that the murder was discovered. Officers at the crime scene said that a woman from the building was walking her dog when she saw blood dripping from the staircase. “By this time, the party was still going on and the murder went unnoticed as people used the lift and not the stairs to go up and down the building,” said the officer.When police reached the rooftop, they found alcohol bottles and people in the party inebriated. The organiser of the party then revealed that Jodhankar and Padankar fought with Kukreja. Police are also probing whether drugs were being consumed at the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-held-for-murder-of-mumbai-woman-at-new-year-s-eve-party/story-wMTgObvk62Lo5mj9Vs5bqJ.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati: Vax, lax & detox of Resolutions 2021||Gosh! It’s that time of year again! When Twitterverse is bombarded with New Year resolutions that have an expiry date shorter than some Bollywood careers.Ask Asin or Mallika Sherawat.Like the pixel-ated profusion that greets Tweeple, in the shape of Selfie-ism or Status Update-ism on New Year, there’s this other overdrive narrative – New Year pledges riding ‘high resolution’ or ‘low resolution’.Since #NYWishlists have been done to ‘death’ (as much by the Pandemic as by Willpower breathing its last), it’s best to skip injecting another overdose. Better to leave all injecting to that 2021 Showstopper –The Vaccine.Twitterverse is already overburdened with curious 2021 Wishlists, from a netizen who “will try to understand why I need Nine different email addresses” to another who “will try to work with neglected children – my own” to another digital native who’s pledged to “become even more toxic.”Here are our own wacky wishlists that we would love to see.To Be or Not to Be ‘High Res’Just like there’s a calendar for physically challenged people churned out by a Coimbatore NGO, New Year pledges, too, boast of their tribe of Tweeple – Resolution-ally Challenged.Tweeple who are less challenged qualify as the “High Res” species of the Big Fat Resolution Maker. Even if only for the sake of some rhyming, they may manifest a poetic resemblance to the Idli Maker.They are high on fluff of fulfilling New Year pledges. And like that Idli Maker wherein idlis don’t lose steam to fall flat, this tribe suffers less from withdrawal symptoms – withdrawing from executing Wishlists. Hence, higher on the resolution quotient (RQ).The “Low Res” tribe of Tweeple are the ones really Resolution-ally Challenged and high on withdrawal symptoms.Some wishful resolutions which we hope for:“Papa Kehte Hain Bada Kaam Karega” – Inspired by cricketer Virat Kohli, how we wish India’s most eligible Bachelor Salman Khan too resolves to be eligible for Paternity Leave in 2021.To Vax or Not To Vax Eloquent – Here’s wishing outgoing POTUS Donald Trump makes a New Year resolution to get injected with a magical vaccine (vax), nah not as a health safeguard but as a histrionics safeguard, that will prevent him from putting his foot in the mouth at Joe Biden’s swearing-in later this January.Stand up for a pause – Here’s hoping parliamentarian-grammarian Shashi Tharoor resolves to take his stand-up comedy career #onemicstand to the next level so that Tweeple get a break from farragos ‘n’ floccinaucinihilipilifications and all that. Else, India Quarantining may be driven to declare a new national job cadre in times of job cuts and #wfh – Indian Dictionary Dive-o-crat.Of Toxins & VaccinesHow can we forget Lollita, Lamba ji & Co when it comes to Wishlists.Lamba ji is employed gainfully (painfully, for Lollita) in enlisting #Resolutions2021 to buddies on Zoom:“I’ve resolved to do less Zoom, more Ghoom,” Lamba ji pats his pandemic-cultivated paunch pensively.Other things heavy weigh on Lollita’s mind as she, too, chirrups on Zoom with BFFs, “I need to heavily detox.” Lamba ji hears it wrong but takes a cue, “Gotta ‘ghoom’, else I’ll look a hippo Xerox.”To implement his resolution of “Ghoom”, he pronto perambulates pantry-wards.Lollita disseminates her Detox plan, “Less of Netflix”. Glancing over her shoulder to ensure Lamba ji is out of earshot, she coos conspiratorially, “And less of lockdowns with Lamba ji !”The Curious Case of “Till snored ‘n’ bored to death do us part !”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-vax-lax-detox-of-resolutions-2021/story-ssssUgZqSZfSR5ZA6YFv7H.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Random Forays: New dreams, new hopes, new energy!||The advent of a new year inevitably heralds a sense of rejuvenated enthusiasm in us all, even perhaps in the most diehard of all pessimists. There is something undeniably uplifting about the newness of a nascent year despite its wintry January mornings and chilly, misty evenings. A sense of warmth and bonhomie prevails, even if in these days such warmth is available only on Instagram, WhatsApp, Linkedin and Facebook.Meeting each other for a hot cuppa was, sadly, already an outdated trend before the pandemic. Nowadays it is an even rarer moon when friends are able to get together and celebrate the meaning of togetherness in its true sense. However, time is marching on with all of its unpredictability on display, and we just might go back to rubbing shoulders with our peers and exchanging warm hugs with our dearest friends sooner than later. Who knows?The dawn of 2021 surely means a lot of things for humanity. Firstly, we’ve just emerged from a punishing year, perhaps indicative of a rap on the knuckles from the Almighty, for our largely unseemly behaviour during the past two decades. Secondly, technology and artificial intelligence have connected us closer together as a global family than ever before. The year2021 may well mark the beginning of invaluable partnerships across domains and geographies facilitated adeptly by such high-end connectivity. Thirdly, most people in their middle years have begun to realise that life is not meant to be a slam bang affair. Calmness, meditation, love, family bonding, emotional intelligence, faith and resilience might just turn out to be the key words that the modern human being needs to bank upon in the years to come. And fourthly, people have hopefully understood that leaders of nations and organisations had better show some mettle as well as some sensitivity if they are to continue in the saddle. Learning and moving on is what life is about. There is no place for stagnant minds, no room for lethargic ways. Change is the only constant and our existence is linked to our adaptability as well as our collective conduct as a global population. The nightingale sings mellifluously and with fervour even though it is unsure of the future, basking only in the happiness of the moment. Human beings think too much. We conjure up all sorts of crazy scenarios in the mind which may never come true but which scare the wits out of us, since we keep dwelling on them continually. Worry is a brake, said the saint. Birds and animals live for the day, yet they know how to nurture their young and keep their flock together. Overthinking would do them no good, and it does us no good either!A new year gives us the opportunity to refresh and renew. To reignite and reimagine. It is as if a new innings has begun and however badly we fared in the previous one, we can take fresh guard and buckle down to play the foremost knock of our lives. Indeed, the problems of each year make themselves evident with the passing weeks. And our rejuvenated consciousness begins to feel the burden of uncertainties and setbacks. We start awaiting the next year already, without understanding that the present moment actually presents us with the best chance to make a mark by dint of sheer will power and unflagging doggedness.The elderly tend to look back with missed feelings at the years gone by. Their grandchildren, those bundles of unalloyed joy, bring out their giggles, but many a tear erupts in the old eye at the thought of what life could have been.On the other hand, the young of 2021 are aspirational but under severe pressure from their families to perform or perish. They need to take heart from the roller coaster lives of those who have succeeded before them. A smooth life is not a successful life, said the saint, after all. Only after many setbacks and failures, comes true success.‘Tis the time to renew our dreams, then. The time to look ahead with hope, and move ahead with fortitude and momentum. A time to draw upon the universe’s boundless energy and to shine brighter than ever before.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-new-dreams-new-hopes-new-energy/story-koAMz6Ny9Y57VsGtwSvGkJ.html
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: The wandering hulk||A printer by profession, Chandigarh-based birder and conservationist Vikas Salil Sharma is an irrepressible wanderer. It was only befitting that chance bestowed upon Sharma’s lens an opportunity to record a rare, wandering eagle from the Eurasian temperate at Lunj near Pong wetland. The White-tailed eagle (WTE) is a distinctive species with a chequered history of persecution and patronage at the hands of humans. For example, in England, the WTE was exterminated to extinction by the early 20th century but has staged a comeback there, like the Gharial in Punjab, via the benevolence of modern reintroduction programmes.A hulk of a bird with a wingspan that can stretch to 2.5 metres and the female’s weight going up to seven kg, the WTE is regarded as the fourth largest eagle in the world. In terms of longevity, the species is notable with one individual surviving 32 years! The large head and a brute of a bill – like a butcher’s menacing, dangling hook – complete the image of a majestic and powerful bird which was regarded as worthy enough for depiction on the coat of arms of European nobilities.Interestingly, Sharma was photographing a group of White-rumped vultures and Himalayan vultures when his sharp eye chanced upon this vulturish-looking eagle perched nearby on a cliff. Migratory eagles such as the Steppe and the WTE often feed on carrion when wintering in the subcontinent. The clever eagles keep a careful watch on vultures and crows to detect the presence of carrion, which amounts to easy food. However, the WTE also hunts live prey by skimming over water and grabbing fish or hunting waterfowl or even robbing prey killed by lesser raptors! Hence, it is found near water such as coasts, lakes and rivers. In Europe, even large Mute swans fall prey to this apex predator. WTEs are devoted couples, pairing for life though on the death of a spouse a replacement is found. “WTEs have a characteristic aerial courtship display which culminates in the pair locking claws mid-air, whirling earthwards in a series of spectacular cartwheels, and separating sometimes only a few feet above the ground or water and soaring upwards again,” states the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds in its species profile.Gossip on Wall StreetCreatures of the city gardens endear themselves to observant householders. A spur of the moment photograph taken with a handy smartphone or camera leaves a lasting and fond memory. What would seem mundane to outsiders is a marvel for a householder with an indulgent eye and mind. Squirrels sun-basking on a brick wall at his Kaimbwala farmhouse spurred the imagination of Brig Balwinder Singh Sandhu (retd). The fauji, who headed Project HIMANK in Ladakh building roads and vital infrastructure at Daulat Beg Oldie and Batalik before retirement, is a passionate photographer. “The squirrels seemed relaxed and were indulging in chatter, like mohalla ladies basking in the sun and exchanging notes during a brief breather from household chores. I compared the time squirrels seemed to have for intimate moments and neighbourly bonhomie to the rat race that enslaves humans,” quipped the sprightly Brig Sandhu.*In Chandigarh’s genteel Sector 8, an Asian koel has shed her modesty. Otherwise prone to buzzing off in a flurry of feathers and odd squawks when approached by a human, this specimen has taken a great fancy to sour-sweet Calamondin oranges (narangis) in Mahendar Kaur’s bungalow. An exotic plant that ornaments gardens, the petite oranges are apportioned by ladies for winter marmalade and by discerning gents for home-brewed liqueurs. The lady of the house indulges this robber in splendid black robes and flashing ruby eyes. “The koel is unafraid of us and a regular visitor to our plant. She relishes the oranges,” Kaur told this writer. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-the-wandering-hulk/story-wu8KT8yRBaDSkW2cXprQDK.html
03-01-2021||City||Sanjay Raut’s wife to be quizzed: Shiv Sena to put up show of strength outside ED’s Mumbai office||A fresh round of the slugfest between the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which began after the Enforcement Directorate issued a notice to Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha early this week, is expected to reach a new level as some Sena leaders are planning a show of strength outside the central agency’s Ballad Pier office next week. The show of strength is being organised on the lines of the one put up by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) during its chief Sharad Pawar’s scheduled appearance before ED officials in September 2019. Shiv Sena has reportedly asked its local leaders from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Nashik, Pune and Thane to assemble party workers and stage a protest outside the ED office on Tuesday. A section of workers and leaders in Sena believe that Raut was being targeted as he was instrumental in snapping ties with BJP and forming the Sena-led government in the state. “There would be no official announcement on this to avoid any legal glitch. [But] the protest is planned to be portrayed as a spontaneous reaction of the workers. Sena works from the adjoining areas have been directed to gather outside ED office on Tuesday morning. It would be similar to the show of strength by NCP when Pawar was summoned,” said a leader close to Raut. However, another set of leaders in the party, were unaware of any such move, and also questioned if using party workers for “Raut’s personal case” was proper. The entire episode of ED’s notice to Varsha Raut has again raked up the face-off between allies-turned-rivals Sena and BJP, as the former alleged that the BJP-led Centre is using central agencies to settle political score. Varsha Raut is expected to visit the ED office on January 5 – the rescheduled date of appearance on her request. The agency summoned her to inquire over the allegations of her links with the transfer of Rs50 lakh from the accounts of Pravin Raut, an accused arrested in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case, which is also being probed by ED. Pravin Raut was one of the directors in Guruashish Constructions, which is a subsidiary of Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL). He has been arrested along with the directors of HDIL for illegally availing loans from the bank. Sanjay Raut said BJP wants to pull down the state government and thus by issuing the notice to his wife, it was trying to put pressure on the Sena, which is the ruling party in the state. “We have been getting messages from BJP leaders here [in the state] that they have prepared a list of 22 leaders from the three ruling parties to book them in various financial cases. Our MLA (Member of Legislative Assembly) Pratap Sarnaik [who, along with his relatives, has also been questioned by ED in another case] is one of them. A few state BJP leaders regularly visit the ED office and obtain important documents related to leaders from the ruling parties in Maharashtra. The BJP is playing a dirty game in political rivalry by involving wives and family members of the leaders who speak out against them,” Raut had claimed during a press conference on December 28. Party workers had indulged in sloganeering during the press conference at Sena Bhavan. A banner with the words ‘Maharashtra BJP regional office’ was also put up outside ED office on the same day. Meanwhile, hitting back at the Sena, BJP said the state’s ruling party was playing an emotional card and Raut should answer his and his family’s connections with Pravin Raut. “Instead of attacking us, Sanjay Raut should explain about his and his family’s relations with Pravin Raut and his family. The two families had formed a company called Siddhant Syscon Systems Pvt Limited Co and crores of rupees were transferred to Sanjay Raut’s account. They should first clear the air on these transactions,” said BJP leader Kirit Somaiya. Another BJP leader, Atul Bhatkhalkar, said, “Instead of indulging in the show of strength, Raut should tell ED and the people of Maharashtra the status of Rs50 lakh which was borrowed as loan from Pravin Raut. They should come clear on the questioned transactions and tell people if the loan was repaid,” he said. The Sena and the BJP have been at loggerheads on various issues over the past one year, after the Sena joined hands with NCP and Congress to form the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanjay-raut-s-wife-to-be-quizzed-shiv-sena-to-put-up-show-of-strength-outside-ed-s-mumbai-office/story-48JCVUkyk7FfAc21SDbhYN.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||DDA puts 1,354 flats for sale in new scheme, Feb 16 last date to apply||The Delhi Development Authority on Saturday launched its housing scheme-2021 putting on sale 1,354 flats that are located mainly in Dwarka, Jasola and Vasant Kunj areas. This includes Rs 2.1-crore three-bedroom High Income Group (HIG) flats, the costliest to be put up for sale till date by the authority, located in south-east Delhi’s Jasola.There are 254 flats in the HIG category located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini, Dwarka. Of these, 215 flats in Jasola have been put on sale for the first time, while the remaining are those that were returned by allottees in the previous housing schemes. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9 sqm to 177.3 sqm in size, varies between Rs69.62 lakh to Rs 2.14 crore. Despite the slump in the real estate market, DDA officials are optimistic that the 254 HIG flats in Jasola will find takers. “These are spacious flats, located on the Delhi-Noida border and are well-connected to the rest of the city via Metro and other public transport system. There is a dual piping system as the complex has its own sewer treatment plant. The most important thing is that each flat has two parking slots. The Rs 2.1 crore cost is as per the market rate,” said a senior DDA official. Real estate experts say that the number of property transactions have increased in the past few months as property prices have plummeted due to economic slowdown triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mudassir Zaidi, executive director, Knight Frank, said, “In the past few months, the property transactions have increased despite a slump in the market. While the costs have gone down, there is interest in newer projects, especially in Delhi. As there are not many private housing projects in Delhi, there is a demand for DDA flats. As for the cost of HIG flats in Jasola, it is as per market prices.”Read more| North India, already shivering with freezing temperatures, sees rainfallApart from HIG flats, the DDA has put on sale 757 Middle Income Group (MIG) flats with two and three bedrooms in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Janahgirpuri and Madipur. Spread over 64.04 sqm to 129.98 sqm, the cost of MIG flats varies between R40.64 lakh to R1.24 crore. Of the 757 flats, 711 are located in Dwarka sub-city—one of the planned residential areas developed by the DDA. There are 291 flats for the Economically Weaker Section and 52 in the Lower Income Group (LIG) category in Dwarka and Rohini.The last date to apply for the scheme is February 16 and senior DDA officials said that the draw of lots will be held in February end or first week of March.Unlike the last housing scheme in 2019, DDA officials said that the scheme will be launched online using the newly developed AWAAS software. The official added that all applications, payments and possession letters will be processed online. “People will have to come to the DDA office just once to execute the conveyance deed,” said the official.A senior DDA official said that people are advised to visit the site and inspect flats before applying for it. “We have provided the contact number of officials who will be present at the site to show the sample flats,” said the official. After three unsuccessful housing schemes, the land-owning agency is hoping for a good response to its new housing scheme as the flats on offer this time are spacious and located in areas which are well connected to the rest of the city.Last year, the DDA had put 18,000 flats on sale, but had to reduce the number of flats in the scheme to 10,294 later, as it didn’t get the desired response. The land-owning agency had received 45,012 applications for its flats, but it could sell only 8,438 flats — 488 HIG, 1,555 in MIG, 5,172 LIG and 1,223 EWS category flats — of which close to 6,000 flats were returned, a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-puts-1-354-flats-for-sale-in-new-scheme-feb-16-last-date-to-apply/story-kik5Rxxc3ofN1OpFpi6uhN.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Met predicts hailstorm in Delhi on Monday||A day after Delhi recorded its coldest day in 15 years, the Capital on Saturday woke up to light rains in several parts, with the minimum temperature rising to seven degrees Celsius at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the representative recording for the city.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature on Saturday was 19.5°C. On Friday, the minimum temperature at the observatory had dipped to 1.1°C under the influence of icy north-westerly winds from snow-clad mountains in Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Before this, the minimum temperature fell to 0.2°C on January 8, 2006. The coldest temperature ever recorded in Delhi was on January 16, 1935, when it touched -0.6°C.Read more| Delhi minimum temperature back to normal range due to western disturbanceIMD recordings show that some parts of the city recorded trace to light rain in the early hours of Saturday. The Palam observatory recorded 0.4mm rainfall, while the one at Lodhi Road saw 1.2 mm rainfall. Trace rainfall was recorded at the Safdarjung, Aya Nagar and Ridge observatories. IMD scientists said that the rainfall and increased temperature were impacts of a western disturbance over Delhi and the National Capital Region. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said there is the possibility of more intense rain in Delhi and the National Capital Region over the next three days. There is also a forecast of hailstorm in Delhi on Monday. “The temperature will be around 7-8°C in the coming days because of the passing western disturbance. There is a forecast of some areas in NCR receiving hailstorm on Sunday, but this is expected to hit Delhi by Monday,” said Srivastava. Read more| North India, already shivering with freezing temperatures, sees rainfallAdditionally, the high moisture level in the air after trace rainfall, led to ‘severe’ air pollution in Delhi for the second consecutive day on Saturday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index of Delhi was 443, in the ‘severe’ range. On Friday the AQI stood at 441, also in the ‘severe’ zone. Scientists said the high pollution levels were despite high average wind speeds on Saturday. According to IMD, the average wind speed on Saturday was 15kmph, which is expected to go up to 25 kmph by Monday. The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said ventilation conditions in Delhi will improve on Sunday and are likely to significantly cut pollution, in spite of the temperature and relatively low boundary layer. “With each passing day from January 3 the AQI is forecasted to improve roughly by one category. The AQI will improve to the middle-end of the very poor category by January 3, poor category by January 4 and is likely to further improve to the border beginning end of poor or even to the moderate category by January 5,” Safar forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/met-predicts-hailstorm-in-delhi-on-monday/story-y9mdfqCV6bSqounId4vZdO.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges corruption in renting trommel machines by MCDs, BJP says charges ‘politically biased’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday alleged that the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi engaged in corruption by bringing trommel machines (for clearing the city’s landfills) on rent at a much higher cost than the market rate. The BJP, however, denied the allegation and said the AAP “deliberately” excluded the operational costs of using the trommel machines “to suit its political ambitions” in the upcoming Delhi MCD polls, scheduled next year. Addressing a press conference, senior AAP leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the BJP is spending Rs 180 crore instead of Rs.8.5 crore, on the machines used to clear the landfill site located in Bhalswa. “Today the audit report on the Bhalswa landfill has come and it is not a report made by the AAP. It was prepared by the BJP-ruled MCD’s auditor. In every page of this audit report, it has been noted how the BJP ruled MCD has done corruption in the name of cleaning of these landfills,” he said. Pathak said the BJP-ruled MCD has installed 50 machines at the city’s landfill sites to clean and segregate garbage. “All these machines have a contract of five years and for the machines, the MCDs pays around Rs 6 lakh per month. Which means for 50 machines, the rent for 5 years should be around Rs 180 crore. But the report of the auditor claims that the price of the machine in the market is just Rs16 lakh per machine. If instead of paying the rent of these machines, they directly buy them, then it will cost just Rs 8.5 crores. But, the BJP is spending Rs 180 crore instead of Rs.8.5 crores on these machines,” he said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the contracts for the trommel machines are renewed annually and not every five years as stated by AAP leader Pathak.“Also, a trommel machine costs Rs 52 lakh, which can be verified in the market. The MCDs have hired them at Rs 6 lakh per month inclusive of full usage and maintenance expenses. Each machine runs 24 hours a day with a driver and an operator, who work in 3 shifts,” said Kapoor. “This apart, it has oil expenses and maintenance cost which are borne by the supplier company. The company has to provide operative trommels 365 days a year. The operation expenses of each machine runs up to over Rs 5 lakh a month. It will be better if the AAP leaders cross check their facts before making politically biased allegations against the MCDs,” the BJP spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-alleges-corruption-in-renting-trommel-machines-by-mcds-bjp-says-charges-politically-biased/story-ypQ90dBkNYQu3cq16nmIbM.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||70-year-old dies by suicide at UP Gate protest site||A 70-year-old farmer, who was part of the agitation against the farm bills at UP Gate in Ghaziabad, allegedly died by suicide in a portable toilet near the protest site on Saturday. The police said the body of the deceased man was sent to Rampur in Uttar Pradesh, from where he hailed. A post-mortem will be conducted there “Some people found the body in the mobile toilet around 9am on Saturday. Thereafter, the police reached the spot and took away the mobile toilet for forensic examinations… So far, we have not received any complaint,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram). This is the second death at the UP Gate in two days. On Friday, a 57-year-old man from Baghpat had died at the spot due to health complications. The police said the 70-year-old left behind a two-page note, written in Punjabi, where he said he wanted his last rites to be performed at UP Gate. Farmer leaders, meanwhile, said the man was allegedly upset about the long movement and the government’s indecision over the demands. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union claimed 47 people have died so far at various protests sites since the farmers began their agitation against three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. “We appeal to the farmers not to act in such a manner as protests or movements are not won by ending lives. They are won by staying alive and leading a collective fight. His cremation will take place at his native village,” Tikait, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-year-old-dies-by-suicide-at-up-gate-protest-site/story-AYq0cCE0PYYLgvxp6pu0XM.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Staff shortfall, improved internet connectivity among issues identified in vaccination dry run||Additional staff, better internet connectivity, and more time to manage any adverse events — these were some of the issues flagged by the three teams that conducted a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Delhi on Saturday. Saturday’s mock drive covered all state capitals, and was meant to assess the governments’ ability and readiness to administer shots to hundreds of millions of people, including many in remote corners of the country.Three centres – a primary health centre in Daryaganj, Guru Teg Bahadur hospital in Dilshad Garden, and Venkateshwara hospital in Dwarka – conducted a mock vaccination drive with 25 identified health care workers as beneficiaries at each centre. At the three sites, the beneficiaries had a government-issued identity card verified, their registration on the government CoWIN portal checked, their medical history taken, after which they were kept under observation for 30 minutes. Additionally, the sites also prepared for an adverse event, and recorded the time it took for patients to get emergency care. Read more| Co-WIN app, test beneficiaries: India to hold dry run for Covid-19 vaccinationCoWIN refers to the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network, which will help both health authorities as well as the public play their respective roles in the immunisation drive.“At our centre, everything went on smoothly for all 25 volunteers. We even practiced taking the patient to the linked Sanjeevani hospital, which is three minutes away, for treatment of any adverse event. The patient was admitted in the emergency department within 15 minutes,” said Arava Gopi Krishna, deputy commissioner (Central). However, confusion over ID proof-checks prevailed at Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, where the volunteer beneficiaries as well as the staff were from the hospital itself.“The name-tags of our vaccination officers were not prominently visible, leading to confusion about who was an officer at the site and who was a beneficiary. This has been addressed at our level. However, we have forwarded a suggestion to the state team that additional volunteers be posted at observation areas. People who are feeling fine might try to leave the area if the vaccine officer is engaged with something. We have decided to place a chair there itself with someone, noting the time the shot was given and monitoring the patient throughout the 30 minutes,” said Sanjeev Kumar, deputy commissioner (Shahdara). In addition, there were issues with network connectivity for the CoWIN site that IT teams have been informed about. Read more| Expert panel gives nod to Covaxin for restricted use“We have also suggested that some additional time be allotted for vaccination. Right now, the target is 100 people in seven hours. But if there is an adverse event, the vaccinator (the person administering the shot) will be needed to give immediate first aid and transfer the patient to the hospital. This will take around 30 minutes during which the rest of the activities will stop. So we might need some extra time,” said Kumar. Vaccinators are provided a kit with emergency medicines like epinephrine, atropine, antihistamines, and oxygen to give immediate support in case someone has a reaction to the vaccine. “We have been asked to monitor for rashes at the injection site, fever, breathlessness, seizure, and heart attacks,” said a nurse on duty at GTB hospital. At the Venkateshwara hospital site, the deputy commissioner (south-west) Naveen Aggarwal said there was a need for additional staff in the waiting area for all the paperwork to speed up the process. Read more| In a first, India successfully isolates, cultures UK-variant of Sars-CoV-2: ICMRThere will be around 1,000 vaccination sites that will aim to vaccinate 100,000 beneficiaries a day across Delhi once the vaccine becomes available. Meanwhile, a vaccination dry run was conducted in Leh’s Ladakh Heart Foundation on Saturday, after which the district’s deputy commissioner Sachin Kumar Vaishya said staff at the hospital had flagged concerns over electricity supply that he assured would soon be resolved. In Telangana, the dry run was conducted in three government healthcare facilities and a private hospital in Hyderabad and a government hospital in Mahbubnagar in Telangana on Saturday. State governor Dr Tamilisai Soundarajan said around 500,000 people will be administered the vaccine in the first phase of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/staff-shortfall-improved-internet-connectivity-among-issues-identified-in-vaccination-dry-run/story-4GTUc2S9nawJ4YZh5HH0VN.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to vaccinate all residents free of cost, says health minister Satyendar Jain||The Delhi government on Saturday said that not only health care and front line workers — as announced by the Central government — but all residents of the city, who are eligible, will get the Covid-19 vaccines for free. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who inspected the dry run of the vaccination process at a government primary health care centre in Daryaganj on Saturday, said the state administration aims to vaccinate around one lakh people every day once the drive begins. “The Delhi government already provides free medicines and treatment to residents of the city. The vaccine against Covid-19 will also be provided free of cost to the people of Delhi, once it arrives,” said Jain while talking to reporters.Jain’s announcement is slightly different from the one made by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who said the Covid shots will be free for the most prioritised beneficiaries —one crore health care and two crore front line workers. Officials in Delhi’s health department said the government is planning to give the vaccines for free also to senior citizens and those with co-morbidities during the first phase. Read more| Covid-19 vaccination dry run underway; health minister urges people not to pay heed to rumoursThe Delhi government so far has identified 51 lakh people who will be the first ones to get the Covid-19 vaccine shots, as part of the Central government’s “priority category”. Of the 51 lakh people, three lakh health care workers— such as doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and so on — will be the first ones to get the vaccine doses. This will be followed by 6 lakh frontline workers which include police, civil defence volunteers and municipal workers. Next, in line will be 42 lakh people who are either 50 years or above in age or are below 50 years age but have co-morbid conditions.Final lists of beneficiaries in all these categories is still being prepared by authorities, a senior government official said. The Delhi Police have already started sending test SMSes to its personnel, who fall in the second category of those who will be vaccinated, as part of the vaccination program.Jain said the Delhi government has completed all arrangements from storage to administering the vaccines.“We will set up 1,000 vaccination centres across Delhi. Largely, centres will be set up in three types of institutions - government hospitals, private hospitals and dispensaries. The purpose of conducting the dry run today at three different types of centres was to review the system set up in each of these categories. The system in Delhi is flawless,” he said.Read more| Co-WIN app, test beneficiaries: India to hold dry run for Covid-19 vaccinationExplaining about the vaccination process, the state health minister said monitoring stations will also be set up in all centres.“At a time, only 10 persons will be given entry into the centre so that all norms of social distancing are followed. When the vaccination is done, the person will be put under observation for 30 minutes. Every centre has been linked to a nearest hospital. In case any patient shows any kind of discomfort, an emergency room has been set up,” Jain said. Apart from 1,000 centres where people will get vaccinated, the government has also identified and readied 621 vaccine stores, most of which will also act as centres. The list of these vaccine stores, seen by HT, showed that almost all the major government dispensaries, primary healthcare centres, hospitals (both government and private), maternity and child welfare (MCW) centres and polyclinics will be storage and vaccination centres.Delhi Police, on its part, also said that they have chalked out an elaborate plan for smooth transportation of Covid-19 vaccines as they arrive in India. After a recent meeting with the commissioner of police, the operations branch of the Delhi police issued an order apprising its personnel about the arrangements that need to be put in place.Read more| Day 1 of nationwide dry run concludes as two Covid-19 vaccines await final nodThe order, seen by HT, said, “Proper security arrangements at the airport will have to be made. Police Control Room (PCR) vans will escort these vaccines to primary, then secondary and finally to territory stores. All possible assistance by traffic police should be provided. Local police should make round the clock security arrangements at the storage sites.”The document further read that adequate police arrangements by local police should also be made at session sites, where the vaccine will be given and that the Central Police Control Room should promptly respond to any call for help from any of the cold storage point or vaccination session site and pass on the information to the PCR vans as well as local police, traffic police and any other agency, as the case may be. The district deputy commissioners of police have also been told to maintain close coordination with district magistrates in this regard.“Since there will be limited availability of the vaccine in the initial phases, round-the-clock arrangement for the security of cold chain points at all locations will be made. While access to cold chain rooms will be restricted to authorised personnel only, the vehicles carrying the Covid-19 vaccine between districts and states will be sealed before leaving the cold chain point and will be opened only in front of the facility in-charge,” said a senior Delhi police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-vaccinate-all-residents-free-of-cost-says-health-minister/story-ejGpxZOxbCZIhr8EFkTJaM.html
03-01-2021||Delhi||Morning rains compound problems of protesting farmers at Delhi’s borders||After braving bone-chilling cold for days, farmers protesting at various borders near Delhi were greeted by a spell of light rain on Saturday.The spell of rainfall, though not heavy, was enough to cause chaos at the protest venues — turning the roads muddy, making them slippery and causing difficulties for protesting farmers to walk or ride their two-wheelers. The farmers’ agitation entered 38th day on Saturday.As the sun played hide-and-seek throughout the day, scores of volunteers and sanitation workers from Sonepat Municipal Corporation were seen removing the garbage and mud from the streets at the Singhu border.The mattresses on which farmers sit and hear speeches of their leaders near the main stage got wet because of the rain. It delayed the day’s scheduled programmes on the stage. The volunteers had to either remove the wet mattresses or covered them with tarpaulin sheets to make the seating arrangements. The rains mainly caused inconvenience to hundreds of volunteers involved in cooking, serving meals and providing other facilities to the protesting farmers at Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate and Chilla borders. Some of the tents, where meals are prepared and dry ration stored, started leaking and it delayed the cooking process, farmers at Singhu border said.“Cooking meals also became tough as the wooden logs were stored on the streets and many of them became wet. We somehow managed with the dry wooden logs and cooking gas cylinders. But the real problem started when we started serving the meals. The mats on which we fed the people were completely drenched. People had to eat while standing on the muddy roads,” said Sahab Singh from Punjab’s Mansa, who is working as a volunteer at a Langar Sewa at the Singhu border.As the mud on the roads became wet and slippery, farmers said that many of them slipped while walking or riding their motorcycles. Since the elderly farmers, women, and children were the most affected, some volunteers were seen helping them walk around the protest venue, even as some others were cleaning the roads using waters.“To maintain hygiene in the tents being used for cooking, we connected pipes with the water tankers and taps installed at the nearby buildings and used it to clean the muddy streets. The walking space has remained muddy because it is difficult to spray water while people walk,” said Satnam Singh, another volunteer from Amritsar in Punjab.A team of 30 sanitation workers from Sonepat Municipal Corporation were also deployed at the Singhu border for garbage collection and cleaning of roads. The workers said that lack of machines was making their task difficult.“We only have brooms and it is difficult to clean the streets that are filled with mud and water,” said Sonu Singh, a sanitation worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/morning-rains-compound-problems-of-protesting-farmers-at-delhi-s-borders/story-Yq5a2LynapSh0W0WXVjgeJ.html
03-01-2021||Pune||Pune gets a new arts, culture and performance space||Whether it’s theatre, art, music or other performing arts, Pune is indisputably a hive of activity. With a view to provide a fluid culture space for artists, well-known television and theatre actor Sakhi Gokhale will don the curator’s hat for Aayaam, a concept alternative arts venue, located off Jungli Maharaj road. Aayaam is set to open doors to the city’s art and culture aficionados on January 5. The 1,600 sq ft space is the brainchild of city-based entrepreneurs Sayalee Marathe and Jaydeep Hingne, who are the founders of the jewellery and fashion brand “House of Aadyaa”.Aayaam is a Sanskrit word, which means dimension. Sakhi, creative director and chief curator of Aayaam, said, “The mission of Aayaam is to celebrate the artists of today and invest in those of tomorrow. We have kept the space fluid, so it can be home to exhibitions of homegrown artists, craftsmen from different regions across India, theatre circuits, trunk shows, and book readings, and so on. We also have a well-equipped set-up of projectors and sound systems to enable film screenings.” According to Sakhi, though Pune is replete with small art venues, there is a dearth of places with a “premium” element, located in the heart of the city. For her, a place like Aayaam was missing in the vast culture-scape of Pune. “This city needed a culture centre that was state-of-the-art, and yet accessible in terms of affordability and mobility. Aayaam fits this bill perfectly,” she said.Sakhi has completed her post-graduation studies in curation of contemporary art from London’s Royal College of Art. Ask her about how she plans to juggle between acting and art curation, she said, “I always wanted to study and pursue art curation. That was always my primary goal. However, I am equally passionate about acting. So, I will now devote equal amounts of time for both these careers. Definitely, I would now have to make some critical time management efforts.”Aayaam’s inaugural event would be a 26-day art exhibition (January 5-30) titled “Nayika”, which will showcase artworks, artisanal crafts and jewellery created by renowned artist Shubha Gokhale. “Through ‘Nayika’ we take a closer look at Gokhale’s perspective of women and their various environments. The show will feature some handpicked art from four of her prominent series, Dehaspanda, Padmini, Meera, and Matsyagandha,” said Sakhi. Looking ahead, a range of high-end retail exhibitions, intimate theatre performances, and film festivals are lined up at Aayaam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-gets-a-new-arts-culture-and-performance-space/story-Sh5wtpmyqbSjn7UBXU9rsM.html
03-01-2021||Gurugram||Protesting farmers cross Haryana border, threaten to start hunger strike||Hundreds of farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Jaisinghpur Khera — located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district at the Rajasthan-Haryana border — since December 12, pushed across the border and broke the police barriers on Thursday. Haryana Police allegedly lathi(cane)-charged the protestors, used mild force and released tear gas to stop them. However, more than 20 tractors and hundreds of farmers were able to cross the border and enter Bawal in Rewari. Meanwhile, hundreds of commuters got stuck on the expressway from Dharuhera to Gurugram due to the standoff between the police and the protestors. Shalini Baweja, entrepreneur and resident of Sector 15, said that it took her two hours to reach Kherki Daula toll plaza on Thursday evening after office. The entire stretch was congested and vehicles were forced to move at a slow speed. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that all the seniors officials have alerted their teams, and Bilaspur and Manesar police teams are on alert. Barricades have been put up and extra force has been deployed at all the border points connecting Haryana with other states,” he said. On Thursday, over a thousand farmers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana reached Jaisinghpur Khera and joined the agitation. The protesting farmers had earlier announced that they would start moving towards Delhi on Thursday, signalling their intent to further escalate the ongoing agitation. Despite heavy police presence and barricading, the farmers broke the barricades and crossed the Haryana border. Satnarayan Nehra, president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said that around 1pm around 20 tractors and hundreds of farmers crossed the Shahjahanpur Kheda border after breaking the barriers. “Rajasthan Police allowed us to cross but Haryana Police started to cane charge. Many farmers were injured in this ruckus. The community leaders have requested the police to let them cross the stretch peacefully and have tried to pacify the protestors. Now, we are currently stationed at Bawal and will proceed after two days,” he said. Tej Bahadur Yadav, a former constable of the Border Security Force, who was earlier sacked from service and contested the election from the Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency last year, said that they have been waiting peacefully since December 12. “Now we have to take some action or else we will not be able to join our counter parts near the Delhi border. It has been more than two weeks we are stuck at one spot. We need to reach Delhi to show our strength,” he said.He added, “The number of protesting farmers is still below our expectations. We are waiting for more farmers to join us so that we can block the highway till the new farm laws are repealed. We will go on hunger strike if police do not allow us to cross the border.” Abhishek Jorwal, superintendent of police (Rewari), said that farmers have forcefully entered the district. “We managed to control the situation but few tractor-trolleys have crossed and have stationed near Bawal. The teams are deployed at the stretch and are managing the traffic so that commuters do not face any inconvenience,” he said. Ram Murthy Joshi, SP, Bhiwadi , said that they are not stopping anyone from crossing the Rajasthan border. “There is no issue at our border. However, Haryana Police is not letting them enter into their territory. Our teams are deployed and keeping a close check on any unlawful activity and miscreants,” he said. Farmers at Bawal are protesting on the service lanes where they have stationed their tractor-trolleys, cars and motorbikes. The traffic is being managed by the police personnel, said Haryana Police, adding that although untoward incident has been noted till now, they are closely monitoring the situation and will arrest anyone who will try to disrupt traffic. Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September this year. They fear that the new laws will put them at the mercy of the corporations and put an end to the minimum support price (MSP) on important crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/protesting-farmers-cross-haryana-border-threaten-to-start-hunger-strike/story-A9AISEgn4OyaPCVAPQdfoO.html
03-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi seeks speakership with slim margin in new Congress||The new US Congress opened Sunday with Nancy Pelosi seeking the speakership for what could be the last time, relying on a slimmer Democratic majority and with the progressive and moderate wings of her party both clamoring for a new generation of leadership.Neither flank of the Democratic Party offered an alternative to Pelosi, and the party will need to remain unified to elect a Democrat as House Speaker. Pelosi must win support from 50% of members voting -- during a global pandemic -- to claim another term leading the chamber.“I’m fine,” Pelosi said last week when asked whether she has the support to continue as speaker, after the Democratic majority shrunk to 11 votes from 37 after Republican gains in the November election.For the past two years, Pelosi has been the Democrats’ main foil for President Donald Trump, and that’s helped keep her caucus unified despite the ideological spread from progressives like New York Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez to centrists like Representative Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey. For the next term, Pelosi’s challenge is to keep the party marching behind President-elect Joe Biden’s agenda.Pelosi, 80, the only woman to hold the speaker’s gavel, faced a mini-revolt in 2019 after Democrats regained the House majority in the midterm elections. Fifteen members of her party cast their ballots for someone else as speaker or voted present, and at least 10 of them will be part of the Democratic delegation again this year.Republicans have tried to stoke dissent among Democrats, particularly those from closely divided districts. Dan Conston, president of the Congressional Leadership Fund, the super-PAC for House Republicans, tweeted that, “We view any weak-kneed Democrats voting present or *conveniently* skipping the vote as a move to enable Pelosi and the left’s radical agenda -- we’ll be sure voters know exactly what they did.”Republican members will nominate their leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, for speaker. But the nominee of the majority party typically sails to victory, and there’s been no late entry by another Democrat seeking to try to topple Pelosi.Roll CallThere still may be some tense moments during the roll call vote, which will take longer than usual and extend into the evening due to procedures in place because of the pandemic. The winner must gain an actual majority of votes cast by both parties. Democrats hold a 222-211 advantage in the new Congress -- with two House seats currently still open -- leaving Pelosi little room for party defections.“It is clear that we’re going to need to unite around a Democratic speaker and not Kevin McCarthy,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington state, chair of the 100-member Congressional Progressive Caucus.“I have no doubt in my mind we are going to elect Nancy,” said House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer.Each lawmaker who shows up on Sunday can nominate and vote for people who aren’t even members of Congress, or even vote “present,” rather than for their party’s nominee, a move that lowers the threshold for achieving a majority.If no candidate emerges with a simple majority of all the votes cast for a named person, the balloting would continue until someone passes the 50% threshold. The last multiple-ballot speaker election was in 1923, when the winner wasn’t decided until the ninth ballot.‘Bad Optics’Ross Baker, a professor of American politics at Rutgers University, said Pelosi will benefit from “consensus across ideological lines in the House caucus that a public battle right now is bad optics.” Democrats need to show they’re ready and able to work with the incoming Biden administration to get things accomplished, he said.The 10 returning Democrats who didn’t vote for Pelosi in 2019 are representatives Elissa Slotkin of Michigan; Abigail Spanberger of Virginia; Mikie Sherill of New Jersey; Jared Golden of Maine; Jason Crow of Colorado; Ron Kind of Wisconsin; Conor Lamb of Pennsylvania; Kurt Schrader of Oregon; Kathleen Rice of New York; and Jim Cooper of Tennessee.Among those who’ve publicly stated their intentions, Slotkin, who represents a Republican-leaning district, has already said she would vote “present,” as she did in 2019. Golden, also from a swing district, has said he will not vote for Pelosi.Schrader’s office confirmed he’ll back Pelosi this time around, as will Cooper. “I will vote for Pelosi for Speaker because she has led a contentious Democratic caucus well during the pandemic and the Trump presidency,” Cooper said.Two newly elected progressives who won their seats after ousting long-time Democrats, Jamaal Bowman of New York and Cori Bush of Missouri, haven’t committed.“You’ll find out when my vote is tallied,” Bowman said in a recent interview on CNN’s “State of the Union.” On the same program, Bush said that, “What I’m going to do is make sure that the voices of the people of St. Louis are heard, and that we have what we need, and so you’ll find out then.”Next GenerationOcasio-Cortez has been among the most vocal Democratic House members calling for current leadership to give way to a younger generation. But in an interview with the Intercept published in December, she said, “the left isn’t really making a plan” for how to accomplish that in the near future. Her office didn’t return emails seeking comment on Pelosi’s election.Pelosi committed in 2018 to not seeking the speakership beyond 2022 in response to demands from younger Democrats seeking generational change. Talking with reporters last month, Pelosi declined to directly respond to a question about that commitment stands.“We never expected to have another term now,” she said. “I consider this a gift.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-seeks-speakership-with-slim-margin-in-new-congress/story-GfGTJuy2Uc30MqWowarwaK.html
03-01-2021||World||‘The deaths are real deaths’: Anthony Fauci rejects Donald Trump’s claim of coronavirus death toll being ‘exaggerated’||Two top US health officials on Sunday disputed a claim by President Donald Trump that federal data on Covid-19 cases and deaths in the United States is overblown, and both expressed optimism that the pace of vaccinations is picking up.“The deaths are real deaths,” Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said on ABC News’ This Week, adding that jam-packed hospitals and stressed-out healthcare workers are “not fake. That’s real.”Fauci and US Surgeon General Jerome Adams, who appeared on CNN’s State of the Union, defended the accuracy of coronavirus data published by the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) after Trump attacked the agency’s tabulation methods.“The number of cases and deaths of the China Virus is far exaggerated in the United States because of the @CDCgov’s ridiculous method of determination compared to other countries, many of whom report, purposely, very inaccurately and low,” Trump wrote on Twitter.Trump, a Republican who leaves office on January 20 after losing a bid for a second term to Democrat Joe Biden, has frequently has downplayed the severity of the pandemic. He has also scorned and ignored federal recommendations for containing the spread.More than 20 million people have been infected in the United States and nearly 347,000 have died – or one out of every 950 US residents - since the virus first emerged in China in late 2019, according to the CDC.“From a public health perspective, I have no reason to doubt those numbers and I think people need to be very aware that it’s not just about the deaths,” Adams said. “It’s about the hospitalizations, the capacity.”Fauci and Adams expressed optimism that the pace of vaccinating Americans against the virus is accelerating after a slow start. More than 4.2 million people have been inoculated since December 14 with one of two vaccines, far short of the Trump administration’s goal of 20 million by the end of 2020.“We wanted to get to 20 million, but some glimmer of hope is that in the last 72 hours, they’ve gotten 1.2 million doses into peoples’ arms, which is an average of about 500,000 a day,” Fauci said. “We are not where we want to be. There’s no doubt about that. But I think we can get there.”He said he believed that the number of daily vaccinations could be expanded to 1 million and called for “a real partnership” between the federal and state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-deaths-are-real-deaths-anthony-fauci-rejects-donald-trump-s-claim-of-coronavirus-death-toll-being-exaggerated/story-6lbVD2bL3hMAs1o5Wg7mkK.html
03-01-2021||World||Islamic State claims responsibility for attack on Pakistan’s Shi’ite minority that killed 11||Islamic State claimed responsibility for an attack on Sunday that killed 11 miners from Pakistan’s minority Shi’ite Hazaras in Baluchistan province.The attack took place early on Sunday morning in the Mach area of Bolan district around 100 kms southeast of Baluchistan’s capital Quetta, killing the miners who were in a shared residential room near the coal mine where they worked, officials said.“The throats of all coal miners have been slit, after their hands were tied behind their backs and (they were) blind folded,” a security official told Reuters, requesting anonymity as he is not allowed to speak to media.A video clip making the rounds on WhatsApp groups, apparently shot by a first responder, showed three bodies lying outside the room and the rest inside in pools of blood.“The condemnable killing of 11 innocent coal miners in Mach Baluchistan is yet another cowardly inhuman act of terrorism,” Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan said in a tweet.“Have asked Frontier Constabulary to use all resources to apprehend these killers and bring them to justice,” he said.Islamic State later claimed responsibility for the attack, through its Amaq news agency via its Telegram communications channel.The attack came after a relative lull in nearly a year of violence against the mainly Shi’ite Hazara minority in the province.In April, a market suicide bombing killed 18 people, half of whom were Hazaras.Following Sunday’s attack, members of the Hazara minority in Quetta blocked the western bypass and set fire to tyres to protest against the killings.Baluchistan is the focus of the $60-billion China Pakistan Economic Corridor, a transport and energy link planned between western China and Pakistan’s southern deepwater port of Gwadar.Hazaras have been frequently targeted by Taliban and Islamic State militants and other Sunni Muslim militant groups in both Pakistan and Afghanistan.The attacks in Afghanistan have been claimed by an affiliate of Islamic State.In 2013, three bombings killed more than 200 people in Hazara neighbourhoods in Quetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/islamic-state-claims-responsibility-for-attack-on-pakistan-s-shi-ite-minority-that-killed-11/story-QAzDiWSifwvcGZSwuYFLLL.html
03-01-2021||World||Anthony Fauci says US Covid-19 vaccine pace picking up after slow start||The US government’s top infectious-disease doctor said the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines is picking up speed and could be fully on track within a week or so.“It’s just trying to get a massive vaccine program started and getting off on the right foot. The important thing is to see what’s happening in the next week, to week and a half,” Anthony Fauci said on ABC’s “This Week.”On CNN’s “State of the Union,” Surgeon General Jerome Adams said the initial vaccination program had been superimposed upon a surge of coronavirus cases, which has stressed health care resources in many areas, and on the holiday season.Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said that in the past 72 hours, about 1.5 million vaccine doses have been administered, or about 500,000 per day, a substantial pickup in pace.“We are not where we want to be, no doubt about that, but I think we can get there if we really accelerate,” he said on ABC.Operation Warp Speed, the federal effort to develop and distribute a vaccine against the coronavirus, has so far failed to meet projections for how quickly people will be inoculated. Two vaccines have been approved for use in the US.Health Agencies StrainedOfficials have blamed the inoculation delays on a delicate vaccine with complex storage requirements, uncertainty over the supply of doses and strain on local health agencies already facing historic challenges.On NBC Fauci noted the “multiple stages” involved, from allocation to staging and distribution, and finally getting shots into people’s arms.While the goal to have 20 million people vaccinated by the end of 2020 wasn’t achieved, that many doses should at least be shipped by the end of the first week in January, Fauci said.About 4.28 million doses had been administrated by Jan. 2, according to the Bloomberg News vaccine tracker.The number of US cases has exceeded 20 million, with more than 1 million in New York state alone. U.S. deaths attributed to the coronavirus passed 350,000 on Saturday.President Donald Trump on Sunday called cases and deaths in the U.S. “far exaggerated” in a tweet criticizing the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.“The numbers are real,” Fauci said. “Those are real numbers, real people, and real deaths.” On CNN, Adams said he had “no reason to doubt those numbers.”New York state on Saturday passed 1 million Covid-19 cases, after a somber year in which more than 30,000 of its residents died from the virus.More than a third of the state’s total cases were reported in December as cold weather nudged people indoors, holidays increased social gatherings and residents tired of restrictions.“We need to double down on the things we talk about all the time,” notably wearing masks, social distancing and avoiding “congregate” settings, especially indoors, Fauci said on NBC.The current jump in cases “was predictable” given travel and socializing over the holidays, he said.Asked about the newer, more infectious Covid-19 strain that’s reached the US and elsewhere in the world from the UK, Fauci repeated his advice from the start of the pandemic: “The best way to counter this is to do the public health measures that prevent spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-says-us-covid-19-vaccine-pace-picking-up-after-slow-start/story-2vc8TUaszBFiL24ByDkqkL.html
03-01-2021||World||Britons flying home to Spain caught in post-Brexit red tape||Blame Covid-19 travel restrictions or Brexit but whatever the cause, some British citizens trying to return to their homes in Spain this weekend have been barred from boarding flights.Airlines are refusing documents that before Brexit had been valid proof of the Britons’ status as residents in Spain.Their ordeal comes amid heightened travel restrictions due to a coronavirus variant that has been blamed for faster contagion in the UK and highlights the bureaucratic complexities resulting from Britain’s departure from the 27-nation European Union (EU).Both Spanish and British authorities said Sunday that the green-colored certificate of EU citizenship with a foreign national identification number issued by Spain is still valid for British citizens residing in Spain under the bilateral provisions that followed the UK’s withdrawal from the bloc on December 31.But the travelers say British Airways and Iberia have been refusing to let them board for the past two days. The airlines, part of the IAG group, didn’t immediately respond to requests Sunday for comment from The Associated Press.Around 300,000 British citizens are registered as permanent residents in Spain, although before Brexit, many more had been living full or part-time in the country without officially registering.Patricia Moody, a 69-year-old retiree who has called the southern Spanish town of Zurgena home for nearly four years, was among a group of at least nine people unable to board a Madrid-bound BA/Iberia flight from London’s Heathrow Airport on Saturday.Moody said she and her husband, who she says needs to see his doctor back in Spain, have spent 1,900 pounds ($2,600) on getting tested for the virus, travelling to the airport and booking new tickets after they were refused boarding. Their second attempt was also futile.“Throughout all the months of negotiating Brexit, we were always assured that nothing would change for us,” she said. Referring to the airlines and authorities in both countries, she added: “It’s horrendous and we are suffering because of their incompetence.”Following the discovery of the coronavirus variant in the UK, Spain, like many other European nations, has banned all travel from the British isles except for Spanish citizens and UK citizens with residency rights.Spain has been rolling out a new system to register permanent foreign residents called TIE but it’s suffering a backlog due to the high number of requests.Spain’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs told AP that under the circumstances both proofs of application for the TIE and the “green certificate” for EU citizens is still valid to travel for British residents under the new health restrictions in place until Jan. 19.“This should not be happening,” said the UK embassy in Spain said in a Facebook post. “The Spanish authorities have today re-confirmed that the green residency document will be accepted for travel to return to Spain, as stated in our travel advice.”But Sam Dakin, a 32-year-old English-language teacher based in Barcelona for the last four years, and his partner, who has been in the Spanish city for 8 years, said they needed more assurances before they could rebook flights.The couple had been blocked from flying Saturday morning despite carrying their certificate and then were refused boarding on another flight Saturday evening that British Airways had initially said they could take.“Just because the government adviser said that we could travel, we don’t know whether that will happen when we turn up at the counters,” Dakin said. “We just don’t know where we’re going to get answers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britons-flying-home-to-spain-caught-in-post-brexit-red-tape/story-y36lkZ3lAGsVJRZtXEVsrO.html
03-01-2021||World||Video of Egypt virus patients’ ICU death stirs controversy||The deaths of at least four coronavirus patients early Sunday at a public Egyptian hospital have stirred controversy after a video of nurses struggling to keep the patients alive was shared widely on social media.The governor of Sharqia province denied allegations by a relative of one of the patients that the deaths were caused by a lack of oxygen at the government-run intensive care unit treating Covid-19 patients. Gov. Mamdouh Ghorab said the patients died because they suffered chronic diseases in addition to the virus.Egypt, the Arab world’s most populous country with a population of more than 100 million people, is facing a surge in confirmed virus cases and renewed calls for the government to impose a lockdown to contain a second wave of the pandemic.The four dead were two women in their 60s and two men, 76 and 44 years old, according to a local news outlet. Prosecutors in Sharqia said the deaths were being investigated.The deaths follow similar allegations by a relative last week that two patients died because of a lack of oxygen at a government-run hospital elsewhere in the Nile Delta. Prosecutors in Menoufia province have launched an investigation into the cause of the deaths Friday.Egypt’s top health authority has announced that a Chinese vaccine made by Sinopharm has been approved for emergency use, and inoculations would begin within two weeks. In televised comments Saturday, Health Minister Hala Zayed said negotiations were also underway to procure two other vaccines — one from Oxford University and AstraZeneca, as well as one from Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech.Finance Minister Mohamed Maait said last month that the government has contracted to purchase 20 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and 30 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, according to the state-run Al-Ahram daily.Egypt has seen a spike in daily reported Covid-19 cases in recent weeks. The Health Ministry announced over 1,400 new cases and 54 deaths on Saturday, one of the highest official daily tallies since the start of the pandemic last year.Overall, Egypt has reported 140,878 confirmed cases, including 7,741 deaths. However, the actual number of Covid-19 cases in Egypt are thought to be far higher, in part due to limited testing and uncounted patients who are being treated at home or in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/video-of-egypt-virus-patients-icu-death-stirs-controversy/story-MmSawX8bw0Vu2gKNZU7v6N.html
03-01-2021||World||Pope criticises people going on holiday to flee coronavirus lockdowns||Pope Francis condemned on Sunday people who had gone abroad on holiday to escape coronavirus lockdowns, saying they needed to show greater awareness of the suffering of others.Speaking after his weekly noon blessing, Francis said he had read newspaper reports of people catching flights to flee government curbs and seek fun elsewhere.“They didn’t think about those who were staying at home, of the economic problems of many people who have been hit hard by the lockdown, of the sick people. (They thought) only about going on holiday and having fun,” the pope said.“This really saddened me,” he said in a video address from the library of the Vatican’s Apostolic Palace.The traditional Angelus blessing is normally given from a window overlooking St. Peter’s Square, but it was moved indoors to prevent any crowds gathering and limit the spread of Covid-19.“We don’t know what 2021 will reserve for us, but what all of us can do together is make a bit more of an effort to take care of each other. There is the temptation to take care only of our own interests,” he added.Many countries have imposed strict restrictions to prevent the spread of coronavirus, which has killed more than 84 million people worldwide, according to the latest Reuters tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-criticises-people-going-on-holiday-to-flee-coronavirus-lockdowns/story-I0lkBQgnHcsMiigrF2obWI.html
03-01-2021||World||Brazil to import 2 million AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine doses, not yet approved for use||Brazil’s health regulator Anvisa said late on Saturday it had approved the import of 2 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, although the jab is not yet approved for use in the country.Anvisa said it approved the importation request from federal government-affiliated biomedical center Fiocruz on Thursday.Importing the doses prior to approval will enable vaccination to begin as soon as Anvisa okays its use, the regulator said. Brazil has yet to approve any vaccine.Fiocruz will apply for emergency use of the vaccine by Wednesday, its president, Nísia Trindade, said last week.Brazil has recorded the second-deadliest outbreak of Covid-19 after only the United States. South America’s largest country has the third highest tally of coronavirus cases, with the health ministry registering more than 7.7 million, after the United States and India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-to-import-2-million-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-doses-not-yet-approved-for-use/story-ahdzDaJBB1bbpq7B40K8QN.html
03-01-2021||World||Airport in Yemen receives first flight since deadly attack||A plane landed Sunday at the airport in Yemen’s southern port city of Aden, officials said, the first commercial flight to arrive since the deadly missile attack last week on the facility that killed at least 25 people and wounded 110 others.The attack Wednesday took place just moments after a plane carrying members of Yemen’s Cabinet landed on a flight from the Saudi Arabian capital, Riyadh.Three precision-guided missiles that struck the airport targeted the plane carrying the Cabinet members, the arrival hall and the airport’s VIP lounge, according to Prime Minister Maeen Abdulmalik Saeed.No one has claimed responsibility for the attack.On Sunday, the airport received a Yemenia airline flight arriving from Sudan’s capital Khartoum, according to Yemen’s state-run SABA news agency. Yemeni Interior Minister Ibrahim Haidan and Aden Gov. Ahmed Lamlas were at the airport to receive the flight, the report said.Haidan said the speedy reopening of the airport has underscored “the determination of the government to overcome obstacles and face the difficulties” caused by Wednesday’s attack.The attack killed at least 25 people, including three workers from the International Committee of the Red Cross, and wounded 110 others.The war in Yemen started in 2014 when Iran-backed Houthi rebels overran the north and the capital, Sanaa. The following year, a Saudi-led military coalition intervened to wage war on the Houthis and to restore President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi’s government to power. Hadi has been living in Riyadh.Yemen’s internationally recognized government has accused the Houthis of carrying out the airport attack as well as a drone assault on the Mashiq Palace in Aden shortly after the prime minister and his Cabinet were transferred there Wednesday.Houthi officials have denied being behind the attack and have sought to blame unspecified groups in the Saudi-led coalition. The rebel leaders have not offered any evidence or answered requests for comment.The Yemeni ministers were returning to Aden from Riyadh after being sworn in last week as part of a Cabinet reshuffle. The changes were part of a deal with the Emirati-backed separatist Southern Transitional Council. The STC is an umbrella group of militias seeking to restore an independent southern Yemen, which existed from 1967 until unification in 1990.Yemen’s internationally recognized government has worked mostly from self-imposed exile in Riyadh during the country’s years-long civil war.Meanwhile, in the strategic port city of Hodeida, three people including two women and a man, were killed when a shell landed Friday at a wedding hall in al-Hawk district while a wedding celebration was taking place, local officials and the U.N. said.The officials said the shelling also wounded at least eight others, and that both warring sides, the Houthis and internationally recognized government traded accusations of responsibility for the attack.The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief the media.The head of the U.N. mission to Hodeida, retired Gen. Abhijit Guha, condemned the shelling.Yemen’s war has killed more than 112,000 people and created the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/airport-in-yemen-receives-first-flight-since-deadly-attack/story-sco0julwVShGWkbd9VZKLL.html
03-01-2021||World||Iraqis chanting anti-US slogans mark year since Soleimani killing||Tens of thousands of Iraqis chanting anti-American slogans streamed to Baghdad’s central square on Sunday to mark the anniversary of the US killing of top Iranian general Qassem Soleimani and Iraqi militia commander Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis.The gathering coincided with increasing tensions between Iran and the United States in the last days of President Donald Trump’s administration, and many in the crowd demanded revenge.Soleimani, leader of an elite overseas unit of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards, was killed on Jan. 3, 2020, in a US drone strike on his convoy at Baghdad airport, an attack that took US-Iranian hostilities into uncharted waters and stoked concern about a major conflagration.Washington had accused Soleimani of masterminding attacks by Iranian-aligned militias on US forces in the region.Demonstrators gathering at Tahrir square in response to calls by an assortment of militia groups known collectively as the Popular Mobilisation Forces (PMF), which are mostly backed and trained by Iran, waved the Iraqi flag and chanted anti-American slogans such as “America is the Great Satan”.Reflecting continuing regional strains, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif on Saturday urged Trump not to be “trapped” by an alleged Israeli plan to provoke a war through attacks on US forces in Iraq.An Israeli official dismissed the accusation as “nonsense” and said it was Israel that needed to be on alert for possible Iranian strikes on the anniversary of Soleimani’s death. The United States blames Iran-backed militias for regular rocket attacks on US facilities in Iraq, including near the US embassy. No known Iran-backed groups have claimed responsibility.The US military flew two nuclear-capable B-52 bombers to the Middle East in a message of deterrence to Iran last week, but the bombers have since left the region.On Saturday evening thousands of mourners gathered on the highway that leads to Baghdad airport, where Soleimani and Muhandis were killed, in a simulated funeral procession staged in tribute to the two men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraqis-chanting-anti-us-slogans-mark-year-since-soleimani-killing/story-4Q8O4Gq5z4CfnZbbFX2wqO.html
03-01-2021||World||Germany poised to extend coronavirus lockdown||Germany is likely to extend a national lockdown beyond January 10 to curb coronavirus infection rates that are still running high and putting huge strains on hospitals and health workers, politicians said at the weekend.Chancellor Angela Merkel and regional leaders are expected to agree to extend the restrictions when they convene on Tuesday. It is not yet clear how long the extension would last.“The numbers are still too high, so we will have to prolong the restrictions,” Health Minister Jens Spahn told RTL television in an interview on Saturday evening.Infection rates had to be sustainably reduced, Spahn said, adding: “That is better than loosening too early and then, perhaps in as little as a few weeks, facing new and difficult questions.”Germany imposed tougher social restrictions before Christmas, including closing restaurants and most shops. Even so, infections continued to rise and the death toll has hit more than 1,000 on some days.Seven-day infection rates are currently at 140 per 100,000 people - well over the target of 50 that politicians have agreed would be safe enough to ease the curbs.With a new, more infectious coronavirus variant circulating, some politicians and health leaders are calling for the restrictions to be lifted only when the seven-day rate falls to 25.“We will only see next week in the hospitals how strongly Christmas contributed to the spread of Covid-19 - the New Year effect will come only later,” Uwe Janssens, head of a group representing intensive-care doctors, told the Rheinische Post.Officials from Germany’s 16 states agreed on a conference call on Saturday to extend restrictions, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported.But there was disagreement over how much longer to keep the measures in force. Some harder hit states called for a three-week extension, and for schools to be kept closed, while others favoured a two-week extension.The Robert Koch Institute, the agency coordinating Germany’s pandemic response, reported 10,315 new confirmed cases on Sunday and 312 fatalities, bringing the total death toll to 34,272.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-poised-to-extend-coronavirus-lockdown/story-AFEgyumPWdsekOCfIae9sL.html
03-01-2021||World||Explained: What may happen on Jan 6 as Trump’s allies prepare to overturn electoral college results||Apart from at least 140 House Republicans reportedly preparing to overturn US election results, a coalition of 11 Republican senators, led by Ted Cruz, has announced its plan to reject electors from some states when Congress meets on January 6 to formally certify the Electoral College and President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. In a joint statement, the senators claimed that the 2020 presidential elections featured “unprecedented allegations of voter fraud” and other voting irregularities.“We intend to vote on January 6 to reject the electors from disputed states as not ‘regularly given’ and ‘lawfully certified’ (the statutory requisite), unless and until that emergency 10-day audit is completed,” the statement read.US Vice-President Mike Pence has also welcomed the plan of the Republican senators to refuse to certify Biden’s victory. The vice-president’s chief of staff Marc Short said that Pence shares the “concerns of millions of Americans”, adding that he has welcomed that efforts of lawmakers to use their authority “to raise objections and bring forward evidence before the Congress”.Also Read | Homes of top Republican Mitch McConnell, Democrat Nancy Pelosi vandalised: ReportWhat may happen on January 6?The House of Representatives and the Senate will debate for two hours over the objections, if any, raised by the lawmakers, which will be followed by a vote. However, US President Donald Trump’s allies need a majority of lawmakers in both chambers voting in their favour to uphold the objections. Such attempts have virtually no chance to succeed since Democrats control the House and top Senate Republicans have already recognised Biden as the next president of the United States.Several Republican leaders, including senate majority leader Mitch McConnell, have been warning their GOP colleagues to not disrupt the certification process. Utah Senator Mitt Romney said in a statement that the “egregious ploy” to reject electors “dangerously threatens our Democratic Republic”. Romney highlighted the fact that the Justice Department found no evidence of irregularity sufficient to overturn the election.“I could never have imagined seeing these things in the greatest democracy in the world. Has ambition so eclipsed principle?” he asked rhetorically.Earlier, Republican senator Ben Sasse had written in a Facebook post that he has been urging his colleagues to reject the “dangerous ploy” to overturn the election. Sasse explained that there are a bunch of ambitious politicians who think there’s a quick way to “tap into the president’s populist base without doing any real, long-term damage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-what-may-happen-on-jan-6-as-trump-s-allies-prepare-to-overturn-electoral-college-results/story-ytg2bmiColYMcS0NYg32gN.html
03-01-2021||World||China oil majors may face US delisting after NYSE drops telcos||Chinese oil majors may be next in line for delisting in the US after the New York Stock Exchange said last week it would remove the Asian nation’s three biggest telecom companies.China’s largest offshore oil producer CNOOC Ltd. could be most at risk as it’s on the Pentagon’s list of companies it says are owned or controlled by Chinese military, according to Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Henik Fung. PetroChina Co. Ltd. and China Petroleum and Chemical Corp., also known as Sinopec, may also be under threat as the energy sector is crucial to China’s military, he said.“More Chinese companies could get delisted in the U.S. and the oil majors could come as the next wave,” said Steven Leung, executive director at UOB Kay Hian in Hong Kong. At the same time, the impact of removing the telecom firms is probably minimal as they were thinly-traded in the U.S. and they haven’t raised much funds there, he said.The NYSE said it would delist the telecom operators to comply with a U.S. executive order imposing restrictions on companies identified as affiliated with the Chinese military. China Mobile Ltd., China Telecom Corp Ltd. and China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd. would all be suspended from trading between Jan. 7 and Jan. 11, and proceedings to delist them have started, the exchange said.China’s Ministry of Commerce responded on Saturday, saying the country would take necessary action to protect the rights of Chinese companies and it hoped the two countries could work together to create a fair and predictable environment for businesses and investors.U.S. President Donald Trump signed an order in November barring American investments in Chinese firms owned or controlled by the military in a bid to pressure Beijing over what it views as abusive business practices. The order prohibited U.S. investors from buying and selling shares in a list of Chinese companies designated by the Pentagon as having military ties.China’s Foreign Ministry later accused the U.S. of “viciously slandering” its military-civilian integration policies and vowed to protect the country’s companies. Chinese officials have also threatened to respond to previous Trump administration actions with their own blacklist of U.S. companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-oil-majors-may-face-us-delisting-after-nyse-drops-telcos/story-sWX7G2wIluf2bTQ1Uov8HL.html
03-01-2021||World||South Africa says, Africa left with few options for Covid-19 vaccines||Africa has few options to procure Covid-19 vaccines as the outbreak of the disease worsens across many parts of the continent, South Africa’s presidency said.Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE have offered to supply Africa with 50 million Covid-19 vaccines for health workers between March and the end of this year, the presidency said in a response to Bloomberg queries on Sunday. Moderna Inc. has no supplies for Africa, while AstraZeneca Plc has no shots for the continent in 2021 and has directed the African Union to negotiate with the Serum Institute of India Ltd., which is making the vaccine on behalf of AstraZeneca. South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa is the African Union’s chairman.Ramaphosa’s response comes after days of withering criticism in South Africa over the country’s vaccine strategy from health leaders, labor unions and opposition parties. Even though four vaccine trials are underway in the country, South Africa has only arranged to purchase enough shots for 10% of its population of 60 million people through the Covax initiative, which is designed to ensure equitable access to the vaccines. These are likely to begin arriving in the second quarter. Some African countries have their own plans for vaccine procurement. Most do not.“We are working hard in South Africa and on the continent to protect our people against Covid-19,” the presidency said.The furore comes as South Africa posts record numbers of infections and deaths and neighboring Zimbabwe enters a strict 30-day lockdown. The South African economy likely contracted the most in nine decades last year, according to official estimates.‘Prohibitive’ CostThe cost of Pfizer’s vaccines are “prohibitive,” the presidency said. Discussions are taking place with Johnson & Johnson, which is conducting a trial in South Africa and plans to make 300 million doses a year at a factory in the country owned by Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. when the shot is approved.J&J “has not clarified whether Africa will benefit from vaccines manufactured in South Africa,” the presidency said. “We still have to negotiate the price that is affordable to Africa.”South Africa is holding direct talks with vaccine suppliers including J&J, AstraZeneca and Pfizer over vaccine supplies for the country, the presidency said. South Africa’s health products regulator is using a so-called rolling review, which allows it to assess vaccine data as it becomes available during the trials to assess J&J’s shot. It will do the same with AstraZeneca and Pfizer when they apply.While at least 29 countries, from Mexico to Germany, have begun inoculating their populations against the virus, South Africa has yet to conclude any supply agreements with pharmaceutical companies.Yesterday an opinion piece published in local media and signed by senior members of the Progressive Health Forum, which includes the heads of medical associations and academics, called for Ramaphosa to fire health department officials for their failure to secure vaccine supplies.“As a health care worker with friends and colleagues in the frontline and knowing health care workers who have contracted Covid-19 and died doing their duty, we are obliged to try hasten access to the vaccine so they can do their job,” said Glenda Gray, president of the South African Medical Research Council and a member of the forum, in a response to queries.South Africa, with over 1.09 million confirmed Covid-19 infections and 29,175 deaths, is the worst hit country on the African continent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-says-africa-left-with-few-options-for-covid-19-vaccines/story-YOWCSolvlrzkhpMLr4fSxN.html
03-01-2021||World||Gunmen kill 11 Hazara coal miners in Pakistan||At least 11 coal miners - all members of the minority Hazara Shia community - were kidnapped and reportedly killed in Machh town in Pakistan’s Balochistan province on Sunday by unidentified gunmen. The men were abducted at gunpoint and then taken to a secluded area in the nearby hills where they were attacked, according to various accounts. It is believed they were kidnapped from their hostel located near a mine where they worked.Conflicting reports suggest that the miners were tied up and either shot or had their throats slit after they were taken to the nearby hills. However, a video clip that has gone viral on social media shows three bodies outside a room, suggesting that some of the miners may have been killed outside their hostel.Police said that the survivors were taken to a hospital in Machh, and that initial reports said 10 coal miners had been brought dead or were in critical condition. The death toll was later reported to have reached 11.This is the first major attack on members of the Hazara community since April last year when a suicide bomb attack at a market killed 18 people; most of them were Hazaras. There have been constant attacks on members of the community by terror groups. While no one immediately claimed responsibility for Sunday’s episode, Hazaras have historically been targeted by Taliban and Islamic State militants, apart from other Sunni extremist groups. In 2013, three bombings killed more than 200 people in Hazara neighbourhoods in Quetta.Following Sunday’s attack, members of the Hazara minority in Quetta blocked the western bypass in protest and set tyres on fire. Heavy contingents of police, local administration and frontier constabulary (FC) personnel cordoned off the area.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan condemned the killings and termed the incident “yet another cowardly (and) inhumane act of terrorism”. He tweeted, “The families of the victims will not be left abandoned by the (government). Have asked the FC to use all resources to apprehend these killers and bring them to justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunmen-kill-11-hazara-coal-miners-in-pakistan/story-ke6Dct0uNaonQMMYqDCflN.html
03-01-2021||World||Tougher Covid curbs likely, warns British PM Boris Johnson||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday indicated that tougher measures are likely to be imposed to curb the continuing rise in Covid-19 infections as the first of the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccines are due to be administered across the UK from Monday.Latest figures show there were 54,990 new Covid-19 cases as of Sunday – 11 times the peak in April-May – and 454 deaths in the last 24 hours, with 23,823 patients stricken by the virus in hospital, 1,847 of them on ventilators.Speaking on the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show, Johnson defended his government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, but added that region-wise restrictions in England are “probably about to get tougher”. The government, he said, had a “range of measures” to consider.“It may be that we need to do things in the next few weeks that will be tougher in many parts of the country; I’m fully, fully reconciled to that,” he said, insisting that he remained confident that things would be better later in the year.“The government has taken every possible step that we reasonably could. What we couldn’t have foreseen I think reasonably was the arrival of a new variant of the (coronavirus) spreading between 50% and 70% faster... Once we did understand that, we took... decisive action.”England currently has a four-tier alert system in which cities and regions are placed according to the prevalence of the virus. As of Saturday, there are none in the lowest Tiers 1 and 2 with the least restrictions, but millions in the top Tier 3 and 4. A new Tier 5 may be put in place to deal with the challenge of the variant.Nearly 1 million people have so far received the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine. Johnson couldn’t give details of the mass vaccination programme, but said, “We do hope that we’ll be able to do tens of millions in the course of the next three months.”Former UK PM Tony Blair called for the introduction of “vaccination stations” modelled on polling stations and adoption of a single platform for a “Covid pass” that would allow individuals to show their status on testing and whether they have been vaccinated.He said, “Though it is true that the National Health Service (NHS) is doing a herculean effort in vaccinating as many as they have, it is simply not sufficient. We have to treble at least the number of vaccinations by the end of January when enough supplies of the vaccine should be available to allow us to do that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tougher-covid-curbs-likely-warns-british-pm-boris-johnson/story-wKkTpCnyeaAPP3V4tuOZ9M.html
03-01-2021||World||Tougher lockdown restriction likely on the way, says UK PM Johnson||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Sunday that tougher lockdown restrictions were probably on the way as Covid-19 cases keep rising, but that schools were safe and children should continue to attend.Cases of Covid-19 in Britain are at record levels and increasing, fuelled by a new and more transmissible variant of the virus. That has already forced the government to cancel the planned reopening of schools in and around London, with calls from teaching unions for wider closures. Much of England is already under the toughest level of restriction set out in a four-tier system of regional regulations designed to stop the spread of the virus and protect the national healthcare system.But Johnson, asked in a BBC interview about concerns that the system may not be enough to bring the virus back under control, said that restrictions “alas, might be about to get tougher”.“There are obviously a range of tougher measures that we would have to consider ... I’m not going to speculate now about what they would be.”Johnson also said schools were safe, and advised parents to send their children in, in areas where rules allow it.“There is no doubt in my mind that schools are safe, and that education is a priority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tougher-lockdown-restriction-likely-on-the-way-says-uk-pm-johnson/story-8RhDQBAoCMQpVp6814j6wJ.html
03-01-2021||World||Schools are safe, say UK PM Boris Johnson as Covid-19 cases surge||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Sunday schools were safe, and advised parents to send their children in, in areas where rules allow it, responding to concerns about the surge in Covid-19 cases as classes are due to restart after Christmas.“There is no doubt in my mind that schools are safe, and that education is a priority,” he told the BBC.He said the government might need to consider tightening lockdown restrictions, but declined to give examples of what that might look like.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/schools-are-safe-say-uk-pm-boris-johnson-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-0PYuCG0J1TxDETt5mjKfwJ.html
03-01-2021||World||Mixing of Covid-19 vaccines: Where do health agencies stand?||In a departure from other strategies globally, the UK government said in guidelines published on New Year’s Eve that people could be given a mix-and-match of two Covid-19 shots, if the same vaccine dose was out of stock. The UK became the first country to give emergency authorisation to the Pfizer/BioNTech and the AstraZeneca/University of Oxford vaccines last month.“This option is preferred if the individual is likely to be at immediate high risk or is considered unlikely to attend again,” the guidelines said.This contradicts the norms published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for two Covid-19 vaccines authorised by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The US health agency said that the vaccines developed by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna “are not interchangeable with each other or with other Covid-19 vaccine products,” adding that the safety and efficacy after mixing the doses have not been evaluated.“Both doses of the series should be completed with the same product,” it stressed. The CDC further stated that no additional doses of Pfizer or Moderna vaccines are recommended if two doses of different products are “inadvertently” administered. Notably, both Covid-19 vaccines approved by the US FDA use the same messenger RNA technology, while AstraZeneca’s vaccine uses a replication-deficient chimpanzee viral vector based on a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus).Also Read | Britain will allow mixing of Covid-19 vaccines on rare occasionsThe contradiction raised concerns over the UK government’s updated guidance, prompting a clarification from Public Health England (PHE) over the mixing the vaccines. Dr Mary Ramsay, Head of Immunisations at PHE, said in a statement that mixing of vaccines is not recommended, adding that every effort should be made to administer the same vaccine. However, Dr Ramsay stressed that it is better to give a “second dose of another vaccine than not at all.”“We do not recommend mixing the Covid-19 vaccines - if your first dose is the Pfizer vaccine you should not be given the AstraZeneca vaccine for your second dose and vice versa,” Dr Ramsay said.“There may be extremely rare occasions where the same vaccine is not available, or where it is not known what vaccine the patient received. Every effort should be made to give them the same vaccine, but where this is not possible it is better to give a second dose of another vaccine than not at all,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mixing-of-covid-19-vaccines-where-do-health-agencies-stand/story-MWuyn9a9tdmbPt02jxwndP.html
03-01-2021||World||Covid-19 found on multiple auto part packaging samples in China||Multiple auto part packaging samples have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in various parts of China after a company engaged in auto part sales reported a confirmed Covid-19 case.In the city of Jincheng, north China’s Shanxi Province, the local center for disease control and prevention detected the virus on auto tire packaging, according to the city’s Covid-19 prevention and control office late on Saturday.The office then activated an emergency response. Personnel who came in close contact with the goods have been quarantined and all have tested negative. Related goods have been sealed.Three other positive samples taken from auto part packaging were found in the city of Cangzhou in Hebei Province, and Yantai and Linyi in Shandong Province, according to local authorities.Nucleic acid tests were carried out on related auto parts and personnel in different cities of China after an employee from a Beijing company engaged in auto part sales was diagnosed with Covid-19 and some auto part packages tested positive for the virus in late December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-found-on-multiple-auto-part-packaging-samples-in-china/story-g1idtcjOf9Yg33JwNKDodO.html
03-01-2021||World||Israel dismisses Iran’s charge of tricking US into war as ‘nonsense’||An Israeli official on Sunday dismissed as “nonsense” an allegation by the Iranian foreign minister that Israel was trying to trick the United States into waging war on Iran.It was Israel that needed to be on alert for possible Iranian strikes on the one-year anniversary on Sunday of the assassination of Tehran’s top general, Qassem Soleimani, in a US drone strike in Iraq, Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz said on Kan public radio.Washington blames Iran-backed militia for regular rocket attacks on US facilities in Iraq, including near the US embassy. No known Iran-backed groups have claimed responsibility.On Saturday, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Twitter: “New intelligence from Iraq indicate that Israeli agent-provocateurs are plotting attacks against Americans — putting an outgoing (President Donald) Trump in a bind with a fake casus belli.”“Be careful of a trap, @realDonaldTrump. Any fireworks will backfire badly, particularly against your same BFFs,” Zarif wrote, in what appeared to be a veiled threat against Israel.Steinitz said the remarks showed that Iran, after mounting US sanctions billed as curbing its nuclear programme and involvement in regional conflict-zones, was “under pressure - economic pressure, and pressure in terms of national security”.“We hear this nonsense by Zarif, that Israel would set off terrorist attacks against the United States - this really is total nonsense,” Steinitz told Kan public radio.“But on the other hand it is a warning sign - a warning sign that Iran is taking aim at Israel, is looking for excuses to lash out at Israel, and therefore we need to have our finger on the pulse and be at the highest state of alert.”The US military flew two nuclear-capable B-52 bombers to the Middle East in a message of deterrence to Iran on Wednesday, but the bombers have since left the region.Interviewed separately on Kan, Israeli Culture Minister Chili Tropper, who like Steinitz sits in Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s security cabinet, confirmed media reports that Israel was on heightened alert for the Soleimani anniversary.Asked what possible Iranian reprisals Israel was anticipating, Tropper said: “I cannot comment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-dismisses-iran-s-charge-of-tricking-us-into-war-as-nonsense/story-szA0scsZvq4QNee1xZXjDM.html
03-01-2021||World||Experts, politicians slam Germany for not buying adequate vaccine doses||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, experts and politicians slammed Germany for not buying enough doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer coronavirus vaccine to quickly roll out its immunisation programme.“I consider the current situation a gross failure,” said Frauke Zipp on Saturday, a neurologist and member of the advisory Leopoldina Academy of Sciences told Die Welt (DW) newspaper. “Why didn’t they order much more of the vaccine during the summer just to be safe?” she added.As a member of the EU vaccine procurement scheme, Germany is reliant on regulators at the European level granting authorisation of the vaccine to prevent Covid-19 infection. But the EU has taken longer than countries like the UK, the US and Canada to give the go-ahead, reported DW newspaper.So far, only the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine is permitted in EU member states, but the block as a whole only made an order for 300 million doses during the summer, in the belief that more vaccine alternatives would be available.Meanwhile, German Health Minister Jens Spahn has shrugged off any suggestion the government has been lackadaisical in its approach towards vaccinating the country. “Things are going exactly as it was planned,” reported broadcaster RTL.Spahn said he anticipated a shortfall at the beginning and that the government would have to “prioritise” who would be vaccinated but that all nursing home residents would receive the inoculation by the end of January, reported DW newspaper.Jean Asselborn, Luxembourg’s foreign minister also defended the EU’s vaccine strategy saying that the Commission had secured almost two billion doses with six different manufacturers, reported German radio broadcaster RBB.The BioNTech founders said on Friday that they were scrambling to boost production after being pressured to fill the gaps caused by the EU’s blunder, reported DW newspaper.However, Karl Lauterbach, health expert for the centre-left Social Democrats, criticized the EU for not having ordered more BioNTech-Pfizer vaccines early on.Citing Rheinische Post newspaper, “It was clear early on that the Moderna vaccine had a strong efficacy and could be used by GPs,” said Lauterbach.Meanwhile, Chancellor Angela Merkel is due to meet with state premiers on Tuesday to discuss a probable extension of the current lockdown -- which is set to end on January 10.The current infection rate in Germany is 141.2 according to the Robert Koch Institute. However, this number varies hugely across the country, with some regions of Saxony recording rates of over 500, reported DW newspaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/experts-politicians-slam-germany-for-not-buying-adequate-vaccine-doses/story-oYzwo7HVylJCsfq88ciqxK.html
03-01-2021||World||In Somalia, Covid-19 vaccines are distant as virus spreads||As richer countries race to distribute Covid-19 vaccines, Somalia remains the rare place where much of the population hasn’t taken the coronavirus seriously. Some fear that’s proven to be deadlier than anyone knows.“Certainly our people don’t use any form of protective measures, neither masks nor social distancing,” Abdirizak Yusuf Hirabeh, the government’s Covid-19 incident manager, said in an interview. “If you move around the city (of Mogadishu) or countrywide, nobody even talks about it.” And yet infections are rising, he said.It is places like Somalia, the Horn of Africa nation torn apart by three decades of conflict, that will be last to see Covid-19 vaccines in any significant quantity. With part of the country still held by the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabab extremist group, the risk of the virus becoming endemic in some hard-to-reach areas is strong — a fear for parts of Africa amid the slow arrival of vaccines.“There is no real or practical investigation into the matter,” said Hirabeh, who is also the director of the Martini hospital in Mogadishu, the largest treating Covid-19 patients, which saw seven new patients the day he spoke. He acknowledged that neither facilities nor equipment are adequate in Somalia to tackle the virus.Fewer than 27,000 tests for the virus have been conducted in Somalia, a country of more than 15 million people, one of the lowest rates in the world. Fewer than 4,800 cases have been confirmed, including at least 130 deaths.Some worry the virus will sink into the population as yet another poorly diagnosed but deadly fever.For 45-year-old street beggar Hassan Mohamed Yusuf, that fear has turned into near certainty. “In the beginning we saw this virus as just another form of the flu,” he said.Then three of his young children died after having a cough and high fever. As residents of a makeshift camp for people displaced by conflict or drought, they had no access to coronavirus testing or proper care.At the same time, Yusuf said, the virus hurt his efforts to find money to treat his family as “we can’t get close enough” to people to beg.Early in the pandemic, Somalia’s government did attempt some measures to limit the spread of the virus, closing all schools and shutting down all domestic and international flights. Mobile phones rang with messages about the virus.But social distancing has long disappeared in the country’s streets, markets or restaurants. On Thursday, some 30,000 people crammed into a stadium in Mogadishu for a regional football match with no face masks or other anti-virus measures in sight.Mosques in the Muslim nation never faced restrictions, for fear of the reactions.“Our religion taught us hundreds of years ago that we should wash our hands, faces and even legs five times every day and our women should take face veils as they’re often weaker. So that’s the whole prevention of the disease, if it really exists,” said Abdulkadir Sheikh Mohamud, an imam in Mogadishu.“I left the matter to Allah to protect us,” said Ahmed Abdulle Ali, a shop owner in the capital. He attributed the rise in coughing during prayers to the changing of seasons.A more important protective factor is the relative youth of Somalia’s people, said Dr. Abdurahman Abdullahi Abdi Bilaal, who works in a clinic in the capital. More than 80% of the country’s population is under age 30.“The virus is here, absolutely, but the resilience of people is owing to age,” he said.It’s the lack of post-mortem investigations in the country that are allowing the true extent of the virus to go undetected, he said.The next challenge in Somalia is not simply obtaining Covid-19 vaccines but also persuading the population to accept them.That will take time, “just the same as what it took for our people to believe in the polio or measles vaccines,” a concerned Bilaal said.Hirabeh, in charge of Somalia’s virus response, agreed that “our people have little confidence in the vaccines,” saying that many Somalis hate the needles. He called for serious awareness campaigns to change minds.The logistics of any Covid-19 vaccine rol lout are another major concern. Hirabeh said Somalia is expecting the first vaccines in the first quarter of 2021, but he worries that the country has no way to handle a vaccine like the Pfizer one that requires being kept at a temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius.“One that could be kept between minus 10 and minus 20 might suit the Third World like our country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-somalia-covid-19-vaccines-are-distant-as-virus-spreads/story-IdG0aCvwfax91FqKqew3OL.html
03-01-2021||World||Thailand’s economic conditions tipped to worsen as virus spreads||Thailand’s economic conditions are expected to deteriorate further this year as the nation battles a resurgence in the coronavirus, according to a national survey.About 52.2% of the respondents in the study undertaken by Bangkok-based National Institute of Development Administration predict the economy will be even worse in 2021 than it was last year, while 14.6% anticipate an improvement.At the same time, the impact of Covid-19 may be even more deadly than in 2020, according to 48.1% of the respondents. Just 28.8% expect it to be less severe, the institute said in a statement released Sunday.Thailand is set to impose a new set of restrictions on businesses and gatherings in 28 of its worst-affected provinces from Monday to stem the latest flareup in an outbreak that’s infected more than 3,000 people since the middle of December. Bangkok, a city of more than 10 million people, has already closed businesses including pubs, bars, gyms and other entertainment venues besides shuttering schools until the end of the month.The central bank at its December policy meeting said gross domestic product probably shrank by 6.6% in 2020 due to the impact of the pandemic. At the same gathering, it cut its forecast for this year to growth of 3.2%, from an earlier estimate of 3.6%.Thailand reported 315 new virus cases on Sunday with 294 of them locally transmitted, according to the Center for Covid-19 Situation Administration. The nation’s total caseload climbed to 7,694 with the capital Bangkok and the provinces of Samut Sakhon and Rayong the major hotspots.Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha has refrained from re-imposing a national lockdown, saying the nation can contain the recent outbreak. Still, the surge in infections is likely to delay plans to reopen the country to tourism with a nationwide state of emergency remaining in place to allow authorities impose restrictions quickly if deemed necessary.The authorities aren’t pushing for a nationwide uniform restrictions as they are seeking to minimize the impact on the community, Center for Covid-19 Situation Administration spokesman Taweesilp Witsanuyotin said at a briefing on Sunday. Provincial authorities will be allowed to impose “tailor-made measures” to contain the outbreak, he said.“Even though we know that we need strong medicine today, strong medicine has many side effects,” Taweesilp said. “We have learned our lessons from using strong doses across the board earlier. Those who suffer the most are normal people who try to live their lives.”Thailand may face additional hurdles to reviving its economy from a recurrence of anti-government protests, according to the institute’s survey. While almost 77% of respondents said they expected the political situation to remain chaotic or get worse, 43.2% participants predicted pro-democracy protests will take place again this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-s-economic-conditions-tipped-to-worsen-as-virus-spreads/story-ezjQKgwlZaiGGJ5JHXDDXO.html
03-01-2021||World||Homes of top Republican Mitch McConnell, Democrat Nancy Pelosi vandalised: Report||Vandals have targeted the homes of Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell and Democrat Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi with graffiti, fake blood and a pig’s head, US media said. “Were’s [sic] my money,” and “Mitch kills the poor,” was daubed on McConnell’s front door and window in Louisville, Kentucky, US media reported.A pig’s head and fake blood were left outside Pelosi’s San Francisco home on January 2, according to local media Saturday.The houses of the top Republican and Democrat were targeted following intense debate over a Covid-19 stimulus bailout for Americans.A long-awaited $900 billion pandemic relief package was finally approved Christmas Eve, with the Democrat-led House of Congress approving an increase in aid from $600 to $2,000.But the Republican-led Senate has not approved the increase -- despite furious calls to do so from President Donald Trump.On Wednesday, McConnell had told reporters: “The Senate is not going to be bullied into rushing out more borrowed money into the hands of Democrats’ rich friends who don’t need the help.”Kentucky Metro police said the incident occurred around 5am local time Saturday (1000 GMT) according to local news channel WAS11. It was unclear if anyone was home at the time.McConnell called the graffiti a “radical tantrum,” and added: “Vandalism and the politics of fear have no place in our society.”In San Francisco, Pelosi’s garage door was sprayed with a crossed-out “$2K”, followed by “Cancel rent!” and “We want everything!”The city’s police Special Investigations Division was looking into the incident, NBC News reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/homes-of-top-republican-mitch-mcconnell-democrat-nancy-pelosi-vandalised-report/story-6LDd3xGJYBfohHpt3LZCBL.html
03-01-2021||World||Where are we in the Covid-19 vaccine race?||India on Friday became the fourth country to approve a coronavirus vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, authorising the vaccine’s rollout in coming weeks in the country with the second highest number of infections.The following is what we know about the race to deliver vaccines to help end the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 1.8 million people worldwide:WHO IS FURTHEST ALONG?U.S. drugmaker Pfizer and German partner BioNTech have been the Covid-19 vaccine trailblazers.On Nov. 18, they became the first in the world to release full late-stage trial data. Britain was the first to approve the shot for emergency use on Dec. 3, followed by Canada on Dec. 9 and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Dec. 11. Several other countries, including Saudi Arabia and Mexico, have also approved it.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved the shot on Dec. 21 and India is accelerating its review.The World Health Organization on Thursday listed the vaccine for emergency use, in a move seeking to speed access to it in the developing world.WHAT ABOUT MODERNA?Moderna Inc was a close second to Pfizer in many countries after it released a full data analysis for a late-stage trial on Nov. 30 showing a 94.1% efficacy rate for its vaccine. The United States authorised Moderna’s vaccine on Dec. 19, while Canada approved the shot on Dec. 23 and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will do so on Jan. 6.ASTRAZENECAIndia approval of a two-dose version of AstraZeneca’s vaccine, COVISHIELD, which has also been given the green light by Britain, Argentina and El Salvador, is a major win for a shot seen as crucial for mass immunisations. Questions about the robustness of its trial data have complicated the approval process.The British company announced interim late-stage trial data in November showing two full doses were 62% effective while a half-dose followed by a full dose had a 90% success rate - but UK regulators the more successful outcome had not stood up to analysis.AstraZeneca is also in discussions with the European Union’s European Medicines Agency, which is conducting a rolling review of the vaccine.WHO ELSE IS IN THE RUNNING?U.S. drugmaker Johnson & Johnson plans to deliver trial data in January, teeing it up for U.S. authorisation in February if its shot is effective. It reduced the enrolment target for its clinical trial to 40,000 volunteers from 60,000 on Dec. 9, potentially speeding results that are tied to how quickly participants become infected. U.S. firm Novavax is running a late-stage trial in Britain with data due in the first quarter of 2021. It expects to start a large-scale trial in the United States this month.France’s Sanofi and Britain’s GlaxoSmithKline, however, announced a setback on Dec. 11 in their attempts to develop a vaccine. The drugmakers said that it showed an insufficient immune response in older people in mid-stage trials and that they would start a new study in February.WHAT HAPPENS IN THE TRIALS?The companies usually test their vaccines against a placebo - typically saline solution - in healthy volunteers to see whether the rate of Covid-19 infection among those who got the vaccine is significantly lower than in those who received the dummy shot.HOW ARE VOLUNTEERS INFECTED?The trials rely on subjects becoming naturally infected with Covid-19, so how long it takes to generate results largely depends on how pervasive the virus is where trials are being conducted. Each drugmaker has targeted a specific number of infections to trigger a first analysis of their data.HOW WELL ARE THE VACCINES SUPPOSED TO WORK?The World Health Organization ideally wants to see at least 70% efficacy. The FDA wants at least 50% - which means there must be at least twice as many infections among volunteers who received a placebo as among those in the vaccine group. The EMA has said it may accept a lower efficacy level.WHAT ABOUT RUSSIA AND CHINA?Although Pfizer’s shot was the first to be rolled out following the publication of full Phase III trial data, Russia and China have been inoculating their citizens for months with several different vaccines still undergoing late-stage trials. China on Dec. 31. approved its first Covid-19 vaccine for general public use, a shot developed by an affiliate of state-backed pharmaceutical giant Sinopharm. The company said it is 79% effective against the virus.Russia said on Nov. 24 its Sputnik V vaccine, developed by the Gamaleya Institute, was 91.4% effective based on interim late-stage trial results. It started vaccinations in August and has inoculated more than 100,000 people so far.India plans to make 300 million doses of Sputnik V next year and Argentina has given the green light for emergency use of the shot, with some 300,000 doses arriving in the country on Dec 24.China launched an emergency use programme in July aimed at essential workers and others at high risk of infection. It has vaccinated about one million people as of mid-November using at least three shots - 1 developed by the state-backed China National Biotec Group (CNBG) and one by Sinovac Biotech.Trial data on a Covid-19 vaccine developed by China’s Sinovac Biotech has varied: interim data from a late-stage trial in Turkey showed its CoronaVac shot is 91.25% effective, while researchers in Brazil say the shot was more than 50% effective. The United Arab Emirates, meanwhile, said on Dec. 9 that one of the CNBG vaccines was 86% effective based on interim results from a late-stage trial in the Gulf Arab state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/where-are-we-in-the-covid-19-vaccine-race/story-sMKzkkFwLHALEAG9PN1IKO.html
03-01-2021||World||Imran Khan govt shuts down free WiFi project in Pakistan’s Punjab||The much-touted WiFi project launched by the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) government in 2017, has been shut down on Saturday by Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government in Pakistan’s Punjab province including its capital Lahore after heavy annual losses.Citing sources, the Express Tribune reported that the project was costing Rs 195 million annually, causing a heavy dent to the provincial exchequer.The Punjab Information Technology Board (PITB) had been providing free internet service at public places for the last several years, while the project was started to provide the facility at over 200 WiFi hotspots in Lahore, Multan and Rawalpindi.In January 2019, the project was suspended due to non-payment of dues to Pakistan Telecommunication Company Limited (PTCL). However, the service was restored later following a public backlash. The closure of the project was affecting a large number of students as well as many other common citizens of the province, The Express Tribune reported.The project was scrapped last year and now the board, in collaboration with the Punjab government, was considering various proposals to provide sustainable WiFi facility to the citizens, PITB officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-govt-shuts-down-free-wifi-project-in-pakistan-s-punjab/story-OdOZqYaGY7FCE1BEAxsPyH.html
03-01-2021||World||19 new Covid-19 cases detected in New Zealand as border restrictions tightened||Nineteen new Covid-19 cases were reported at the New Zealand border in the last three days, as the country announcing tightened border restrictions on Sunday.The new cases were all detected in managed isolation while no new case was found in the community, said the Ministry of Health in a statement on Sunday.The ministry’s last media statement on the Covid-19 case numbers was on Thursday.The total number of active cases in New Zealand was currently 72, and the total number of confirmed cases reached 1,825, said the ministry.The total tests processed by New Zealand laboratories to date reached 1,414,422, according to the statement.The New Zealand Ministry of Health confirmed in the statement that six positive cases of Covid-19 have been found to match the new Covid-19 variant that was discovered in Britain.The Minister for Covid-19 Response, Chris Hipkins has also announced on Sunday that, from January 15, travellers from the United States and Britain will be required to get a negative test result for Covid-19 before departing for New Zealand, and work is underway to extend the requirement to other long haul flights to New Zealand as well.“The pre-departure test is an additional requirement to the day zero/day one testing and stay in their room in MIQ (Managed isolation and quarantine) requirement for arrivals from higher-risk countries that came into force last Friday. Travellers from Britain and the United States will still have to go through New Zealand’s 14-day quarantine regime,” said Hipkins.New Zealand is currently at Covid-19 Alert Level one with no restrictions on gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/19-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-new-zealand-as-border-restrictions-tightened/story-0ve9CBUDVoObrtcwnnNcIN.html
03-01-2021||World||Iraq agrees $2 billion prepayment oil supply deal with Chinese company||Iraq has agreed a multibillion-dollar oil-supply deal with a Chinese company, according to the Arab nation’s official news agency.SOMO, which oversees Iraq’s petroleum exports, picked a Chinese firm after receiving bids from several traders, INA reported, citing an interview with SOMO General Manager Alaa Al-Yasiri. While INA didn’t name the company or specify if Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi had signed off on the deal, Bloomberg reported last month that ZhenHua Oil Co., a subsidiary of China’s largest state-owned defense contractor, was the winner.SOMO offered to supply roughly 130,000 barrels a day of crude for five years, according to a letter it sent traders in November. It sought upfront payment for one year of supply, which at current prices would bring in more than $2 billion, according to Bloomberg calculations.“Iraq got $2 billion at zero interest with a premium over the price,” INA quoted Al-Yasiri as saying. “There was intense competition between two European and Chinese companies, and the Chinese company won.”The pre-payment deal, a first for Baghdad, is the latest example of China lending to struggling oil producers via state-controlled trading companies and banks.While all major oil exporters have taken a hit from the coronavirus-triggered plunge in prices since March, Iraq is in one of the weakest positions. OPEC’s biggest producer after Saudi Arabia, its economy was forecast by the International Monetary Fund to contract 11% last year. The government weakened the dinar by almost 20% against the dollar in December -- the first devaluation since the US-led invasion in 2003 -- as its foreign-exchange reserves shrunk.The oil-supply deal attracted widespread interest among major traders, according to people familiar with the matter. The contract will be one of the largest of its kind in recent history and it allows the winner to ship crude to wherever it wishes for a year. Normally, Middle Eastern crude is sold with strict clauses preventing traders and refiners from re-selling the barrels to different regions.“The flexibility that Iraq has granted to companies is the freedom to determine the day of loading the shipments, the export destination, the possibility of resale and a set of marketing benefits in return,” Al-Yasiri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraq-agrees-2-billion-prepayment-oil-supply-deal-with-chinese-company/story-MS9fMAU93DehJdR44FNTML.html
03-01-2021||World||China amends defence law to strengthen military powers over state council||In a move to expand the power of its Central Military Commission (CMC), China has amended its National Defence Law from January 1 to mobilise military and civilian resources in defence of the ‘national interest’ at home and abroad.These revisions weaken the role of the State Council in formulating military policy and hands decision making power to the CMC. For the first time, ‘disruption’ and protection of ‘development interests’ have been added to the legislation as grounds for mobilisation and deployment of armed forces, according to South China Morning Post.The amendments were passed by the National People’s Congress on December 26, after two years of deliberation. Three articles were removed, more than 50 were amended, while there were six additions.The legislation also specifically focuses on the need for building a nationwide coordination mechanism for the mobilisation of state-owned and private enterprises to take part in research into new defence technologies covering conventional weapons, as well as the domains of cybersecurity, space and electromagnetics.Several analysts have opined that the amendments are aimed to strengthen the military leadership under Chinese President Xi Jinping, and providing it with the means to respond to the accelerating confrontations between China and the US, according to South China Morning Post.Deng Yuwen, a former deputy editor of the Communist Party publication Study Times, said the amendments aimed to legalise and formally apply the “special” nature of China’s political and defence system when dealing with situations that could harm the regime at home and abroad.The changes show that regime had gained the confidence to legitimise its long-standing principle that the party ‘commands the gun’ and strengthen its ‘absolute leadership’ over-armed and reserved forces, said Chen Daoyin, an independent political commentator.“The move to include ‘development interests’ as a reason for armed mobilisation and war in the law would provide legal grounds for the country to launch war in the legitimate name of defending national development interests,” Chen said.Zeng Zhiping, a military law expert at Soochow University, said that the State Council has become a mere implementing agency to provide support to the military, adding that this change was a big contrast with developed countries like Germany, Israel and France, where armed forces come under civilian leadership.Taipei-based military expert Chi Le-yi said the amendments highlighting the use of armed forces to suppress national disruption would be used to target independence-leaning forces in Taiwan, which Beijing regards as part of its territory, reported South China Morning Post.For decades, the Chinese government has claimed authority over Taiwan. Though Taiwan is not recognised by the UN, its government maintains a relationship with the US and does not accept the Chinese authority.“The law revision is also a symbolic battle call by the party to warn all Chinese people to be combat-ready for a nationwide defence mobilisation, which the party has never done since [it came to power] in 1949,” said Chi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-amends-defence-law-to-strengthen-military-powers-over-state-council/story-QaecDGPNQGAOtLQXHP0bDL.html
03-01-2021||World||Chinese economy is recovering. But there are gaps | Analysis||China’s factory and services activity, according to Chinese official statistics released this week, continued to expand in December supported by pent-up demand and hot export demand, fueling Beijing’s recovery from the coronavirus shock. Its economy is expected to expand around 2% for the year, reflecting a recovery that beats other major economies still struggling to contain infections.But a business survey released two days before the new official statistics were put out, appeared to take the sheen off official statistics pointing to a more subdued picture of economic recovery. It pointed to weak consumer spending and headwinds to Beijing’s efforts to encourage more lending to smaller, private sector businesses.More significantly, data from the China Beige Book International, a provider of independent economic data, underlines that consumer-facing industries continue to lag. The growth in the services sector, for instance, was being driven by businesses in telecommunications, shipping, and financial services. Consumer-facing businesses such as restaurants and travel, however, continue to lag behind.People haven’t started stepping out to eat at chain restaurants. The travel and hospitality sector recorded weak revenues too.There has also been a sharp drop in sales growth for luxury goods, food and apparel in the fourth quarter, squeezing margins and hiring as well.The China Beige Book survey, based on 3,300 interviews of business leaders between November and December, said China hadn’t fully recovered from the shock of the coronavirus pandemic yet. Roughly two-thirds of executives polled by the consultancy said they don’t expect sales, profitability and hiring to return to 2019 levels until at least three months of 2021..Economists have already underscored that most of the spending is coming from the public sector, much of it based on a large stimulus plan, rather than private firms.Keyu Jin, Professor of Economics at the London School of Economics, identified three reasons for concern around the Chinese economy. First, she underlined in the Japan Times, Chinese exports exceeded expectations because its industries, which reopened when the world was shutting down, acted as a global supplier of last resort. This, Prof Keyu argued, would reverse when global production sites reopen. Second, he said, the recovery had triggered a broader structural deterioration, following years of economic reorientation away from exports and investment and toward consumption. Third, she cautioned about the looming financial risks arising from the real economy, predicting an increase in the risk of bad debts that will present significant threats to financial institutions.Already, the China Beige Book pointed to an increase in loan rejection rates for retail businesses from 14% to 38% in the final quarter of 2020 from the previous quarter. Rejection rates for small and medium-sized businesses rose to 24% in the final quarter, double the rate posted by large companies during the period.Chinese President Xi Jinping appeared to recognise some of the challenges that lie ahead; the Central Economic Work Conference didn’t go as far as to warn of a “downward economic pressure” at its meeting in mid-December. But the statement from the three-day summit did assert at the end of the key annual policy meeting that there were many uncertainties, “the foundation for our country’s economic recovery is not yet solid” and the recovery would be “unstable and uneven”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-economy-is-recovering-but-there-are-gaps-analysis/story-wFajhNGubZSPuDDqp0mLYP.html
03-01-2021||World||Climate deal, US election: EU ‘climate leader’ on why 2020 left him upbeat||The author of one of the most ambitious climate plans in the European Union says 2020 was a turning point that’s left him optimistic about the future of the planet.Although the year showed the scale of the effort needed -- with temperatures rising despite lockdowns across the world that brought most economies to a virtual standstill -- Danish climate minister Dan Jorgensen says there’s cause to be more upbeat. He points to the EU’s latest climate deal and the US election, which will bring the world’s biggest economy back into the Paris agreement.“It is remarkable that closing down our societies has not led us anywhere near the level of reductions we need, so behavioral changes alone won’t do it,” Jorgensen said in an interview in Copenhagen. But while the analysis is often negative, “there are reasons for optimism and to celebrate as well,” he said.Jorgensen ended the year with a pledge to cease oil exploration in the EU’s biggest crude producer. The move prompted Greenpeace to say, “this is what climate leadership looks like,” and is part of a plan to slash 70% off Denmark’s carbon emissions by 2030, compared with 1990 levels. More ambitious than the 55% targeted by the EU, it puts the Danes at the absolute forefront of the bloc’s efforts to protect the environment.The pandemic triggered a wave of fiscal relief that’s opened the door to some of the boldest climate initiatives yet. Eight of the world’s 10 largest economies, including China and Japan, have set goals to reach net-zero emission within decades. US President-elect Joe Biden wants the US to be carbon neutral by 2050.“We are going to spend billions of euros on economic recovery in Europe and if we are smart and invest in green infrastructure and energy efficiency, something good can actually come of this,” Jorgensen said.Denmark’s path toward a carbon-neutral economy suggests there are financial rewards to be reaped. The country started investing heavily in wind energy in the 1970s. It now gets more than 40% of its electricity from wind power.Denmark is home to the world’s biggest wind-turbine maker, Vestas Wind Systems A/S, and the world’s top developer of offshore wind parks, Orsted A/S. The latter, which is half owned by the government, started off as a state oil and gas producer, but reinvented itself half a decade ago. Since then, its value has soared about 430%.Aside from Denmark’s decision to phase out its North Sea oil production, and end it totally by 2050, the country made several other commitments in 2020. These include plans to build two islands to house the infrastructure for new offshore wind farms, helping Denmark move closer to its ultimate goal of generating all its electricity from renewable energy sources.The Social Democrat government Jorgensen is part of has also had its critics when it comes to the climate. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen has been accused of shying away from using taxes to steer consumers and businesses toward environmentally friendly behavior. And efforts to promote electric vehicles were slammed for lacking ambition.But the government has argued that investing in new technologies will ultimately prove the best way to bring about change.Jorgensen says policy makers need to keep the public on their side. He points to France, where protesters in 2018 donned yellow vests and took to the streets for months after being angered by hikes in fuel prices.The high cost of achieving climate goals means “we need to think hard about how to approach it,” Jorgensen said. The hope is that Denmark can become a model for others to follow, he said.“If our plan would result in a decline in production or closing down some industries, no other countries would think our plan was a good idea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/climate-deal-us-election-eu-climate-leader-on-why-2020-left-him-upbeat/story-keXYeAnctZbYDbsmVt7AZO.html
03-01-2021||World||Amid vaccine hopes, UK variant of coronavirus continues to spread in 2021||Even as people hoped for a positive start to the New Year on the vaccine front, the UK reported a new coronavirus variant at the end of 2020 which plunged England into a hard lockdown yet again and dampened hopes on the vaccine front. The variant has reportedly spread to more than 30 countries across the world with Vietnam being the latest to report a case on Saturday. The country has banned almost all international travel but is running flights to bring back nationals stranded in the United Kingdom.The United States is, by far, the worst-affected country in the world with the highest number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and India follows with the second-highest number of infections. At least three US states have reported the new virus variant and the country’s limited genetic sequencing might be causing the strain to spread undetected in certain parts.Scientists, however, do not believe that the new variant is more deadly or resistant to the vaccine. This is because mutations in viruses are natural, but the strain is 70% more transmissible than the original ones, hence experts have advised people to be more careful. The winter season saw a massive surge in coronavirus infections in European nations. Ireland went from having the EU’s lowest per capita rate of coronavirus infections to the fastest-growing, according to the Guardian.“Right now, we believe the UK variant is here at a relatively low level, even with that small sample,” Philip Nolan, head of Ireland’s Covid-19 modelling group, was quoted by the Washington Post. “We saw an even more intense level of socialization and viral transmission over Christmas than we might have expected, and that’s what’s leading us to the really precarious position we’re in now,” Nolan added.On the vaccination front, Israel has had the most impressive showing as the country has already administered the first of the two shots to over a million of its citizens, the highest rate in the world. In comparison, the US’ efforts to vaccinate its population pales as 2.8 million people were given the jab by December 30, far behind President Donald Trump’s promised 20 million by the end of the year.In the UK, British health officials said that their priority was giving the first shot to as many people as possible to ensure partial safety as the country tries to grapple with the new variant.India on Sunday authorised two Covid-19 vaccines developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca and another developed by Bharat Biotech, paving the way for a huge inoculation program to stem the coronavirus pandemic in the world’s second-most populous country. Drugs Controller General Dr VG Somani said that both vaccines will be administered in two dosages.It would take weeks before the effects of the initial vaccine shots kick in and months before most of the people in the world have access to them. Poorer countries might have to wait even longer to get their citizens inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-vaccine-hopes-uk-variant-of-coronavirus-continues-to-spread-in-2021/story-KTcCOO85gGSfCn8OnyzYYJ.html
03-01-2021||World||Congress opens new session as Covid-19, Biden’s win dominate||Congress is preparing to convene for the start of a new session, swearing in lawmakers during a tumultuous period as a relative handful of Republicans work to overturn Joe Biden’s victory over President Donald Trump and the coronavirus surge imposes limits at the Capitol.Democrat Nancy Pelosi is set Sunday to be reelected as House speaker by her party, which retains the majority in the House but with the slimmest margin in 20 years after a November election wipeout.Opening the Senate could be among Mitch McConnell’s final acts at majority leader. Republican control is in question until Tuesday’s runoff elections for two Senate seats in Georgia. The outcome will determine which party holds the chamber.It’s often said that divided government can be a time for legislative compromises, but lawmakers are charging into the 117th Congress with the nation more torn than ever, disputing even basic facts including that Biden won the presidential election.Fraud did not spoil the 2020 presidential election, a fact confirmed by election officials across the country. Before stepping down last month, Attorney General William Barr, a Republican appointed by Trump, said fraud did not affect the election’s outcome. Arizona’s and Georgia’s Republican governors, whose states were crucial to Biden’s victory, have also stated that their election results were accurate.Nevertheless, a dozen Republicans bound for the new Senate, led by Sens. Josh Hawley and Ted Cruz, and even more in the House have vowed to become a resistance force to Biden’s White House, starting with efforts to subvert the will of American voters. These GOP lawmakers plan to object to the election results when the Electoral College meets Wednesday to tally his 306-232 victory over Trump.Democrats, meanwhile, are pushing ahead, eager to partner with Biden on shared priorities, starting with efforts to stem the pandemic and economic crisis. They plan to revisit the failed effort to boost pandemic aid to $2,000 for most people.“This has been a moment of great challenge in the United States of America filled with trials and tribulations, but help is on the way,” Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., the chairman of the House Democratic caucus, said in an interview.“America is a resilient nation, filled with resilient people,” he said. “We will continue to rise to the occasion emerged from this pandemic and continue to march toward our more perfect union.” Among the House Republican newcomers are Trump-aligned Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia, who has given nod to conspiracy Q-Anon theories, and gun rights advocate Lauren Boebert of Colorado, who circulated a letter of support to retain the right of lawmakers to carry firearms in the Capitol.Taylor Greene was among a group of House Republicans led by Rep. Mo Brooks of Alabama who visited with Trump at the White House during the holiday season about their effort to undo the election.The “Jan. 6 challenge is on,” Taylor Greene said in a tweet pinned to the top of her social media account. Boebert also tweeted support for those challenging Biden’s victory.House Republicans boosted their ranks in the November election, electing a handful of women and minorities, more than ever. Some of the new GOP lawmakers are being called the “Freedom Force,” and a counter to the “squad” — Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and other liberal Democratic women who swept to office in the last session.Progressive Democrats bolstered their ranks with newcomers aligned with more liberal priorities.The Capitol itself is a changed place under coronavirus restrictions. Lawmakers are arriving in Washington from all parts of the country potentially exposed to the virus during their travel.Several lawmakers have been sickened by the virus. A memorial was held Saturday for newly elected Republican lawmaker Luke Letlow, 41, of Louisiana, who died of complications from Covid-19 days before the swearing in.The Office of the Attending Physician has issued several lengthy memos warning lawmakers off meeting in groups or holding traditional receptions to prevent the spread of the virus. Masks have been ordered worn at all times and Pelosi has required them to be used in the House chamber. Members are required to have coronavirus tests and have access to vaccines.“Do not engage any in-person social events, receptions, celebrations, or appointments, outside your family unit, and always wear a face covering outside your home,” the physician’s office warned in one memo. “You should strictly avoid any type of office-based reception or celebration during the days ahead.” Even the traditional swearing in ceremonies will be limited in the House. No more big family portraits with new lawmakers taking the oath of office. Instead, each representative-elect can bring one guest in line with social distancing protocols.The vice president typically swears in the senators.Pelosi, who is returning as speaker, faces a tight race, with the House split 222-211, with one race still undecided and one vacancy after Letlow’s death.The California Democrat can endure some defections from her ranks, but only a few, barring absences. Some lawmakers are on quarantine after coronavirus infections or exposure. She needs to win a majority of those present and voting to retain the speaker’s gavel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/congress-opens-new-session-as-covid-19-biden-s-win-dominate/story-mSlwzxWTq3a3qQsipwn8QM.html
03-01-2021||World||Tibetans in exile vote as polling for Phase 1 of Sikyong election begins||Tibetans living in exile were seen exercising their franchise on Saturday morning in Himachal Pradesh’s Dharamshala in the first phase of the global election for Sikyong - the head of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) and members of the 17th Tibetian Parliament. The second phase of polling will take place on April 11.Nearly 80,000 voters are participating in the first phase of polling amid strict protocols imposed by authorities in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Majority of the candidates campaigned for the elections through social media and posters were circulated around Dharamshala. Earlier chief election commissioner Wangdu Tsering had said that the registration deadline was extended from December 23 to December 28 last year as per the request from several regional commissions. “Several people from remote areas were facing problems. So, keeping it in mind, we have allowed the additional time period for registration,” he said.Here is all you need to know about the 2021 elections to the Tibetian parliament in exile: 1. As many as 79,697 Tibetians have registered for the election, according to the CTA’s election commission in Dharamshala.2. Out of the total voters, 55,683 are residing in India while the remaining 24,014 are registered from other parts of the globe.3. Due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, polling stations are being sanitised regularly, voters have to ensure social distancing while casting their votes and wearing masks is mandatory. Votes are being cast through the paper ballot system.4. Eight candidates are in the fray for the Sikyong’s post. The contenders include the representative of the Dalai Lama in Delhi and former CTA home minister Kasur Dongchung Ngodup; former representative of Dalai Lama to North America Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang, former speaker of the parliament-in-exile Penpa Tsering and incumbent deputy speaker Acharya Yeshi Phuntosok. Dharamshala: Tibetans living in exile cast their votes in the first phase of polls to elect Sikyong (their political head) & the members of 17th Tibetan Parliament.#HimachalPradesh pic.twitter.com/GQeT6kHbNk5. Nearly 150 candidates are contesting for 45 seats of the parliament - 10 from all traditional provinces of Tibet; two from each of the four schools of Tibetan Buddhism and the pre-Buddhist Bon religion. In addition, two representatives each are elected from Tibetan communities located in North America and Europe; one from Australia and Asia- which exclude India, Nepal and Bhutan.6. The results of the first phase will be declared on February 8 while the final results of the election will be declared in mid-May.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tibetans-in-exile-vote-as-polling-for-phase-1-of-sikyong-election-begins/story-ojDJezpbjAu61cC6xlU0NM.html
03-01-2021||World||A dozen Republican senators to oppose certification of Joe Biden’s win||A total of 12 US Republican senators, sitting and incoming, have made it known that they will oppose the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s election at a joint sitting of congress on January 6. Vice-president Mike Pence, who will preside, welcomed the move to overturn the presidential election.Eleven senators, including former presidential candidate Ted Cruz, made the announcement on Saturday. They joined Josh Hawley, who had already become the first senator to announce that he would oppose the certification, reportedly alongside more than 100 Republican members of the House.Slamming the move in a tweet on Saturday, President Donald Trump said, “An attempt to steal a landslide win. Can’t let it happen!” The House and Senate will certify Biden’s victory, a final step in the presidential election process that is usually a formality, in a joint session on January 6. Trump is pushing the Republicans through appeals and threats to oppose the certification. But the move is widely expected to fail, as did the 60 lawsuits filed by him and his allies and the vote recounts.The joint session is the final attempt by Trump to overturn his defeat to Biden in the presidential election, alleging that he lost because of voter fraud and irregularities in Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona and Nevada - the swing states - and also in Georgia, an otherwise Republican stronghold.In a joint statement, the 11 senators and senators-elect who joined Hawley called for an audit of the election results - in unidentified states - in 10 days’ time and said they will vote against the certification otherwise. Congress is unlikely to agree to their demand.Pence’s chief of staff Marc Short released a statement shortly after, saying the vice-president “shares the concerns” about voter fraud and irregularities and “welcomes the efforts of members of the House and Senate to use the authority they have under the law to raise objections and bring forward evidence before the congress and the American people on January 6”.Many Republicans have already accepted the election outcome and recognised Biden as president-elect. Senator Mitt Romney, who is one of them, lashed out at some senators from his party, calling their opposition to the certification an “egregious ploy” that “dangerously threatens our Democratic republic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-dozen-republican-senators-to-oppose-certification-of-joe-biden-s-win/story-wq8BwBimkPmQyD5BTlX4UI.html
03-01-2021||World||Saudi Arabia to lift entry ban linked to new coronavirus strain on Sunday||Saudi Arabia is set to scrap entry ban related to a new strain of SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday, state media reported, citing an interior ministry source.On December 21, Riyadh announced the halt to international flights and the closure of sea and land border crossings due to a new coronavirus mutation detected in a number of countries. On Monday, the kingdom extended the measures for another week.According to the SPA news agency, the country will resume international flights and reopen borders from 11:00 a.m. (8:00 GMT) on Sunday.Non-citizens coming from the UK, South Africa, and other countries that have detected the new variant of the novel coronavirus will be required to spend no less than 14 days outside the affected countries before entering the kingdom, the agency said. Such travellers will also need to provide negative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests for the coronavirus.Travellers from other countries will have to spend three to seven days in self-isolation and also provide PCR test results.A new strain of SARS-CoV-2, which could be up to 70 per cent more transmissible, was discovered in southeast England in mid-December. Despite many countries having suspended air service with the UK, the new strain is said to have spread across Europe and further afield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-to-lift-entry-ban-linked-to-new-coronavirus-strain-on-sunday/story-yf0a3UAIegO49e8VmDpwkK.html
03-01-2021||World||Pak foreign minister slams opposition, says Imran Khan govt will not resign||Even as the Pakistan Democratic Movement intensifies its campaign to oust the Imran Khan-led Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf government from power, Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Saturday remained adamant that the government will not resign on January 31 as demanded by the Opposition alliance.“PM Imran Khan enjoys the confidence of the National Assembly. Why would he resign on the Opposition’s demand?” Qureshi, who is also the PTI’s senior vice-chairperson, said while speaking to Geo News, after the 11-party-opposition alliance announced its goal to intensify its anti-government campaign by asking Imran Khan to resign by January 31.He said that the PDM had earlier announced to resign from the assemblies on December 31, but the date passed, Geo News reported.“The public has realised the Opposition’s true agenda and their jalsas do not have that strength,” Qureshi said and further claimed that the PDM will contest the Senate elections and by-polls.However, Pakistan Muslim Leauge--Nawaz vice president Maryam Nawaz said that the PDM will not contest the upper-house elections without consensus. PDM chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman said on Friday that the opposition’s movement would no longer be directed only at the Prime Minister Imran Khan-led government but also “his backers”.Rehman said it was decided after detailed discussions that the opposition will participate in the upcoming by-elections but there had been no decision on contesting in the Senate elections.“PDM has come out stronger than before and is more determined than before to rid the nation of this illegitimate government,” said the PDM chief and added that all PDM constituent parties had reported to the meeting today that the resignations of “all” opposition lawmakers had reached their party leaderships, in accordance with the December 31 date given for this purpose by the alliance, as reported by Dawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-foreign-minister-slams-opposition-says-imran-khan-govt-will-not-resign/story-C5LBPEDZycMKIES6ogdKQL.html
03-01-2021||World||Senate Democrats slam Republicans for opposing Electoral College results||US Senate Democrats on Saturday criticised 11 Republican Senators, who announced that they would oppose the Electoral College results of the presidential elections on Wednesday, when the Congress convenes in a joint session to formally count the vote.According to The Hill, a group of Republican Senators consisting of Ted Cruz, Ron Johnson, James Lankford, Steve Daines, John Kennedy, Marsha Blackburn and Mike Braun and Senators-elect Cynthia Lummis, Roger Marshall, Bill Hagerty and Tommy Tuberville said in a joint statement that they will vote against accepting the election results until there is a 10-day audit.In response, a number of Democrats said that the group was undermining the electoral process by voting against the results, which confirmed the victory of President-elect Joe Biden over incumbent President Donald Trump.“It is a sad and tragic day for our country that 140 members of the House of Representatives, 13 senators and a defeated president are attempting to undermine American democracy and our Constitution. They will not succeed,” tweeted Senator Bernie Sanders.“Joe Biden will be inaugurated on January 20, and no publicity stunt will change that.... For a group of my Republican colleagues to claim that they want an additional federal ‘commission’ to supersede state certifications when the votes have already been counted, recounted, litigated, and state-certified, amounts to nothing more than an attempt to subvert the will of the voters,” The Hill quoted Senator Amy Klobuchar in a statement issued on Saturday.“This pathetic, opportunistic stunt is an attack on our democracy. It’s un-American & unconscionable. Votes have been counted, recounted, certified, & all challenges totally discredited. Time to govern & get things done,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal in a tweet.On Saturday, the GOP senators called on the US Congress in a joint statement, to appoint an Electoral Commission to conduct an emergency 10-day audit of the election returns in disputed states.The Republican senators also said that a “fair and credible” audit-conducted expeditiously and completed well before January 20” would dramatically improve Americans’ faith in our electoral process and would significantly enhance the legitimacy of whoever becomes our next President.”“Congress should immediately appoint an Electoral Commission, with full investigatory and fact-finding authority, to conduct an emergency 10-day audit of the election returns in the disputed states,” they said.Once completed, individual states would evaluate the Commission’s findings and could convene a special legislative session to certify a change in their vote, if needed, the joint statement read further.“Accordingly, we intend to vote on January 6 to reject the electors from disputed states as not ‘regularly given’ and ‘lawfully certified’ (the statutory requisite), unless and until that emergency 10-day audit is completed,” they added.Meanwhile, Members of Republican leadership such as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Majority Whip John Thune have urged their colleagues to refrain from challenging the Electoral College results, reported The Hill.Biden was confirmed the winner of the November presidential election by the Electoral College on December 14 after all 50 states officially certified the voting results. According to official results, Biden collected 306 electoral votes as opposed to 232 votes cast for Trump.The US Congress will meet in the joint session on January 6 to confirm the Electoral College votes, with Vice President Mike Pence presiding over the session to count the votes from each state.Biden’s inauguration is scheduled for January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/senate-democrats-slam-republicans-for-opposing-electoral-college-results/story-CLOAMwejhhCKJVp7hnroCK.html
03-01-2021||World||Nashville bomber sent material to ‘acquaintances’, says FBI||Before he blew himself up in a Christmas Day attack that devastated blocks of downtown Nashville, Anthony Warner sent materials about his views to people he knew, federal investigators said Saturday.In a statement to The Associated Press, FBI Special Agent Jason Pack said authorities are “aware the suspect sent materials which espoused his viewpoints to several acquaintances throughout the country.”Authorities have said Warner, 63, was responsible for the explosion, which damaged dozens of buildings and injured several people. Officials have not released a motive.Pack did not release additional details about what the packages from Warner contained but he urged anyone who may have received material from Warner to contact the FBI at 800-CALL-FBI.The bombing occurred Christmas morning well before downtown streets were bustling with activity. Police were responding to a report of shots fired Friday when they encountered the RV blaring a recorded warning that a bomb would detonate in 15 minutes. Then, inexplicably, the audio switched to a recording of Petula Clark’s 1964 hit “Downtown” shortly before the blast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nashville-bomber-sent-material-to-acquaintances-says-fbi/story-4FEltEk4HzbqBq3TKCPsgP.html
03-01-2021||World||Singapore tightens rules for maritime sector after detection of new Covid cases||Singapore strengthened regulations for workers in the maritime industry after two more Covid-19 cases were found in the last two days of December.Shore-based personnel in the maritime sector who plan to go on board ships will need to take Covid-19 pre-departure test by Jan. 8, according to a joint statement from the Maritime Port Authority of Singapore, Singapore Economic Development Board, Enterprise Singapore and the Ministry of Health. This will apply to more than 20,000 workers, the statement said.Routine testing will also be made more frequent, with workers now to be tested every seven days instead of every 14. Those who don’t follow these rules won’t be allowed to board ships for work.“Individuals and companies which are found to have violated these measures will be taken to task,” according to the statement. “Agencies will also review the need to enhance PPE and infection control measures in the sector.”A marine surveyor and a harbor pilot tested positive for coronavirus on Dec. 30 and 31, respectively, prompting the authorities to take steps to introduce the additional tightening measures. This followed a marine service engineer testing positive on Nov. 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-tightens-rules-for-maritime-sector-after-detection-of-new-covid-cases/story-olsXlKg3E4LMvAPgrXdn8I.html
03-01-2021||World||California funeral homes run out of space as Covid-19 rages||As communities across the country feel the pain of a surge in coronavirus cases, funeral homes in the hot spot of Southern California say they must turn away grieving families as they run out of space for the bodies piling up.The head of the state funeral directors association says mortuaries are being inundated as the United States nears a grim tally of 350,000 Covid-19 deaths. More than 20 million people in the country have been infected, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University.“Ive been in the funeral industry for 40 years and never in my life did I think that this could happen, that Id have to tell a family, No, we cant take your family member,” said Magda Maldonado, owner of Continental Funeral Home in Los Angeles.Continental is averaging about 30 body removals a day — six times its normal rate. Mortuary owners are calling one another to see whether anyone can handle overflow, and the answer is always the same: Theyre full, too.In order to keep up with the flood of bodies, Maldonado has rented extra 50-foot (15-meter) refrigerators for two of the four facilities she runs in LA and surrounding counties. Continental has also been delaying pickups at hospitals for a day or two while they deal with residential clients. Bob Achermann, executive director of the California Funeral Directors Association, said that the whole process of burying and cremating bodies has slowed down, including embalming bodies and obtaining death certificates. During normal times, cremation might happen within a day or two; now it takes at least a week or longer. Achermann said that in the southern part of the state, “every funeral home I talk to says, Were paddling as fast as we can.” “The volume is just incredible and they fear that they wont be able to keep up,” he said. “And the worst of the surge could still be ahead of us.” Los Angeles County, the epicenter of the crisis in California, has surpassed 10,000 Covid-19 deaths alone. Hospitals in the area are overwhelmed, and are struggling to keep up with basics such as oxygen as they treat an unprecedented number of patients with respiratory issues. On Saturday, US Army Corps of Engineers crews arrived to update some hospital’s oxygen delivery systems.Nationally, an average of just over 2,500 people have died of Covid-19 over the past seven days, according to Johns Hopkins data. The number of daily newly reported cases in that period has averaged close to 195,000, a decline from two weeks earlier. It’s feared that holiday gatherings could fuel yet another rise in cases. Arkansas officials reported a record of more than 4,300 new Covid-19 cases Friday. Gov. Asa Hutchinson tweeted that the state is “certainly in the surge after Christmas travel and gatherings” and added, “As we enter this new year, our first resolution should be to follow guidelines.” North Carolina officials also reported a record 9,527 confirmed cases New Years Day. Thats more than 1,000 cases above the previous daily high. In Louisiana, a funeral was being held Saturday for a congressman-elect who died of Covid-19 complications. Republican Luke Letlow died Tuesday at age 41. His swearing-in had been scheduled Sunday. He leaves behind his wife, Julia Letlow, and two children, ages 1 and 3.In Texas, state officials say they have only 580 intensive care beds available as staff treat more than 12,480 hospitalized coronavirus patients, a number that has risen steadily since September and has set record highs this past week.In Window Rock, Arizona, the Navajo Nation remained in the midst of a weekend lockdown to try to slow the rate of infection. The tribe late Friday reported another seven deaths, bringing its totals since the pandemic began to 23,429 cases and 813 deaths. The reservation includes parts of Arizona, New Mexico and Utah.The number of infections is thought to be far higher than reported because many people have not been tested, and studies suggest people can be infected with the virus without feeling sick. Arizona on Saturday reported 18,943 new cases Friday and Saturday, a record for the state in any two-day period. It also reported 46 new deaths Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-funeral-homes-run-out-of-space-as-covid-19-rages/story-6Mlyal6GYqVrNIWSCubeCP.html
03-01-2021||World||Head-on crash kills 7 kids, 2 adults in Central California||Seven children and two adult drivers were killed in head-on collision in Central California on New Year’s Day, authorities said.The children, who were between 6 and 15 years old, were members of two related families traveling in a 2007 Ford that collided around 8 p.m. Friday with a Dodge vehicle on State Route 33 between Avenal and Coalinga, the Fresno County Coroner’s office and the California Highway Patrol said.Evidence from the scene indicated that the Dodge being driven by a 28-year-old man was travelling southbound on the highway when it veered onto the dirt shoulder for an unknown reason, the CHP said. The driver then overcorrected and swerved into the southbound lane, where it struck the Ford driven by a woman.The Ford burst into flames on the dirt shoulder, while the Dodge came to a stop straddling both lanes of the highway, the CHP said. All eight people inside the Ford were killed, including the seven children.The driver of the Dodge was identified as Daniel Luna of Avenal. The coroner’s office was working on identifying the victims in the Ford.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/head-on-crash-kills-7-kids-2-adults-in-central-california/story-w52aQp7C4qMlh1Ja2EBs5J.html
03-01-2021||World||Russia to trial combined AstraZeneca, Sputnik V vaccine in Ukraine||Russia is ready to conduct clinical trials in Ukraine of a COVID-19 vaccine combining its Sputnik V with a vaccine developed by AstraZeneca together with Oxford University, the head of Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Saturday.Russia’s sovereign RDIF, which is marketing the Sputnik V vaccine abroad, announced in December trials to test a combination of the AstraZeneca vaccine with the Sputnik V shot to see if this can boost the efficacy of the British drugmaker’s vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-to-trial-combined-astrazeneca-sputnik-v-vaccine-in-ukraine/story-Azf4d2OGiPDwxs9Cc911WI.html
03-01-2021||World||US news star Larry King hospitalized with Covid-19, says report||Veteran talk show host Larry King has been hospitalized with Covid-19, US media reported Saturday.Citing a “source close to the family,” CNN reported that King, one of the network’s biggest stars, has been hospitalized for more than a week at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.King, 87, has Type 2 diabetes and has had a long history of medical issues, including several heart attacks, lung cancer and angina, a condition caused by reduced blood flow to the heart.The legendary host is one of the most recognizable figures on US television, known for his signature rolled-up shirtsleeves, multi-colored ties, suspenders and big glasses.His list of interviewees has ranged from every US president since 1974 to world leaders Yasser Arafat and Vladimir Putin, and celebrities Frank Sinatra, Marlon Brando and Barbra Streisand.King hosted CNN’s “Larry King Live” for 25 years, retiring in 2010. He continued to do interviews on his own website and then, in 2012, he began hosting “Larry King Now” on Ora TV, an on-demand digital network that he co-founded.In 2013, he also began hosting a show called “Politicking with Larry King” on Ora TV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-news-star-larry-king-hospitalized-with-covid-19-says-report/story-gzr0mi0wi9KbuaNelouBHJ.html
03-01-2021||World||A dozen US senators plan to oppose Joe Biden’s certification||A group of Republican senators led by veteran lawmaker Ted Cruz said Saturday they would not vote next week to certify Joe Biden’s election win -- the latest last-ditch move to support Donald Trump’s efforts to undermine the vote.The initiative, which appears certain to fail, flies in the face of rulings in dozens of courts and the findings by officials in several key states, that there were no widespread voting problems. The Republicans’ statement, signed by Cruz and six other current senators along with four senators-elect, asserts that “allegations of fraud and irregularities in the 2020 election exceed any in our lifetimes.”The group said that when Congress convenes in a joint session on Wednesday -- for what normally would be a pro-forma certification of Biden’s victory -- they will demand the creation of a special commission to conduct an “emergency 10-day audit” of the election results. The statement says individual states could then convene special legislative sessions and potentially revise their vote totals.“An attempt to steal a landslide win. Can’t let it happen!” Trump tweeted Saturday.Posting a list of the 11 senators, Trump added: “And after they see the facts, plenty more to come...Our Country will love them for it!” They join Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri, who said earlier that he planned to raise objections on Wednesday. A Republican member of the House of Representatives, Louie Gohmert, has also announced his plan to oppose certification, and more than 100 House Republicans reportedly will back his challenge.Gohmert sought to further raise the stakes with a lawsuit that would have given Vice President Mike Pence -- traditionally in a ceremonial role in Wednesday’s session -- the power to overturn the election result.Pence opposed that effort, and a federal judge in Texas on Friday rejected the suit.The Hawley and Gohmert challenges will ensure that Congress must meet to hear the complaints. ‘The Electoral College has spoken’ The Congress sessions, sure to be contentious, will play out against a backdrop of pro-Trump rallies in Washington next week encouraged by the president himself. As with Trump’s other attempts to reverse his election defeat, the latest political maneuvering appears doomed. Democrats control the House, and many Republicans are expected to vote Wednesday for certification.The 11 senators conceded that most Democrats and “more than a few Republicans” would likely oppose their initiative.Among them is Republican Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, whose state was a battleground that helped tip Biden into the win column. Its result is expected to be among those contested on Wednesday.“A fundamental, defining feature of a democratic republic is the right of the people to elect their own leaders,” Toomey said on Twitter. “The effort by Sens. Hawley, Cruz, and others to overturn the results of the 2020 presidential election in swing states like Pennsylvania directly undermines this right.”He added: “I voted for President Trump and endorsed him for re-election. But, on Wednesday, I intend to vigorously defend our form of government by opposing this effort to disenfranchise millions of voters in my state and others.”Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell has urged fellow Republicans to vote to certify and avoid a divisive political brawl, saying, “The Electoral College has spoken.”Biden won in the all-important Electoral College by a vote of 306 to 232.“This is cynical, anti-democratic posturing,” presidential historian Tim Naftali told CNN. Cruz is considered a likely 2024 presidential candidate. Hawley is also said to be positioning himself for a 2024 run -- and so is Pence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-dozen-us-senators-plan-to-oppose-joe-biden-s-certification/story-IHdt8N11WTd3XPhpJvO14J.html
03-01-2021||World||Iranian officials warn against ‘hostile moves’ in anniversary of Soleimani’s killing||Several Iranian political and military officials issued warnings on Saturday over possible hostile movements against Iran, on the first anniversary of the killing of Commander Qasem Soleimani.“New intelligence from Iraq indicates that Israeli agent-provocateurs are plotting attacks against Americans-putting an outgoing Trump in a bind with a fake casus belli,” Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif wrote on social media, as quoted by official news agency IRNA.Iran’s chief diplomat called on the United States President Donald Trump to “be careful of a trap.”Major General Hossein Salami, commander in chief of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC), also issued a warning against hostile action taken against Iran.“We have shown it in practice, and we announce that we will respond to any action taken by the enemy against us with a reciprocal, decisive and solid blow,” Salami declared, semi-official news agency Tasnim reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iranian-officials-warn-against-hostile-moves-in-anniversary-of-soleimani-s-killing/story-2oUSSZk0Dq5IADyBx8QPGJ.html
03-01-2021||World||Authorities warn Australians of complacency against Covid-19||Health authorities are warning Australians to remain vigilant even as signs point to coronavirus clusters in the nation’s two most-populous states being brought under control.New South Wales on Sunday said it detected eight locally transmitted cases in the past 24 hours, compared with seven the day before. The outbreak in the state originated from a cluster originally from the Northern Beaches region of Sydney that spread to other areas of the city, and has now infected more than 150 people.Neighboring Victoria state detected three new cases in the past 24 hours, its health authorities said on Sunday. The tally is down from 10 new cases recorded the day before.Australian health authorities have been racing to get on top of the clusters which have disrupted the peak summer holiday period. The nation has managed to largely suppress community transmissions through rigorous testing and contact tracing, by placing restrictions on international arrivals, and through isolating all travelers returning from overseas in quarantine hotels for 14 days.The Sydney outbreak had spurred the New South Wales government into tightening social-distancing restrictions. From Monday, individuals in Australia’s largest city found not wearing masks in indoor venues such as shops, churches and on public transport will be fined A$200 ($154).More than 18,900 people in New South Wales were tested on Saturday. Acting Premier John Barilaro on Sunday urged for an increase to maintain the state’s record of success in restricting outbreaks.Victoria’s virus response commander Jeroen Weimar also urged residents in his state to maintain testing levels, particularly if they had returned from New South Wales after their shared border was closed on Saturday in a bid to contain clusters.“People need to continue to be alert and aware that this is not over yet,” Weimar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/authorities-warn-australians-of-complacency-against-covid-19/story-Cu293HwytX1phXRVy9IRkK.html
03-01-2021||World||Memorial held for congressman-elect who contracted Covid-19||Louisiana Congressman-elect Luke Letlow, who recently died from Covid-19 complications, was remembered Saturday as a man who loved people and felt called to serve others.“This is a gentleman who cared about nothing but others,” said former Republican US Rep. Ralph Abraham, who hired Letlow as chief of staff during his tenure in Washington and later backed Letlow’s bid for Congress. “He was a true servant’s servant. We never want to forget what he’s done for our state, what he’s done for me and my family.”Letlow, an incoming Republican member of the US House, died Tuesday at 41. Gov. John Bel Edwards ordered flags flown at half-staff on Saturday for Letlow, who is survived by his wife, Julia Letlow, and their children, Jeremiah, 3, and Jacqueline, 1.More than 200 people gathered at North Monroe Baptist Church for the memorial. Abraham acknowledged the presence of other members of the state’s congressional delegation in attendance, including US Reps. Clay Higgins and Garret Graves.Abraham noted that Letlow was known for the relationships he forged.“Luke loved Louisiana. He loved traveling down country roads with potholes, going to Lea’s in Lecompte for pie and milk and talking to the locals,” he said.Abraham urged friends and family to plant a tree in Letlow’s memory.“Plant a tree that you have to water and nurture and watch grow. And every time you pass that tree, you’ll remember Luke and smile and embrace that warm feeling that comes to your heart as you go about your day. He wants us to be happy, courageous and strong. The way we honor and remember Luke Letlow is to build that type of life.”Letlow, from the small town of Start in Richland Parish, was elected in a December runoff election for the sprawling 5th District US House seat representing central and northeastern regions of the state, including the cities of Monroe and Alexandria. He was to fill the seat being vacated by Abraham.Jonathan S. Wagner, pastor at Covenant Presbyterian Church, said the number of people present and watching the service via livestream was a “testament to Luke’s impact during his 41 ears on this earth.”“The tributes speak to his genuineness, his work ethic, his playful spirit, his love for Louisiana and his love for people. He was a great man and it was a great privilege to have known him,” Wagner said.Wagner said Letlow cared deeply about public service.“People knew he was not just trying to get his name out there,” during his campaign travels, Wagner said. “He was genuinely interested in meeting people and hearing their stories. He wanted to know what shaped them and made them who they were. Those stories shaped him and changed the way he lived. He went into politics to be a public servant in the purest sense. He wanted to help others because he loved them deeply and sincerely and was driven by his faith.”Jeffrey Thomas, a friend of Letlow’s and lead pastor at Start Baptist Church, described Letlow as “God’s special possession.”“The love of God flowed through Luke,” Thomas said. “Julia, he loved you and he loved those babies. ... Whatever memories you have of him, words spoke by him or whatever service he gave you, he did it out of love. God gave us a special gift in Luke. He made the most of every opportunity and wanted to make sure that you and I had the absolute best.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/memorial-held-for-congressman-elect-who-contracted-covid-19/story-yeW9ccyoaWNKLNgditoErO.html
03-01-2021||World||Argentina reports adverse reaction to Sputnik V vaccine in 1% of inoculated citizens||Only 1 per cent of Argentinian citizens, who received the Russia-developed Sputnik V vaccine against the coronavirus, has shown a mild adverse reaction to the shot, the TN broadcaster reported on Saturday, citing the country’s Health Ministry.According to the media outlet, 317 patients reported fever and headaches of the total 32,013.Argentina started its mass vaccination campaign with the Russian Sputnik V vaccine on Tuesday. Earlier in December, it received the first batch of 300,000 doses of the jab.Health workers are the first to get shots of the vaccine.The Sputnik V was the first Covid-19 vaccine registered in Russia and the world. Russia’s Sputnik V is 92 percent effective, based on data from the first 16,000 trial participants who have received both shots of the two-dose vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/argentina-reports-adverse-reaction-to-sputnik-v-vaccine-in-1-of-inoculated-citizens/story-CW4yCfl9gfwLutOVOlCgCJ.html
03-01-2021||World||PDM to hold rally at Bahawalpur against Imran-led govt||To oust Prime Minister Imran Khan from power, the Chief of the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) Maulana Fazlur Rehman has intensified the protest against the PTI government as decides to lead a political rally in Bahawalpur on Sunday.Citing sources, The News International reported that Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz Vice President Maryam Nawaz and former prime minister and Pakistan Peoples’ Party leader Yousuf Raza Gilani will also attend the rally.The rally will pass through Bandra Bridge, Model Town C Chowk, Fateh Chowk, Model Town B, and reach Toll Plaza Sutlej Bridge and it is expected that all three -- Fazlur Rehman, Maryam Nawaz and Yousuf Raza Gilani -- will address the rally at Chowk Seraiki.However, a spokesman for the district police said the administration had not yet given permission for the rally, as reported by The News International. The police spokesman added that cases have been registered against local PDM officials and workers for violating coronavirus safety protocols.PML-N leader Baligh-ur-Rehman has said that the government is panicking in the face of the Opposition movement. He said crude tactics are being used to stop the rally.“PDM is the voice of the people, the rally will be held tomorrow at all costs,” he vowed.Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman said on Friday that the opposition’s movement would no longer be directed only at the Prime Minister Imran Khan-led government but also “his backers”.The opposition alliance chief said that rifts within the PDM are a campaign run by the media and added that the PDM is more determined to rid the country of Imran Khan and his illegitimate government.PDM has demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Imran Khan till January 31 and in case of denial for this demand, the front has announced a rally against the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pdm-to-hold-rally-at-bahawalpur-against-imran-led-govt/story-SK6IgkGBk28FJ4PlyRxOzL.html
03-01-2021||World||UK abolishes ‘tampon tax’ on menstrual products||The UK has abolished the 5 per cent rate of value-added tax (VAT) on menstrual products, known as the tampon tax -- meaning that there will no longer be VAT on period products from January 1 onwards.“(The) tampon tax abolished - from today (1 Jan 2021) VAT no longer applies to women’s sanitary products. (This is a) part of wider government action to End Period Poverty which includes the roll-out of free sanitary products in schools, colleges and hospitals. The move made possible by end of the transition period and freedom from EU law mandating VAT on sanitary products,” the UK Government said in a statement.The statement further said that the move honours a government commitment to scrap the tax and is part of a wider strategy to make sanitary products affordable and available for all women.Chancellor Rishi Sunak said: “I’m proud that we are today delivering on our promise to scrap the tampon tax. Sanitary products are essential so it’s right that we do not charge VAT.”He added, “We have already rolled out free sanitary products in schools, colleges and hospitals and this commitment takes us another step closer to making them available and affordable for all women.”The Chancellor announced that the tampon tax was to be abolished from 1 January 2021 at March 2020 Budget. As the transition period ended on December 31st, the UK is no longer bound by the EU VAT Directive which mandates a minimum 5% tax on all sanitary products.According to CNN, Campaigners had been calling for the end of the tax, labeled “sexist” and “outdated,” for years.“It’s been a long road to reach this point, but at last the sexist tax that saw sanitary products classed as non-essential, luxury items can be consigned to the history books,” Felicia Willow Chief Executive of the Fawcett Society, the UK’s oldest charity campaigning for women’s rights and gender equality.Scotland became the first country in the world to allow free and universal access to menstrual products, including tampons and pads, in public facilities, in November 2020.Globally, just a handful of countries have zero tax added to sanitary products, including Canada, India, Australia, Kenya and several US states.Germany also voted to reduce its tax rate on feminine hygiene products after deeming them to be a daily necessity, not a luxury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-abolishes-tampon-tax-on-menstrual-products/story-iXxyRXps0hDEnGbw89MqaJ.html
03-01-2021||World||US distributed over 13.07 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines; 4.2 million administered: CDC||The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said it had administered 4,225,756 first doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the country as of Saturday morning and distributed 13,071,925 doses.The tally of vaccine doses distributed and the number of people who received the first dose are for both Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech, vaccines as of 9:00 a.m. ET on Saturday, the agency said.According to the tally posted on Dec. 30, the agency had administered 2,794,588 first doses of the vaccines and distributed 12,409,050 doses.A total of 2,217,025 vaccine doses were distributed for use on long-term care facilities and 282,740 people in the facilities got their first dose, the agency said.The agency also reported 20,061,818 cases of new coronavirus, an increase of 168,637 cases from its previous count, and said that the number of deaths had risen by 2,428 to 346,925.The CDC reported its tally of cases of the respiratory illness known as Covid-19, caused by a new coronavirus, as of 4 pm ET Friday versus its previous report published on Dec. 31.The CDC figures do not necessarily reflect cases reported by individual states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-distributes-over-13-07-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-4-2-million-administered-cdc/story-C9guqzvFHdAFyykJmIrklN.html
03-01-2021||World||Pandemic hiatus at Sydney Opera House set to end with glitzy show||The finishing touches were being put on a glitzy show at the Sydney Opera House Saturday, as the venue prepared to host an opera crowd for the first time since March.“The Merry Widow” will open on Tuesday to masked audiences up to 75 percent capacity, in a sign of hope for a performing arts industry crippled by the pandemic, artistic director Lyndon Terracini told AFP. “Walking back into the theatre was a very emotional time for everyone involved,” he said. “I think throughout this year, other opera houses will be opening very soon and people will be coming back to the theatre with a sense of hope.”Thanks to Australia’s success in suppressing the virus, crowds inside venues -- including the Sydney Opera House -- have been permitted in the country’s most populous city for months.But even as the performers readied for their opening night, an outbreak in the city forced officials to tighten restrictions -- including a new mandate on mask-wearing on public transport and in many indoor settings from midnight Saturday.The outbreak of over 180 cases first emerged in December in Sydney’s northeast but has since sparked other clusters, including in Melbourne.Areas of Sydney remain under lockdown and officials have suggested further restrictions may be needed to curb the spread -- which could include a change to audiences at indoor performances.Julie Lea Goodwin, who leads the show along with Alexander Lewis, said she was thrilled to be back performing but after a nine-month hiatus the uncertainty of the pandemic still loomed. “I have no idea what’s ahead,” Goodwin said. “I think that Australia is doing an unbelievable job... but it’s just going to be a process for the next year, I’d say, or longer.”Australia has recorded over 28,400 cases of the virus and 909 deaths linked to Covid-19 in a population of about 25 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-hiatus-at-sydney-opera-house-set-to-end-with-glitzy-show/story-QUcOvWDH8XIoVi6dC6iKDJ.html
03-01-2021||World||UK PM Johnson could lose his seat and majority at next election, says poll||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is on course to lose his own seat and neither of the two main political parties is likely to win an outright majority at the next general election, not due until 2024, according to a new poll.This is the first detailed survey of the public’s perception of Johnson’s handling of the recently concluded Brexit talks and the Covid-19 pandemic after he reversed plans to allow families to meet up at Christmas in parts of southern England to combat the spread of the virus.More than 22,000 people were surveyed in a closely watched poll constituency-by-constituency poll over a four-week period in December, which was conducted by the research data company Focaldata and published by the Sunday Times.The so-called multilevel regression and post-stratification (MRP) poll found the ruling Conservatives would lose 81 seats, wiping out the 80-seat majority. This would leave the Conservatives with 284 seats, while the opposition Labour Party would win 282 seats, the poll showed.The Scottish National Party, which wants to break away from the rest of the United Kingdom, is predicted to win 57 of the 59 seats in Scotland, meaning the party could potentially play a kingmaker role in forming the next government.The prime minister is at risk to lose his own seat of Uxbridge, west of London, the poll found.Johnson won a resounding election victory last year that allowed him to take Britain out of the European Union’s orbit on New Year’s Eve after almost half a century of close ties.But Johnson’s premiership may increasingly be defined by the government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, which has already killed more than 74,000 people and crushed the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-could-lose-his-seat-and-majority-at-next-election-says-poll/story-Sh0Ba56BE9YugBUYKAnILJ.html
03-01-2021||World||Israeli protesters press on against PM Netanyahu||Thousands of Israelis protested again on Saturday against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, demanding that the long-serving leader resign over corruption charges against him and for allegedly mishandling the coronavirus crisis.Holding signs reading “Go” and “Everyone is equal before the law,” the demonstrators crowded a Jerusalem square near Netanyahu’s official residence, where they have gathered for months to call for his resignation.Netanyahu is charged with fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes in three cases involving billionaire associates and media moguls. He denies wrongdoing.But the protesters say Netanyahu cannot properly lead the country while under indictment for corruption. His trial is set to begin evidentiary hearings in the coming weeks.Israel is set to hold its fourth national election in two years in March, what will likely be another referendum against Netanyahu as he faces a challenge from defectors within his Likud Party.The protesters also say Netanyahu and his government have bungled the coronavirus response. The country has seen its economy hit hard by virus restrictions throughout the year and is again under a nationwide if partial lockdown amid surging infection rates.Netanyahu and his allies have used Israel’s widespread vaccination drive, in which more than a tenth of its population has been immunized, to try to undercut the protesters and their cause. They claim Netanyahu is working to end Israel’s coronavirus outbreak while they just hold demonstrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-protesters-press-on-against-pm-netanyahu/story-qB6BHtNs4G3zdSYxlIz6YI.html
03-01-2021||World||McConnell, Pelosi homes vandalized after $2,000 relief fails||Vandals lashed out at the leaders of the US House and Senate over the holiday weekend, blighting their homes with graffiti and in one case a pig’s head as Congress failed to approve an increase in the amount of money being sent to individuals to help cope with the coronavirus pandemic.Spray paint on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s door in Kentucky on Saturday read, “WERE IS MY MONEY.” “MITCH KILLS THE POOR” was scrawled over a window. A profanity directed at the Republican senator was painted under the mailbox.At House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s home in San Francisco, someone spray-painted graffiti and left a pig’s head and fake blood on New Year’s Day, police said. The vandalism was reported around 2 a.m. Friday, a police statement said, and a special investigations unit is trying to determine who did it.KGO-TV reported that graffiti found on the garage door of the Democratic leader’s home included the phrases “$2K,” “Cancel rent!” and “We want everything,” apparently referencing Democratic lawmakers’ failed efforts to increase the coronavirus relief checks from $600 to $2000.The news station says security cameras surround the three-story brick home in the tony Pacific Heights neighborhood.McConnell released a statement on Saturday condemning the vandalism at his home in Louisville.“I’ve spent my career fighting for the First Amendment and defending peaceful protest,” he stated. “I appreciate every Kentuckian who has engaged in the democratic process whether they agree with me or not. This is different. Vandalism and the politics of fear have no place in our society.”McConnell said he and his wife are not intimidated by the vandalism. “We just hope our neighbors in Louisville aren’t too inconvenienced by this radical tantrum.”Louisville police are investigating the incident at McConnell’s home, which occurred around 5 a.m. Saturday. There currently are no suspects, police spokesperson Dwight Mitchell said in an email.On New Year’s Day, Senate Republicans refused to allow debate over a bill to increase the amount of Covid-19 relief. The increase, supported by President Donald Trump, passed the Democratic-led House but was blocked by McConnell.The government has begun sending out the smaller payments to millions of Americans. The $600 payment is going to individuals with incomes up to $75,000. Congress approved the payment in late December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mcconnell-pelosi-homes-vandalized-after-2-000-relief-fails/story-yz1Zatx7nF0I5yCdYs21OJ.html
03-01-2021||World||Ted Cruz leads 11 GOP senators to challenge Biden’s win||A coalition of 11 Republican senators announced Saturday it will challenge the outcome of the presidential election by voting to reject electors from some states when Congress meets next week to certify the Electoral College results that confirmed President-elect Joe Biden won.President Donald Trump’s extraordinary refusal to accept his election defeat and the effort to subvert the will of the voters has become a defining moment for Republicans and is tearing the party apart. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has urged Republican not to try to overturn the election.The 11 senators, led by Ted Cruz of Texas, said they will vote against certain state electors unless Congress appoints an electoral commission to immediately conduct an audit of the election results. They acknowledged they are unlikely to change the results of the election.“We intend to vote on January 6 to reject the electors from disputed states as not ‘regularly given’ and ‘lawfully certified’ (the statutory requisite), unless and until that emergency 10-day audit is completed,” they wrote in the statement.“We do not take this action lightly,” they said.In response to Trump’s unfounded claims of voter fraud, bipartisan election officials and Trump’s then-Attorney General William Barr have said there was no evidence of widespread fraud and the election ran smoothly.The days ahead are expected to do little to change the outcome. Biden is set to be inaugurated Jan. 20 after winning the Electoral College vote 306-232.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ted-cruz-leads-11-gop-senators-to-challenge-biden-s-win/story-yJK47PHKb7SoYWJOPSV1AK.html
03-01-2021||India||Centre draws plan for vaccine roll-out||New Delhi: From retired doctors and nurses to home guards and civil defence personnel and even volunteers from the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathans, the Centre and state governments will tap every human resource that is available for the smooth implementation of the world’s largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Each vaccination site, according to official guidelines, would consist of at least three rooms and require a number of personnel to perform specific duties. Vaccination Officer 1 would be from the police, home guards, civil defence, the National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS) or the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan. His or her job would be to “check the registration status of a vaccine recipient and to ensure” that entry into the vaccination centre is regulated. India’s vaccination campaign against Covid-19 is targeting offering protection against the viral disease to 300 million people by July, including health-care workers, front-line workers and the people most at risk of infection. They would be inoculated at both large public and private health facilities with a minimum of 100 vaccine recipients covered in each session.“For health facilities with less than 100 beneficiaries, its frontline health workers would be sent to another vaccination site,” an official aware of the plan said on condition of anonymity. . The duty of Vaccination Officer 2 would be to verify the identification documents of the recipients.Vaccination Officers 3 and 4 will be support staff who will be responsible for crowd management and ensure every recipient spends 30 minutes at the site after receiving a shot to see if there is an adverse reaction. The support staff would also provide information, education and communication (IEC) messages and support to the vaccinator as well as the vaccination team. While the document verification and identification of the beneficiaries would be done in the first room, the second room would be used exclusively for administering the vaccine. In this room, the vaccinator officers--doctors, nurses, pharmacists, auxiliary nurse midwifes, lady health visitors anyone else authorized to administer the vaccine -- would inject the intramuscular vaccine by an auto-disabled syringe. Indian drug authorities have last week approved Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for emergency use for the intended list of recipients. Officials have identified Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc., as the main vaccine for India’s immunization drive against Covid-19 while Covaxin would be a supplementary measure. Officials added that the Covid-19 vaccination may not take place daily but on select days in a week. “We also have to ensure that the ongoing universal immunization programme is not hampered. Each state has specific days allotted for the UIP. The Covid vaccination programme is likely to take place on the other days,” said a senior official involved in the planning. The Centre’s guidelines sent to the states says: “Essential health services including existing routine immunization sessions should not be impacted or interrupted.” While the vaccine maker would be responsible for safely transporting the vaccine to the designated consignee points in state capitals and big cities, the state authorities have to maintain vaccine safety during storage, transportation and delivery of the vaccine to the inoculation sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-draws-plan-for-vaccine-roll-out/story-EvWf2IoD9pekRS1WK6p5JN.html
03-01-2021||India||Strict law on anvil to punishstone pelters: MP CM Chouhan||Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday said that there would be a strict law to deal with the crimes related to stone pelting and damage to public and private properties in Madhya Pradesh. “Stone pelters are enemies of the society... Stone pelting is not a simple crime which may cause loss of life, create an atmosphere of fear and terror and result in stampede and chaos. There will be a rule of law in Madhya Pradesh. Such criminals are not petty criminals. They will not be spared”, said chief minister responding to questions from journalists on certain stone pelting incidents that took place in Malwa region during public awareness rallies over Ayodhya’s Ram Temple in December last week by Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and associated organisations. “We are going to come with a strict law to deal with such crimes[stone pelting]... Many a time, trouble makers damage the public property, set it afire and damage private properties too... this is an unpardonable crime,” the CM added. He said democracy allowed people to express their views in a peaceful manner. “I have already issued instructions to authorities in regard with the new law and work is going on the same. Soon, there will be such a law”, he said. CM’s announcement come in the wake of incidents of stone pelting on VHP and associated groups’ public awareness rallies in Ujjain on December 25 and in Indore on December 29. FIRs against about 100 persons were lodged from both sides and several accused were arrested. Provisions of National Security Act (NSA) were invoked against six accused in Ujjain who were allegedly involved in the stone pelting. House of one of the accused allegedly constructed illegally was razed in Ujjain in a joint operation of district administration, police and the civic body, as per police and administration authorities. Notably, a law has been in force in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, for recovery of damages to public and private properties from rioters and protesters.Reacting to the CM’s announcement, state Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Any strict law against stone pelting is a welcome step but the CM should also have spoken about the crime about taking out religious rallies without permission, barging into the shrines of a particular religion, coining provocative slogans against the religion, vandalising the particular community’s properties including shrines as were witnessed in Malwa region recently. Is this not a crime in the eyes of the CM? Will he make a provision for stringent punishment on such crimes also?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strict-law-on-anvil-to-punishstone-pelters-mp-cm-chouhan/story-IeB7Mh9SCWPU5wzAbzsFWP.html
03-01-2021||India||Farmers in Haryana march towards Delhi, police use teargas to disperse them||Haryana Police on Sunday evening fired teargas canisters to thwart a march of a group of agitating farmers towards Delhi at Masani barrage in Rewari district. Farmers first broke police barricades put up near Bhudla Sangwari village and then started moving towards Delhi in the evening. They have been camping at the service lane of the Delhi-Jaipur highway for the past few days, police said. When the farmers’ group reached Masani barrage where the barricades were put up, police used teargas to disperse them. “We have stopped them (farmers) at Masani,” Rewari Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal said over the phone. On December 31, a group of farmers had broken police barricades at the Shahjahanpur border with Rajasthan, trying to move towards the national capital. Police had then too resorted to teargas shelling as well as using water cannons to stop them. A large number of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and some other places have been protesting on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for the past several days, demanding the repeal of new farm laws. They have been camping at the Rajasthan-Haryana border point after police had earlier stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi as part of their “Delhi Chalo” march against the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/famers-in-haryana-march-towards-delhi-police-use-teargas-to-disperse-them/story-wpwTsxZRcBfDx6N7aDJr2N.html
03-01-2021||India||Farmers in Rewari break barricades; police use tear gas to stop them||A section of farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Sangwari Chowk, in Rewari city, tried to move towards Delhi on Sunday evening, said the police. The Rewari Police said the protestors at Sangwari Chowk broke the barricades and tried to move towards Gurugram and Delhi, following which they had to release tear-gas shells and water cannons to stop them.Farmers, on the other hand, alleged that the tear gas shells used by the police were expired and that the gas cylinders kept in their tractor-trolleys could have exploded as a result of the shells. In the ruckus that took place between the police and the protestors on Sunday, one farmer was reportedly injured. Read more| Free bus service for farmers who want to join protests at Ghazipur-UP borderEarlier, last Thursday, another section of farmers had broken the barricades at Shahjahanpur and entered Rewari on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. Over 2,000 farmers from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana and members of trade unions are currently protesting at Bawal in Rewari. The farmers at Bawal have asked their counterparts in Shahjhanapur to join them so that they could proceed towards Delhi on Monday. Haryana Police said that more than 20 tractors and a section of farmers crossed the border but later stopped as their counterparts could not manage to break the barricades and there was no other facility to camp for the night. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said that farmers at Sangwari Chowk broke the police barricades and tried to move towards Delhi. “The police had to use tear gas and water cannons to stop the protesters. They shouted slogans and forcefully tried to break the barricades. As such, we had to take necessary steps to stop them,” he said. Last month, over a thousand farmers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana reached Jaisinghpur Khera and joined the agitation. The protesting farmers had earlier announced that they would start moving towards Delhi on Monday, signalling their intent to further escalate the ongoing agitation. Satnarayan Nehra, president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said that due to the rains, there were fewer protestors at the spot. They were expecting that more than 6,000 farmers on Sunday but hardly 1,000 turned up. “Our plan to move to Delhi failed but we will try to move ahead on late Sunday night as farmers from nearby areas are gathering at the Kheda border. We are trying to figure out how to cross the stretch,” he said. Read more| Gehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in JaipurRashid Ahmed, a protestor from Nuh, said, “Rajasthan Police allowed us to cross but Haryana Police refused. Many farmers have been camping since December 12 and are not doing well. However, they are not willing to return home either.” The community leaders have requested the police to let them cross the stretch peacefully and have tried to pacify the protestors. Farmers complain of lack of facilitiesMeanwhile, the farmers, who have been protesting at the border since December 12, have alleged that there is no running water and no toilets for them at the protest sites in Haryana and Rajasthan. They alleged that they are being compelled to use either agricultural fields or the nearest fuel stations to relieve themselves. While bathing and drinking water have not been a major concerns for most of them, using toilets has been an issue for them. Water trolleys have been arranged by the villagers but there are no arrangements for toilets. Krishan Kumar, one of the protestors, said that they are travelling to the nearby petrol pumps to use toilets. “We have been cleaning the areas on our own and making sure of water and other facilities. The authorities should provide the basic facilities for us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-in-rewari-break-barricades-police-use-tear-gas-to-stop-them/story-KYfA1atCWS1PlF3ejIUISO.html
03-01-2021||India||PM Modi dials Sourav Ganguly; angioplasty likely for 2 more arteries for BCCI chief||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday afternoon called up former India cricket captain and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly to inquire about his health following the coronary angioplasty he underwent on Saturday. People aware of the details said that Modi told Ganguly that if required the former captain would be flown abroad by the Centre. Several political leaders, including Keshav Prasad Maurya, deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, who is in Bengal to campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), also visited Ganguly at Woodlands Hospital. Ganguly, 48, was stable and had breakfast and lunch, said doctors. He underwent coronary angioplasty at 3.00 pm on Saturday at Woodlands where he was detected with three blocked arteries. The percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCS) and stenting in the right coronary artery was done through radial route. Revasculation to the left anterior descending artery and obtuse marginal artery will be done later. Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO, Woodlands, told the media that although by-pass surgery is an option in cases where patients have three blocked arteries, the doctors are most likely to go for angioplasty. The doctors will take a final call on Monday. Eminent heart surgeon Dr Devi Shetty has been requested by Ganguly’s family to guide the team of doctors with his opinion. The authorities said there is a history of heart disease in Ganguly’s family. Ganguly, recognized as one of the finest captains Team India has had, was working out at the gym in his home when he felt unwell and dizzy around 11 am on Saturday.Dr Basu said in a statement on Saturday midnight that Ganguly arrived at the emergency department around 1 pm. He had discomfort in the chest and had vomited while working out. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, a number of cabinet ministers rushed to the hospital on Saturday. BJP leaders also inquired about Ganguly’s health. Union home minister Amit Shah told state BJP leaders that the Centre would make available all facilities required for Ganguly’s treatment. Ganguly is the most prominent public figure whose name has been doing the rounds in political circles of Bengal as the BJP’s probable chief ministerial face for the crucial assembly polls due in a few months. Ganguly, however, brushed aside the speculation although he never categorically ruled out the possibility of joining politics. The speculations were fanned by the fact that Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah is the secretary of the BCCI. On Sunday, former minster and senior CPI(M) leader Asok Bhattacharya and TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy alleged that Ganguly fell ill because of the pressure BJP leaders were putting on him. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya brushed aside the allegations. “This is baseless. Dada is loved by all. Let us pray for his early recovery,” said Ghosh. Ganguly has been the BCCI president since October 2019. His elder brother Snehasish was also a first-class cricketer and is now an administrator at the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-dials-sourav-ganguly-angioplasty-likely-for-2-more-arteries-for-bcci-chief/story-kOY64AN90D6VkJQhu7Q1DP.html
03-01-2021||India||Gen Rawat reviews India’s military preparedness for second day in border areas of Arunachal Pradesh||At the end of his two-day visit to various forwards posts near the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on Sunday said he was satisfied with the “high morale and motivation” of the armed forces personnel who will ensure “certain victory if challenged or given the opportunity”, according to the Army. Gen Rawat’s visit to key locations in the frontier state came amid the nearly eight-month-long Sino-India border standoff in eastern Ladakh. “CDS complimented soldiers for adopting innovative measures for surveillance through locally developed technology & the defence preparedness to face any challenge,” the Army said in a tweet. “CDS said that he was satisfied by the high morale and motivation of all ranks who will ensure certain victory if challenged or given the opportunity,” it added. The Chief of Defence Staff visited several key installations including “forward most air maintained” posts in Dibang Valley, Lohit sector and Subansiri valley since his arrival in the state on Saturday morning, according to the Army. On Sunday, Gen Rawat interacted with personnel of the Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) deployed along the Subansiri valley, it said. Sources said Gen Rawat reviewed the overall preparedness of the armed forces in key forward bases and asked them to remain vigilant. The Army and the Indian Air Force have been maintaining a high state of operational readiness along the nearly 3,500-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in view of the eastern Ladakh standoff. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are deployed in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the faceoff that began in early May. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. Gen Rawat arrived in the Dinjan air force station in Assam’s Chabua on Friday afternoon and travelled to Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday on a two-day visit. His visit to Arunachal Pradesh coincided with his completion of one year as India’s first CDS, a post which was created to bring in convergence in functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force in dealing with national security challenges. A key mandate of the CDS was also to facilitate restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through establishment of theatre commands. In the last one year, Gen Rawat along with the top brass of the three services carried out ground work to establish an air defence command and a Peninsula command initially. The IAF will helm the air defence command and all long-range missiles as well as air defence assets will come under it. The CDS has been part of the top military brass framing strategies to enhance India’s military prowess in view of the eastern Ladakh standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-rawat-reviews-india-s-military-preparedness-for-second-day-in-border-areas-of-arunachal-pradesh/story-ckWlMBkmpKb2SscsePpQ2H.html
03-01-2021||India||Will burn copies of new farm laws on Lohri: Farmer leaders||Farmer leaders protesting at Delhi’s Singhu border on Sunday said they will celebrate the festival of Lohri on January 13 by burning copies of newly introduced agriculture laws. They also said they will observe the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23 as ‘Azad Hind Kisan Diwas’ “We will celebrate the Lohri festival on January 13 by burning the copies of farm laws,” farmers’ leader Manjeet Singh Rai said. Rai also urged people to hold protests in support of farmers across India from January 6 to 20. Lohri is mostly celebrated in north India, marking the beginning of the spring season. Bonfires are a special characteristic of the festival Another farmers’ leader Onkar Singh said, “Today is the 37th day of our protest. The government should leave its stubbornness. In these conditions, the farmers, including elders, have been sitting on protest, but the government is not concerned about it.” Braving the cold, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the three farm laws. The farmers’ leaders said they are ready for Monday’s meeting with the government. The next round of talks between the government and protesting farmer unions is scheduled to be held on January 4, Monday. On Friday last, the unions had announced that they would have to take firm steps if the meeting fails to resolve the deadlock. “As the temperature is decreasing, we have tried to arrange the waterproof tents. We are also trying to arrange the blankets and warm water. Arrangements for 1,000 women have been made near the KFC with a tent and the mattresses,” farmers’ leader Harmeet Singh Kadian said. The protesting farmer unions on Saturday had said they will take out a tractor parade towards Delhi on January 26, when the country will celebrate Republic Day if their demands are not met. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be in the national capital on January 26 as the chief guest at the Republic Day parade, which will be held at Rajpath. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said the success of Monday’s talks depends entirely on the repeal of three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-burn-copies-of-new-farm-laws-on-lohri-farmer-leaders/story-iKc3gReS1b3d2PM0ySkVlO.html
03-01-2021||India||Jagannath temple reopens for all devotees||Lord Jagannath Temple in Puri reopened for all devotees on Sunday after remaining closed for nine months due to the pandemic even as Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal preferred to have darshan of the deities from outside for not having the mandatory Covid-19 negative report for entry into the shrine.The governor, along with his family members and some staff, had to return to the state capital after having darshan of “Patitapaban” (the symbolic image of lord Jagannath seen from outside the temple) as they did not have the Covid-19 negative report, a senior official accompanying Lal told PTI.Though there was no restriction on the entry of the governor, who was welcomed by the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) and Puri district administration, Lal volunteered not to go inside on his own after he came to know that all the devotees have to submit their Covid-19 negative report before entering the temple, a senior official said.The governor said: “I came here to pay obeisance to the Lord. We prayed for the wellbeing of all the people of Odisha seeking the almighty’s blessings for 2021.” The 12th century shrine started its reopening process in a phased manner from December 23. The servitors and their family members were allowed to enter the temple from December 23 till December 25, followed by local residents of Puri in the second phase from December 26 to December 31 evening.The temple remained closed on January 1 and 2 and reopened for all devotees from across the country from Sunday.About 17,000 devotees visited the temple on Sunday after producing Covid-19 negative reports done within 96 hours and adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines.The SJTA and the Puri district administration has implemented a number of guidelines for the devotees asking them to mandatorily wear face mask, sanitise hands, maintain physical distance at all times, not to touch statues or idols inside the temple.This apart, it also prohibited devotees from carrying any offerings like flowers/earthern lamp inside the temple.There will be big containers placed at the entrance, where such items can be dropped if being carried by the devotees, it said.The devotees also cannot take mahaprasad (bhog) inside Ananda Bazar and temple premises while chewing of tobacco/paan and spitting inside temple premises is strictly prohibited.The devotees enter the temple through a queue system and are required to produce their photo ID card like Aadhaar/Voter ID. They have to leave their belongings at the designated place outside the temple. The devotees will enter into the shine through Lions Gate and exit through the north gate.Meanwhile, the administration in Bhubaneswar allowed the residents of the Capital city to enter Shree Lingaraj Shrine by adhering to the Covid-19 protocol.Many temples in the state capital and in other parts of the state also reopened for devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-reopens-for-all-devotees/story-gSwhZ3xRT423SFqbKFqcTN.html
03-01-2021||India||Indian tricolour to be installed at UN Security Council stakeout as country begins 2-year tenure||India’s flag will be installed at the United Nations Security Council stakeout on Monday as the country begins its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN body.Flags of the five new incoming non-permanent members will be installed at the stakeout during a special ceremony on January 4, the first official working day of 2021.India’s Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador T S Tirumurti will install the tricolour and is expected to make brief remarks at the ceremony.Along with India, the incoming UNSC members are Norway, Kenya, Ireland and Mexico. They will join non-permanent members Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia and Vietnam and the five permanent members China, France, Russia, the UK and the US.India will be the UNSC President in August 2021 and will preside over the Council again for a month in 2022. The presidency of the Council is held by each of the members in turn for one month, following the English alphabetical order of the member states names.The tradition of the flag installation ceremony was introduced by Kazakhstan in 2018.“Like the changing of the guards, it is the changing of flags from outgoing to the new elected members. This solemn ceremony serves the purpose of affirming and respecting the new members with the recognition they deserve,” Kazakhstan’s former Permanent Representative to the UN Kairat Umarov had said during the 2019 ceremony.The ceremony was unanimously confirmed by all 15 UNSC members to become an annual tradition of the Security Council, Umarov had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-tricolour-to-be-installed-at-un-security-council-stakeout-as-country-begins-2-year-tenure/story-KVessfhemDIC6Izr8y5tFN.html
03-01-2021||India||After Gram Panchayats, Karnataka BJP preps for Taluk and Zilla Panchayat polls||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that after its ‘spectacular performance’ in the recently held Gram Panchayat polls, the party would focus on winning a majority in the Taluk and Zilla Panchayat polls to be held shortly. Yediyurappa was speaking at the BJP’s special two-day core committee and executive committee meeting held at his native district of Shivamogga.The BJP leader also said the party would focus on winning the by-polls to Maski and Basva Kalyan assembly seats plus the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency, the elections to which are likely to be held shortly. Promising to bring the BJP back to power with ‘140 to 150 seats’ in the next assembly polls due in 2023, Yediyurappa said to do that he would undertake a statewide tour to strengthen the party.As a part of its outreach to the electorate starting January 11, the CM and other party leaders will hold ‘Jan Sevak’ conventions across all the districts in the state. Yediyurappa will kickstart this programme from Mysuru in which the party would convey the work being done by the Centre and the state government to the electorate. Union home minister Amit Shah will participate in a ‘Jan Sevak’ event to be held in Bengaluru on January 16 or 17.BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh speaking to the media during the event said that there was no question of a change in leadership in the state. In light of speculation that the 77-year-old Yediyurappa maybe replaced as CM, Singh said that there was no such plan. He also deflected a question on cabinet expansion and reshuffle saying that it was the prerogative of the CM. Yediyurappa has visited Delhi several times seeking permission from the party high command for cabinet expansion.Earlier, Karnataka BJP unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel praised the CM for passing an anti-cow slaughter ordinance and said that in the next session a bill against ‘love-jihad’ would also be passed. Union ministers Prahalad Joshi and D V Sadananada Gowda also took part in the deliberations. Gowda who briefly took ill while coming back from Shivamogga to Bengaluru and was rushed to a hospital. He later tweeted saying that he was well and that it was just a case of low-sugar. He is likely to be discharged from the hospital on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-gram-panchayats-karnataka-bjp-preps-for-taluk-and-zilla-panchayat-polls/story-yFKHm765BSF7OXcdLY58LM.html
03-01-2021||India||IAF choppers, NDRF teams try to extinguish wildfire in Nagaland’s Dzukou Range||Indian Air Force choppers, NDRF teams, forest and police personnel on Sunday tried to extinguish the wildfire in the Dzukou range in Nagaland’s Kohima district, officials said.The fire broke out in the Dzukou range in Southern Angami region of the district on Tuesday afternoon. The scenic Dzukou valley, a tourist hot spot in Nagaland, is located in the Dzukou range.The District Forest Officer (DFO), Kohima, Rajkumar M said IAF choppers have dropped 24,000 litres of water to extinguish the wildfire in 12 sorties.He said that ground operations to extinguish the fire were carried out by Nagaland Police, Forest, NDRF, SDRF and SAYO volunteers on Sunday.The DFO said the fire is under control as reported by the pilots and the teams are trying to prevent it from spreading to the Dzukou valley.SDO (Civil) Jakhama, SDPO South and Range Forest Officer, Kohima are coordinating the ground operations to extinguish the fire, he said.To maintain seamless communication with the ground operation team, Kohima Police has set up a control room at Dzukou entry point at Viswema village and two relay stations also set up in the Dzuku base camp, he said.The DFO said that Kohima Forest Division and SAYO volunteers had already cut a 5 km fire line on December 31 while another 2 km fire line was cut by SAYO volunteers on January 1. This was done to prevent the fire to spread to the Dzukou valley, he said, adding that they were assisted by Kohima Police and State Disaster Response Force.Meanwhile, the president of Southern Angami Youth Organisation (SAYO) Zakieletuo Tsukru claimed that around 10 square kilometre of Dzukou range has been razed by the wildfire.SAYO volunteers along with personnel of Kohima Forest Division, Police and Fire and Emergency Services have been engaged in fighting the fire in an effort to contain its spread since day one, he said.Briefing reporters at Viswema Village, Tsukru said that as per the latest communication from the volunteers who are up there at Dzukou valley the fire which was in the Southern range till Saturday is slowly spreading down towards the western side of the valley.The SAYO president said: “We detected the fire at Dzukou halfway during the afternoon hours on December 29. It was reported that some people have trespassed into the Dzukou valley from Kezotsa after which the wildfire was reported, as reported by the caretakers of the valley”.“On receiving the information, we dispatched SAYO volunteers to intercept those trekkers while 21 of them were initially reported to be spotted by the villagers. However, the volunteers could not intercept anyone,” he said.“Our suspicion is that the trekkers have fled towards the Kezotsa in Manipur side,” he said.The SAYO president also urged upon the people visiting the valley to be more careful and follow all necessary instructions printed in the tickets issued by the SAYO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-choppers-ndrf-teams-try-to-extinguish-wildfire-in-nagaland-s-dzukou-range/story-eAA78V7V59AROtHhc7vM9I.html
03-01-2021||India||Logistics to remain at core of next stage of fight against Covid-19: Experts||The domestic logistics sector is expected to continue at the core of the next stage of the battle against the virus in 2021 even as some easing in freight charges and container shortage, which hit the exports in the last quarter of the previous year, is also expected during the year, experts have said. India’s $215 billion logistics sector is one of the largest globally and has been growing at a CAGR of 10.5 per cent, according to a recent report.  The sector was a key player in the movement of essentials and medicines supplies during the nearly two-month long complete lockdown to curb spread of the pandemic last year. “For the logistics sector, the year (2020) has been a busy one! More so during the lockdown, when the sector emerged as the key player in prioritising the shipments of essentials and medical goods. As the vaccines get rolled out – hopefully in the next few months, logistics will again be at the core of the next stage of the battle against the virus in 2021,” DHL Express Senior Vice President and MD R S Subramanian said.  Logistics has a critical role in enabling the Indian economy to achieve its potential in the coming months, he said, adding the sector though depends on the creation of trade infrastructure needed to enable future growth. Globally, geopolitical changes and the need for resilience, triggered by the pandemic, open a window of opportunity for both small and large businesses in India, he stressed. Staying competitive and becoming a global sourcing base for a variety of sectors including auto, fashion, life sciences and food processing, among others, is an opportunity which needs to be harnessed, according to Subramanian. “This will give a big boost to the Indian economy and aid it to recover fast,” said Subramanian. He said there is a need for continued reforms to simplify the regulatory framework, digitalise and drive transparency and added that many policy moves by the government are in the pipeline, which should hopefully come into the play in 2021. It may be mentioned here that in the last Union Budget, the government had announced that it will come up with a National Logistics Policy with an aim to enhance productivity and competitiveness of manufacturers by reducing cost of logistics. The proposed policy talks about developing national and state master plans for multi-modal connectivity; formulation of an umbrella national logistics law; comprehensive standards for the sector; and developing IT applications to provide solutions that include track and trace for trucks. The logistics sector is highly fragmented and the government aims to reduce the logistics cost from the present 14 per cent of GDP (Gross Domestic Product) to less than 10 per cent by 2022. In the latest developments, the Commerce Ministry is said to have sought views of different departments on its proposed national logistics policy. “The year 2020 has seen us in uncharted waters. The Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a fundamental shift in the way we work, live and engage. Despite the immense challenges presented by the pandemic and lockdown, the logistics industry has been the lifeline of recovery,” said Rampraveen Swaminathan, MD and CEO, Mahindra Logistics. For most logistics players, including Mahindra Logistics Ltd (MLL), gearing up for the COVID vaccine supply chain is a key issue, he said. “At MLL, we are in the process of partnering across the ecosystem to help develop fit for purpose solutions across the value chain,” he said. Additionally, a strong chain of right technology infrastructure to support the vaccine data is being mapped across the supply chain, Swaminathamn added. “Going forward, we continue to see an increased level of service integration, higher growth in fulfilment logistics and increased adoption of multi-modal transportation for cost optimisation,” he said. According to him, digitisation of supply chain management with focus on newer technologies like block chain, AI, machine learning, IoT will remain a critical driver for value creation. “In 2021, we expect some easing in freight rate, which started soaring towards the end of September, with a slight slump and blank sailing on the back of Chinese golden week, but it may not come down in a hurry, “ said Soham Chokshi, CEO, and Co-Founder at logistics platform Shipsy. The last quarter of 2020 has been unprecedented with freight rates skyrocketing and container unavailability affecting the largest of exporters across the country, he said. “Freight rates were up 3 times to 8 times compared to the same period last year, with port congestions and delays putting further pressure on container availability,” he added.   Chokshi said he  also expects  shipping lines to significantly increase their capacity, with many having already ordered massive vessels, which should help ease container availability and overall freight rate. “Overall, we see the year 2021 to be faring much better than the second half of 2020,” Chokshi summed up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/logistics-to-remain-at-core-of-next-stage-of-fight-against-covid-19-experts/story-6Qt73q07rSTXRmVhIuXxYL.html
03-01-2021||India||As security forces tighten noose, Pak-based terror groups resort to cyber recruitment in J&K: Officials||Pakistan’s intelligence agency and terror groups are now carrying out recruitment in Jammu and Kashmir using applications in cyber and mobile space as direct physical interactions have become difficult due to the security forces’ hawk-eyed vigil, officials said on Sunday.Fake videos of alleged atrocities committed by the security forces and building a false narrative are now often used by the ISI handlers from Pakistan to whip up emotions among the new recruits, they said, citing intelligence reports and technical surveillance.Earlier, terrorist sympathisers used to establish physical contact with the prospective recruits to bring them into a terror group’s rank and files. However, after security agencies cracked down on such sympathisers, they changed their modus operandi.In 2020, over two dozen terror modules were busted by security agencies leading to the arrest of over 40 such sympathisers.Two surrendered terrorists, Tawar Waghey and Amir Ahmed Mir, who laid down their arms before 34 Rashtriya Rifles of the Army late last month, had given an insight into their joining of terror modules that showed that cyber recruitment was being carried out on a large scale.Both the terrorists had come in contact with a Pakistan-based handler via Facebook who indoctrinated them before handing them over to a recruiter code-named Khalid and Mohammed Abbas Sheikh.The two terrorists were provided training online using various links available on public platforms like YouTube and both of them had met their local contact only once in Shopian in south Kashmir, the officials said.This, according to the officials, is done to avoid exposure of sleeper cells created by Pakistan’s ISI within the valley. Security agencies have busted several modules following intelligence inputs provided by local residents.The two terrorists, after being recruited into The Resistance Front (TRF), which is believed to be a shadow outfit of banned terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba, were receiving orders as well as religious teachings from Pakistan-based Burhan Hamza.The officials said there were around 40 such cases where the recruitment was done and indoctrination carried out through social media, especially in south Kashmir. The new recruits were awaiting orders from across the border.Terror groups are definitely facing a shortage of arms and that is one of the reasons why Pakistan-based terror outfits are more focused on sending more arms and less manpower, the officials said.They gave an example of last month’s encounter on the outskirts of Jammu city where a valley-bound group of four terrorists was carrying 11 assault rifles and a huge quantity of ammunition.The death of a 22-year-old local terrorist Amir Siraj in north Kashmir late last month was yet another case of cyber recruitment, the officials said.A final year graduation student from Khawaja Gilgat in Sopore, Siraj was staying with his maternal uncle in Adipora in north Kashmir and would spend most of his afternoons playing football in the local ground.He went missing on the afternoon of June 24, 2020. Later, it was found that he had been recruited by terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed from across the border via social media, the officials said.The local terrorist had expressed his desire to surrender but was threatened by his accomplice that he and his family would be killed if he were to act on it, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-security-forces-tighten-noose-pak-based-terror-groups-resort-to-cyber-recruitment-in-j-k-officials/story-gGDHjmgvPDNq09PmGWqwCL.html
03-01-2021||India||SII to meet local demand for Oxford vaccine for next 2 months, before exporting||Serum Institute of India (SII), the local maker of the AstraZeneca/Oxford coronavirus vaccine, said on Sunday it intends to concentrate on meeting India’s own immediate demand in the next two months before exporting to other interested countries.Chief executive Adar Poonawalla said in an interview after the shot was approved for emergency use in the world’s second-most populous country, that exports might be possible after supplying the Indian government with an initial 100 million doses.The government just wants to ensure that “the most vulnerable people of the country get it first - I fully endorse and support that decision”, he said.SII is still waiting to strike a formal supply deal with the government, but is expected to do so in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-to-meet-local-demand-for-oxford-vaccine-for-next-2-months-before-exporting/story-awNJ6F2TzSXMtkDVI72akI.html
03-01-2021||India||Science, tech, innovation policy proposes developing benchmark for ‘ease of doing research’||Benchmarks for ‘ease of doing research’ will be developed to ensure adequate funds for research activities in India, increase accountability and make those less bureaucratic, according to the draft Science, Technology, Innovation Policy (STIP), 2020.It states that apart from the primary activity of doing research, researchers also have to spend a considerable amount of their time and resources on administrative activities related to projects.Journal paywalls, and lack of data and knowledge sharing further hampers their ability to freely and easily conduct research activities.“Benchmarks for ‘ease of doing research’ will be developed so that research activities are adequately funded, are less bureaucratic and accountability is in both directions, that is the donor and the receiver,” the policy states.“To reduce the administrative burden on the researchers, digital platforms. and e-governance will be used for grant management -- all activities from award, funding and utilisation of grants to measurement of research outputs,” it states.International best practices of grant management will also be explored, according to the document.Besides that, access and sharing of knowledge and resources will be improved through use of online platforms implementing open-data and open-access policy, and by enabling access to journals and databases, the draft states.It further states that there will be emphasis on connecting the invention and innovation ecosystems. “Weakness in the invention and innovation ecosystem will be identified to take research into the market and to the community. Both knowledge pull from the invention system as well as knowledge push from the innovation ecosystem are necessary to achieve the goal of a vibrant research and development ecosystem in India,” it adds.The Department of Science and Technology (DST), along with the Office of Principal Scientific Adviser, started the process of formulating STIP, 2020, last year. The policy was to be out by the end of the year, but has been delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic.The draft STIP has been uploaded by the DST on its website and has also invited suggestions, inputs and comments by January 25 for making changes in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/science-tech-innovation-policy-proposes-developing-benchmark-for-ease-of-doing-research/story-CD6ginB19TmrCceLKiJ5sN.html
03-01-2021||India||‘BJP systematically spreading rumours that JD(S) will join NDA,’ warns HD Kumaraswamy||Former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday warned the BJP to beware of JD(S), as he accused the ruling party of systematically spreading imaginary news about his party joining the NDA. In a series of tweets the JD(S) legislature party chief also accused the BJP of attempting to erode its party’s base by planting such rumours, and said the party “does not need BJP’s friendship.” “BJP has realised after the gram panchayat results that all its attempts to finish off the JD(S) have failed. This is the reason why BJP was trying to play the phoney drama of alliance. This is the reason why it is systematically spreading imaginary news about JD(S) joining NDA. This is absolutely false,” Kumaraswamy tweeted.Claiming that he shares a better bonding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi than many state BJP leaders do and has respect for Chief Minister Yediyurappa’s seniority, he said the intention of JD(S) was not to be an opposition party just for the sake of opposing.“If BJP indulges in a misinformation campaign, that bonding, respect and intent will get hampered. The BJP should beware about JD(S),” he added.Kumaraswamy’s attack came after he recently spoke about JD(S) having an “issue based understanding” with BJP, while dismissing talk about his party’s possible merger with the saffron party. “Many have tried to divide JD(S) after enacting a drama of friendship and it is BJP’s turn now,” he said. “Who from JD(S) had applied for an alliance with BJP? Who had proposed an alliance, for BJP national general secretary Arun Singh to reject it? He termed as a bundle of lies reports that JD(S) would join NDA and he would be made a union minister.By spreading such news, BJP was trying to poison the minds of JD(S) workers and supporters, he said. “BJP should understand that this is immoral politics,” he added.Recalling that his father H D Deve Gowda, while stepping down as Prime Minister in 1997, had rejected support from BJP’s tallest leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Kumaraswamy said he was not someone who desired a Ministerial post.The Deve Gowda led 13 party United Front coalition government tumbled after the Sitaram Kesri-led Congress withdrew support in 1997.“For now, no party needs anyone. We don’t need BJP’s friendship. We want the development of the state and our workers,” he said, adding that the results of gram panchayat elections has buoyed the prospects of JD(S) and organising the party was his only goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beware-of-jd-s-karnataka-cm-hd-kumaraswamy-warns-bjp/story-6JmjlrqOhMFD5ejPvhFEAN.html
03-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: DGCI gives permission to Bharat Biotech for manufacturing Covaxin and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DCGI gives licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture CovaxinThe Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture Covaxin, news agency ANI reported. Read MoreWon’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talksA day before the seventh round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre to resolve the deadlock over farm laws enacted in September last year, a union leader said that it was time that the government lets go of its “stubbornness”. Read MorePM Modi condoles Muradnagar roof collapse incident in UP; says government engaged in relief and rescue workPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the roof collapse incident in Uttar Pradesh Muradnagar was “unfortunate” and expressed his condolences. Twenty one people have been killed in the incident. Read More‘Bharat Biotech vaccine may have some advantages...’: ICMR chief on Covaxin, mutant strainThe director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava on Sunday said that the Bharat Biotech vaccine may have some advantages over other vaccines on the new mutant strain first detected in the UK, which has already infected 29 patients in India. Read MoreHere’s how much battery OLED iPhone 12 saves in Dark Mode as compared to iPhone 11If you are a tech enthusiast, you probably know that OLED screen on a smartphone or any device for that matter saves more battery as compared to LCD screens. That’s because OLEDs can illuminate or turn off each pixel, which LCDs just can’t. Read More5 major attractions of Ranthambore, from the Royal Bengal Tiger to Princess Padmavati’s sati siteSituated about 130 km from Jaipur, Ranthambore National Park is located in the Sawai Madhopur district of southeastern Rajasthan which is rich in heritage and wildlife. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: No request to shift venues; fourth Test in Brisbane on as of now - ReportDespite there being a shadow of doubt over it, the latest developement suggests the India vs Australia fourth Test match at the Gabba in Brisbane is slated to go on as per schedule. Read MoreRam Prasad Ki Tehrvi movie review: A slice-of-life tale that is relatable, well performedIn a scene from Ram Prasad Ki Tehrvi (RPKT), the family members are discussing if they should keep the prayer meet of the departed soul on the first day of the year or not, because after all who’d like to start the year on a sad note. Read MoreCovid vaccine: Impotency fear to ‘premature’ approval, Opposition slams govtOn the day that the Drug Controller General of India announced the approval of two vaccines for Covid-19, a war of words between the government and the Opposition intensified. Congress leaders also raised questions after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dgci-gives-permission-to-bharat-biotech-for-manufacturing-covaxin-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iXCnsJ0BxToFlWuim30K6I.html
03-01-2021||India||Union minister Sadananda Gowda collapses due to low blood sugar, hospitalised||Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda collapsed due to low blood sugar in Chitradurga while on his way to the city from Shivamogga on Sunday and has been admitted to a hospital here, official sources said.Gowda (67) is currently stable and is undergoing further tests and treatment at a private hospital.The Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers was brought to Aster CMI hospital at 4:45 pm on Sunday.His condition is stable and will be kept under observation for the next 24 hours, the hospital’s spokesperson said in a statement.“He is stable, blood and other parameters are normal.There is nothing to worry. We will keep him under observation for 24 hours. The cause of the giddiness was due to low sugar level,” Dr Brinda, physician at the hospital, told reporters.Gowda in a tweet said his health was stable.“Due to low sugar I was a bit tired. I’m fine now. All parameters,including Echo, ECG are normal. I thank all those who wished for my good health,” he tweeted. The minister was first admitted to a hospital in Chitradurga and later shifted by an ambulance through zero traffic management, to a private hospital here. Zero traffic management is a privilege that allows convoys of VVIPs to pass through roads where movement of other vehicles is temporarily halted. The minister was on his way to Bengaluru from Shivamogga after attending a state BJP meeting. He collapsed after greeting party workers and leaders in Chitradurga, where he had a stop over for lunch at a hotel this afternoon, sources said. Gowda, a former chief minister of Karnataka, was immediately rushed to the Basaveshwara Medical College and Hospital in Chitradurga. After treatment there, he recovered and spoke to BJP leaders and family members over phone. He was subsequently shifted to the hospital in Bengaluru. Gowda’s son Karthik told reporters “low blood sugar led to it. He is fine now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-sadananda-gowda-collapses-due-to-low-blood-sugar-hospitalised/story-KeewwRiGfJCdfp1vWB4nAI.html
03-01-2021||India||To keep farmers’ spirit alive, women kabadi tournament goes on despite rains at Singhu border||The Singhu border on the outskirts of Delhi, which has been a protest site for farmers for over a month, turned into a kabaddi ground for a women’s tournament on Sunday with rains not dampening the spirit. A total of 12 women teams participated in the tournament, which started around 11 am. Sukhwinder Singh (55), joint Secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab, who hails from Tarn Taran district of Punjab, said the women themselves came forward to participate in the tournament. “Teams from different states have come forward and asked us that they want to organise a kabaddi tournament. We have planned different activities for each day to keep people engaged at Singhu border,” he said. The winning team will get Rs 2,100 and the runner up Rs 1,100. The prize has been announced by people who have donated the amount, Sukhwinder said. On Sunday morning, heavy rains lashed parts of the national capital leading to waterlogging at various places and also affecting the protest sites. However, the tournament was not affected by the rains. Jagbir Singh from Jind district of Haryana and head coach at the tournament said the majority of players are college students. “The teams from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have participated in the tournament. We all have come here to support the farmers. The tournament will be concluded today only. There are also some national and international players,” he said. The farmers, who have been camping at the site, cheered for the players as the tournament was on. “I have played at the state as well the national level from Delhi. The match was good though we could not win it and made to another round. My family was very supportive and they allowed me play the match here,” Ritika Dalal, one of the players, said. The matches were being played on the temporary turf. Narender Kumar, a kabaddi coach from Rohatk, said that he received a message regarding the tournament on WhatsApp. “I received a message on WhatsApp yesterday regarding the matches. It was mentioned that the only girls will play, following which I took my team of 10 girls, including my twin daughters, and reached here this morning. It is a knockout tournament and you have to win each and every match. My team lost by two points but they performed really well,” Kumar said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Delhi’s neighbouring states Punjab and Haryana, have stayed put at the national capital’s border points since late November to protest against the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-keep-farmers-spirit-alive-women-kabadi-tournament-goes-on-despite-rains-at-singhu-border/story-Snw4Oglgcx3aAGwRTCI5tM.html
03-01-2021||India||DCGI gives licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture Covaxin||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture Covaxin, news agency ANI reported. Bharat Biotech has been asked to submit updated safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data from the ongoing Phase I, II and Ill clinical trials till the completion of trials, it further said. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gives licensing permission to Bharat Biotech to manufacture COVAXIN. Bharat Biotech asked to submit updated safety, efficacy & immunogenicity data from the ongoing Phase I, II & Ill clinical trials till the completion of trials. pic.twitter.com/dsFSJPoIybThe DCGI gave final approval to two Covid-19 vaccines on Sunday, paving the way for a huge inoculation program to stem the pandemic in the second worst-hit country. Lauding the development, All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria said, “It is a great day for the country and a good way to start the new year.” He also said that indigenously developed Covaxin - one of the two vaccines approved - can be used as backup.The DCGI gave approval for the emergency use of two Covid-19 vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).The nod marks the first vaccine approvals for India, which after the United States, has recorded the most infections of the coronavirus disease.The DCGI granted the approval on the basis of recommendations of a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media on Sunday.Both of the vaccines are two-dose regimen and need 2-8 degrees Celsius storing temperature which make them more cost-effective in comparison to the other vaccine being developed by the US-based pharma giant Pfizer with its German partner BioNTech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-gives-licensing-permission-to-bharat-biotech-to-manufacture-covaxin/story-40VI4eC3sicJ2fH263TFsK.html
03-01-2021||India||Wild elephant rescued from a well 2 days ago dies in Kerala||The wild elephant which was rescued from a deep well after a 12-hour long operation two days ago in Anakampoil in north Kerala died on Sunday, forest officials said. After it was saved from the 50-foot deep well, it remained in the area for two days unable to move to the nearby forest. Later small crackers were burst and high beam lights flashed to force it to move to the forest but it remained in the fringe areas.. Forest officials said they tried their best to save the animal which reportedly suffered internal injuries and severe dehydration. They said the exact cause of death will be known after the post-mortem. Local people said the 12-year-old tusker might have been trapped in the unused well for more than three days. The pachyderm was noticed by local people on Thursday evening and a rescue operation was started the next day. It was taken out on Friday night after breaking the well and building a parallel pathway. “It is really sad it died. Local people, animal lovers and a combined team of forest and revenue officials really toiled to save it. But our joy is short-lived,” said a senior official of the forest department. Local people said elephants used to frequent the area quite often posing a big threat to human habitat and fencing of the area had just started after repeated protests. At least, 40 families relocated from the area after continuous raid by wild animals but when they left, their wells remained unattended. The official said some animals need big tracts of land to roam around and feed and farms in fringe areas draw them to it, leading to frequent human-animal conflicts. According to statistics with the forest department, 24 people have died in elephant attacks last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wild-elephant-rescued-from-a-well-2-days-ago-dies-in-kerala/story-cgl3gBFTu0XXK54qrLFzSO.html
03-01-2021||India||Muradnagar roof collapse: How it happened||A roof collapsed at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar on Sunday trapping dozens of people who has gathered there to attend the last rites of a local who died on Saturday. Twenty one people have so far been killed, the rescuers said, adding that 20 others are injured. Those injured are receiving treatment at local hospitals.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about the incident and extended condolences to the families of the victims. “The unfortunate incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar has given me great sorrow. The state government is engaged in relief and rescue work. I express my condolences to the relatives of those who lost their lives in this accident, as well as with the injured to get well soon,” he wrote on Twitter.BJP MP VK Singh, MLA Ajit Pal Tyagi and Uttar Pradesh minister Atul Garg visited the spot and met the families of victims.Here is how it happened:The people were attending the funeral of a local when it started raining. Subsequently, they went under a structure to take shelter when the roof collapsed.Most of the people who were present at the ground were relatives of the deceased person.The number of injured could rise further, the rescuers said. Some people, who managed to escape, were taken away from the site by their relatives.A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is at the spot.Expressing grief over the tragedy, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each person killed.The chief minister has also asked Meerut’s Divisional Commissioner and Additional Director General of the police zone to submit a report on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muradnagar-roof-collapse-how-it-happened/story-efKaKM35VRouhMvRU9cV6I.html
03-01-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to Sourav Ganguly, wishes him speedy recovery||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to former India captain and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president,Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty after reporting chest discomfort. PM Modi inquired about Ganguly’s health and wished him a speedy recovery. The Prime Minister also spoke to Ganguly’s wife Dona.Ganguly, 48, was stable and had a light dinner hours after undergoing coronary angioplasty at 3 pm on Saturday at a Woodlands Hospital in Kolkata, where the doctors detected three blocked coronary arteries.The authorities at the hospital said that around midnight percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCS) and stenting in his right coronary artery was done through the radial route.Revasculation to the left anterior descending artery and obtuse marginal artery will be done later. Doctors will decide on Monday how to treat these. The authorities said there is a history of heart disease in Ganguly’s family.Ganguly, recognised as India’s one of the finest captains, was working out at the gym in his home when he felt unwell and dizzy around 11 am.Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO, Woodlands, said in a statement on Saturday midnight that Ganguly arrived at the emergency department around 1 pm. He had discomfort in the chest and had vomited while working out.The ECG report showed acute inferolateral wall myocardial infarction and echocardiography pointed at mild inferior wall hypokinesia. Ganguly tested negative for Covid-19.He is being treated by Dr Saroj Mandal, Dr Soutik Panda and Dr Saptarshi Basu. The doctors decided to restrict the entry of visitors from Sunday so that Ganguly may have some rest.Ganguly has been the BCCI president since October 2019. His elder brother Snehasish was also a first-class cricketer and is now an administrator at the Cricket Association of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-sourav-ganguly-wishes-him-speedy-recovery/story-IueSJm7IV9CaKi4EqZBoCL.html
03-01-2021||India||Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talks||A day before the seventh round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre to resolve the deadlock over farm laws enacted in September last year, a union leader said that it was time that the government lets go of its “stubbornness” as the farmers have been agitating at Delhi borders for 37 days now. “Today is the 37th day, the government should leave its stubbornness. We won’t go back till laws are taken back. It’s disappointing that farmers are losing their lives. So many farmers are braving the cold yet the government is not taking it seriously,” Onkar Singh demonstrating at the national capital’s Singhu border told news agency ANI. Farmers’ agitation has been on despite continuous downpour which has led to water-logging. Waterproof tents did not help much, they said. “We will demand repealing 3 farm laws in our meeting tomorrow with govt... It’s been raining, so we’re trying to get waterproof tents although they’re not upto govt standard. We’re trying to arrange blankets and warm water for women & elderly,” Harmeet Singh Kadian, one of the farmers’ leaders said. Veerpal Singh, a protesting farmer, said their blankets, clothes and wood are soaked. “Our clothes are soaked due to water-logging caused by rains. Besides, we are facing difficulties to cook food as rain water has also soaked firewood. We do have an LPG cylinder but not everyone here has it,” he said.Another leader Manjeet Singh Rai said they will Lohri on January 13 by burning the copies of farm laws. “We’ll celebrate Kisan Diwas on 23rd Jan, on the occasion of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose birth anniversary,” he further told ANI. The farm union leaders will meet government representatives for the seventh time on Monday to discuss their two main demands, legal assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and complete rollback of the three farm laws. During the previous round of talks a consensus was reached on issues related to the environment and Electricity Act.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - for more than a month. The chilling weather in Delhi has failed to deter the farmers from calling off the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-go-back-till-laws-are-repealed-say-farmers-before-7th-round-of-talks/story-uAumX2nffClvkNIsA3f9bJ.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Bharat Biotech vaccine may have some advantages...’: ICMR chief on Covaxin, mutant strain||The director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava on Sunday said that the Bharat Biotech vaccine may have some advantages over other vaccines on the new mutant strain first detected in the UK, which has already infected 29 patients in India. His observations came amid politicians from several opposition parties raising doubts over the efficacy of Covaxin, which got approval for restricted emergency use in India. ICMR has collaborated with Bharat Biotech to develop this vaccine. Pune’s National Institute of Virology is another partner of this indigenous vaccine project.  ICMR and @BharatBiotech collaborative a Whole Virion Inactivated Corona Virus Vaccine (#COVAXIN) is being approved for restricted use in emergency by DCGI. @MoHFW_INDIA @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/wDhAfdfdC3The NIV has also successfully isolated and cultured the UK-variant of the virus, first in the world, as ICMR said on Saturday.“NIV scientists have successfully isolated the new virus strain and this will be tested against different vaccines. We hope potentially Bharat Biotech vaccine will have some advantages over other vaccines on this new strain,,” Dr Bhargava said. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can be used as backup, says AIIMS Director Dr Randeep GuleriaThe third phase trial of the Bharat Biotech vaccine is going on. There is no data on its efficacy percentage so far, which is why the vaccine is facing so many questions. But the apex drug controller body has said that the vaccine has been found effective in its non-human and human trials so far. Though it has been approved for emergency use, its trial will continue.But what makes experts think that Covaxin might be more effective than Oxford’s Covishield to combat the new strain? Covaxin is a whole virion inactivated Covid-19 vaccine while Oxford vaccine works differently — it produces surface spike protein priming the immune system to attack the SARS-CoV-2 virus if it later infects the body.AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria too has said that Bharat Biotech vaccine will be a back-up or for emergency use where the effectiveness of the Oxford vaccine is not certain.“We don’t know for how long a vaccine is going to be effective, we don’t know how much of the population we will have to vaccinate to break the virus transmission. What we know is that we have been able to control the pandemic in the country by following Covid appropriate behaviour,” Bhargava told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-vaccine-may-have-some-advantages-icmr-chief-on-covaxin-mutant-strain/story-wPtilHX022GmdfxF4tSxaM.html
03-01-2021||India||Free bus service for farmers who want to join protests at Ghazipur-UP border||Farmers and their family members intending to join protest at Ghazipur border will get free bus service from Bazpur area in US Nagar district of Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region. The buses will ferry farmers twice a week.Ajit Pratap Singh Randhawa, a social activist and a prominent farmer of Nawabganj Parsel village, in Bazpur, said, “We have started free bus service which will run twice a week on Monday and Thursday for elderly farmers and women intending to join farmer protest at Ghazipur-UP border. Bus service will be available for those who feel uncomfortable travelling on tractor trolleys.”Bazpur has a significant population of farmers. Farmers of the area are enthusiastically participating in farmers’ agitation against the farm laws since the beginning of the agitation. Around 1,500 unnamed farmers have already been booked by Uttarakhand police for allegedly defying police deployment during the Delhi march held on December 25.Now, the farmers of the area have started free bus service, especially for elderly farmers and women, indenting to join the agitation at the Ghazipur border.Randhawa said, “Farmers of the area are leaving for Delhi in tractor trolleys or their vehicles. Those farmers and women who can’t travel by tractor trolleys or don’t have their means of transport will be allowed to join agitation through this bus service.”Also read: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can be used as backup, says AIIMS DirectorHe said, as far as the financial aspect is concerned, 60-70 gurudwara management committees exist in Bazpur. They have assured us of financial support to manage bus ferries. A ferry to Bazpur costs around Rs 14,000. Some of the financially sound farmers of the area have also assured us to pay individually for bus ferries, he said.Randhawa said, “Bus will leave with 52 passengers at 9 am and it will return the next day. If the bus doesn’t find sufficient elderly farmers and women then other farmers will be given chance but they will have to register their names at the gurudwara management committee in Bazpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-bus-service-for-farmers-who-want-to-join-protests-at-ghazipur-up-border/story-sI8Hp6UBp8c0xxQzUAGOsJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Bull trainers gear up for Jallikattu as Pongal approaches||As the festival of Pongal approaches, bull trainers in Madurai have started to gear up for Jallikattu, the traditional but highly controversial bull-taming sport for which tamers spend months raising bulls.After the Tamil Nadu government granted permission to hold the sport with certain restrictions last week, the event is set to be held in Madurai and surrounding villages from January 15 to 17.One of the most popular sites for the sport is the Alanganallur village in Madurai which often receives tourists from all over the world. The process of registration for the bull will begin 10 days in advance, with medical check-up for both the bulls and Jallikattu cattle players. Bulls are trained through an intensive process called ‘mann kuthal’, where bulls develop their skills by digging their horns in the wet earth.Bull trainer Nivathan and his family have been raising five Jallikattu bulls, especially for the festival. “I take the bulls out to train twice a day, one in the morning, and one in the evening. The festival will be held next week,” Nivathan said. As per the government’s directive, the number of players cannot be more than 150 at an event and Covid-19 negative certificates have been made mandatory for players. The number of spectators has also been restricted to 50 per cent of the gathering.The Supreme Court (SC) in 2014 had banned Jallikattu after a plea was filed by the Animal Welfare Board of India and the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). The state government, however, insisted that Jallikattu was a crucial part of the state’s culture and identity. The ban was later lifted in January 2017 with an amendment to the law after massive protests in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bull-trainers-gear-up-for-jallikattu-as-pongal-approaches/story-S59Ql8iYaBlIUAsD5sdIAJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Prasar Bharati’s digital channels grow 100% in 2020; Pakistan second highest audience||Digital channels of Prasar Bharati have registered more than 100 per cent growth in 2020, with Pakistan being the second highest digital audience for Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio (AIR), the government said on Sunday. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said the channels across Doordarshan and Akashvani clocked over a billion digital views and over six billion digital watch minutes in the year. “Interestingly during 2020, Pakistan accounted for the second highest digital audience for DD and AIR content after domestic audience from within India, with the United States close behind,” the ministry said in a statement. It said during 2020, Prasar Bharati’s mobile application ‘NewsOnAir’ added more than 2.5 million users with the platform registering over 300 million views. Live Radio streaming broadcasting over 200 streams emerged as the most popular feature, it said. “Besides DD National and DD News, the other channels in the top 20 digital channels of Prasar Bharati are Marathi News from DD Sahyadri, Kannada programming on DD Chandana, Bangla News from DD Bangla and Telugu programming on DD Saptagiri. “While DD Sports and Akashvani Sports have created a steady digital following with live commentary, Prasar Bharati Archives and DD Kisan have been steady digital performers featuring in top 10,” the statement said. Underscoring the substantial digital audience for news from the Northeast, the ministry said Northeast service of All India Radio (AIR) News was also in the top 10, and incidentally crossed the 1,00,000 subscribers’ digital milestone. “Amongst the most popular digital videos during 2020 are Prime Minister’s interactions with school students, Republic Day parade 2020 and a rare video of Shankuntala Devi from DD National archives, circa 1970s,” the statement said. A dedicated Prasar Bharati YouTube channel for all Sanskrit language content was launched in 2020, wherein all Radio and TV content being produced in Sanskrit language across DD-AIR nationwide network are uploaded for easy access to viewers, it said. The ministry said almost 1,500 Radio plays in different Indian languages are available across DD-AIR Network, which are being digitised and uploaded on its YouTube channels. “Dedicated Mann Ki Baat and Twitter handle have seen rapid growth in 2020, with Mann Ki Baat updates Twitter handle now having more than 67,000 followers. The YouTube channel has regional language versions of different episodes of Mann Ki Baat,” the statement said. It said, “Thousands of hours of educational content is now available on our YouTube channels in different Indian languages.” The ministry said rare archival content of great historical value, available only with DD-AIR, is being digitsed and uploaded on Prasar Bharati Archives YouTube channel. “In public interest, a dedicated team is working to dig out such musical, cultural, political content from thousands of tapes recorded over many decades in various stations of DD and AIR across the country so that the content is available in public domain with easy access to all for academic and research purposes,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-s-digital-channels-grow-100-in-2020-pakistan-second-highest-audience/story-iDUJSjql2D7zG9OBoWJsIL.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Disgraceful’: Health minister Vardhan slams Akhilesh Yadav, Tharoor over Covid-19 vaccine ‘doubts’||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday slammed Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh for doubting the approval given to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine while its third phase trial is going on and said it was disgraceful for anyone to politicise a critical issue.“Disgraceful for anyone to politicise such a critical issue. Shashi Tharoor, Akhilesh Yadav and Jairam Ramesh-don’t try to discredit well laid out science-backed protocols followed for approving Covid-19 vaccines,” Vardhan tweeted.Yadav has questioned India’s Covid-19 vaccines and said he won’t take “BJP’s vaccine”. Before the Drug Control General of India (DCGI) gave the go-ahead to Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use of their vaccines on Sunday, Ramesh on Twitter claimed that though Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, internationally accepted protocols relating to phase three trials are being modified for Covaxin.Tharoor too said that the approval to Bharat Biotech was premature. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. @drharshvardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” he tweeted.The DCGI gave approval for the emergency use of two Covid-19 vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).The DCGI granted the approval on the basis of recommendations of a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disgraceful-health-minister-vardhan-slams-akhilesh-yadav-tharoor-over-covid-19-vaccine-doubts/story-QS0LUws9baneuN2WiVatHJ.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Roles are being written with me in mind’||Actor Jameel Khan feels awards and recognition brings a lot of responsibility along. “It’s a fact with appreciation comes great responsibility and you have to live up to high expectations. When the first season of our web series was well received, we knew that with the next season we will have to raise the bar. Lockdown turned out to be a boon for us, as it did give us plenty of time to diligently work on even tiniest details and aspects of ‘Gullak-2’,” said ‘Baby’ and ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’ actor. On being asked why second seasons of shows and films have underperformed of late, he was quick to revert. “See, one should not try and bring unnecessary elements and characters. Also, there is no need to add stunts and tricks just to grab eyeballs. This spoils the sanity of the script for any project. And as far as our series is concerned we have not added any unnecessary angle to the script,” said Jameel. Talking more about his work, Jameel who is in Lucknow for the shoot of his upcoming feature film, said, ‘I’m grateful to God that, after nearly two decades in the industry, I have reached a position where roles are being written with me in mind. And, I’m no more filling character spaces in films or shows. Currently, I’m busy wrapping movies ‘14 Phere,’ ‘Pagglait’ and ‘Helmet’ along with an untitled web series. So, work is happening at its pace and I’m hopeful that I am moving in the right direction. For now, I am keeping my fingers crossed. ” The UPite is happy to be in Lucknow during winters. “I love strolling in winters here — ‘Maza aa jata hai...’ Though I’m not visiting my favourite places due to the ongoing pandemic but for me just being in Lucknow brings a smile on my face.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/roles-are-being-written-with-me-in-mind/story-C4RURJSIboUQmNqot3JL1M.html
03-01-2021||India||‘I’m not ready for small & average roles’||Actor Mukesh Rishi’s personality has fetched him characters in films like ‘Ghayal’, ‘Gardish’ and ‘Garv’. The versatile actor is happy that since last few years, realistic roles are being written for every character including villains. “Earlier, there were certain kind physical attributes required for heroes and negative characters. But now, well-etched roles with different shades are being written. OTT projects have taken it a step ahead,” said the ‘Sarfarosh’ actor. Mukesh recently shot for Mahrukh Mirza’s OTT series ‘Tawaif’ in Lucknow. Being in the industry for almost three decades, Mukesh has been doing less number of Hindi films since last few years. “Yes, it’s true as I’m not ready for small and average roles. If a character artiste accepts too many small roles his career dies a slow death. Since, I have been part of Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam and Punjabi films so I’m in a position to pick-up work of my choice. When I am playing main villain opposite superstars Chiranjeevi down South then why do I need to play a side-kick in any Hindi film?” On his digital experience he says, “OTT process is very similar to films. While, on TV it’s very different in terms of shooting, working hours and creativity, which I experienced while, shooting for the show ‘Prithvi Vallabh’.” Mukesh is producing a film ‘Nidar’ for his son Raghav Rishi which has been penned by Mahrukh Mirza. “It marks his debut in Punjabi film industry. He has done a Hindi film ‘The Great Indian Escape’ which was based on 1971 war and was played widely at Air Force stations. A part of ‘Nidar’ was shot before lockdown and it will restart from March. I’m playing role of his father.” On his love for Punjabi industry he says, “I am from Jammu but I studied in Chandigarh in sports quota. My love for cricket, body-building and martial arts later helped me in modelling and then acting. I keep doing Punjabi films and love wearing turban. I feel blessed that I’m part of ‘Nanak Naam Jahaz Hai’ which is a modern take of the yesteryear film. I’m playing the role that was essayed by legendary Prithvi Raj Kapoor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-m-not-ready-for-small-average-roles/story-SaCoY4g2VsMyZcbvhNbe9L.html
03-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine to be taken 28 days apart, antibodies will develop 2 weeks after last dose: AIIMS Director||As India gears up for the world’s largest vaccination programme, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare addressed apprehensions expressed by the public regarding the Covid-19 vaccine’s effectiveness, safety and availability, among others. In a video issued by the Health Ministry, Dr Randeep Guleria, Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) answered commonly asked questions regarding the dosage of the vaccine saying that two doses of the vaccine will have to be taken 28 days apart and protective levels of antibodies generally would develop two weeks after the second dose. He further informed that after all doses of the vaccine are administered, a QR-code based certificate will also be sent to the mobile number of the beneficiary and recommended that after vaccination, patients should take rest for at least 30 minutes.“If you feel any symptoms, any discomfort, please contact the nearest authorities like ANM, ASHA workers so that they can attend to the problem,” Dr Guleria said, urging people to continue following Covid appropriate behaviours including wearing of masks and social distancing.The AIIMS Director also cautioned that the different Covid-19 vaccines are not interchangeable, and people should complete their entire schedule of vaccination by one type. Regarding vaccination of persons who actively had Covid-19, he recommended that they defer vaccination for at least 14 days after symptoms are resolved. “We do not know how effective the vaccine will be when one is already having active infection so for this reason, I believe that active and symptomatic individuals should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after symptoms are resolved,” he said, adding that they may increase the risk of spreading the infection to others at the vaccination site. He further said that those who had recovered should also receive the complete schedule of the Covid-19 vaccine to help in a better immune response against the disease. “It is very important that individuals who have one or more comorbid conditions like cancer, diabetes, hypertension, etc, take the vaccine because they are actually high-risk groups. Their medicines will not interfere with the vaccine efficacy,” he added. He also said that some degree of common side effects like mild fever, pain at the side, body aches, will likely be seen in some individuals. “States have been asked to start making arrangements to deal with any Covid-19 related side effects,” Guleria added. Responding to a question, “Will the Covid-19 vaccine be given to everyone simultaneously?” Dr Guleria said that it would depend on its availability and the government had selected priority groups who will be vaccinated based on risk factors. “The first group will include healthcare and frontline workers, followed by persons over the age of 50 and persons under 50 with comorbidities. This will be done to avoid any inconvenience in registration and vaccination of beneficiaries,” he said. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile numbers regarding the Health Facility where the vaccine will be provided and the scheduled time. He advised that although taking the vaccine was voluntary, people should take the complete vaccine to protect themselves and near and dear ones. Dr Guleria further addressed apprehensions about the safety of the vaccine considering that it was tested and introduced in a short span of time, saying, “Safety is the most important factor and all standard precautions have been followed in the past for the approval of the vaccine,” adding that the vaccine in India would be as effective as those developed by other countries. Registration of beneficiaries would be mandatory for vaccination.Documents required for registration of a beneficiary include driving license, Health Insurance Smart Card issued under the scheme of the Ministry of Labour, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) Job Card, Official identity cards issued by MPs/MLAs/MLCs, PAN card, Passbooks issued by Banks/Post Office, Passport, Pension documents, Service ID cards issued by the Central or State government and public limited companies or Voter ID cards. The document used for registration will have to be produced at the time of vaccination. “Following online registration, beneficiaries will receive SMS on their registered mobile number on the due date, place and time of vaccination,” Dr Guleria said, adding that after the completion of the vaccine, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on their registered mobile number. Regarding India’s capabilities to transport and store the Covid-19 vaccines at the appropriate temperatures, he said that the programme mechanisms are being strengthened and geared up to cater to the county’s population. Earlier today, the Covid-19 vaccines of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech were granted permission for restricted use in an emergency situation, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) said.“After adequate examination, Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation and permission is being granted to M/s Cadila Healthcare for conduct of the Phase III clinical trial,” said VG Somani, DCGI, during a media briefing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-to-be-taken-28-days-apart-antibodies-will-develop-2-weeks-after-last-dose-aiims-director/story-gBqoaQF0TQqcWY5IKiGjeJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Snowfall leads to suspension of flights at Srinagar airport||Moderate snowfall across the Kashmir Valley led to suspension of flight operations at the Srinagar airport on Sunday, officials said.The air traffic control did not allow flights to operate due to the bad weather as it continued to snow throughout the day. The visibility was also poor.A blanket of snow covered Kashmir on Sunday as most areas received moderate snowfall, cutting the valley’s surface as well as air connection with the rest of the country. Snowfall began early in the morning and continued intermittently throughout the day.Officials said resumption of flight operations at the airport on Monday would depend on the weather.The weather department has predicted moderate to heavy snowfall in the Valley for two days from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-leads-to-suspension-of-flights-at-srinagar-airport/story-cur7BmLjQyJAj55iZb8L2K.html
03-01-2021||India||Hours after murder of Odisha BJP leader, party alleges BJD resorting to retributive politics||Hours after a 67-year-old BJP leader was murdered in Salepur area of Cuttack district in Odisha, the party alleged that the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) has started retributive politics like the Trinamool Congress in neighbouring West Bengal. The BJP leader was murdered along with his 71-year-old associate by six miscreants over past enmity.On Saturday evening, Kulamani Baral, 67, and in-charge of Salepur mandal of BJP and former chairman of Mahanga panchayat Samiti was hacked to death along with his 71-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral near Jankoti village while coming home on a motorcycle. The duo received grievous injuries on their face and chest. While Kulamani succumbed to the death on the spot, Dibyasingh died while undergoing treatment at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack on Sunday morning.Angry over the twin murders, the BJP said that the ruling BJD had started eliminating rivals in a cold-blooded manner like Mamata Banerjee was doing in Bengal.“Anyone who raises voice against Mamata is being killed in Bengal. Likewise, BJD leaders in Odisha are doing the same to its political rivals. As a senior BJP leader, Baral was raising his voice in corruption in Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Nrutanga gram panchayat for quite some time. After he alleged that the well-to-do BJD leaders in the panchayat were appropriating the PMAY houses meant for poor people, the local administration had lodged cases against the ineligible beneficiaries. Those BJD leaders harboured a grudge against him for a long time,” alleged Golak Mohapatra, BJP state spokesperson.Also read: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can be used as backup, says AIIMS DirectorUnion petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan also condemned the alleged murder of Baral and his associate and urged the administration to take exemplary action against the culprits. Expressing deep anguish over the incident, BJP national vice president Baijayant Panda said that stringent action should be taken against those involved in the incident after probe. Odisha Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said, “Kulamani was a strong leader. His death shows that political killings have now begun in the state. I request the government to take stringent action against the accused.”Son of Kulamani, who lodged an FIR against 12 persons, said his father was raising voice against corruption in several government schemes such as PMAY. “My father had already informed the police about the threat to his life. Yet no action was taken,” said Ramakant Baral, son of Kulamani. The husband of a local sarpach and a former chairman of panchayat samiti have been named in the FIR.He also alleged that several persons against whom he lodged an FIR today were behind the murder of Bikash Jena, a local BJP leader in the Jankoti village in December 2018. “Had the police taken action against those accused, then my father would not have been killed. These accused are protected by law minister and Mahanga MLA Pratap Jena,” said Ramakant.However, law minister Pratap Jena said that he would see to it that those who killed the BJP leader get punished. “There is no place for violence in politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-after-murder-of-odisha-bjp-leader-party-alleges-bjd-resorting-to-retributive-politics/story-soQVLORmCFNv1rKaoneH3M.html
03-01-2021||India||Muradnagar mishap: President Kovind extends condolences||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday extended his condolences to the families of those who died as the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar collapsed.“Incident of a roof collapse at the crematorium in Muradnagar, Ghaziabad is very sad. My condolences to the family of the deceased. I pray that those hurt in this accident get well soon. Local administration is working for relief and assistance,”President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted.Seventeen people were killed when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar collapsed on Sunday, news agency ANI reported.“17 people have died so far while 38 people have been rescued after a shed collapsed in Muradnagar. We’ve started a probe and we’ll take strict action against those found guilty,” Anita C Meshram, Divisional Commissioner, Meerut told ANI.According to HT’s sister publication Livehindustan, over 40 people were initially trapped in the debris. The police and administration team arrived at the spot on receiving information and rescued the people, who were then admitted to Ghaziabad District Hospital.Around 100 people were attending the funeral procession of a local resident of Dayanand Colony, who died on Saturday, when the roof collapsed and hardly anyone got a chance to escape, according to Livehindustan. While a few got trapped in the rubble, some managed to save their lives by running.The building structure at the cremation ground was not very old and it is feared that the incident took place because the building was constructed in an area where frequent water-logging takes place. Due to heavy rain, the soil moved and thr mishap took place, according to Livehindustan.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has condoled the death of people in the incident. He has instructed officials to provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the dependents of the deceased in this accident. He has also instructed the Mandalayukta, Meerut and ADG, Meerut Zone to submit a report regarding the incident.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muradnagar-mishap-president-kovind-extends-condolences/story-mFu8TuoUfGeKQIyDfXdpZM.html
03-01-2021||India||PM Modi condoles Muradnagar roof collapse incident in UP; says government engaged in relief and rescue work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the roof collapse incident in Uttar Pradesh Muradnagar was “unfortunate” and expressed his condolences. Twenty one people have been killed in the incident, the police said.The unfortunate incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar has given me great sorrow. The state government is engaged in relief and rescue work. I express my condolences to the relatives of those who lost their lives in this accident, as well as wish the injured to get well soon,” PM Modi tweeted. उत्तर प्रदेश के मुरादनगर में हुए दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण हादसे की खबर से अत्यंत दुख पहुंचा है। राज्य सरकार राहत और बचाव कार्य में तत्परता से जुटी है। इस दुर्घटना में जान गंवाने वालों के परिजनों के प्रति संवेदना प्रकट करता हूं, साथ ही घायलों के शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करता हूं।The roof collapsed when several people had taken shelter at the structure while it rained. Most of them were relatives of a local resident of Dayanand Colony, who died on Saturday. He was being cremated at that time.Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported that many people did not get a chance to escape.Rescue workers sifted through the rubble for hours to ensure that people were not trapped there.A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was also sent to the spot in Muradnagar’s Ukhlarsi village.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives. He also announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each person killed, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-muradnagar-roof-collapse-incident-in-up-says-government-engaged-in-relief-and-rescue-work/story-oN66wWODz4tL1sVyFoGe2J.html
03-01-2021||India||Covishield and Covaxin: What’s next after Drug Controller’s approval?||In what is being hailed as a major landmark for both Make-in-India initiative and India’s continuous fight against Covid-19, the Drug Controller General of India on Sunday approved both Covishield and Covaxin for restricted emergency use. This approval means both these vaccines can be administered under several terms and conditions. So, here’s what will happen next.Government will procure, send to states, vaccination will beginDr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS director, has hoped that vaccination will begin soon now that DCGI has given its final nod to two vaccines. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said vaccination in the state will take place around Makar Sankranti which is on January 14. So now, the Centre will procure the vaccines and will send to states according to their requirement. It does not take long to start vaccination after a regulator gives the nod to a vaccine candidate. In this case, both vaccines are manufactured in India. So it will not take long to start vaccination.Oxford vaccine primary, Bharat Biotech back-upWith two vaccines on the same footing, the next obvious question is whether the government will administer both the vaccines and if that happens, then how will it be decided that who gets which vaccine. Dr Guleria has said that as of now Oxford vaccine, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, will be used as the primary vaccine, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be a back-up option. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine will be used in an emergency situation if there is a sudden increase in cases or in certain cases where Oxford vaccine’s efficacy is uncertain, Dr Guleria said.Covishield vs Covaxin against Covid-19: All you need to knowWhat about Pfizer vaccinePfizer vaccine, which was the first official vaccine to get a go-ahead in the world, had applied for regulatory approval in India on December 4. But reports said it did not turn up for the deliberation and has sought some more time. This vaccine did not have any trial run in India.Is Co-WIN app for Covid-19 vaccine launched? How to download, registerCadila vaccine next in lineAnother indigenous vaccine is next on the line as Ahmedabad’s Zydus Cadila has received approval from the DCGI on Sunday to initiate phase three clinical trials of ZyCoV-D. ZyCoV-D was found to be safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic in phase I and II clinical trialsTrials of Covaxin and Covishield will continueThe Drug Controller General of India on Sunday said the ongoing trials of both Covishield and Covaxin will continue.In the first phase of vaccination, healthcare workers will be administered the vaccine free. All arrangements have been tested by states during the dry run. Details of many of the beneficiaries have already been registered with Co-WIN app. In the second phase, frontline workers will be vaccinated and in the third phase people above 50 years of age and people below 50 with co-morbidity issues will be inoculated. Getting vaccinated will be voluntary, though the health ministry has advised that one needs to complete the entire course of two doses which will be administered 28 days apart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-and-covaxin-what-s-next-after-drug-controller-s-approval/story-op2j5k7YXfUWCDEAZx9pjN.html
03-01-2021||India||Bihar health dept seeks police aid to locate missing UK returnees to check new Covid-19 strain||The Bihar health department has sought police help to track down some “missing” returnees from the United Kingdom to test them for the new strain of coronavirus. The decision to seek police help was taken after state health officials could not trace 45 passengers, who could not be reached on the contact numbers and addresses provided through the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA). In some cases, they had left their destinations and either returned or travelled to other locations, said health officials. The ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) had sent a list of 226 passengers, along with their mobile numbers, who reached the state between November 21 and December 21. Of the total incoming passengers, 101 of the 181 passengers traced till December 30 had tested negative for the virus, according to Khalid Arshad, administrative officer of the State Health Society, Bihar (SHSB). Around 97 passengers are from Patna, five from Rohtas, seven from Aurangabad, three from Buxar and one from Kaimur among others. Of the 17 passengers, who went to Gaya, two could not be located, while one had left for Sweden, two to Jamshedpur and one to Ranchi. Ten others had tested negative and one test report was pending, said Dr KK Rai, Gaya’s civil surgeon. “We have intimated the Jharkhand government about the UK returnees in Jamshedpur and Ranchi. We have requested Gaya’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) to help us locate two others in the district who are not responding to our phone calls,” said Dr Rai. Nineteen of the 97 UK returnees to Patna are untraceable, while 25 others were reported to be out of Bihar. Samples of 19 out of the 53 collected had tested negative till Saturday, while others are pending, said officials. “Our officials found it difficult to trace some passengers who had moved from the address provided to us, prompting us to seek police help to locate them so that we can collect their swab samples for real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a confirmatory test for Covid-19. We are writing to Patna’s SSP about it,” said Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, Patna’s civil surgeon. Patna’s SSP Upendra Sharma, however, said he was not aware about any such list. “The list has not reached me as yet; it may be in transit. We were initially helping (the health officials) in contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. If required, we will try and help locate the UK returnees,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-health-dept-seeks-police-aid-to-locate-missing-uk-returnees-to-check-new-covid-19-strain/story-2XJFO0gX0BqYUTRJ2YLU7M.html
03-01-2021||India||Seventh round of talks between farmers, govt on Monday; both sides hopeful of positive outcome||The protesting farmers and the government will hold the next round of talks on Monday to try and find a solution to end the stir which has been going on for more than a month. This will be the seventh round of talks between the two sides.Six rounds of talks have so far failed to end the deadlock, with the farmers sticking to their demand for repeal of the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. While a consensus was reached at the last round of talks on issues related to the environment and Electricity Act, the deadlock continued on the two main demands, legal assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and complete rollback of the three farm laws. The farmers launched their protest at three Delhi border points - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - on November 26, and have since then braved water cannons, cold wave and now rain. The continuous downpour led to water-logging at agitation venues on Sunday and waterproof tents did not help much, according to the protesters.“The situation is very bad at protest sites due to rain which has caused water-logging. There is so much cold after the rains, but the government is not able to see our misery,” farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, a member of Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, said.Gurwinder Singh, who is camping at Singhu border, said that the weather will not dampen the spirit of farmers who have been protesting for over a month.“Despite facing several problems, we will not move from here until our demands are met,” he said.Chilla and Ghazipur, two important border points near Delhi, remained closed due to the protests on Sunday. “Traffic Alert The Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” the Delhi Traffic Police wrote on Twitter.“We are living on the streets in such harsh weather conditions away from our family. We’re hopeful that the government will accept our demands tomorrow,” a protesting farmer at the Ghazipur border told news agency ANI.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a press conference on Saturday where its leaders threatened to march to Delhi on January 26 with their tractors, trolleys and other vehicles if their demands are not met.The opposition parties, including Congress, are supporting the farmers’ agitation. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday urged the Narendra Modi government to follow the “raj dharma” by repealing the farm laws.“There is still time for the Modi government to renounce its arrogance of power and immediately withdraw all three black laws unconditionally and end the agitation of the farmers who are dying in cold and rain. This can be raj dharma and a true tribute to the farmers who passed away,” Sonia Gandhi said in a statement.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi compared the ongoing farmers’ stir with the Champaran agitation during the British rule, and said every farmer-labourer part of the current movement is a ‘satyagrahi’ and they will take their rights back.Meanwhile, Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary expressed hope that a solution will be found at the discussions tomorrow and the farmers’ agitation may end. “We are talking to farmers who are protesting. We are hopeful that there will be a positive result out of talks which will be held tomorrow. We hope that their issues will be resolved in discussions tomorrow and protest too may end tomorrow,” Chaudhary was quoted as saying by ANI.The government has presented these laws as major agriculture sector reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations will leave them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.The three contentious farm laws are: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seventh-round-of-talks-between-farmers-govt-on-monday-both-sides-hopeful-of-positive-outcome/story-4g6fDElDiBr5wO9NN15UTO.html
03-01-2021||India||MP government orders closure of Covid centres; Congress questions logic||The Madhya Pradesh government has ordered closure of all Covid care centres in the state, except those in Bhopal, from January 1 in view of the low occupancy of beds, as per an official order made available on Sunday.This decision evoked a sharp reaction from the opposition Congress, with its state unit president Kamal Nath questioning the rationale behind the order.Defending the decision, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the pandemic is under control in the state and there is no justification to keep the Covid care centres open “just for the sake of keeping them open”.As per the state government order dated December 31, 2020 and directed to district collectors and health authorities, a policy decision has been taken to shut the Covid Care centres from the first day of New Year due to low occupancy of beds.These centres were set up across the state for lodging Covid-19 patients.The order also stated that in the case of rise of infected patients, health authorities can reopen these centres with prior permission of the state government.Meanwhile, Nath tweeted: “Deaths due to coronavirus continuing in the state. The statistics of infection is increasing daily. Even the assembly session was cancelled due to fear of coronavirus and the Shivraj government closed all Covid care centres in the state except Bhopal?” Hitting back, CM Chouhan said, if required, these Covid care centres will be opened again.“Does Kamal Nath want Covid centres to remain open always? The Covid-19 situation is fully under control in the state. Arrangements are already in place for providing adequate treatment (to patients). Home isolation is also provided.“If needed, these Covid care centres will be opened again, but there is no justification to keep them open for the sake of keeping them open,” Chouhan said in a statement.As on January 2, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in Madhya Pradesh stood at 2,43,302 including 3,627 fatalities, as per health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-government-orders-closure-of-covid-centres-congress-questions-logic/story-w7LkIjKTYahJPzhfO9qkmI.html
03-01-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline to the nation on Tuesday via video conferencing.The event will mark an important milestone towards the creation of ‘one nation, one gas grid’, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement on Sunday.The 450-km-long pipeline has been built by Gail (India) Ltd. It has transportation capacity of 12 million metric standard cubic metres per day and will carry natural gas from the liquefied natural gas (LNG) regasification terminal in Kochi to Mangaluru, passing through Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts, the PMO noted. The total cost of the project was about Rs 3,000 crore and its construction created over 12 lakh man-days of employment. The pipeline will supply environment friendly and affordable fuel in the form of piped natural gas (PNG) to households and compressed natural gas (CNG) to the transportation sector. It will also supply natural gas to commercial and industrial units across the districts along the pipeline, the statement said, adding that the consumption of cleaner fuel will help in improving air quality by curbing air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline-on-tuesday/story-uAaCamBq36W7kZYz2NRQCM.html
03-01-2021||India||DMK will waive education loans if voted to power: MK Stalin||The DMK would waive education loans taken by students for higher studies if the party comes to power after the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, which are to be held in April-May. The DMK president and Leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly M K Stalin made this statement on Sunday while addressing a gathering at V Mettupalayam village in Erode west constituency where a people’s grama sabha meeting was held. He alleged that the present AIADMK government is corrupt and that all the Ministers found guilty of it would be taken to task. The DMK leader further said unemployment problem has been increasing in the state and the standard of education declining. Also, he alleged that were misappropriation in granting of 100-day work for the rural people, which would be set right once the DMK forms the government in the state. He said he would ask the Central government to make it a 150-day work and daily wages may be given. Earlier, he garlanded a portrait of freedom fighter Veera Pandiya Kattabomman on his 262nd birth anniversary at a party office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-will-waive-education-loans-if-voted-to-power-mk-stalin/story-AA372kpHqSKIQdjhMS76XO.html
03-01-2021||India||‘More they oppose, more they are exposed’: Nadda hits out at Congress over Covid-19 vaccine ‘doubts’||BJP national president JP Nadda on Sunday slammed the Congress party in a series of tweets over its leaders raising doubts on the approval granted to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while its third phase trial is still underway.“Time and again we have seen whenever India achieves something commendable - that will further public good - the Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccines,” he wrote on the microblogging site. Nadda accused the grand old party of spreading lies and politicising the issue and alleged that the Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. “To further their own failed politics and nefarious agendas, Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people’s previous lives and hard earned livelihoods,” he tweeted. In another post, the BJP chief wrote, “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the COVID-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas. People of India have been rejecting such politics and will keep doing so in the future.”Nadda hailed the contribution of scientists and innovators in developing a vaccine within a year of the Covid-19 pandemic striking India. “While the entire nation is happy about this, the Opposition led by the Congress is filled with anger, ridicule and disdain,” he said. His allegations came against the backdrop of Congress leader Jairam Ramesh’s claim that though Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, internationally accepted protocols relating to phase three trials are being modified for Covaxin. Meanwhile, Shashi Tharoor also said that the approval was premature and could be dangerous. Earlier in the day, Nadda had described DCGI’s approval for emergency use of two indigenous vaccines as a defining and historic moment for the country. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country has established a new dimension. Many congratulations to all scientists and doctors,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-they-oppose-more-they-are-exposed-nadda-hits-out-at-congress-over-covid-19-vaccine-doubts/story-qiSj3pjuhyAr5dlBixP58O.html
03-01-2021||India||Schools, colleges to reopen in Bihar from Monday; Govt issues safety guidelines||Educational institutions including schools, colleges, universities, coaching institutes will reopen in Bihar from Monday after a gap of over nine months since the outbreak of Covid pandemic.Slide in number of coronavirus cases and high recovery rate of 97.61 per cent in the state seem to have boosted the confidence to resume studies physically in the educational institutions.However, the classes will operate only at half the strength of the total students and other protocols of coronavirus have to be followed strictly, Education Department Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar told PTI on Sunday.As per the health departments bulletin, the state had till Saturday recorded 2,53,651 Covid-19 cases out of which 2,47,579 people have recovered from the contagion, thus taking its recovery rate to 97.61 per cent.The state has 4669 active cases with Covid-19 death toll mounting to 1403, the bulletin said.The state government has issued a list of Covid-19 safety guidelines for students and staff to follow in the schools, colleges and other education institutions resuming operation from Monday.Notably, the decision to reopen educational institutions including schools, both government and private, for class IX to XII from January 4, 2021 was taken at a meeting of Crisis Management Group (CMG) on December 18, 2020.The schools, which will open for class IX to XII, will be run with only 50 per cent strength in order to maintain social distancing in the classrooms besides wearing masks on the campus.“Wearing mask for all school students on the campus has been made mandatory without which they will not be allowed to enter the premises. Besides, classes from IX to XII will be run with 50 per cent strength in order to ensure that social distancing is maintained inside the classrooms.“This means only half the strength of a class will join physical session at a time,” Kumar said.Two masks each will be distributed among the school children, he said and added that teaching faculty will be made aware about the Covid-19 guidelines to be followed in the classroom.The institutes management will ensure and maintain cleanliness and sanitation on their campuses, Kumar said while adding that “school authorities will keep a tab on whether any student is suffering from fever or having any symptoms of the virus.” The medical examination of students will be conducted on “random” basis in government schools, the Principal Secretary said.The coaching centres will have to submit a plan on starting physical classes while maintaining social distancing inside the classrooms to the regional officer and seek prior permissions from him, sources said.The Bihar government had on March 13, 2020 announced the closure of all schools, colleges, coaching institutes, zoos and public parks till March 31 as a precautionary measure against coronavirus pandemic.The educational institutions remained closed since the state government enforced a statewide lockdown on March 22, 2020 followed by the centres nationwide lockdown announced on March 25, 2020.The educational centres remained closed following the rising numbers of Covid cases.Earlier, the state govenrment had announced to reopen schools from classes IX to XII from September 28, 2020 but due to rising Covid-19 cases the schools were remained shut.After reviewing the situation and obtaining proper feedback on how things went during the past 15 days, the government will take a call on resuming physical classes for the students of class VIII and below on January 18, the Principal Secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-to-reopen-in-bihar-from-monday-govt-issues-safety-guidelines/story-SysLozOb6PDvM2obDscXNJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Congress leaders raise concern over DCGI approval to indigenous Covid-19 vaccine||Some Congress leaders on Sunday raised serious concern over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine for restricted use, saying it is “premature” and can prove dangerous. However, there were different voices within the party as its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala lauded scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech for the indigenous vaccine. Leaders like Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor asked the health minister to explain why mandatory protocols and verification of data “had been dispensed with”, prompting a sharp retort from Union Minister Hardeep Puri who said the Congress leaders were behaving “true to their form” and were on a “quest for permanent political marginalisation”. Sharma, who heads the Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs which dealt with the issue at length, said the matter of granting authorisation for vaccine use needs to be taken up carefully as no country has dispensed with the mandatory phase 3 trials and verification of data. India’s drugs regulator DCGI on Sunday approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use.             As per submissions made before the expert panel, phase 3 trials have not been completed and therefore, the data on safety and efficacy has not been reviewed, which is a mandatory requirement, Sharma said referring to Covaxin. “The health ministry needs to give cogent reasons for dispensing with the mandatory protocols and requirements in this case, since it involves the health and safety of those frontline workers who will be vaccinated under the restricted category,” Sharma told PTI. “The restricted use emergency authorisation for the Bharat Biotech vaccine presently undergoing Phase 3 trials raises bonafide concerns. “Standard protocols and mandatory requirement of publication of data on safety and efficacy which is reviewed and verifiable is important for the integrity of the process,” he said. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said the approval is premature and Covaxin’s use should be avoided as it could be dangerous. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. Dr Harsh Vardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” he tweeted. Another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh asked Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to clarify why internationally-accepted protocols on phase 3 trials “are being modified”. “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should clarify,” he said on Twitter. However, Surjewala tweeted, “Kudos to our scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech on approval of the indigenously developed Corona vaccine and Serum Institute and its scientists too. India has always led the way in path-breaking innovations in the past and will continue to do the same. Great start for New Year.” Hitting out at the Congress leaders for their scepticism, Puri tweeted, “Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor and Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers and are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization.” Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav had on Saturday termed the anti-Covid vaccine to be rolled out in the country as a “vaccine of the BJP” and said he would not take the shot. On Sunday, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said the Covid-19 vaccination programme is a “sensitive process”, and the government should not treat it as a “cosmetic” event as it is a matter of lives. Sharma said the news of the imminent arrival and rollout of the nation-wide vaccination drive is “truly uplifting and reassuring” for a country paralysed by the pandemic and is a tribute to India’s scientists, researchers and institutions that have made India the largest vaccine manufacturer of the world. “The DCGI statement is puzzling and the government must reveal the final data of global efficacy trials and the final trials in the UK which has been shared officially by the UK’s MHRA (Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency) following a government-to-government agreement signed between the two countries. “This should be put in the public domain to avoid any confusion on the proven efficacy of the vaccine,” Sharma also said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). This paves the way for the roll-out of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days, while two more are in advanced stages of development. The issue was earlier dealt with by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs. The panel has recommended to the government that any vaccine against Covid-19 should be granted emergency use authorisation only after proper consideration and conducting its trials on sufficient sample size. In its report submitted on December 21 to Rajya Sabha chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, the committee noted that the CDSCO has given no emergency use authorisation in the past and suggested that all necessary and mandatory requirements must be duly fulfilled and all trial phases completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leaders-raise-concern-over-dcgi-approval-to-indigenous-covid-19-vaccine/story-WCPtMeZojBkcGslYQiXYuK.html
03-01-2021||India||Akhada Parishad divided over inclusion of ‘Kinnar Akhada’||Differences have emerged within Akhada Parishad over the inclusion of transgender or ‘Kinnar Akhada’ as the 14th unit in the apex body of the existing 13 Akhadas. The Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body of the 13 Akhadas, is divided on giving recognition to ‘Kinnar Akhada’ as the 14th Akhada and thereby allowing them the sacred Ganga dip during Shahi Snaan (Royal Bath) in Haridwar Mahakumbh. While Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri has termed ‘Kinnar Akahada’ along with ‘Pari Akhada’ and ‘Vishwa Akahada’ as fake and having no resemblance to official 13 Akhadas, a section within Akhada Parishad has stood in support of the Kinnar Akhada. Notably, in a recent meeting of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad held at Prayagraj, a resolution was passed regarding non-recognition of so-called Kinnar Akhada, Pari Akhada and Vishwa Adhyatm Akhada terming them as a fake Akhadas. Also read: 17 dead as roof of shelter at cremation ground in UP’s Muradnagar collapsesLed by general secretary of Akhada Parishad Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj, this pro-Kinnar Akhada has warned of giving resignation if the Parishad doesn’t give recognition to Kinnar Akhada before Haridwar Mahakumbh. “I will resign from Akhada Parishad as I have given them a written assurance of their inclusion in Shri Panchdash Nam Juna Akhada and thereby privileged right to take holy Ganga dip during Haridwar Mahakumbh. Kinnar Akhada also took bath along with Juna Akhada during Prayagraj Kumbh two years back and it’s apt for them to be recognised as an integral part of the Akhada Parishad,” said Hari Giri Maharaj. Opposing Kinnar Akhada inclusion, Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri said there are only 13 Akhadas and that is what will continue to be the case. “It is not apt to meddle with Akhada customs and age-old traditions. Whether it is Kinnar, Pari or Vishwa Adhyatm Akhada, they don’t have any Kumbh lineage, historic, religious, spiritual and mass acceptance. These are fake bodies and Akhada Parishad opposes any privilege, recognition or facilities for them during Haridwar Kumbh,” said Akhada Parishad chief Narendra Giri. Urging Akhada Parishad to change its rigid stance over non-recognition, Kinnar Akahada’s Mahamandaleshwar Lakshmi Narayan Tripathi said that they are also followers of Sanatan Dharma and will duly abide by Akhada norms and traditions. “Akhada Parishad should be progressive, flexible and futuristic in its view. We also hope Uttarakhand government will provide us with facilities and due land allocation during Mahakumbh as is done for other Akhadas,” said Kinnar Akhada’s Mahamandaleshwar Lakshmi Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhada-parishad-divided-over-inclusion-of-kinnar-akhada/story-soaupMdHzuOnsTIspFeBZO.html
03-01-2021||India||Hope farmers’ protest may end tomorrow, says Kailash Choudhary ahead of next round of talks||Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary on Sunday expressed hope that a solution will be found out of talks with farmer unions tomorrow and their agitation against three agriculture laws may end as well.Speaking to ANI, the minister accused the Congress and some other Opposition of adding fuel to fire in the agitation which has been going on for over a month at different borders of the national capital. “The Narendra Modi government takes the decision in the interest of farmers and stands with them in their problems. Rahul Gandhi is doing politics (on these laws) and is provoking farmers. Why does he forget that he did not go to meet Anna Hazare in 2011 during his government and the way he forced Baba Ramdev to run away from a protest site? These people are talking about justice and injustice. Narendra Modi government stands with farmers to resolve their issues,” Choudhary told ANI.“We are talking to farmers who are protesting. We are hopeful that there will be a positive result out of talks which will be held tomorrow. Seven round of talks were held in a peaceful atmosphere. Congress, AAP and Communists are adding fuel to fire. They will not succeed. We hope that their issues will be resolved in discussions tomorrow and protest too may end tomorrow,” he said.Attacking Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi who said over 50 farmers lost their lives due to the government’s “harsh attitude” towards the protests, Choudhary said: “In Congress manifesto, they said they will bring these laws once they come to power. We did the same. These laws give freedom to farmers.”Farmers have been agitating at the gates of the national capital since November 26 against the recently enacted three farm laws -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The next round of talks will take place on January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-farmers-protest-may-end-tomorrow-says-kailash-choudhary-ahead-of-next-round-of-talks/story-qfUJBxq1KdEVptiQ0zWPGP.html
03-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Akhilesh Yadav cautions Centre against treating Covid-19 vaccination drive like a ‘cosmetic event’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Akhilesh Yadav urges Centre to not treat vaccination programme like ‘cosmetic event’Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav said that the coronavirus vaccination programme was a sensitive process and the Centre should not treat it like a ‘sajaawati-dikhaawati’ (cosmetic) event. Read More‘True meaning of democracy is...’: Sonia Gandhi hits out at Centre over farmers’ protestCongress party president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and called for the repeal of three agricultural laws that have triggered widespread protests. Read More‘Never listened to his father’: MP home minister jabs Akhilesh Yadav for Covid-19 vaccine remarkMadhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra ha hit back at Samajwadi Party (SP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav for saying he would not get vaccinated.“We can’t even call him a misled youth..” Read MoreTesla opens world’s largest Supercharger station in China’s ShanghaiTesla is adding more and more electric vehicles to the roads and to support its ecosystem, the EV maker has also been quickly expanding its Supercharger network. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘Man born to lead cricket teams’, Ian Chappell lauds Rahane’s captaincy in Melbourne TestIndia’s stand-in skipper Ajinkya Rahane has been receiving accolades from fans and cricket pundits ever since India have thumped Australia under his leadership in Melbourne. He led the visitors to an eight-wicket victory in the Boxing Day Test, shrugging off the memories of Adelaide horror. Read MoreMira Rajput’s DIY routines for healthy skin and hair include only kitchen ingredientsIf there is one thing that most of us indulged in during the lockdown, it was self-care. Taking care of our skin, hair, working out and trying everything that made us happy and a better version of ourselves, we did it. Read MoreRhea Chakraborty, brother Showik go house hunting in Mumbai. See picsRhea Chakraborty was spotted out of her house, months after her release from jail. The actor and her brother Showik are looking for a new house in Mumbai and were spotted giving one a visit on Sunday. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-akhilesh-yadav-cautions-centre-against-treating-covid-19-vaccination-drive-like-a-cosmetic-event-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WEegWuIZWTB0hHzQ45EA6N.html
03-01-2021||India||Delhi records 424 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 7 months||Delhi on Sunday recorded 424 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lowest in over seven months, according to news agency PTI which quoted health authorities. The national capital has been recording less than 500 new Covid-19 cases for two days in a row now. While 708 people have recovered, as many as 14 deaths have been reported due to the disease in the last 24 hours, according to health authorities.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19On Saturday, Delhi recorded 494 new coronavirus cases. The capital has been recording a steady decline Covid-19 cases since the last week of December. In an order on Thursday, Delhi’s health minister Satyender Jain asked the number of beds dedicated for Covid treatment in the hospitals to be reduced in view of the plummeting cases of the disease. Orders have been issued to Delhi hospitals, to de-escalate the number of covid dedicated beds with immediate effect. This has been done in light of the decreasing cases of covid-19 in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/oao6EG3zshThe coronavirus positivity rate in Delhi has also dipped below one per cent to 0.62 per cent. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi currently stands at 6,26,872 with total recoveries amounting to 6,11,243, while active cases remain 5,044. India started off the new year with the drug controller of the country granting emergency use approval to Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and homegrown Covaxin of Bharat Biotech. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also expressed the pleasure on the restricted emergency use approval granted to the vaccines by the Drugs Controller General of India ( DGCI).Applauding the scientists and doctors for their hard work, Kejriwal said, “The approval of DCGI for the emergency use of two vaccines made in India will give a positive direction to India’s fight against Corona. Salute to the scientists and doctors whose hard work day and night has brought us here today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-424-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-7-months/story-gCYjQeS8EKY02i9nfr52HM.html
03-01-2021||India||NCW received 23,722 complaints in 2020, highest in six years||The National Commission for Women received 23,722 complaints of crimes committed against women in 2020, the highest in the last six years. Nearly one-fourth of the total complaints were of domestic violence, according to NCW data. Among states, the highest number of complaints were received from Uttar Pradesh at 11,872 followed by Delhi 2,635, Haryana 1,266 and Maharashtra 1,188, it added. Of the 23,722 complaints, 7,708 complaints were received under the right to live with dignity clause. The right to live with dignity clause takes into account the emotional abuse of women. According to the NCW data, a total of 5,294 complaints were related to domestic violence. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said economic insecurity, increased stress levels, anxiety, financial worry, and lack of other such emotional support from parents/family’s side may have resulted in domestic violence in many instances in 2020. “More so, home has become the workplace of both the spouses and as well as schools and colleges for their children. In such situations, women are multitasking being professional at the same time supporting their families from the same space. But the biggest challenge for women this year is not only to adapt but to thrive in this unprecedented situation,” she told PTI. The number of complaints received in 2020 have been the highest in six years. In 2014, a total of 33,906 complaints were received, according to the NCW data. The NCW was flooded with complaints of domestic violence in March as the lockdown, imposed in view of the coronavirus outbreak, forced women to remain confined to their homes with their abusers. The number of complaints of domestic violence went on increasing through the months and in July, a record number of 660 such complaints were received. Sharma underlined how domestic violence remained a serious concern for the commission through the year. “Victims of domestic violence are distanced from their regular support systems making it difficult for them to call out for help. The series of Covid-19 lockdowns in India reduced the opportunities of reporting of domestic violence cases,” she said. The NCW chairperson said the lockdown incapacitated women by preventing them from moving to safer places in cases of violence and abuse, reduced contact with the natal family which is usually the first point of contact for the victim. “The machinery under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act had not been identified as an essential service during the lockdown. Hence, protection officers and NGOs were not able to visit households of victims and police officers being at the frontline to tackle Covid-19 were overstretched to help victims effectively,” she said. After the right to live with dignity and domestic violence, the third highest number of complaints have been of harassment of married women or dowry harassment at 3.784 followed by that of molestation at 1,679. According to the data, 1,276 complaints of police apathy towards women and 704 complaints of cyber crime were received by the commission. As many as 1,234 complaints of rape and attempt to rape were received while 376 complaints of sexual harassment were received by the commission in 2020, the data showed. Sharma encouraged women to reach out to the NCW whenever they want. In 2021, she said the commission will continue to work with commitment to ensure justice and empowerment to even the last woman standing at periphery and will continue with its endeavours. Women rights activist Yogita Bhayana, who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), the high rate might also be because of high awareness among women to talk about such incidents and report them. “There has been an increase because there is also an increase in awareness because women are getting more proactive reporting it and talking about it. Earlier they used to suppress their grievances and the government is also spreading awareness and women get motivated by other women reporting it,” she said. “Because of social media the reporting of domestic violence has increased. Women have become more vocal and they have less tolerance which is very good,” Bhayana added. Another women rights activist Shamina Shafiq said the government needs to talk strongly about domestic violence. “Unfortunately a man feels it is his right to beat a woman and he enjoys the fact that I am the one in control of the life of another person. There should be writing on the wall that spousal violence is wrong,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncw-received-23-722-complaints-in-2020-highest-in-six-years/story-m2hDa1u7LXeX2rBlX6qsHM.html
03-01-2021||India||17 dead as roof of shelter at cremation ground in UP’s Muradnagar collapses||Seventeen people were killed when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar collapsed on Sunday, news agency ANI reported. “17 people have died so far while 38 people have been rescued after a shed collapsed in Muradnagar. We’ve started a probe and we’ll take strict action against those found guilty,” Anita C Meshram, Divisional Commissioner, Meerut told ANI.According to HT’s sister publication Livehindustan, over 40 people were initially trapped in the debris. The police and administration team arrived at the spot on receiving information and rescued the people, who were then admitted to Ghaziabad District Hospital. Around 100 people were attending the funeral procession of a local resident of Dayanand Colony, who died on Saturday, when the roof collapsed and hardly anyone got a chance to escape, according to Livehindustan. While a few got trapped in the rubble, some managed to save their lives by running. The building structure at the cremation ground was not very old and it is feared that the incident took place because the building was constructed in an area where frequent water-logging takes place. Due to heavy rain, the soil moved and thr mishap took place, according to Livehindustan. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has condoled the death of people in the incident. He has instructed officials to provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the dependents of the deceased in this accident. He has also instructed the Mandalayukta, Meerut and ADG, Meerut Zone to submit a report regarding the incident.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-dead-as-roof-of-shelter-at-cremation-ground-in-up-s-muradnagar-collapses/story-czC36ApQar4Dz2uJ6MNtZM.html
03-01-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav urges Centre to not treat vaccination programme like ‘cosmetic event’||Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav said that the coronavirus vaccination programme was a sensitive process and the Centre should not treat it like a ‘sajaawati-dikhaawati’ (cosmetic) event. He also said that the process should commence only after making concrete arrangements. Yadav stirred up a controversy on Saturday when he said that he could not trust the BJP government’s vaccine and that he would not be taking it. His remarks have drawn criticism not only from BJP leaders but from leaders of other parties as well. “I am not going to get vaccinated for now. How can I trust BJP’s vaccine, when our government will be formed everyone will get free vaccine. We cannot take BJP’s vaccine,” the SP president said. He went on to accuse the government of trying to ward off the virus by clanging plates, clapping, and hovering helicopters over hospitals.Madhya Pradesh home minister slammed Yadav for his comments, questioning how he could listen to the country when he did not even listen to his father or uncle. “We can’t even call him a misled youth. When he never listened to his uncle or father, why would he listen to the country? This is a policy of appeasement. It’s not good to spread rumour about vaccine,” Mishra said. Reacting to the SP leader’s remarks, Jammu Kashmir National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted that he would ‘happily get’ a vaccine when it becomes available, and that it belongs to no political party. “I don’t know about anyone else but when my turn comes I’ll happily roll up my sleeve & get a COVID vaccine. This damn virus has been far too disruptive & if a vaccine helps bring about a semblance of normalcy after all the chaos then sign me up,” he said. “The more people that get vaccinated the better it will be for the country & the economy. No vaccine belongs to any political party, they belong to humanity & the sooner we get vulnerable people vaccinated the better,” he added.The Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) approved the vaccines of Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency authorization earlier today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-urges-centre-to-not-treat-vaccination-programme-like-cosmetic-event/story-gQRgeciDv94aqvu9YtGXzI.html
03-01-2021||India||‘First soldiers, now vaccine’: Hardeep Singh Puri slams Akhilesh Yadav, Shashi Tharoor over Covid-19 vaccine||A day after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav questioned India’s Covid-19 vaccines and said he won’t take “BJP’s vaccine”, Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor too doubted the approval given to Bharat Biotech’s vaccine while its third phase trial is going on. Slamming their doubts, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Jairam, Tharoor and Akhilesh are behaving true to form. “They first questioned the valour of our soldiers and now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India,” he wrote. “Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalisation,” he added. So says the in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert SpeerAs Hardeep Singh Puri termed the three politicians as the “in-house cynics”, Jairam Ramesh replied to Puri by calling him the “in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert Speer”, referring to two politicians who were close to Adolf Hitler.‘Never listened to his father’: MP home minister jabs Akhilesh Yadav for Covid-19 vaccine remarkBefore the Drug Control General of India gave the go-ahead to Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use of their vaccines on Sunday, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Twitter claimed that though Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, internationally accepted protocols relating to phase three trials are being modified for Covaxin.  Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister @drharshvardhan should clarify. pic.twitter.com/5HAWZtmW9sIn the same strain, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor claimed that the approval to Bharat Biotech was premature. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. @drharshvardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” Tharoor said. The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. @drharshvardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime. https://t.co/H7Gis9UTQbThe DGCI while announcing the approval to the two vaccine candidates clarified that both are running their third phase of trial which will continue.‘How can I trust BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine’: Akhilesh Yadav won’t get vaccinated for nowAIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria too said that the approvals have been given keeping all aspects in mind, including the new mutant strain. He also clarified that Bharat Biotech’s vaccine can be used as a backup while Serum’s Oxford vaccine will be primarily given. “Initially, Serum Institute vaccine will be given. They already have 50 million doses available and they’ll be able to give that in initial phase where we will vaccinate around three crore people. Gradually, we will build on it and by the time Bharat Biotech data will also be available,” Guleria said.On Saturday, Akhilesh Yadav doubted the efficacy of the vaccines stirring a controversy, to which his party MLC Ashutosh Sinha contributed and said anything can happen. The vaccine can make you impotent, he claimed.DCGI VG Somani on Sunday rubbished all these claims and said the apex body would never have approved anything, had there been even the slightest safety concerns. he also said that vaccines are 100 per cent safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-soldiers-now-vaccine-hardeep-singh-puri-slams-akhilesh-yadav-shahsi-tharoor-over-covid-19-vaccine/story-6i8GDGIs7RbEOkKgClBVXL.html
03-01-2021||India||Zydus Cadila gets DCGI nod to initiate Phase-3 clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Sunday said it has received DCGI approval to initiate Phase III clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D.The company will now be initiating Phase III clinical trial in around 30,000 volunteers, Zydus Cadila said in a statement.ZyCoV-D was found to be safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic in phase I and II clinical trials, it added.The phase II study of ZyCoV-D had been conducted in over 1,000 healthy adult volunteers as part of the adaptive Phase I/II dose-escalation, multi-centric, randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled study, the drug firm said.The trial was reviewed by an independent data safety monitoring board (DSMB) and reports were submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) regularly for the update on safety outcome.“We are reaching a critical milestone in our vaccine development programme and towards our goal of helping people fight the pandemic with an indigenously discovered, safe and efficacious vaccine,” Zydus Group Chairman Pankaj R Patel said.The launch of the Phase 3 trial will determine the efficacy of the company’s vaccine in preventing COVID-19, which continues to pose a major threat world over, he added.The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday granted emergency approval to Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for their respective vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-gets-dcgi-nod-to-initiate-phase-3-clinical-trials-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-OG3V1DwSuxsEKfotjKaXAP.html
03-01-2021||India||Jharkhand MGNREGS workers likely to get a hike of Rs 31 in minimum wage||Labourers working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) are likely to get a hike of Rs 31 in their minimum wage in Jharkhand soon, as the state government has decided to increase the wage from Rs 194 to Rs 225 from its own pocket. The state rural development department has finalised a draft to this effect, and it is expected to get the government’s approval soon. A high level-meeting is scheduled in this regard on Monday, officials said. Chief minister Hemant Soren, on occasion of one-year of government’s celebration, said, “MGNREGA is a lifeline for rural poor people. But, people do not show much interest due to poor wage. So, we have decided to enhance the wage from the existing amount fixed by the Centre at Rs 194 to Rs 225 from the state exchequer.” Labourers working under MGNREGS get much lower minimum wage than the state’s minimum wage rate. State’s minimum wage is Rs 283, while a MGNREGS labourer gets Rs 194 as minimum wage. State MGNREGS commissioner Sidhartha Tripathy said, “There are provisions in MGNREGS under which a state can increase the minimum wage of workers from its own exchequer. Several states like Bihar and Odisha have already done it.” When asked if the state needs consent from the Centre in this regard, Tripathy said, “The Centre’s consent is not required in it, but we need to request Centre for creating a separate column for the state’s wage contribution in the management information system (MIS) of MGNREGA. It’s a process of just 30 minutes.” In a bid to raise workers’ income, the state would also request the Centre to revise the CFT (cubic feet) provision per man-day for labourers working under MGNREGS, rural development officials said. A worker’s man-day under the Centre’s scheme is considered after he digs 73 CFT soil in Jharkhand. In other words, a worker gets the minimum wage of Rs 194 after he digs 73 CFT soil in Jharkhand. MGNREGS labourers in Andhra Pradesh get the minimum wage after digging just 28 CFT. In Chhattisgarh, it is 48 CFT, officials said. However, a time-motion study is begin carried out in Jharkhand by the National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR) for revision in the CFT rule. Jharkhand has already achieved man days target of 8 crore this year. The state had requested the Centre to revise it. The Centre has set new target of 9 crore man days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-mgnregs-workers-likely-to-get-a-hike-of-rs-31-in-minimum-wage/story-YeTis0WULlbO0WEGfILiZM.html
03-01-2021||India||Sacked Tripura school teacher found dead, family allege suicide over debt burden||A terminated school teacher in Tripura allegedly killed himself after failing to clear debt. The incident happened at Belonia in South district of Tripura, over 80 kilometres away from Agartala on Friday late evening, said police on Sunday. A case of unnatural death was recorded at PR Bari police station.According to the deceased’s family members, they used to lead a peaceful life till the school teacher lost his job after March last year. He took loans to meet his family’s daily requirements.“He could not repay the loans he had taken. He died by suicide over debt burden,” said his family members.“We took an unnatural death case. We are investigating the matter,” said a police official.Also read: Chinese economy is recovering. But there are gaps The deceased was one among the total 10,323 school teachers who were terminated by Tripura High Court due to their faulty recruitment process in 2014. These teachers were appointed in postgraduate, graduate and undergraduate posts in different phases since 2010. Challenging the order, the sacked teachers and the erstwhile Left Front government filed Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court and the apex court upheld the High Court’s order in 2017.Of the total 10,323 teachers, over 8,000 teachers were reappointed on an ad hoc basis, the tenure of which expired on March 31 last year.The sacked teachers formed a joint forum comprising three separate organizations, namely, Justice for 10323, Amra 10323 and All Tripura Ad Hoc Teachers’ Association, and are protesting at Agartala since December 7 last demanding the state government to provide a permanent solution to their crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacked-tripura-school-teacher-found-dead-family-allege-suicide-over-debt-burden/story-WZmDcA9O7r3dWrrYqIPu0O.html
03-01-2021||India||Approval to Covaxin premature, could be dangerous: Shashi Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said that the emergency approval to Covid-19 vaccine--Covaxin is premature and could be dangerous as it is still under phase 3 trial. He urged Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to wait till full trials of the vaccine are completed. Taking to Twitter, Member of Parliament from Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram said, “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous.”He further urged Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to avoid Covaxin till full trials are over. “Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” he added in the tweet.Earlier today, Covid-19 vaccines of Serum Institue of India and Bharat Biotech have been granted permission for restricted use in an emergency situation, said DCGI.“After adequate examination, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(CDSCO) has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation and permission is being granted to M/s Cadila Healthcare for conduct of the Phase III clinical trial,” said VG Somani, DCGI, during a media briefing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approval-to-covaxin-premature-could-be-dangerous-shashi-tharoor/story-MXaud26vlgjLH7YkCJlsmK.html
03-01-2021||India||2 Chinese among 4 held for running instant loan app||Two Chinese and as many Indian nationals have been arrested for allegedly operating instant loan apps, police said on Saturday. Investigation, based on a complaint here, revealed the prime accused to be operating from China, the police said.The two Indians had been operating the call centre from Bengaluru and had employed over 100 people to provide quick online loans, they said. Each employee had been asked to sanction instant loans to at least 10 people in a week and threatened of being sacked if they failed to do so, said the police.The Chinese nationals ran the call centre with the assistance of the two Indians. All of them were arrested in Bengaluru on December 31, 2020 and January 1, 2021, according to Chennai Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. The arrest was made following Ganesan’s complaint stating that he was subjected to agony, abuse, threats and harassment by the online loan app firms over repayment with higher rate of interest, the Commissioner said in a press release. It was also revealed that another Chinese national was the head of the call centre and he operated from China, the release said. “We are investigating whether the Chinese are running loan apps targeting only India,” the Commissioner further said. Of late, there have been many instances of app-based money-lenders harassing borrowers over repayment, which led to suicides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-chinese-among-4-held-for-running-instant-loan-app/story-ijcZwdW3qbrzkNfaJFmVgI.html
03-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can be used as backup, says AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave final approval to two Covid-19 vaccines, paving the way for a huge inoculation program to stem the pandemic in the second worst-hit country. Lauding the development, All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria said “it is a great day for the country and a good way to start the new year.” He also said that indigenously developed Covaxin - one of the two vaccines approved - can be used as backup.“It’s a great day for our country and it’s a very good way to start the new year. Both the vaccines are made in India. They are cost-effective & easy to administer. We should, in a very short period, start rolling out vaccines,” said Guleria.Also Read | Approval for Covaxin a giant leap for novel product development in India: Bharat BiotechHe also said that vaccines go through various stages to make sure it’s safe. “All data is critically looked at by experts after which vaccine is approved,” the AIIMS director further added.The DCGI gave approval for the emergency use of two Covid-19 vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).He said that the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech will be used as backup. “In an emergency situation when there is a sudden increase in cases & we need to vaccinate, Bharat Biotech vaccine will be used. It can also be used as a backup when we’re not sure how efficacious the Serum Institute vaccine is going to be,” said Guleria.“Initially, Serum Institute vaccine will be given. They already have 50 million doses available & they’ll be able to give that in the initial phase where we’ll vaccinate around 3 Cr ppl. Gradually,we’ll build on it & by the time Bharat Biotech data will also be available,” he added.The nod marks the first vaccine approvals for India, which after the United States, has recorded the most infections of the coronavirus disease.Also Read | Mixing of Covid-19 vaccines: Where do health agencies stand?The DCGI granted the approval on the basis of recommendations of a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media on Sunday.Both of the vaccines are two-dose regimen and need 2-8 degrees Celsius storing temperature which make them more cost-effective in comparison to the other vaccine being developed by the US-based pharma giant Pfizer with its German partner BioNTech.Watch |  ‘The Covid-19 vaccines are 110% safe…’: DCGI VG SomaniThe country is now expected to start the immunisation drive within days and targeting to inoculate 300 million people. In the first phase of vaccination drive, frontline workers including doctors and people working in the healthcare sector will get the shots first. It will be free of cost for the first six to eight months of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-day-for-the-country-says-aiims-director-after-2-covid-19-vaccines-get-govt-nod/story-Q5KUMGZEKnakU5Cnm6GMCK.html
03-01-2021||India||‘True meaning of democracy is...’: Sonia Gandhi hits out at Centre over farmers’ protest||Congress party president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and called for the repeal of three agricultural laws that have triggered widespread protests. “In this biting cold and rain, our farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi for 39 days now. Their plight is concern for all the citizens and I,” Gandhi said. “More than 50 farmers have lost their lives because of the government’s harsh attitude towards the protests. Some have even committed suicide. Neither has their decision moved the Modi government or any of its ministers, nor have they uttered a word of consolation. I offer my tribute to those who have passed away and prayers and strength to their families,” she added. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi says farmers being martyred while ‘Modi’s friends’ benefitGandhi’s statement comes a day after a farmer at the UP-Delhi border allegedly committed suicide. The farmers have demanded a repeal of the three controversial farm laws.Gandhi said that the government’s stand is tantamount to arrogance and it must recognize that the true meaning of democracy is to protect the rights and interests of the farmers and workers. “Ever since independence, this is the first arrogant government to have come to power that doesn’t care for the farmers who feed, let alone the citizens,” Gandhi said. “It is evident that the government is practising a policy of “tire them and drive them away. But our farmers will not bend before them. The government must let of its ego and repeal the three farm laws and bring an end to the protests. The true meaning of democracy is protecting the interests of the farmers and workers, the Modi government should learn that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-hits-out-at-centre-over-farmers-protest/story-ed52oo0tVRay8221HiwscP.html
03-01-2021||India||AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine: What’s been said about dosage, efficacy||India’s drugs regulator on Sunday gave final approval for the emergency use of a two-dose coronavirus vaccine, Covidshield, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. The regulator did not discuss the recommended intervals between shots. Authorities in Britain, the first to have authorised the Covid-19 vaccine, on Wednesday recommended giving as many people as possible a first dose right away and following up with a second injection four to 12 weeks later.The differences in findings are outlined below.Astrazeneca-OxfordDosage:AstraZeneca’s late-stage trial was designed for two injections four weeks apart.But in late-stage trial data published in the Lancet on Dec. 12, the company said most participants had delays in receiving their second shot.The median time between two standard doses in UK volunteers was about 10 weeks, and six weeks in Brazil, it said.Efficacy:In late-stage trials, two full doses were given to the majority of participants in the UK and Brazil and were shown to be 62% effective - but a smaller group of volunteers received by accident half a dose followed by a full dose, and registered 90% effectiveness. They were in Britain and under 55 years of age.Many regulators set 50% as the minimum efficacy rate, but Pfizer-BioNTech’s and Moderna’s vaccines achieved over 90% in their trials.AstraZeneca said last month it did not know the reason for the higher efficacy rate, but it was preparing further tests to confirm whether the half-dose regimen could be 90% effective. One single dose was seen as 64% effective. UK RegulatorDosage: The UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) has approved a two-full-dose regimen.The Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation has recommended that people get one dose followed by a second four to 12 weeks later in a bid to speed up the vaccination programme.Efficacy: On Wednesday, the authorities cleared up one doubt raised by the AstraZeneca-Oxford data, saying that a 90% success rate for a half-dose followed by a full dose had not stood up to analysis.The vaccine can be 80% effective when there are three months between shots, an official involved in approving the vaccine in Britain said at a briefing, higher than the average that the developers themselves had found. Later in the same briefing, a British scientist involved in the approval of the vaccine said one dose of the vaccine is around 70% effective after 21 days and before the second dose is given.Wei Shen Lim, chair for Covid-19 immunisation of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation, said the data for that finding was shared with the regulator, but was not “entirely in the public domain”. India RegulatorDosageThe Drugs Controller General of India, VG Somani, who heads the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation, approved a full two-dose regimen.In announcing the approval on Jan. 3, Somani did not clarify the intervals between shots. Sources told Reuters the doses would be given four weeks apart.Efficacy Somani said the overall efficacy of the AstraZeneca vaccine was 70.42%, based on overseas studies on 23,745 participants aged 18 or above. Phase II/III clinical trials on 1,600 participants in India showed data “comparable with those from the overseas clinical studies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-what-s-been-said-about-dosage-efficacy/story-aJsEGVLoZvwU6RUXOuT4OK.html
03-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says farmers being martyred while ‘Modi’s friends’ benefit||The Congress party on Sunday accused the Central government of being apathetic towards farmers and being empathetic to its “suit-boot friends”. Former Congress party president Rahul Gandhi tweeted that the country is witnessing a moment akin to the Champaran struggle, a farmers uprising led by Mahatma Gandhi against the Colonial rule in 1917.“The country is facing a situation like Champaran once again,” Gandhi said. “Back then, collaborators supported the British company, now the friends of Modi are in-cahoots. But every agitating farmer-worker is a satyagrahi, who will secure his rights,” Rahul’s tweet said. Gandhi’s comments come in the backdrop of Central ministers holding the sixth round of talks with the protesting farm leaders on Wednesday. They rejected the demand to repeal the three agricultural laws that the cultivators say will hurt their livelihoods. The Centre, however, proposed to set up a committee to examine the new farm laws. Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash also discussed the possibility of a law on guaranteeing minimum prices for farm prices, HT reported on Wednesday. The farmers, however, remain firm on their demand for the repeal of the laws.Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, in a press briefing at the party headquarters in New Delhi, urged the government to take cognisance of the cold, urgently address the farmers’ demands and repeal the laws. He said that amid the impasse with the government, farmers were being martyred at the border. “On one hand, there has been a complete lack of sensitivity towards the plight of the protesting farmers and their demands and on the other, close friends of this BJP government have been receiving complete empathy and blessings for expanding their dominance in all spheres of business,” Vallabh said.“On one hand, the farmers in return for their protests have only been receiving false promises, (while) the friends have been receiving contracts after contracts to fill their pockets. This is a matter of serious concern as all this is happening as the farmers continue to protest. The government is fooling the nation,” he added.Also Read: Rains, waterlogging cause inconvenience to farmers protesting at Delhi bordersVallabh said that a 30-year-long contract has been allocated to the Adani Agro Logistics Limited to store food grain, where the government has provided a guarantee that their services will be used and revenue has been linked to inflation. “The government is prepared to provide a revenue guarantee to AALL that too with price escalation based on an inflation-linked formula, but for farmers, there is no such guarantee for minimum support price,” Vallabh said. He added that the government had also failed to procure the promised 60 lakh metric tonne of rice from the farmers in Chhattisgarh, citing the lack of storage space as a reason. “Are they waiting for AALL to set up storage spaces in Chhattisgarh; will they procure the rice only then,” he asked. The Congress leader also stressed that the three farm bills need to be repealed since their “negative” impact had already begun to show in the state of Madhya Pradesh.“Nearly 70% of the mandis have been shut down. Moreover, farmers who were asked to plant their crops by private players have not been able to sell the produce as the company says the quality is not good enough,” Vallabh said. “This is exactly what the farmers are protesting against. Misuse of the legislation by the private sector,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-farmers-being-martyred-while-modi-s-friends-benefit/story-kyBidL8uW9T5vQUkiBHNaM.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Never listened to his father’: MP home minister jabs Akhilesh Yadav for Covid-19 vaccine remark||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra ha hit back at Samajwadi Party (SP) chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav for saying he would not get vaccinated.“We can’t even call him a misled youth. When he never listened to his uncle or father, why would he listen to the country? This is a policy of appeasement. It’s not good to spread rumour about vaccine,” Mishra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Speaking about the vaccine on Saturday, Yadav discouraged people in Uttar Pradesh from getting vaccinated. “How can I trust the BJP’s vaccine, no chance? When our government is formed, everyone will get a free vaccine. We cannot take the BJP vaccine. The inoculation programme under the BJP-led regime cannot be trusted,” Yadav had said.Also Read | ‘How can I trust BJP’s Covid-19 vaccine’: Akhilesh Yadav won’t get vaccinated for nowKeshav Prasad Maurya, the deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, said that Yadav has insulted the country’s doctors and scientists.“Akhilesh Yadav doesn’t trust the vaccine and people of Uttar Pradesh do not trust him. Questioning the vaccine is an insult to our doctors and scientists. He should apologise,” Maurya said.He also said that a person who has been chief minister should think twice before making such remarks.Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani on Sunday gave final approval to Covid-19 vaccines made by Bharat Biotech and Oxford-AstraZeneca for use in India. He also assured people about the safety of the two vaccines.“After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” Somani said during a press conference. “We’ll never approve anything if there is slightest of safety concern. The vaccines are 100 per cent safe. Some side effects like mild fever, pain and allergy are common for every vaccine. It is absolute rubbish that people may become impotent,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The approval by DCGI was lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he congratulated the drugs regulator and scientists who he said worked hard to develop the Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-listened-to-his-father-mp-home-minister-jabs-akhilesh-yadav-for-covid-19-vaccine-remark/story-akl883jHbAYgqKdWILueTJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Approval for Covaxin a giant leap for novel product development in India: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Sunday said the DCGI approval for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin is a giant leap for novel product development in the country. Earlier in the day, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use. “The approval of COVAXIN for emergency use is a giant leap for innovation and novel product development in India. It is a proud moment for the nation and a great milestone in India’s scientific capability, a kickstart to the innovation ecosystem in India,” Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella said in a statement. While this vaccine addresses an unmet medical need during this pandemic, the company’s goal is to provide global access to populations that need it the most, he added. Covaxin has generated excellent safety data with robust immune responses to multiple viral proteins that persist, Ella noted. The DCGI approval for the vaccines was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told a press conference. This paves the way for the roll-out of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The phase-III human clinical trials of Covaxin began mid-November. Bharat Biotech aims to recruit 26,000 volunteers across the country for the phase-III trials. It has already crossed the 23,000-volunteers mark so far. The Hyderabad-based firm said Covaxin has been evaluated in around 1,000 subjects in phase-I and phase-II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, with acceptance in international peer reviewed scientific journals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approval-for-covaxin-a-giant-leap-for-novel-product-development-in-india-bharat-biotech/story-iXv5roeLquqmSdJRxAKKRK.html
03-01-2021||India||Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh praise Modi’s ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ vision as vaccines get green signal||After the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday gave green signal to two vaccine candidates for restricted, emergency use, Union minister Rajnath Singh heaped praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for Aatmanirbhar Bharat, which he said has helped India tremendously in coming up with indigenous solutions in India’s fight against the global pandemic. “India today takes a giant step towards decisively defeating the Covid-19 pandemic with DCGI granting approval to vaccines of Serum Institute of Bharat Biotech. We are proud of our scientists who made this vaccine possible in a very short span of time,” Rajnath tweeted. “Time and again, we have seen a New India eager to innovate and help the humanity during crisis. The approval to Made in India vaccines will prove to be a game changer in boosting PM @NarendraModi’s vision of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” Union home minister Amit Shah said adding visionary leadership can make a huge difference.Several ministers on Sunday took to Twitter congratulating the collaborative efforts of scientists, vaccine makers. “A big and historic moment for India. Indian vaccines is reality now. Thank you Narendra Modiji for this significant and reassuring announcement,” minister Prakash Javadekar said.Calling it a “proud moment”, minister Nitin Gadkari congratulated PM Modi under “whose leadership our scientists have achieved this in such short duration”. Congratulations all. Vaccination will begin soon. This is a result of focused work by scientists, national laboratories, government agencies, regulators, health care workers, and most importantly, all our people who have waited patiently following all COVID appropriate behaviour. https://t.co/mPR0Lz8YAXGovernment of India’s principal scientific advisor K Vijay Raghavan said vaccination will begin soon. “This is a result of focussed work by scientists, national laboratories, government agencies, regulators, healthcare workers, and most importantly, all our people who have waited patiently following all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he tweeted. Both Covishield and Covaxin are indigenous. Though Covishield has been developed by oxford University in collaboration with Astrazeneca, Pune’s Serum Institute of India is its manufacturing partner in India. SII also conducted the second phase trial in India and the third phase trial is going on. On the other hand, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is completely indigenous as it has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV). Both the vaccines hold major prospects in the international market as several countries have shown interest in these two vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-praises-modi-s-aatmanirbhar-bharat-vision-as-vaccines-get-green-signal/story-Gy73Ptyd3rNImrOCMxRT2K.html
03-01-2021||India||Bihar govt using IT device to monitor Nitish Kumar’s tap water supply project||Taking serious note of the complaints about frequent disruptions in rural water supply scheme, the panchayati raj department has resorted to the use of computer-based application to keep a tab on operation of motorised pumps across Bihar.As part of the state’s mission to provide tap water supply to each and every household, the state government has assigned the department with the task of rolling out the scheme in over 58,000 wards of rural areas by the end of this fiscal under the chief minister’s flagship Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal project.Additional chief secretary, panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena said that all water towers would be equipped with specially designed device, internet of things (IOT), to calculate operation time of pumps and flow of water from the towers. “The device will be connected with a centralised computer network and operation status of each and every pumping station and water tower could be watched from the control room on realtime basis,” added Meena.The IOT devices have already been installed in water towers in over 6,000 gram panchayats of Sheohar district on a pilot basis. “Now it will be installed in water towers of the remaining panchayats in the next two months. This will also allow the officials to monitor functioning of motorised pumps. The device will also detect wastage or excessive use of water by the people,” said Meena.The department has already removed more than 50 mukhiyas from their posts and some of them have been barred from contesting elections in future after they were found guilty of not executing the project properly. The department allocates necessary funds to the gram panchayats for implementation of the tap water supply schemes in villages.Also Read: Bihar govt plans Didi Ki Rasoi canteens in all district hospitalsProject leader of the department, Ashutosh, said so far, 55,874 wards out of the total 58,612, allocated to the department for setting up tap water supply schemes under the CM’s flagship programme, had been covered. “Work on about 2300 projects is going on, while 105 projects have been declared non-feasible,” he added.The department has already facilitated the setting up of the ward management committees and allowed them to hire pump operators at the monthly remuneration of ₹3,000 (₹2000 from the committee and ₹1000 from user charges) for the timely operation of the installations. Besides, one technical assistant has been assigned to take care of the projects in four panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-using-it-device-to-monitor-nitish-kumar-s-tap-water-supply-project/story-eBKscE1CKoD4HBy1Va5P6L.html
03-01-2021||India||Is Co-WIN app for Covid-19 vaccine launched? How to download, register||With both Covishield and Covaxin getting the Drug Control General of India(DCGI)’s approval for restricted emergency use, vaccination drive now is only a matter of announcement as both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are prepared to supply the doses required for phase one vaccination.In this phase, frontline workers will be vaccinated. The cost will be borne by the Centre. For vaccination process, Centre has brought in an application named Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network).Here is all you need to know1. The Union health minister has earlier said that people would be able to self-register themselves for vaccine through this app. But that would happen at a later stage after the frontline workers identified by the local authorities are vaccinated.2. The application is not yet launched. It is not available at present in the play store.3. The application is in the pre-product stage being accessed by health officials who are uploading the data of the health workers who will get vaccines in the first stage. More than 75 lakh beneficiaries have already been registered during the dry run.4. The Union health ministry and the ministry of electronics and information technology jointly announced a challenge inviting participants to take part where they will have to strengthen the final app.5. As of now, the app can not be accessed by people and there is no self-registration going on. It is being only accessed by officials as the app was tested during vaccine dry run too.6. Once launched, the app will have four modules: User administrator module, beneficiary registration, vaccination and beneficiary acknowledgement and status updation.7. The module of beneficiary registration will be for people to use in case they want to register themselves. There will be three options under this: self registration, individual registration and bulk upload.8. In self-registration, the beneficiaries can directly register themselves through the web as well as the mobile application. Photo identity will be required for registration. And if an individual registers himself or herself, the data will be verified to check whether he or she is above 50, or below 50 but with co-morbidity issues.9. Surveyors and district administrators can also register multiple beneficiaries.10. There will be no spot registration in any phase of priority group vaccination.Only frontline workers will be vaccinated in the first two phases. Next, people above 50 years of age, who are at a greater risk of contracting Covid-19, will be vaccinated. People below that age group but with co-morbidity issues will be considered after that. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has clarified that vaccine will be free for frontline workers. It is not yet clear whether the vaccine for people above 50 years and people with co-morbidities will be free or subsidised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-co-win-app-for-covid-19-vaccine-launched-how-to-download-register/story-IrdA4OcU32QAFG135pRXIP.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Watershed moment in India’s battle against Covid-19’: Harsh Vardhan||Welcoming the final approval for Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for emergency use ,Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said it was a watershed moment in India’s battle against Covid-19 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“A watershed moment in India’s famed battle against Covid-19 under leadership of PM Modi. Our wait for the vaccine is over with Covishield from Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech approved for emergency use in India,” Vardhan tweeted.Congratulating the scientists and researchers for their “untiring efforts”, Vardhan said, “These vaccines are a fitting tribute to our corona warriors! My heartfelt gratitude to all healthcare professionals and frontline workers for their exemplary efforts during these unprecedented times.”“It’s now time to reap the benefits of the robust supply chain infrastructure we’ve put in place for quick & equitable distribution of the vaccine. Urge all citizens to entrust the stringent protocols followed for ensuring safety, efficacy & immunogenicity of the approved vaccines,” he added.India’s drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations of a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media.“Serum and Bharat Biotech vaccines have to be administered in two doses. All the three vaccines have to be stored at 2-8° C,” he said.PM Modi termed the approval a decisive turning point in India’s fight against coronavirus.”DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and COVID-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators,” he tweeted.“It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” he said in another tweet. He also saluted the frontline workers who have been leading the country’s fight against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watershed-moment-in-india-s-battle-against-covid-19-harsh-vardhan/story-im8mXbUT9XZWwQHOlmOkDP.html
03-01-2021||India||Fresh snowfall closes highway in J&K, Board exams postponed||There was widespread snowfall in Kashmir and parts of Jammu division on Sunday, prompting the authorities to close the Srinagar-Jammu national highway and postpone class-11 board exams. The snow started laying a white cover on the valley since the wee hours on Sunday, a day ahead of the forecast made by the weather office. Director meteorological centre based in Srinagar, Sonam Lotus said moderate snowfall was reported from most places of J&K and at Zojila, connecting the Valley with Ladakh. “As of now, snowfall of the same intensity is likely to continue till afternoon and thereafter there will be a temporary break till evening,” he said. He said the maximum snow depth--12 inches or 30 cm-- till 10 am was in Kulgam in South Kashmir. The MeT office said that there was 21 cm snowfall till morning in Qazigund, 18.5 cm in Kokernag, 11.5 cm in Pahalgam and 6 cm in summer capital Srinagar. The snowfall is going to intensify further. “Moderate to heavy snowfall with isolated very heavy snowfall most likely to occur in South Kashmir, Gulmarg in North Kashmir, Banihal-Ramban, Poonch, Rajouri, Kishtwar, Zanskar Drass and on higher reaches of Ladakh region,” Lotus said. He said that the snowfall will continue from 3rd to 6th January forenoon with occasional breaks. “This may lead to a disruption of surface and air transportation, water logging in plains of Jammu and Srinagar cities,” he said. The electricity has already started to play hide and seek in the region while roads in many parts are covered with snow. The authorities have deployed men and machinery to clear snow from important roads. Also Read: ‘No vaccine belongs to any political party’: Omar Abdullah after Akhilesh Yadav rejects Covid-19 vaccineThe traffic authorities closed Srinagar-Jammu national highway for traffic. “Jammu-Srinagar NHW closed for traffic movement due to heavy snowfall around Jawahar Tunnel,” the traffic department said in a tweet. Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education said that the examination of students of class 11th, scheduled today, was postponed in view of the bad weather.Also Read: J&K police investigate jeweller’s killing as parties condemn attackThe 40-day intense winter period of ‘Chillai Kalan’ started in Kashmir valley on December 21 with sub zero night temperatures across the region. There have been spells of snow in the region in December. This year, the winter has started on a harsh note as the temperature dropped to a record minus 6.6 degrees celsius in summer capital Srinagar on December 19, the lowest temperature of the season and also the second coldest December night in the past one decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-snowfall-closes-highway-in-j-k-board-exams-postponed/story-wGz36AAIwSKhXM7d4WUJnK.html
03-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Adar Poonawalla thanks DCGI after Covishield gets final approval for restricted use in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Finally paid off’: Adar Poonawalla thanks PM Modi, DCGI after Covishield gets final approvalFor Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla, the happy new year moment came on January 3 after the Drug Controller General of India on Sunday gave the final nod to Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford University and pharma major Astrazeneca and manufactured in India by Poonawalla’s Serum Institute. Read moreShabana Azmi links women empowerment with upbringing of boys, redefines ‘mardangi’Drawing attention to the issue of female foeticide with her Netflix horror film, Kaali Khuhi, veteran star Shabana Azmi was also a part of 2020’s much-acclaimed feminist OTT movie, Mee Raqsam that was an ode to the strong bond between a father and his daughter. Read moreDubai Crown Prince ‘races’ with ostriches. WatchDubai’s Crown Prince Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum took to Instagram to share a video involving ostriches which has now created a buzz. The clip shows the Crown Prince engaged in a ‘race’ against two birds. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘That’s the first I’ve heard of it,’ Matthew Wade on reports of India’s Brisbane reluctanceMatthew Wade has said that Australia fully expects to play the fourth Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy at its scheduled venue – The Gabba in Brisbane – after reports emerged that India are not keen on travelling to the city in view of quarantine proposals. Read moreMeet Asagumo, a spider-like rover that is going to the moon later this yearBritish firm Spacebit has announced it will send a rover to the moon later this year. The mission has caught everyone’s attention over the unique rover that will land on the moon. Unlike the conventional wheeled rovers, Spacebit is sending a rover that looks and walks like a spider. Read moreBefore India, Tesla EVs touch down in Nepal. Models, prices and other detailsUS electric vehicle giant Tesla is yet to enter the Indian market but its electric vehicles have already touched down in the neighbouring country of Nepal. This despite the fact that Tesla, the company, hasn’t officially made its debut here. Read moreBCCI president Sourav Ganguly stable after coronary angiographyFormer Indian Cricket team captain Sourav Ganguly underwent coronary angiography after a ‘mild’ heart attack and is stable now. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries on Saturday. Authorities at the hospital said there is a history of heart disease in Ganguly’s family. Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO, Woodlands, said that angiography was done followed by angioplasty. She informed that Ganguly was working out at the gym in his home when he felt unwell and dizzy. Basu added that a team of seven doctors are looking after Ganguly. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also rushed to the hospital to visit Ganguly. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-adar-poonawalla-thanks-dcgi-after-covishield-gets-final-approval-for-restricted-use-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MiAcfgGdkLj412SD7uHk9H.html
03-01-2021||India||WHO welcomes India’s decision giving emergency use approval to Covid-19 vaccines||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Sunday welcomed India’s decision giving emergency use authorization to Covid-19 vaccines.Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region said, “World Health Organization welcomes India’s decision giving emergency use authorization to Covid-19 vaccines.”“The use of vaccine in prioritised populations, along with the continued implementation of other public health measures and community participation, will be important in reducing impact of Covid-19,” Singh added in a tweet.Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani has formally announced the approval for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. “CDSCO (Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) accepts the subject expert committee reform rations on Serum and Bharat Biotech Covid vaccines,” Somani during a press conference. “Vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” Somani read out from a written statement.Somani said the overall efficacy of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine was 70.42% and that of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was “safe and provides a robust immune response”. “We will never approve anything if there is slightest of safety concern. The vaccines are 100% safe. Some side effects like mild fever, pain and allergy are common for every vaccine,” he added.The subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had recommended Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, for emergency use and Covaxin for restricted use. Even before getting the approval from the apex drug controller of India, SII stockpiled about 40-50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, which involved a major risk in case its application got turned down by the drug regulator. Overall, Serum’s investment on Covishield is around $100 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-welcomes-india-s-decision-giving-emergency-use-approval-to-covid-19-vaccines/story-ujaLic08r7R3ZzXLbUId7O.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Ready to roll-out’: Adar Poonawala after Covishield, Covaxin win limited use nod||Two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been approved for restricted emergency use in India, with the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), VG Somani announcing on Sunday that he had approved both Serum Institute of India (SII) Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech vaccines.The drugs controller announced that he had accepted recommendations made by the subject expert committee (SEC) of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Friday and Saturday, to grant restricted emergency approval to both the vaccines. Soon after the approval was announced, Prime Minister Narendra Modi put out three tweets congratulating the country and its scientists and innovators. “A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators,” his first tweet said. “It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” read the second tweet. “We reiterate our gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives,” read his final tweet. The World Health Organisation (WHO) also welcomed the first emergency use authorisation given to Covid-19 vaccine in the WHO-South Asia Region. The CDSCO subject expert committee consists of domain knowledge experts from the fields of pulmonology, immunology, microbiology, pharmacology, paediatrics, internal medicine, etc. For SII Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Somani said, “After detailed deliberations, Subject Expert Committee has recommended for the grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue.” Also Read: WHO welcomes India’s decision giving emergency use approval to Covid-19 vaccinesPune based SII, which is manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and testing it in India, presented a recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector vaccine (Covishield) encoding the SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) glycoprotein with technology transfer from AstraZeneca/Oxford University. The firm submitted safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants aged 18 years or older from overseas clinical studies. “The overall vaccine efficacy was found to be 70.42%. Further, M/s Serum was granted permission to conduct Phase-II/III clinical trial on 1600 participants within the country. The firm also submitted the interim safety and immunogenicity data generated from this trial and the data was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies,” Somani said. Also Read: Amid vaccine hopes, UK variant of coronavirus continues to spread in 2021Bharat Biotech has developed a whole virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine (Covaxin) in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (Pune), from where they received the virus seed strains. The vaccine is developed on a vero cell platform, which has well established track record of safety and efficacy in the country and globally. The firm has generated safety and immunogenicity data in various animal species such as mice, rats, rabbits, Syrian hamster, and also conducted challenge studies on non-human primates (Rhesus macaques) and hamsters. The company had shared the data with CDSCO, and also put out phase 1 and 2 trial results for publication in December. Phase-I and Phase-II clinical trials were conducted on approximately 800 subjects and the results have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and provides a robust immune response. The Phase III efficacy trial was initiated in India in 25,800 volunteers and to date, 22,500 participants have been vaccinated across the country and the vaccine has been found to be safe as per the data available currently, according to the drugs controller “The subject expert committee has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended for grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situations in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” said Somani. Minutes after the drugs controller announced grant of approval for the vaccines in India, SII CEO, Adar Poonawalla, tweeted that the vaccine was ready to be shipped in the coming weeks. “Happy new year, everyone! All the risks @SerumInstIndia took with stockpiling the vaccine have finally paid off. Covishield, India’s first Covid-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective, and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, Cadila Healthcare’s Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCov-D, received the drugs controller’s approval to begin phase 3 clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxford-astrazeneca-bharat-biotech-vaccines-get-restricted-emergency-use-nod/story-0aERrr6DBtL7Ig7yO81vUL.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Finally paid off’: Adar Poonawalla thanks PM Modi, DCGI after Covishield gets final approval||For Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla, the happy new year moment came on Sunday after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its final nod to Covishield, the vaccine which is being developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and is manufactured in India by SII. Covishield got the nod for restricted emergency use in India after the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO’s)’s subject expert committee went through its data and recommended the vaccine. Happy new year, everyone! All the risks @SerumInstIndia took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. COVISHIELD, India's first COVID-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks. pic.twitter.com/TcKh4bZIKK“Happy new year, everyone! All the risks @SerumInstIndia took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. COVISHIELD, India’s first COVID-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks,” Adar tweeted, thanking PM Modi, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and all other stakeholders including Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the department of biotechnology (DBT), the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), Gavi, the international vaccine alliance, and Gates Foundation etc.Even before getting the approval from the apex drug controller of India, Serum Institute of India stockpiled about 40-50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, which involved a major risk in case its application got turned down by the drug regulator. The largest vaccine maker of the world, by the volume it produces, has also set a target of producing around 300 million doses of Covishield by July 2021. Overall, Serum’s investment in Covishield has crossed $100 million. According to a Forbes interview, Adar Poonawalla in November said he has already spent $300 million and another $500 will be done in due course of time. Serum has set up a new company, Serum Institute Life Sciences, to support the new initiatives, which is a first-of-its kind “pandemic level” manufacturing facility in Pune. Serum Institute has also collaborated with Gavi and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for manufacturing and delivering of up to 100 million doses of vaccines for other low and middle-income countries as part of the Gavi COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finally-paid-off-adar-poonawalla-thanks-pm-modi-dcgi-after-covishield-gets-final-approval/story-UJLfFp82xihqbl0BNABV5O.html
03-01-2021||India||‘Congratulations India’: PM Modi tweets after nod to Covid-19 vaccines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said approval to the vaccines of AstraZeneca-Oxford, being manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech Ltd “accelerates the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation”, minutes after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) nod for the two shots for emergency use. The Prime Minister also, in a series of tweet, expressed gratitude to the frontline workers involved in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.“A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and COVID-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators,” PM Modi tweeted. “It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” he said. A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and COVID-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators.“We reiterate our gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all Corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives,” he added.The Prime Minister’s tweet came after Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani formally announced the approval for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. “CDSCO (Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) accepts the subject expert committee reform rations on Serum and Bharat Biotech Covid vaccines,” Somani during a press conference. “Vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” Somani read out from a written statement.Somani said the overall efficacy of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine was 70.42% and that of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was “safe and provides a robust immune response”. “We will never approve anything if there is slightest of safety concern. The vaccines are 100% safe. Some side effects like mild fever, pain and allergy are common for every vaccine,” he added. The subject expert committee (SEC) under CDSCO had recommended Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, for emergency use and Covaxin for restricted use. Covaxin is the indigenous vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congratulations-india-pm-modi-tweets-after-nod-to-covid-19-vaccines/story-gasbKgVhiByLmUxKUjO3fM.html
03-01-2021||India||Covishield vs Covaxin against Covid-19: All you need to know||The Drug Controller General of India on Sunday gave the final approval to two vaccines against Covid-19 for restricted emergency use. With this, it can be expected that the vaccination drive in India will begin soon. All states and union territories have already conducted dry run of vaccines. With more than one vaccine now approved for emergency use, the scope of India’s first phase vaccination in which the frontline workers will be vaccinated at free of cost gets widened.Here is all you need to know about these two vaccines: Developers and manufacturersCovishield has been developed by Oxford University in collaboration with pharma major Astrazeneca. India’s Serum Institute is their manufacturing and trial partner.Covaxin is India’s first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19. It has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology.Drug regulator gives final approval for Covid-19 vaccines of SII, Bharat BiotechHow the vaccines have been developedCovishield uses a replication-deficient chimpanzee viral vector based on a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infections in chimpanzees and contains the genetic material of the SARS-CoV-2 virus spike protein. After vaccination, the surface spike protein is produced, priming the immune system to attack the SARS-CoV-2 virus if it later infects the body. Also Watch | DCGI approves SII & Bharat Biotech’s Covid vaccines for restricted emergency use‘Congratulations India’: PM Modi tweets after nod to Covid-19 vaccinesCovaxin is an inactivated vaccine. An inactivated vaccine is one which is developed by inactivating (killing) the live microorganisms that cause the disease. This destroys the pathogen’s ability to replicate, but keeps it intact so that the immune system can still recognise it and produce an immune response. There are many inactivated vaccines against Hepatitis A, Influenza, Polio, Rabies, which offer “excellent protection”, Bharat Biotech has said.Trial and efficacyThe Serum Institute of India submitted data of phase 1 clinical trial conducted over 23,745 overseas participants showing an overall result of 70.42 per cent efficacy, the drug controller said. In phase two and three, which were conducted in India, 1,600 participants took part and the results were comparable to that of the first phase of trial, the drug controller said.‘Finally paid off’: Adar Poonawalla thanks PM Modi, DCGI after Covishield gets final approvalBharat Biotech conducted phase one and two trials on 800 participants, apart from its several animal trials. Its third trial is going on and a total of 22,500 already participants took part in it. The vaccine has been found effective and safe, the drug controller said.CostIndia’s frontline workers will get the vaccine at free of cost, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has already clarified. So the cost angle will come at a later stage of vaccination and also for other countries as several countries have shown interest in both the vaccine candidates. Covishield will cost around Rs 400, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla earlier said. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine is likely to cost less than Rs 100. But no final word on cost has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-vs-covaxin-against-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know/story-yCYrL8RfhkOG4PmRdGajgK.html
03-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh against bid to acquire proposed elephant reserve land for coal mining||Chhattisgarh government is to protest against the Central notification to acquire roughly 712 hectares (ha) land in Madanpur South coal block in Hasdeo forest area, the proposed site for Lemru elephant reserve, for mining.According to the notification, published on December 24, around 490 ha is protected forest land and 160 ha comprise revenue and other forest land. The notification invokes the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, according to which, the Centre can issue a notice of intention to acquire if satisfied that coal is obtainable from a tract of land. As per the senior officials in the state, the government will not “compromise” on this issue and will soon write to the Union coal ministry and also talk to the concerned minister. “Chhattisgarh government will protest against the notification issued by the Central government over (its) intention of acquiring land of Madanpur south. We will protest against two things – Firstly, the central government’s decision to acquire it under Coal Bearing Act and secondly, it comes under the proposed Lemru Elephant Corridor of Chhattisgarh. We are not going to compromise,” said Vinod Verma , the political advisor of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. Verma further said that two major rivers in the Hasdeo area –Hasdeo and Mand—will die because of mining in Madanpur south. Activists claimed that the coal block is in the core area of Hasdeo Arand forest and it made no sense to acquire Madanpur south since the ministry of coal has withdrawn Madanpur North from the commercial coal block auction in September 2020 following Chhattisgarh’s objection. “The coal block has been awarded to APMDC for commercial mining. How come mineral wealth of a state can be given to PSUs of other states for commercial sale? One can even understand the allotment if the produced coal was supposed to be consumed by PSUs own power plants. Such an exercise of power by the central government through Coal Bearing Areas Acquisition and Development Act is a clear attack on the federal structure,” said Sudiep Shrivastva , a lawyer and activist based in Chhattisgarh. Shrivastava further said that the CB act only confers power to acquire land if the coal areas are to be mined and developed by the Central government and its PSUs. In July 2020, Union minister of coal and mines Pralhad Joshi accepted the Chhattisgarh government’s suggestion to replace five coal blocks out of the nine blocks put under commercial coal auctions from the state. They included Morga -2, Morga (South), Madanpur north, Shyang and Fathehpur (east). Also Read: CM Bhupesh Baghel complains to PM Modi over paddy procurement delayIn June, the Chhattisgarh government asked the Centre not to allow auction of coal blocks which fall under Hasdeo Arand, Lemru elephant reserve and the Mand river catchment area, which are biodiversity-rich forests. “Firstly, when Madanpur north coal block was removed from the list of auctioning in July, why is the Central government acquiring land of Madanpur south, which is in the same area. Secondly, the acquisition is the violation of PESA Act 1996 and Forest Rights Recognition Act,” said Alok Shukla, convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, which works for tribal rights in Chhattisgarh.Shukla claimed that the notification overlooks the process of diversion of forest land. “The notification is not only an attack on the rights of the gram sabha but also the state government,” said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-against-bid-to-acquire-proposed-elephant-reserve-land-for-coal-mining/story-UC0pqTMccdn3IWsRgqmv3O.html
03-01-2021||India||Pioneer of women’s education, Indian feminist movement: Remembering Savitribai Phule on her 190th birth anniversary||Krantijyoti Savitribai Phule was born on January 3, 1831, in a village called Naigaon in the Satara district of Maharashtra. She was a feminist and social reformer who fought for women’s empowerment and education in India. This year marks the 190th birth anniversary of Phule, and the day is observed in Maharashtra as Balika Din.Savitribai Phule is considered to be one of the pioneers of the feminist movement in India. She started the first-ever school for girls in the country in 1848 at Bhide Wada, Pune. Her efforts to spread awareness about women’s education saw her face boycotts and abuses mostly from men at the time. Jyotirao Phule, her husband, was one of the pillars of support to her in her journey to spreading awareness about the importance of women’s education and uplifting the status of women and India. Phule was married to Jyotirao Phule at the age of nine when she was not literate.By 1851, Phule had set up three schools and was the teacher of 150 students. She would go on to established 17 schools in the country and although most of them were for upper-caste women, she and her husband set up schools for Dalit and lower-caste women as well. Phule encouraged women to attend school by offering them stipends.Women’s education was not the only thing Phule wanted Indians to take up. She also fought against social injustices of the time like Sati, child marriage and the still prevalent caste system and was also one of the first advocates for women’s rights in the country. She opened a well for ‘untouchables’ at her residence in a defiant act against the caste system and also started a care centre for pregnant rape victims called ‘Balhatya Pratibandhak Griha’. Phule also set up a ‘Mahila Seva Mandal’ where women would gather and she would raise awareness about women’s rights.Apart from being a pioneer of Indian feminism, Phule was a plague warrior. She helped several people when the bubonic plague hit the world, opening up a clinic with her son, Yashwant, in 1897 to help patients. The plague ended up being the reason of her demise as she passed away on March 10, 1897.She was also a hard-hitting, radical writer and poet who questioned the brahminical hegemony and openly criticised social evils at the time like Sati, child marriage, class distinctions, gender inequalities and the caste system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pioneer-of-women-s-education-indian-feminist-movement-remembering-savitribai-phule-on-her-190th-birth-anniversary/story-Q49iQXwK1wuh6gT9EOAOqK.html
03-01-2021||India||India reports 18,177 Covid-19 cases, 217 deaths in 24 hours||India reported 18,177 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lowest in months, and 217 related deaths in the last 24 hours, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed on Sunday morning. As the infection tally stood at 10,323,965, the number of active cases Covid-19 also dipped to 247,220 even as the country’s death toll rose to 149,435.The Union health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am showed there were 20,923 recoveries between Saturday and Sunday morning, which have taken the total number of patients cured of the viral disease to 9,927,310 and the national recovery rate to 96.15%.The dip in fresh cases of the coronavirus disease comes on a day the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is likely to formally announce the approval for two vaccines by Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech. Experts at India’s drug regulators have recommended that the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccines be allowed for use in India, which is the world’s second worst-hit country.Also read |96,000 vaccinators trained till now, says health minister as day 1 of nationwide dry run endsThe subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, for emergency use and Covaxin for restricted use. Covaxin is the indigenous vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also read | 30 million people to be vaccinated by August in MaharashtraUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said that free vaccine shall be given to most prioritised beneficiaries, including 10 million healthcare and 20 million frontline workers, across the nation in the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination. He had also warned people against falling prey to rumours and disinformation campaigns regarding the safety and efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccine and dismissed rumours on social media.The Union health ministry on Saturday conducted a nationwide mock drill at 285 session sites to test the end-to-end planned operations and the mechanism that has been set up to ensure smooth conduct of the Covid-19 vaccination that is expected to begin soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-18-177-covid-19-cases-217-deaths-in-24-hours/story-eLJLxWt5VtmEydJdH4lnWP.html
03-01-2021||India||96,000 vaccinators trained till now, says health minister as day 1 of nationwide dry run ends||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday the dry run of the coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccination drive on Saturday was based on poll process planned down to the booth level and that more than 57,000 participants across 719 districts had completed training.“The vaccination drive has been based on election process planned down to the booth level. Over 57,000 participants across 719 districts have completed training. 96,000 vaccinators have been trained so far,” Vardhan said, according to news agency ANI.Also Read| Amplifying reach, fake science biggest challenges to vaccinationVardhan on Saturday had visited two mock vaccination centres in the national capital of Delhi to monitor the dry run drill for administering vaccine doses. He said that free vaccines would be given to the most prioritised beneficiaries which include one crore health care workers and 20 million frontline workers adding that details of how further 270 million prioritised beneficiaries are to be vaccinated until July were being finalised. Vaccination drive has been based on election process planned down to the booth level. Over 57,000 participants across 719 districts have completed training. 96,000 vaccinators have been trained so far: Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan(file pic) pic.twitter.com/KnpDZCzQsBThe Union health minister also urged citizens to not pay attention to rumours as the vaccination drive was underway. “I appeal to people not to pay heed to rumours. Ensuring the safety and efficacy of the vaccine is our priority. Different kinds of rumours were spread during polio immunisation but people took the vaccine and India is now polio-free,” he had said.Also Read| Drugs regulator chief’s press conference today, approval of Covid-19 vaccines likelyThe Union health ministry had carried out an all-India mock drill at 286 sites across 125 districts in order to test the end-end planned operations and the apparatus which had been put up to ensure the smooth conduction of the coronavirus vaccination drive that would begin shortly. This exercise was earlier performed in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab between December 28 and December 29.Meanwhile, the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) will hold a news briefing at 11am on Sunday on the coronavirus vaccine. This comes after the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended that the vaccines manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech be granted permission for restricted emergency use.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/96-000-vaccinators-trained-till-now-says-health-minister-as-day-1-of-nationwide-dry-run-ends/story-Q5MXR4NW9BVm7Y1kiJ1HyH.html
03-01-2021||India||Drugs regulator chief’s press conference today, approval of Covid-19 vaccines likely||The chief of India’s drugs regulator will address a press conference on Sunday, a day after its experts recommended that the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) be allowed for emergency use in the country, reports have said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) will speak with at 11am and according to reports the watchdog may formally announce the approval for these two vaccines. The development comes after the subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, for emergency use and Covaxin for restricted use. Covaxin is the indigenous vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also read | All you need to know about Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccine’s efficacy, priceThe recommendations by the SEC have been sent to DCGI VG Somani, who heads Central Drugs Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO). “The approval is confirmed. It’s now a mere formality for the national drugs controller to put out an order,” said a senior health ministry official, who asked not to be named.The country’s top drug regulator had indicated earlier this week that India is likely to get a vaccine against Covid-19 in the New Year. “We will have a Happy New Year with something in hand, that’s all I can hint at,” VG Somani, DCGI, had said on Thursday.Also read | India approves AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccineIf DCGI grants his nod, India will be among a handful of countries, including the US and UK, that have begun vaccinations. Both the US and the UK too have approved two vaccines, but in their case, all of the candidates have completed the requisite scientific process.Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar had said on Saturday said India is perhaps the only country where four vaccines against Covid-19 are getting ready. “One was approved yesterday for emergency use, Serum’s Covishield,” he said.Javadekar had told reporters earlier that two other vaccines were waiting to be approved - Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and Russia’s Sputnik V that are both on trial in India. Six Covid-19 vaccines are undergoing clinical trials in India, including the frontrunners Covishield and Covaxin. There are also ZyCOV-D, which is developed by Cadila Healthcare Ltd in Ahmedabad in collaboration with the Centre’s department of biotechnology, and NVX-CoV2373, which is being developed by Serum Institute in collaboration with Novavax. There are two other vaccines, one manufactured by Biological E Ltd, Hyderabad, in collaboration with MIT, US and the other one developed by Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd in collaboration with HDT, US.Another vaccine is being developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd in collaboration with Thomas Jefferson University, US, which is at the pre-clinical stages. The trial of Russia’s Sputnik V is also going on by Dr Reddy’s Lab.Also read | Staff shortfall, improved internet connectivity among issues identified in vaccination dry runSII’s Covishield, which is based on an adenovirus vector, has shown an efficacy rate of 62% in trials held in the United Kingdom and Brazil. The Bharat Biotech vaccine is based on an inactivated virus platform, one of the oldest known methods to develop an inoculation. This technique has been used historically for several other diseases including Hepatitis A, Influenza, Polio and Rabies.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine will be available in UP near Makar Sankranti: Yogi AdityanathAll states and Union territories conducted mock inoculation drills in a test run on Saturday ahead of the launch as India is also gearing up to carry out the world’s largest vaccination programme. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday that shots administered in the first phase of India’s inoculation drive will be free of cost. The government aims to vaccinate 300 million people in the high-risk category of the population by July-August in the first phase.India reported 19,078 new cases of Covid-19 and 224 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday, which have taken the second worst-affected country’s tally to over 10.3 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-regulator-chief-s-press-conference-today-approval-of-covid-19-vaccines-likely/story-yfwScMM7lon56sv0J1FaBM.html
03-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly stable, had dinner hours after coronary angioplasty||Former India captain and Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president, Sourav Ganguly, 48, was stable and had a light dinner hours after undergoing coronary angioplasty at 3 pm on Saturday at a private hospital in Kolkata, where he was detected with three blocked arteries. The authorities at Woodlands Hospital said around midnight on Saturday that percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCS) and stenting in his right coronary artery was done through the radial route.Revasculation to the left anterior descending artery and obtuse marginal artery will be done later. Doctors will decide on Monday how to treat these. The authorities said there is a history of heart disease in Ganguly’s family. Ganguly, recognized as India’s one of the finest captains, was working out at the gym in his home when he felt unwell and dizzy around 11 am. Dr Rupali Basu, MD and CEO, Woodlands, said in a statement on Saturday midnight that Ganguly arrived at the emergency department around 1 pm. He had discomfort in the chest and had vomited while working out. The ECG report showed acute inferolateral wall myocardial infarction and echocardiography pointed at mild inferior wall hypokinesia. Ganguly tested negative for Covid-19. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, a number of cabinet ministers rushed to the hospital to visit Ganguly in the evening. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders also inquired about Ganguly’s health. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said Union home minister Amit Shah told state BJP leaders that the Centre would make available all facilities required for Ganguly’s treatment. Also Read: ‘Sourav Ganguly is stable, I’ve spoken to his family’: Jay ShahGanguly is the most prominent public figure whose name has been making the rounds in political circles of Bengal as the BJP’s probable chief ministerial face for the crucial assembly polls due in a few months. Ganguly, however, brushed aside the speculation, although he never categorically ruled out the possibility of joining politics. The speculations were fanned by the fact that Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah is the secretary of the BCCI. “I cannot believe that a sportsperson so fit could have a heart attack. He smiled at me and asked about my health instead. I came to know that he never underwent any precautionary test. This must be made mandatory for all cricketers,” said Mamata Banerjee after visiting Ganguly. The VIP patient at bed no 516 is being treated by Dr Saroj Mandal, Dr Soutik Panda and Dr Saptarshi Basu. The doctors decided to restrict the entry of visitors from Sunday so that Ganguly may have some rest. Ganguly has been the BCCI president since October 2019. His elder brother Snehasish was also a first-class cricketer and is now an administrator at the Cricket Association of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sourav-ganguly-stable-had-dinner-hours-after-coronary-angiography/story-E7kTQNU404dfaNZj48aNWL.html
03-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP to formulate Uttar Pradesh panchayat poll strategy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP to formulate Uttar Pradesh panchayat poll strategy in meetingThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is set to hold a meeting on Sunday to formulate a plan of action for the upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. Radha Mohan Singh, the BJP’s national vice president and in-charge of the state affairs, will be a part of the meeting. Read moreGehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in JaipurThe Congress party’s Rajasthan unit, lead by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress Rajasthan chief Govind Singh Dotasara and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, will on Sunday hold demonstrations against the recently passed farm laws at Jaipur’s Shaheed Smarak demanding for their repeal. Read moreIntense thunder, lightning and rain over several parts of DelhiSeveral parts of Delhi recorded moderate rain and thunder showers early Sunday morning. It continues to rain in many parts of the city and neighbouring parts of northwest India. Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station reported 2.4mm rain between 8.30 am on Saturday to 5:30 am on Sunday. 1mm rain was recorded between 3 am and 5.30 am today. Read moreFormer employees, grocery store owner held for snatching ₹2.5 lakh cash in Mohali’s Phase 9The Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) of Mohali police have arrested three persons, including two former employees and a grocery store owner, for snatching a bag containing ₹2.5 lakh cash from a chemist shop owner in Phase 9 and injuring him on December 30. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘He cannot do that on Australian pitches,’ Sunil Gavaskar explains what’s ailing Mayank AgarwalBack in 2018, Indian opener Mayank Agarwal made headlines after making a dynamic Test debut at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. His batting brilliance against a potent Australian bowling line-up turned out to be so impressive that he sidelined the likes of Murali Vijay and Shikhar Dhawan from the Indian Test set-up. Read moreKareena Kapoor designs her ‘dream home’ ahead of arrival of her second child, shares a glimpse. See hereActor Kareena Kapoor took to her Instagram account on Saturday to share a picture of herself from her new Mumbai apartment which is currently being redesigned. She called it her ‘dream home’. Read moreKiara Advani adds boho touch to bikini with accessories worth Rs 36k in MaldivesThe Maldives is the place to be at the moment. The clear blue water, white sand on the beaches combined with picturesque sunsets makes for the perfect holiday destination and that is why Bollywood celebrities have been flying there to ring in the New Year. Kiara Advani is also currently in the tropical heaven. Read moreNASA shares pic of ‘slow motion firework’ that lasted over 150 yearsYou may have had the chance to see various types of fireworks throughout your life. But, have you seen a ‘firework show’ in space? Well, if so, then lucky you. But if no, then worry not as today is your lucky day. Read moreWatch: Explained: India close to first Covid vaccine; what it may cost, how it’s madeIndia has taken a crucial step towards approving a vaccine for Covid-19. A committee of experts assessing coronavirus vaccines recommended that the candidate developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca and manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India be cleared. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-to-formulate-uttar-pradesh-panchayat-poll-strategy-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6nIrRvmlB4x0uE9NVs1JZN.html
03-01-2021||India||Bihar govt plans Didi Ki Rasoi canteens in all district hospitals||Buoyed by the success of the canteen called ‘Didi Ki Rasoi (DKR)’ run by women SHGs popularly known by the name of Jeevika didis along with the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society (BRLPS) at seven district hospitals of the state, chief minister Nitish Kumar had asked authorities to ensure that all canteens in the remaining districts should all be handed over to them. The move is seen as one more step towards women’s empowerment by the Bihar government, one of the main polls promises by the NDA The project, which first started at Vaishali district hospital, was later extended to Gaya, Purnia, Buxar, Sheohar, Sheikhpura, and Saharsa. “In November 2020, the RBI signed an agreement with DKR and today 10 didis are providing food to 50 RBI employees daily,” said secretary of rural development department Balamurugan D. “Jeevika didis are doing wonderful work on contract farming, milk production, bee keeping, and several other fields. The participation of women has increased in small scale industries. All district hospital canteens should now be made to run by these jeevika didis,” said Kumar while holding a meeting in state capital on Friday night. The DKR chain of community-based canteens is efficiently managed by the empowered rural women who also happen to be the members of the self- help groups (SHGs) of JEEViKA (or Bihar State Rural Livelihoods Mission). “DKRs have emerged as the true axiom of collective leadership aiming at meaningful changes in the rural community in terms of poverty elimination in Bihar. These entrepreneurs are charged with commitment to serve the customers (mostly in patients of district hospitals) with hygienic and home-like quality food at fair price. This is an innovation wherein no one is the master and every one is the owner (partner),” said Arvin Kumar Chaudhary, principal secretary of the department. “The didis are not the employees of DKR; they are the proud partners of their enterprise. Contribution of seed money to begin the venture entitles them for a partnership. They now earn a monthly salary and also get an equitable share in profit at the end of the year,” said Balamurugan. Providing quality and hygienic food to a large number of patients of district hospitals had been a challenge for government. “While from JEEViKA’s perspective; diversification in JEEViKA’s livelihood interventions was the need of the hour to provide sustainable and scalable livelihood options to poor-rural women. Solutions of both the challenges were sought in an amalgam and thus, DKR was conceptualized,” said Chaudhary. Apart from catering to the in-patients of district hospitals and their attendants, the DKRs have also been making their presence felt in fairs and exhibitions at district, state and national levels through food courts. DKR Buxar and Vaishali served food to Bihar State Election Commission during General Elections, 2019. “Total sales during the General Elections 2019 were worth Rs 18 lakh,” said an official. “DKR has not only given a consistent means of income to the didis, it has also generated employment opportunities for many other employees and other workers who work in these canteens,” said Balamurugan. The state currently spends at least Rs 130 per patient per day on food in accordance with rates. Allotted by the state government, this amount is routed to women SHGs through BRLPS, which is a state government initiative. The SHSB has already been directed to make space available at the concerned facilities for the canteen. The state of Bihar currently has 8.25 lakh SHGs which cover 94.85 lakh households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-govt-plans-didi-ki-rasoi-canteens-in-all-district-hospitals/story-gYawSfVANsi5jVaoCJTYPN.html
03-01-2021||India||7 more Covid-19 patients die in Uttarakhand, state reports 263 new cases||Uttarakhand on Saturday reported 263 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 91,544. Seven more Covid-19 patients also died in the state, taking the death toll to 1522. Out of 91,544 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 84,461 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 92.26%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.07% and death rate at 1.66%. On Saturday, 463 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with the maximum of 186 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Saturday, a maximum of 73 cases were reported from Dehradun district. Almora and Champawat districts reported at least four cases each on Saturday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 27,470 Covid-19 cases followed by Haridwar (13,440), Nainital (11,476) and US Nagar (11,150). The state health department has so far tested 18.05 lakh people of which results of over 11,400 are pending. Uttarakhand at present has a total of 22 containment zones with a maximum of eight such zones in Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-more-covid-19-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-state-reports-263-new-cases/story-iV6lyy0j4EJsKPIafxr0TK.html
03-01-2021||India||ICMR: UK strain successfully cultured in India||The National Institute of Virology in Pune has successfully isolated and cultured the new UK variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the samples of the UK returnees, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday.India is the second country, after the UK, to have done so. “No country has yet reported successful isolation and culture of the UK variant of Sars-CoV-2,” the ICMR statement said. Culture is the process by which cells are grown under controlled conditions, generally outside their natural environment.The researchers at the institute used “vero cell line” to culture the virus. These are cells derived from the kidney of the African green monkeys and are one of the most common cell lines used for molecular and cell biology research. These cultures will help the country in studying whether the current vaccines and the natural immunity gained through exposure to the infection will be effective against the new variant. “This is a very important step and the expected next step for the top virology institute. These cell cultures are extremely important for various studies, including studies to answer the pertinent question on whether the vaccines will be effective against the new variant,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-uk-strain-successfully-cultured-in-india/story-eteLa1EzGLay23fYofzHpO.html
03-01-2021||India||Villagers turn 3 barren hillocks into dense forest in Bengal’s Purulia, wild animals make it their home||Every morning when 67-year-old Dwijapada Mahanty, a retired village school headmaster wakes up, he is greeted by the chirping of hundreds of birds, the sight of wild rabbits playing in the field near his house and the view of a lush green forest on three hillocks at a distance. “They all come from the forest, which we have developed on the hillocks, at a stone’s throw from our village. Earlier it was all rocky and barren. But now there is a lush green forest out there, inhabited by wild animals and birds. The villagers protect them,” said Mahanty, a resident of Jharbagda, a remote village in West Bengal’s Purulia district, about 250 km northwest of Kolkata. The situation was, however, starkly different even in the early 90’s. Back then, years of deforestation had left the hillocks totally denuded and rocky. Villagers said that in one of the hillocks there was just one tree left – a palm tree. “While during the summer the temperature would soar to 47-48 degrees Celsius making life unbearable in the rocky terrain, during the monsoons streams of water would gush down the hillocks, through the gullies, eroding the land at the foothills and rendering the farmlands almost infertile,” said Tapas Mahanty, a farmer in the village. With hardly any forest land around, the village’s women folk had to walk to a wooded area around five kilometers away to collect twigs and leaves for fuel. The ponds and tubewells in and around the village would all run dry in the summer and villagers had to walk about two kilometers to collect water in the scorching heat. The farmlands bore very little grains and vegetables. It was around 1998 that the villagers decided to restore the greenery of the area with the hope that it would put an end to the drudgery. They approached a NGO, Tagore Society for Rural Development (TSRD), which was already engaged in greening projects in the area and in Jharkhand. Jharbagda is located close to the Bengal-Jharkhand border. “We had to start from scratch as the area was totally denuded. A detailed plan was made to restore the greenery, stop the water erosion, recharge the ground water and raise the ground water level without which the trees wouldn’t survive for long. The villagers dived headlong with us and work started around 1999,” said Nandalal Bakshi, coordinator of the TSRD’s project in Jharbagda. More than three lakh saplings of around 75 species were planted all across the hillocks that spread over 300 acres in the next five to six years. Villagers ensured that none of the saplings were damaged by any person or cattle. There are around 400–425 households in the village. On an average the district receives 1100 mm–1500 mm of rain every year. But as the district has a very undulating terrain, run-off is very high and more than 50% of this water is wasted making large parts prone to droughts. Thus the district is called ‘Ahalya Bhumi’ the land with a stony heart. “Gullies were plugged and staggered trenches were dug to stop the soil erosion and arrest the rain water during the monsoon. The saplings were also chosen carefully keeping in mind the soil condition and the slope. Four categories of saplings – timber, fuel, fodder and fruits – were planted,” said Bakshi. Once the saplings matured into trees, the water content of soil increased automatically and the erosion dropped. Farmers could now start intercropping and their farm produce also shot up. The ground water table started rising. The once barren fields were covered with lush green grass and plants which became suitable for cattle. The women can now collect twigs and leaves for cooking from the hillocks which saves much of their time. The village ponds and tubewells also don’t run dry in the summer, which means women need not walk for about two kilometers in the unbearable heat to collect water. “I own two bighas of land at the foothills of the hillocks. Earlier I used to get around 6-7 quintals of paddy. Now, I get around 9–10 quintals. The moisture content has increased. The two cows which I own can also graze on the village fields. Earlier they used to feed only on paddy straw,” said Sujit Mahanty, a villager. The villagers could notice yet another change. The lush green forest also acts like a natural air conditioner and has been able to bring down the summer temperature. “Earlier when the area had become denuded, the summers used to become unbearable. The land used to remain hot till around 9 pm in the night. Now we can feel the difference. The temperature doesn’t shoot up to that extreme and it is at least 4–5 degrees cooler that before. Villagers said that wild animals including wild boars, jackals, rabbits and many birds have made the forest their home. Every year a herd of around a dozen elephants also come and stay here for some months. “We found that during the summer the wild animals had to face severe scarcity of water and often used to come out of the forest in search of drinking water. With the help of villagers, we decided to dig a pond inside the forest so that there is no scarcity of water for them. The water is not used by the villagers. It is solely for the wild animals to drink,” said Bakshi. The area has now turned into a major area of interest for not just the locals but also for the Japanese agency which funded the greening project. They come and visit the area at least once every year. The locals and the NGO have also named the hills Makino-Raghunath hill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-turn-3-barren-hillocks-into-dense-forest-in-bengal-s-purulia-wild-animals-make-it-their-home/story-s9fjfhgvpwT9OnUh7W3FtK.html
03-01-2021||India||AAP extended legal aid to farmers against BJP leaders for defamatory remarks: Chadha||The newly appointed Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Saturday said his party has decided to offer legal assistance to the farmers who have decided to approach the court against the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders’ alleged defamatory remarks.“If someone abuses an honest farmer, it is similar to that of abusing Mother India,” said Chadha, who is on a visit to the state.Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, a farmer from Amritsar; Ramneek Singh Randhawa from Jalandhar and Sukhwinder Singh Sidhu from Sangrur have filed defamation cases against certain BJP leaders for their alleged derogatory statements regarding farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the recently enacted farm legislation.“Farmers had been requesting the (Narendra) Modi-led central government to listen to them and repeal farm laws, but in turn were only abused. BJP leaders have at different times described farmers as terrorists, anti-nationals, agents of Pakistan and China. I would like to tell BJP that our farmers have had enough,” said Chadha.“Party vows to stand with the farmers in their fight till BJP leaders are punished. Right from filing a case, to fighting in court, AAP will work with the farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-extended-legal-aid-to-farmers-against-bjp-leaders-for-defamatory-remarks-chadha/story-0kicdM7KmZ3YtAkHdGVxBI.html
03-01-2021||India||DMK cadre manhandle AIADMK woman functionary at Stalin’s gram sabha||DMK cadre manhandled a woman who raised a question to their leader MK Stalin during a gram sabha meeting he was conducting in Devarayapuram village panchayat in Coimbatore district on Saturday.Videos surfaced of the skirmish which shows Stalin alleging that the woman was sent to the meeting to create a nuisance by AIADMK minister SP Velumani who hails from Coimbatore. Stalin had recently submitted a list of corruption charges against chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and other ministers including Velumani.“Madam, I can’t answer your question. Velumani has sent you. Leave the venue,” Stalin tells the woman who was identified as Poongodi and local news reports said that she belonged to the AIADMK’s women’s wing.DMK cadre can be seen trying to drag her out but Stalin asked them not to touch her and wanted her to be handed over to the police. The woman went out holding a DMK cap and shouting a slogan, “Destroy DMK.”Also read: Expert panel gives nod to Covaxin for restricted useDMK cadre chased her, while the police took her out of the venue and managed to put her inside a vehicle but the cadre assaulted a man who had accompanied her. “We took her to the hospital (Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital) because she complained of dizziness,” said superintendent of police A Arularasu. “AIADMK staged a road roko and we dispersed them. So far no one has registered any complaint.”Stalin continued the meeting warning Velumani not to repeat the incident. “You (Velumani) can do this in one meeting but if we want, we’ll make sure you and your chief minister cannot conduct any meetings, so stop with this,” Stalin said. “If she had the guts, she should have said she’s from AIADMK and sat here, why did she wear a DMK camp?”Later, another video emerged of party workers handing over a mobile phone to her and telling her, “Poongodi, talk to the minister.” On the call, she says that she couldn’t be patient when Stalin was accusing him so she questioned him and created chaos and that police rescued her.Also read: ‘Perfect score’ - Nine ace CAT exam, bag 100 percentileAIADMK’s IT Wing condemned Stalin for expelling a woman for questioning him. Their ally, BJP’s vice-president K Annamalai tweeted a video of the incident and said that the DMK was no place for a woman.Stalin has been conducting gram sabha meetings as part of the DMK’s ‘reject ADMK’ campaign ahead of the 2021 assembly elections. The ruling AIADMK government had ordered its district collectors not to permit these meetings stating that it violated the Panchayat Raj Act.Meanwhile, DMK’s organising secretary RS Bharathi has filed a complaint with Tamil Nadu’s director general of police, JK Tripathy on the incident. In his complaint, he said that minister Velumani ‘conspired with unnamed officers’ including Poongodi who is the “deputy president, women’s wing, Coimbatore, ADMK... to incite violence in the peaceful Makkal Grama Sabha meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/tamil-nadu/dmk-cadre-manhandle-aiadmk-woman-functionary-at-stalin-s-gram-sabha/story-Gl0ZWW4oE86v45qHbFQbnL.html
03-01-2021||India||Newly-married Jammu woman found dead, parents accuse in-laws of murder||Following the death of a newly-married woman on Friday in Jammu’s Samba town, her family members and relatives staged a strong demonstration in front of the DC office in Kathua. They accused her in-laws of murdering her.The victim, identified as Pallavi, aged around 22 and hailed from Kathua. She was married to Abhishek Badyal in Samba.The family members had kept the dead body of the newly-married on the road and demanded that her in-laws be booked and arrested for murdering her. However, senior police officers reached the spot and pacified them.“The body was later cremated in the evening,” said Kathua district SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra.Also read: ‘Perfect score’ - Nine ace CAT exam, bag 100 percentileSamba district SSP Rajesh Sharma said, “we have initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 CrPC. Post mortem report of the deceased is awaited and further action will be taken accordingly. The in-laws of the deceased have been detained for questioning.”The husband of the deceased, her mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law have been taken into custody.Family members claimed that Pallavi had sent seven to eight messages on a WhatsApp group of her family on the night of December 31 claiming that her life was in danger and that she was being beaten up by her in-laws.“But none saw them on the fateful night and the next morning her in-laws told us that she died by suicide. Her body bore marks of severe assault,” said one of the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newly-married-jammu-woman-found-dead-parents-accuse-in-laws-of-murder/story-0sagQtw2ivu4uS1vhYvGMJ.html
03-01-2021||India||Odisha BJP leader killed, associate critical; police suspect past enmity||A BJP leader in Odisha was allegedly killed by unidentified men over past enmity on Saturday evening.Kulamani Baral, BJP’s Salepur in-charge and former chairman of the Mahanga Panchayat Samity under Cuttack district was returning home with his associate Dibyasingh Baral on a bike when six men caught up with him at Jankoti on Shukanai embankment road.The men hacked the duo repeatedly leaving them seriously injured. Though the two of them were immediately taken to the Mahanga Hospital, Baral was declared dead by doctors at the facility. His associate has been shifted to the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack and is in a critical condition.Though the exact reason is not known, BJP Cuttack district unit president Prakash Behera alleged that BJD leaders were behind the attack.In April 2019, a BJP leader in Khurda district was shot dead a day before PM Narendra Modi’s visit to the state during the Assembly and Lok Sabha polls.BJP’s Khurda Mandal president Manguli Jena was shot dead by two scooty-borne men on April 14 night just outside the party office. The two men are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bjp-leader-killed-associate-critical-police-suspect-past-enmity/story-OQkxVpwpoDTWhLK9J5hnxH.html
03-01-2021||India||Expert panel gives nod to Covaxin for restricted use||Experts at India’s drug regulators recommended that the Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech coronavirus vaccines be allowed for use in India, the government said on Saturday, paving the way for a formal confirmation before which mass inoculations can begin in the world’s second-most populous country.The endorsement by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the candidate made by University of Oxford and British pharma firm AstraZeneca was communicated on Friday by officials who were aware of developments. This vaccine is being manufactured in India by Serum Institute of India, which will market it as Covishield.The second endorsement, which carries additional conditions that the use may only be “in clinical trial mode” of the candidate by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech was unexpected since the developer is yet to determine efficacy data, and it was described as perplexing by independent experts.The Bharat Biotech vaccine, known as Covaxin, is in phase III trials that began in mid-November. The SEC recommended it be given permission “for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, specially in the context of infection by mutant strains,” the ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement on Saturday.Read more| Bharat Biotech recruits 23,000 volunteers for phase 3 clinical trial of CovaxinExplaining what use in emergency situation means, a member of the expert panel, who did not wish to be named, said: “This pandemic is an emergency situation, and this vaccine has been allowed to be used in this situation for lack of any other alternatives before us to control the pandemic. One company alone will not be able to fulfil country’s requirement as India is a vast country so Covaxin is the only another option right now.”“Clinical trial mode would mean the data that is there currently is not sufficient for it to be called a full-fledged therapy. It’s working more on an experimental basis,” this person added.It appears that the roll-out of the Bharat Biotech vaccine will more restricted than the Serum Institute of India-manufactured vaccine, which has an efficacy rate of 62%.“Serum Institute’s vaccine will be the main vaccine. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine is a backup for emergency situation, which may happen if there is a sudden surge in cases or reinfection,” Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS director, told NDTV. Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor in the department of Gastrointestinal Sciences at Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore, and one of the country’s topmost vaccine experts said: “We actually do not have EUA (emergency use authorisations), so I have no clue what the language in the statement today means, except that it is different for Covishield and Covaxin.” Read more| Covaxin approval: All you need to know about Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccine’s efficacy, priceThe recommendations by the SEC have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India Dr VG Somani, who heads India’s drug regulator Central Drugs Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO).“The approval is confirmed. It’s now a mere formality for the national drugs controller to put out an order,” said a senior health ministry official, who asked not to be named.The DCGI’s final grant could put India among a handful of countries, including the US and UK, that have begun vaccinations. Both the US and the UK too have approved two vaccines, but in their case, all of the candidates have completed requisite scientific process.So far, the Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate – globally known as AZD1222 – remains India’s strongest contender to facilitate immunisation of tens of thousands of people. SII officials have said in recent weeks that they may have 40-50 million doses ready for shipping across India shortly. Termed as the “vaccine of the world”, the Oxford antidote is easier to store and transport than the vaccines approved in other western countries. It can be kept at refrigerator temperatures (between 2-8°C) for up to six months, a feature that facilitates utilisation of India’s vast immunisation infrastructure.Read more| India perhaps only country with 4 vaccines almost ready, says Prakash JavadekarLike the Oxford vaccine, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is also easy to store and transport, and is being indigenously produced. The company is aiming to produce up to 300 million doses annually, and it did not disclose if it has stockpiled any volumes.“Bharat Biotech has announced successful recruitment of 23,000 volunteers, and continued progress towards achieving the goal of 26,000 participants for Phase-3 clinical trial of Covaxin across multiple sites in India. The clinical trials... is India’s first and only Phase III efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest phase III efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India. Covaxin has been evaluated in approximately 1,000 subjects in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, with acceptance in international peer reviewed scientific journals,” the company said in a statement on Saturday.In December, the company released data from phase I/II trials showing most volunteers who were given the dose developed antibodies and these were comparable to antibodies developed after a natural infection.Efficacy data, which the company has said in its protocol will be analysed at 130 infections, is yet to be announced. Developers calculate efficacy when they hit the preset number of infections, at which point they ‘un-blind’ the trial to check how many of these were in people who actually got the vaccine (as compared to a placebo).If the number of infections among those vaccinated is at least 50% fewer, the vaccine is deemed to have an efficacy rate of 50% -- the minimum bar any coronavirus vaccine needs to meet for approval.Covishield, based on an adenovirus vector, has shown an efficacy rate of 62% in trials held in UK and Brazil.Read more| Reading the clues from Covaxin early trial dataThe Bharat Biotech vaccine is based on an inactivated virus platform, one of the oldest known methods to develop an inoculation. This technique has been used historically for several other diseases including Hepatitis A, Influenza, Polio and Rabies. The country is also gearing up to carry out the world’s largest vaccination programme, with all states and Union territories conducting mock inoculation drills in a test run ahead of the launch. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday announced that shots administered in the first phase of India’s inoculation drive will be free of cost. The government aims to vaccinate 300 million people in the high-risk category of the population by July-August in this phase. The SEC on Saturday also granted permission to Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila to conduct Phase 3 trials of its vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-gives-nod-to-covaxin-for-restricted-use/story-kJxA3z0Xz0SPWc0k3fgrEJ.html
03-01-2021||India||25-year-old man killed in Panipat in suspected hate crime||A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death in Haryana’s Panipat allegedly by his wife’s relatives who were against the intercaste marriage. The deceased has been identified as Neeraj Kumar of Bhola Chowk in Panipat. According to the police, the incident took place in Panipat’s busy market area on Friday night, and the accused can be seen running away in a CCTV footage from the cameras installed in the locality. Neeraj and Komal (21), who lived in the same locality, got married nearly 45 days ago in a local court. The woman’s family members, however, were not happy with the union as the man belonged to the Other Backward Classes while the woman was a member of the Scheduled Caste, read the complaint lodged by Gulshan Kumar, father of the deceased. Kumar alleged that Komal’s brother Vijay Kumar, alias Chhota, and her cousin Pawan Kumar were not happy with their marriage and had threatened to kill him a few days ago. “Based on the complaint lodged by Neeraj’s family, an FIR has been registered against Pawan Kumar and Vijay Kumar under sections 302 and 34 of the Indian Panel Code and sections 25 and 54 of the Arms Act,” deputy superintendent of police (Panipat ) Virender Saini said. A few people have been detained in connection with the case and further probe is on, added an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-year-old-man-killed-in-panipat-in-suspected-hate-crime/story-WHhRq60tNDi8rZC6jJYEqM.html
03-01-2021||India||In Bihar, online nomination for panchayat polls likely to get approval||Candidates for the upcoming panchayat polls are likely to get the facility of filing their nomination papers online, apart from the conventional method, as part of the State Election Commission’s (SEC’s) efforts to introduce digital processes in the conduct of these elections.People familiar with the developments said the state poll panel had been holding deliberations to make the election process more transparent and less time consuming. The digital processes are also aimed at reducing physical interfaces during the polls to be held amid Covid-19.“There is a proposal to provide facility of filing nominations both online and offline,” said an official in the SEC, on condition of anonymity.For filing nominations online, candidates will have to go to designated portals and deposit the requisite fee through a challan digitally and subsequently visit the office of the returning officer (RO) at an appointed time, sources said. The same system was adopted in the recently concluded assembly polls in Bihar.Officials said a proposal of voting for panchayat polls through EVMs is also under consideration of the state government and awaiting nod from the cabinet.Another initiative under consideration is to generate e-certificates soon after results are declared so that it could be issued to winning candidates. “The proposals are all being weighed and would be implemented in a phase-wise manner,” said another SEC official.The draft publication of the updated rolls for panchayat polls would be done on January 19 and the final publication of rolls would be done on February 19 after disposal of claims and objections.Officials said the updated voters’ list would be put online and voters would be able to download it and also search for their names by using various apps. “The entire voters’ list is being digitized for easy accessibility of voters,” said an official.Meanwhile, sources said the SEC is likely to send the schedule for conduct of the panchayat polls by next month to the state government for approval. The panchayat polls are likely to be held in April- May in a phase-wise manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-online-nomination-for-panchayat-polls-likely-to-get-approval/story-SMfYxLJUk99nZUnmsjQYBI.html
03-01-2021||India||Amplifying reach, fake science biggest challenges to vaccination||The Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat biotech vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are all set to get the Drug Controller General of India nod for restricted emergency use, with the priority vaccination of health workers, frontline workers and older populations scheduled to begin in January. India aims to vaccinate around 300 million people over the next six months. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine costs US$5-6 per dose, but it will be given free to those who need it under the Central government’s vaccination drive. Bharat Biotech has not disclosed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine. “The vaccines are free not just in Delhi but the entire country,” said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday. The UK became the first country to approve the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine on December 30 and will begin vaccination before India on January 4. Only India has cleared the Bharat Biotech vaccine for approval. Vaccines work. Mass vaccination led to the global eradication of smallpox in 1979, with the last case reported in Somalia in 1977. Before its eradication, variola virus that causes smallpox infected at least 50 million people annually in the 1950s and killed around 300 million in 20th century, compared to the 100 million people who died in wars and armed conflict in the same period. Read more| Day 1 of nationwide dry run concludes as two Covid-19 vaccines await final nodNot getting vaccinated not just leaves people unprotected but fuels the unfettered spread of disease. Politics and fake science are fuelling safety concerns about the AstraZeneca vaccine on social media even before it’s approved for use in India. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said, “I am not going to get vaccinated for now. How can I trust BJP’s vaccine…?”, while former Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy tweeted if Indians were going to be guinea pigs. Politically-motivated leaders, discredited researchers, and uninformed influencers can mislead people with little or no understanding of science, which has led World Health Organisation (WHO) to list “vaccine hesitancy” as one of the top 10 threats to global health in 2019, along with air pollution and climate change. Vaccine hesitancy is a reluctance or refusal to get vaccinated despite availability and affordability of a vaccine.With fake science spreading within minutes on social media, the Central and state governments and public health professionals have the additional task of debunking emotionally-charged rumours.Dr Harsh Vardhan, a trained clinician who led India’s polio eradication efforts both in Delhi and the country as the state and then the national health minister, fired an opening salvo on Saturday and said people should reject misinformation rumours against the new Covid-19 vaccines. “I appeal to people to not believe in any rumours. Different kinds of rumours were spread during polio immunisation, but people got their children vaccinated, which led to India being declared polio free. The safety and efficacy of the vaccine is the government’s priority, and these will not be compromised,” said Dr Harsh Vardhan. Read more| Covid-19 vaccination dry run underway; health minister urges people not to pay heed to rumoursConducting nationwide innoculation campaigns is not new to India. Mass vaccination ended smallpox in the country within a year of the disease devastating Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal in 1974, when India recorded at least 61,000 cases and 15,000 deaths. The last indigenous case was reported in the Katihar district of Bihar on July 5, 1975, following which India was declared small-pox free in 1977. Following extensive nationwide vaccination drives, India was officially declared polio-free in 2014, three years after the last case was reported in West Bengal on January 13. Massive outreach programmes to dispel conspiracy theories about the polio vaccine being a birth-control tool targeting Muslims in parts of western Uttar Pradesh and Bihar finally led to reduction in cases. Polio cases declined from a global high of 741 in 2009 to one in 2011. Interrupted vaccination coverage has led to polio persisting in Pakistan and Afghanistan, which together reported 451 cases in 2020, according to data reported to WHO till Dec 30. Even before the Covid-19 pandemic interrupted vaccination services, unfounded rumours about the safety of measles-rubella vaccine had slowed coverage in some states despite the vaccine saving at least 21 million lives globally since 2000. The biggest challenge is ensuring vaccines reach those who need it as soon as possible. “Priority populations will not account for more than 10% hence need a plan for general population or else we too will encounter suboptimal vaccination rollout like US. Government should consider 50:50 deployment for three months and then lift restrictions to augment access… Why not have 50:50 split in vaccine deployment between priority and general population?” tweeted Kiran Majumdar Shaw, executive chairperson, Biocon Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amplifying-reach-fake-science-biggest-challenges-to-vaccination/story-sGK8NVZyb1Lknk4Kx1qRdI.html
03-01-2021||India||Bangladesh army to take part in Republic Day parade||A marching contingent of the Bangladesh army will take part in the Republic Day parade this year -- the second time foreign soldiers will be marching down Rajpath as part of India’s biggest ceremonial event, officials familiar with the development said on Saturday. The Bangladeshi contingent has been invited to take part in the parade at a time the two countries are celebrating the golden jubilee of the birth of Bangladesh. The marching contingent will comprise 96 soldiers, and will carry their BD-08 rifles -- a licence-produced variant of the Chinese Type 81 7.62mm assault weapon. The Bangladesh Ordnance Factories produce more than 10,000 such assault rifles every year.Foreign soldiers took part in the parade for the first time in 2016 when a French army contingent of 130 soldiers marched down Rajpath. The then French President, Francois Hollande, witnessed the parade as the chief guest that year. The parade this year will be shorter, involve fewer participants and only a fourth of the usual number of spectators, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as reported by Hindustan Times on December 30. Not more than 25,000 spectators will be allowed at Rajpath this year, compared to over 100,000 people who usually turn up for the parade. Children below the age of 15 will not be permitted at the parade. The marching contingents will be seen in a rectangular formation this year, instead of the traditional square formation as fewer participants are being allowed in the squads. The squads will only have 96 participants, as compared to 144 in the ordinary course. The shortened route of the parade will see it end at the National Stadium instead of Red Fort, the officials said. Last year’s Independence Day celebrations were also muted as a result of the coronavirus outbreak and measures imposed to check the spread of the disease, with fewer VIPs attending the annual August 15 event at Delhi’s Red Fort while schoolchildren skipped it altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/b-desh-army-to-take-part-in-r-day-parade/story-EAeXeO1JbNvvI8FwNawloK.html
03-01-2021||India||Nothing can deter Indian forces: CDS Rawat at LAC||The Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, visited on Saturday air bases and interacted with frontline soldiers in forward areas near the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh amid a border row with China in eastern Ladakh, officials said. “Nothing can deter the Indian armed forces from remaining steadfast in their call of duty,” an official statement quoted Rawat as saying. While the current border row is confined to the Ladakh theatre, the Indian military is on high alert to deal with any misadventure by the Chinese forces all along the border --- stretching from Ladakh in the north to Arunachal Pradesh in the east. Rawat completed one year as India’s first CDS on December 31. As CDS, Rawat is the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), heads the department of military affairs, and is the single point military adviser to the defence minister. The CDS also interacted with personnel from the army, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the Special Frontier Force in Dibang Valley and Lohit Sector of Arunachal Pradesh, the statement said. Complimenting the soldiers for their operational readiness, Rawat said that only Indian soldiers could remain vigilant under the challenging conditions and they were willing to go beyond the call of duty to safeguard the country’s farthest frontiers. Rawat’s visit to the eastern sector comes amid the nearly eight-month-long military standoff between Indian and Chinese troops on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which has taken bilateral relations to an all-time low. The two sides haven’t been able to agree on disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the LAC despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talksEarlier this week, defence minister Rajnath Singh said that talks with China on disengagement and de-escalation in the Ladakh sector did not yield any meaningful solution. Both India and China are prepared for a long haul in the Ladakh sector and are firm about holding forward positions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) through the harsh winter months. Both sides are expected to hold the ninth round of military talks to reduce border but there is no indication of when India and China will hold the dialogue. Both countries had agreed to hold the corps commander-level dialogue at an early date during diplomatic talks on the dispute on December 18. While India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the military talks, the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-can-deter-indian-forces-cds-rawat-at-lac/story-8UmlkZcWWBRNt35mIz7zNP.html
03-01-2021||India||J&K police investigate jeweller’s killing as parties condemn attack||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday said they were investigating the killing of a jeweller by terrorists in Srinagar earlier this week, as leaders across political lines condemned the attack. On Thursday, 70-year-old Satpal Nischal, who had been running a jewellery shop in Srinagar for at least 40 years, was gunned down weeks after he obtained a certificate under the new domicile law, which allows people who have lived in J&K for more than 15 years the right to purchase property. The Resistance Front (TRF), a new terror group that is controlled by top handlers of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), took responsibility for the attack in a statement. The terror group said the jeweller was part of a “settler project” and those who obtain the domicile certificate will be treated as “occupiers”.“For a long time we warned and now the time has come when we shall warn no more. We know your names, we know where you live and we know what you do. We are coming for you,” TRF said in a statement. Police said they have begun an investigation into the case and were looking at all possible angles. “We are investigating into the case and are looking at what TRF has said in a Facebook post,” sub-divisional police officer Shahjahan Ahmad said. Originally a resident of Punjab’s Gurdaspur, Nischal had purchased two properties after he acquired the domicile certificate, which was provided for after the Centre revoked the Constitution’s Article 370 that gave a special status to J&K in August 2019, people familiar with the matter said. Condemning the attack, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said Nischal’s killing was an assault on the idea of a unified India.“In India, we embrace all religions but it is a matter of concern and shame that the leaders of self-proclaimed secular parties in Kashmir have once again failed to condemn Pakistan and its proxy TRF,” J&K BJP spokesperson Brigadier (retired) Anil Gupta said in a statement.Taking to Twitter, National Conference (NC) leader and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah said that no form of violence can be justified. “Very unfortunate. There can be no justification for this kind of violence. May the soul of the departed rest in peace & may his family find strength at this difficult time,” he said. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti echoed Abdullah’s views. “Condemn the gruesome killing of an innocent man in Srinagar… Violence has no place in a civilised society. Deepest condolences to the bereaved family,” she said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-investigate-jeweller-s-killing-as-parties-condemn-attack/story-GcqS8aleeCyLyebgQwWv5O.html
03-01-2021||India||Large-scale study in UK finds new strain could be tougher to control||The new variant of the coronavirus continued to grow across parts of England during a month-long lockdown that was otherwise successful in containing the older strain, a large analysis of infection trends in the UK shows, raising concerns that the world could find it harder to contain the pandemic if the mutation takes hold.The new variant – known as VOC 202012/01 or B.1.1.7 – was first detected in the UK in mid-September and has since raged across the east, south-east and the midlands part of England, as well as the capital London.The variant has 23 changes in its genetic code, with some that experts say makes it more transmissible. Its outbreak forced several countries to stop travel to and from the UK in the days leading to Christmas.In the period since, at least 33 countries – including India – have said that they have found the strain among their populations. Authorities around the world have now stepped up genomic surveillance and are expediting vaccinations to be able to head off the new strain from taking hold.Read more| In a first, India successfully isolates, cultures UK-variant of Sars-CoV-2: ICMRThe new analysis now provides further evidence that the variant of concern (VOC) is significantly more transmissible and infects younger people more readily. The Sars-Cov-2 virus has until now been unable to infect young people in the same way as it does someone older – a characteristic that slowed its spread in at least some populations.“Critically, we find evidence that non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs, or containment strategies such as lockdowns) were sufficient to control non-VOC lineages to reproduction numbers below 1 during the November 2020 lockdown in England, but that at the same time the NPIs were insufficient to control the VOC,” said the authors of the report released on Thursday.Reproduction number refers to the average number of secondary infections that one case can cause; bringing it to under 1 by containment efforts is crucial to reduce an outbreak and ease the burden on health care facilities.The analysis, carried out by researchers from the Imperial College London, University of Edinburgh, Public Health England (PHE), the Wellcome Sanger Institute, the University of Birmingham, and the COVID-19 Genomics UK (COG-UK) Consortium, found the VOC’s R number up till December 6 was 1.74 times its predecessor’s.The researchers used genome surveillance data and tests results with characteristic known as the “S-gene dropout” – which signals the presence of the VOC – and paired it with statistical analysis to determine how the new variant spread and whom it infected.Read more| ‘Situation worsening’: New Covid-19 strain increasing across UK, officials say“These analyses, which have informed UK government planning in recent weeks, show that the new variant of concern, B.1.1.7, has substantially higher transmissibility than previous Sars-CoV-2 viruses circulating in the UK. This will make control more difficult and further accentuates the urgency of rolling out vaccination as quickly as possible,” said Neil Ferguson, the vice-dean of School of Public Health, Imperial College London, and of the authors.“These new analyses provide further evidence of the increased transmissibility of the novel variant of Covid-19... this research underlines the importance of doing everything we can to reduce the spread of the virus while the vaccines are being rolled out. The basics remain very important: Comply with social distancing and abide by the restrictions in place,” said Dr Meera Chand, incident director for Covid-19 at PHE, a UK government agency.Similar concerns appeared to have forced the hands of Indian experts who on Saturday recommended to the drugs regulator that a vaccine made by local developer Bharat Biotech be rolled out under an experimental and emergency basis particularly in light of the new variant’s spread.The outbreak has also forced the UK to adopt what has been described as a radical shift in its vaccination strategy by focussing on getting as many first doses to different people as possible instead of stockpiling the requisite second doses that will need to be giving within 3-4 weeks. The country will now give second doses up to three months later.“I am still a proponent of 2-dose vaccine but given the urgency, we can delay the 2nd dose until more vaccines become available. I know many others have been saying this all along, but it was the B.1.1.7 variant transmission rate that did it for me,” said professor Akiko Iwasaki, professor of immunology and molecular biology at Yale School of Medicine, in a tweet on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-lockdown-didn-t-help-curb-new-strain-report/story-WzRAjAXySGZAaxSD8L1EyL.html
03-01-2021||India||Assam transgenders release video, seek mainstreaming, inclusion in festivities||In a bid to create awareness against social alienation of the community, the All Assam Transgender Association (AATA) has released a short video seeking inclusion in festivals and other occasions. Called ‘Ami Tritiyo’ (We, the Third), the 2:24 minute video, a collaborative effort of AATA and a local NGO, North East Voluntary Association of Rural Development (NEVARD), was released on Friday. Made with the support of transgender welfare board under the social welfare department of Assam government, the video, made public ahead of this month’s Magh Bihu, the harvesting festival marked with feasting and celebrations, hopes to help transgender people get included in the festivities. “This video was part of a project by the social welfare department for mass sensitization on the issue of discrimination faced by the transgender community,” said Swati Bidhan Baruah, an eminent transgender activist and the associate vice-chairperson of the transgender welfare board. “Hope this video will spread awareness and help rid of gender discrimination against the transgender community. Since Magh Bihu is nearby, we want people to include transgenders in the festivities as well in other celebrations without any stigma,” Baruah added. Also Read: Assam professor dies of burn injuries; one acquaintance arrestedShot last month at Dihina village in Kamrup (Rural) district close to Guwahati, the video shows a transgender woman dressing up to take part in Bihu dance along with other men and women of the village. But as she goes out to join the others, a villager says she can’t dance with the group as she’s not a woman. Hurt by the harsh words, the transgender woman sits alone crying when a Bihu dancer from the group asks her to join them. The video ends with the message- ‘breaking all gender stereotypes, let’s celebrate Bihu together’. “Like us, transgender people also want to be accepted and loved without discrimination. We have seen some of them suffering from mental trauma because of social alienation. Some even start substance abuse or hurt themselves. This should stop,” said a member of NEVARD. According to Census 2011, Assam has a transgender population of 11,374. In June last year, the Assam government set up a welfare board for the transgender people. A separate gender category for transgender people was introduced in the state civil services examination in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-transgenders-release-video-seek-mainstreaming-inclusion-in-festivities/story-MElyDdVtwBu89HKjDUEXbJ.html
03-01-2021||India||No such thing as goodbye: A teacher’s family shares why they donated her organs after death||In death, there’s the promise of life. The two are uniquely entwined. It has been six days since Syed Rafath Parveen,40, left this world after a sudden brain haemorrhage. Her heart is healthy and ticking in Bhairav Singh, 56, who has miraculously slipped out of death’s grasp. Recuperating from a life saving timely heart transplant, the 18 Assam Rifles havildar is happy that he will finally be able to meet his teenage son and daughter eagerly waiting for him in his village in Khatima, Uttarakhand. “Apne bachhon ka chehra dekh paunga...doosra jeevan mila hai (finally, I will get to see the faces of my children...it’s a rebirth for me),” he says. Singh had been diagnosed with end-stage heart failure. Running from one hospital to another, his wife, Pushpa Devi had lost all hope that Bhairav Singh would survive. The heart transplant brings her ordeal to an end. “I am forever indebted to the donor’s family…I wish them all the joy in this world,” says Devi, 50. A final act of compassion Syed Rafath Parveen, the donor whose heart was transplanted in Bhairav Singh, had returned home from Dubai to spend her short winter vacation with her family in Ghaziabad just two weeks ago. The last movie she had watched before leaving for India was Phir Zindagi, a short film on organ donation. “Only lucky people get the opportunity to give the gift of life to someone while departing,” Rafath had told one of her friends over the phone. On 24 December, doctors declared Rafath brain dead after she suffered a brain hemorrhage. Even as they dealt with unimaginable shock, her family took no time to decide that they wanted to donate her organs. Her parents felt that this would be the most befitting tribute to the person they say she was – compassionate, courageous, committed to the cause of others. Syed Rafath Parveen taught primary school students in DPS Mathura Road for 20 years. Last year, took up a teaching job in Delhi Private School, Dubai. As she returned home, Rafath wanted to spend every bit of her winter holidays with her family – husband, two sons and her parents in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. “She was jovial and chirpy as always. Her husband and elder son went to receive her at the airport. We were so happy that she was back. We could have never imagined that we were going to lose her in a few days,” says her father, Syed Ahmad AliShah. The very next day of her arrival, Rafath had gone out with her friends. “She hung out with us, had noodles from a road side stall, went to the salon…she wanted to live every moment to the fullest. Every time we would say, let’s go home, she would reply, “five minutes more, please”. May be she wanted to grasp every bit of life that remained,” says Maninder Jit Kaur, her friend of 20 years. Kaur recalls how Rafath would always find ways to bring joy in the lives of other people. “She used to stay back in the school to teach underprivileged children. She had so many plans…she wanted to register an NGO for children. She often pondered over the purpose of life. She would have endless discussions on the purpose of human life. While she leaves so much unfinished, even in her death, she managed to do something so beautiful,” says the 52-year-old Kaur who teaches primary school students in DPS Mathura Road. It started with a headache that grew worse. A CT scan of Rafath’s brain was conducted the next day that detected an abnormality. She was taken to Max Super Speciality Hospital, Vaishali. Despite sustained efforts by a multidisciplinary team of doctors, Rafath could not be saved. The doctors announced that she was brain dead. She had suffered subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) caused by intracranial aneurysm rupture (bleeding caused due to dilated blood vessels in the brain). Kindness…the thing that survives death Even in the face of grief, Rafath’s family requested the doctors to facilitate donation of her organs. “It could not have been any other way for her… she always stood out from others, always wanted to do something worthwhile,” says her mother, Sirajunnisa Begum, 60. Rafath’s father believes that his daughter would be glad with this decision, wherever she is. “This is the best decision we could have taken. It gives some solace…the fact that my daughter could save four lives even in her death. It makes me proud of her,” says Alishah, vice president, Andhra Education Society. Five years ago, Alishah himself had pledged to donate his organs after his death. The 67- year-old says that his faith teaches him to practice selfless compassion for all, and in this decision, he only stayed true to this learning. “We believe that there can be no bigger act of compassion than this for a human being. My daughter is indeed lucky to get an opportunity to give the gift of life to four people. May Allah grant her the highest place in jannat,” says Alishah who retired as assistant general manager, Kendriya Bhandar. Rafath’s husband, Shaikh Salim Durrani is also trying to find relief in the fact that his childhood sweetheart and life partner of 21 years could give the gift of life to others. Durrani, 50, works as manager, operations in a Noida based digital firm. The couple had a love marriage. Their families knew each other for a long time. Rafath and Durrani used to play together as children. Soon, Raffath’s family left for Libya, where she finished her schooling. They returned to India when Raffath was 16. The childhood buddies met once again and the soft-spoken, introverted Durrani fell in love with the spirited, bubbly girl. After a courtship of five years, they married. The couple had two sons, Aman, 18 and Arsh, 11.Professional commitments often forced the couple to live apart. For the last one year, Rafath had been living in Dubai to work. So naturally, her husband and sons wanted to spend as much time with her as possible when she returned for winter holidays. But little did one know that death was going to snatch her away so cruelly. Durrani says that organ donation was the only way to for him to ensure that his wife lives on. “We had reached a point where there was no question of resurrection. Brain death is irreversible. I wanted my wife to be alive, to be in this world in some or the other way, so I gave my consent,” he says. Dr Gaurav Aggarwal, VP-Operations, Max Hospital, Vaishali, says the family has set a truly beautiful example of humanity with this noble deed. “Religious beliefs pose the biggest hurdle to organ transplants in India. It’s rare for people to come ahead and donate the organs of their deceased loved ones. This family is an inspiration for all,” he says. Dr Aggarwal says that the number of people suffering from end stage diseases is rising steady. Cadaveric transplants can be the only way to save their live, and thus more and more people should donate the organs of loved ones who pass away due to sudden death. “Live transplants are rare as it is tough to find willing donors. Cadavers (deceased donors) can be an important source of organ transplantations, especially in a post Covid 19 world, where many who have recovered from the virus might also need lung transplants,” says Dr Aggarwal. The doctor urges religious leaders and the recipients of cadaver donations to come ahead and encourage people to donate the organs of their deceased relatives, just like Rafath’s family. “You will be doing the biggest service to mankind,” he says. Apart from her heart, Rafath’s kidney was transplanted in a 37-year-old female patient from Jharkhand who was on dialysis for the last four years. Rafath’s liver was transplanted in a terminally ill 59-year-old female patient from Delhi, a journalist who works in the PMO. Rafath’s second kidney was transported to Artemis Hospital, Gurgaon. Some are indeed born to give. Every year, nearly 500,000 people die in India because of non-availability of organs, 200,000 people die due to liver disease, and 50,000 people die due to heart disease. Out of the 150,000 people awaiting a kidney transplant, only 5,000 of them find a donor, says a survey. If you wish to pledge to donate your organs, log on to www.notto.gov.in to know more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-such-thing-as-goodbye-a-teacher-s-family-shares-why-they-donated-her-organs/story-2zuYNgCPoZZcvp5yRInO8N.html
03-01-2021||Editorials||The draft STIP’s inclusion of LGBT and gender is welcome||Why is it important for a State to be inclusive? Some would say that it is the basis of a welfare State. Others would say that the Constitution mandates it. Both arguments are valid. However, the new draft Science, Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP) 2020, offers another reason. The draft policy shows how inclusiveness follows from rationality and a scientific temperament; in its demand for an equitable representation of women, disabled persons and other social, regional and economically diverse groups, as well as its recommendation for spousal benefits for partners of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) persons, “irrespective of their gender”. The draft policy states that equity and inclusion should be a foundational element of the science ecosystem, and should be seen not only from the point of view of correcting historical injustices or compensating previous deprivations, but also to make a real impact, such as increasing the number of researchers, and helping socio-economic development. The draft policy also makes provisions for sensitisation on issues of gender, sexuality (among other things), as well as on sensitivities of various biases, visible and invisible. The department of science and technology’s stated objective is that the policy must revolve around the core principles of being decentralised, bottoms-up, experts-driven, evidence-informed and inclusive. When it comes to non-straight, non cis-gendered communities, the experts are the very people themselves. Their lives are evidence of an unequal world, which withholds from them what is rightfully theirs. If the policy, in its current version, is accepted, it will go a long way in achieving its stated objectives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-draft-stip-s-inclusion-of-lgbt-and-gender-is-welcome/story-k7Gku9OpEXyGGeriHbLEXP.html
