04-01-2021||News||Silicon Valley is in for a rough ride||updated Technology companies in the United States (US) have benefitted greatly from the pandemic. Users are spending more time on their products than ever before, while stock prices are hitting record highs. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos alone has seen his net worth rise by over $70 billion in the last year. While this may seem like a continuation of the last decade of success, Silicon Valley is facing intense political headwinds that could completely overturn the way their businesses work.With the familiar, moderate approach of the incoming Joe Biden administration, it might seem like technology companies can rest easy. But the days of regulators prioritising innovation over compliance may be over. The mood and context have completely changed, and the traditionally warm relationship between the Democratic Party and Big Tech is on the verge of becoming much more contentious. The political scrutiny that WhatsApp has faced for spreading fake news, mob violence and enabling surveillance may seem small compared to what’s coming next. Here are seven reasons why Silicon Valley is in for a rough time over the next four years. One, self regulation has failed. Perhaps the most valuable asset that the technology industry had was a cultural permission from the public to try new things. People have put up with companies cutting corners in the hope of improving on the status quo. But with YouTube recommending extremist content, Twitter getting mired in a geopolitical back-and-forth over borders, and Google accused of adopting anti-competitive practices with their payment services, the benefits of the trade-off are becoming less clear. Instead of arguing over whether there should be rules, we’re now arguing over who should make the rules and how tough they should be.Two, trust is broken. Witness how Mark Zuckerberg has gone from a national icon to a universal target of scorn and suspicion. A decade of lofty rhetoric about an open and connected world now falls flat, and a large section of the public sees Facebook as a data-hungry corporation that evades accountability and keeps its users addicted to its products. Three, the backlash is bipartisan. One of the few things that both Democrats and Republicans agree on nowadays is that the technology industry has become too powerful. Whether it is Amazon decimating small businesses or Instagram sapping the attention of the country’s youth, it’s hard not to see an imbalance of power. There is growing consensus that allowing a small group of billionaires so much control over speech can be damaging for society.Four, scrutiny is increasing inside Silicon Valley. Google used to promise to do no evil; now it appears to be suppressing anyone who suggests it may be doing harm. A recent controversy over the removal of Timnit Gebru, a well-known Google artificial intelligence ethics researcher, shows how bad this has become. Gebru co-authored a paper that warned about the societal risks of using a machine-learning approach the company commonly employs and was subsequently removed from her position in a cloud of controversy. This has caused a massive backlash within Google. Five, the entire Democratic Party has moved to the Left. It’s not common to find outspoken Trump supporters in Silicon Valley’s rank and file. The Valley’s predominantly liberal population — along with the rest of the Democratic Party — has moved to the Left on key issues such as workers’ rights, wealth disparities, immigration, justice, and policing. Six, the public has a better understanding of tech’s dark side. For a long time, the benefits offered by smartphones, slick software, and constant connection were so obvious that any costs seemed negligible in comparison. Across the world, we’ve all seen our actions online lead to intrusive ads that follow us on Google and Facebook; we’ve all seen main-street businesses shut down through their inability to compete with e-commerce platforms’ massive logistical and economic advantages, including the tax and regulatory favours they’ve been able to buy. Seven, the future of labour and inequality is at stake. Few issues animate the Democratic voter base as much today as keeping corporate power in check and obstructing tax avoidance by the rich. With their enormous concentration of wealth, poor treatment of workers, and rampant arrogance, these tensions are moving at a much faster pace than expected.Tomorrow’s rising political stars across the globe are going to make their name standing up to Big Tech. Expect to see politicians run on reigning in companies or advocating for features to be adopted. Ambitious lawyers will push the bounds of anti-trust law, and the CEOs we used to look up to will soon become be blamed for issues they are responsible for, and many they are not. India might still be enamoured with Silicon Valley, but in the US, the honeymoon has come to an end.Vivek Wadhwa is a distinguished fellow at Harvard Law School’s Labor and Worklife Program and co-author of From Incremental to Exponential: How Large Companies Can See the Future and Rethink Innovation. Tarun Wadhwa is the founder and CEO of Day One Insights and a visiting fellow at Emory University’s Department of Political Science The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/silicon-valley-is-in-for-a-rough-ride/story-QnQfkXGgTQjRHvQmTwu7GP.html
04-01-2021||News||Only a strong social security net can ensure economic growth||The lasting legacy of Covid-19’s impact on India won’t be the large number of fatalities it has caused, it will be how governments across India watched silently as a crashing economy caused a devastating impact on the lives of millions of poor. Going against the call by leading economists to increase spending by targeting direct support to the poor, just as many rich or poor countries around the world had done, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat package restricted direct spending to a fraction of India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and targeted it mostly at businesses. Most state governments followed suit. As a result, the poor were left to fend for themselves during the biggest pandemic in a century. In contrast, the economic response of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has focused primarily on the poor and created the closest equivalent of a universal social safety net anywhere in India. In the immediate aftermath of the lockdown, the Delhi government’s first priority was food security for all. After announcing free and double ration for nearly 7.1 million existing beneficiaries of the Public Distribution System (PDS) from April onwards, the government also provided free ration to non-PDS beneficiaries by creating 588 additional distribution points, mostly government schools. An additional 5.8 million people were reached, taking the total to 13 million or nearly 65% of Delhi’s population — the widest such coverage for any state. Knowing that many, especially migrant workers, may still be left out, the Delhi government set-up hunger relief centres at over 1,500 points across the city. At their peak, these centres served two cooked meals to one million people every day — again an unparalleled effort by any Indian state in terms of scale. Additionally, 234 night shelters were set up that provided free stay, food and recreational activities to the thousands rendered homeless during the lockdown. When India started unlocking and special trains started running for migrant workers, the Delhi government paid advance bus/train fares for close to 400,000 workers returning home without any assistance from Centre or their home states.Targeted cash transfers to those hardest hit by the lockdown were deployed at a wider scale by the Delhi government than any other state. Nearly 160,000 drivers and owners of para-transit vehicles such as auto rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis and gramin sewa whose income stopped abruptly during lockdown received ₹5,000 transfer via direct benefit transfers into their accounts. Close to 50,000 construction workers too received ₹10,000 transfer each into their accounts to help them tide over the devastating impact of the lockdown on their livelihoods.Besides these special measures, however, it is the social safety net synonymous with the Delhi Model created by the Arvind Kejriwal government in the last five years that has stood by the people of Delhi in these troubled times. A household survey conducted by the Delhi government last year estimated that an average Delhi family received ₹2,500 in benefits every month (or ₹30,000 a year) due to four key subsidies under the Delhi Model — free lifeline water and electricity, free treatment and medication in government hospitals and clinics, and free public education. In no other part of India, do citizens expect quality public services for free as they have today come to do in Delhi. That all these subsidies continued during the last year even though the government revenues dropped by a staggering 90% after the lockdown, is a testimony to the commitment of the Kejriwal government to stand by the common man struggling to survive the economic impact of Covid-19. Besides being the only conscionable path of action, this decision was fuelled by a belief that our economy will survive only if our people emerge strong out of this crisis. Covid-19 has taught all governments many lessons. But the most important one will be this: The strength of our social safety net will determine the heights the Indian economy will scale.Jasmine Shah is vice-chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission, the policy think-tank of Delhi government. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/only-a-strong-social-security-net-can-ensure-economic-growth/story-shu5l6mUhtvj5KtyRpm7NL.html
04-01-2021||News||No room for complacency in Covid-19 battle||The success of the Covid-19 vaccination programme, now green flagged in India, depends on strong primary health care. Even when the programme gets underway, there can be no let up in ensuring that the health infrastructure is improved steadily.Covid-19 announced itself to the world as 2020 dawned. The virus blitzed across the world rattling health systems and tripping economies. The year ended with vaccines emerging as defenders against disease, though not of infection per se. Just as humanity was sighting success in its pursuit of this agile adversary, the tricky microbe picked up speed with mutations, conferring increased infectivity. India has now to keep up the public health vigilance against viral transmission, while using the vaccines well to protect the vulnerable and prevent interruption of essential services.The advent of the vaccines, while very welcome, should not slacken the resolve to strengthen the public health system to combat future pandemic threats as well as raise its functioning in the steady state. Global and Indian experience with Covid-19 over the past year will guide us to chart the path ahead.During the turbulent year, as millions got sick, clinical medicine stepped in, to show the benefits of old drugs like steroids, lying on the belly (“proning”) and oxygen, even as it applied the rigorous test of large randomised trials to reject false claims. We recognised that the virus spreads through droplets and aerosols to infect us through nose, mouth and eyes. It came as a surprise that it can be transmitted even by asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic persons. Poorly-ventilated spaces and tightly-packed groups of people gave rise to the vast majority of the cases, through super-spreader events.We learnt that this “respiratory virus” also has a propensity to infect and inflame many other organs in the body, cause clots in blood vessels and unleash a fatal cytokine storm. Beyond an acute infection, it revealed long-term effects on many organs, including the heart, lungs, brain, kidney and pancreas. A variety of tests were employed to detect the virus and antibodies against it. High testing rates alone did not hasten the end of the pandemic or reduce deaths in many countries like the United States (US), contrary to what was predicted in the early stages of the pandemic. Besides testing, public health demanded much more to achieve effective control. Tracing of contacts resurfaced as a public health function, aided by apps but still dependant on a skilled health workforce. Public health measures, such as masks and physical distancing, to curb person-to-person transmission became the major defence, through a combination of health communication and regulation.India was pulled into the pandemic in late January 2020. Though case counts were small till March, the panic that engulfed Europe and the US suggested that a highly infectious and moderately virulent virus could wreak havoc in countries with shaky health systems. Mounting concern led to a nationwide lockdown on March 25, lasting several weeks. It did give time to prepare the health and social systems for meeting the daunting challenge that lay ahead. As 2020 ended, India had the pandemic under control. Though the total case count passed the 10 million-mark, placing it second only to the US, it ranks well below other million-plus countries when adjusted for the population size (cases per million). While vagaries of testing rates, methods and criteria left the actual case count in doubt, falling daily death counts provided a better tracker of the decline. Deaths per million population are far lower than in Europe, North or South America. The lower age of the population was protective. A high proportion of the population being rural would have helped, as crowd density and co-morbidity levels are lower. Prior non-specific immunity may have contributed but is unproven. The virus challenge also exposed the weaknesses of our health system. Even as our low-resourced public health and hospital systems gallantly struggled to cope with the challenge of testing, tracing and treating, other essential health services were marginalised. Child immunisation and nutrition, institutional deliveries, treatment of non-communicable diseases and mental health disorders, as well a number of other health needs suffered from depleted services. The pandemic taught us the lesson that a weak health system cannot generate a swift and strong surge response without compromising its other functions. The need to invest more in health now has strong social consensus. We must focus on augmenting the scale and skills of a multi-layered and multi-skilled health workforce. Comprehensive primary health care must be the foundation of an efficient and equitable health system. Urban primary care, which has been long neglected must be prioritised. District and medical college hospitals must be strengthened. Universal Health Coverage, with a higher level of public financing, must be led by a strong public sector with the private and voluntary sectors playing a supportive role. Public health competencies must be enhanced in both central and state health services, through creation of public health cadres. Disease and risk factor surveillance systems must be reinforced. “One Health” surveillance must track microbial migration from wildlife to veterinary clusters and human populations. Though Covid-19 is an unfriendly visitor, it has delivered a message that we must heed. It tells us to position health centrally in the programme of sustainable development. That must be our resolve in 2021. K. Srinath Reddy, a cardiologist and epidemiologist, is president, Public Health Foundation of India. He is the author of Make Health in India: Reaching a Billion Plus The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/no-room-for-complacency-in-covid-19-battle/story-CCInA62CukyDIUJERPp5wK.html
04-01-2021||News||Key constitutional values invoked last year must be built on||One of the most striking images at the beginning of 2020 was that of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), protesters reading aloud the Preamble to the Constitution. It is truly significant then that 2020, with all that happened in between, ended with farmers from across three states expressing their dissent against three agricultural laws passed earlier that year. Let us review how the Constitution fared last year with the hope that key constitutional values, which were invoked and tested in 2020, remain pivotal to the lives of the Indian citizens in 2021 and beyond. Constitutional challenges to CAA ranged from suits filed by several states to petitions alleging infringement on the fundamental right to equality and the secular character of the Constitution. However, the most significant challenge to CAA was mounted outside the courtroom — while the streets were marked by protests against the implementation of the law, social media platforms saw genuine attempts by users to educate themselves on both CAA as well as the Constitution. The first quarter of 2020 witnessed a political and constitutional crisis in Madhya Pradesh. This crisis attracted attention to the Tenth Schedule — the anti-defection law — of the Constitution. The events in Madhya Pradesh were just one of many instances of this law being bypassed. It also lay bare why the Tenth Schedule can often magnify the problem it was intended to solve.What marked the beginning of the second quarter was Covid-19. After an initial response to the pandemic led by states, the Centre stepped in by invoking the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The National Disaster Management Authority, while notifying the lockdown on March 24, emphasised the need for “consistency” in the application of measures across the country. This perceived need for consistency, where the constitutional framework envisages roles for the State as well as local governments to reign in an epidemic, inevitably put a dent in the federal balance. The sudden nature of the first lockdown, and the halt on vital economic activities debilitated state finances, severely shifting the balance in India’s fiscal federal architecture. The other striking image which characterised 2020 was that of migrant workers compelled to walk long distances after the lockdown. It was a failure of policymakers that the drivers of key economic activity were not assured the dignity they deserve. The Constitution and all the institutions were collectively at their lowest when certain states remained unwilling to allow entry of migrant workers, and the Supreme Court (SC) merely approved the steps taken by the Centre to redress their grievances. Parliament, an institution increasingly characterised by political grandstanding, could not redeem itself enough in 2020. Well into the third quarter, on September 20, the three agricultural bills were passed by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha, despite protest from the Opposition. The passage of these bills gnawed away at a foundational principle of the Constitution — parliamentary form of government characterised by debate, discussion, and accountability. The agricultural laws were passed with scant deliberation, a defect which even the most cogent drafting of their substantive provisions cannot rectify. The last quarter of 2020 witnessed the promulgation of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020. Envisaging multiple declarations by individuals before and after conversions, the law is intrusive and its constitutionality dubious. Finally, there were constitutional questions that the SC did not hear (Article 370’s abrogation, CAA’s constitutionality), the pressing questions of access to certain resources in a near-virtual world, and some more. But there were positives. There were assertions of federalism by some states on CAA; the Election Commission smoothly conducted its first post-Covid assembly election; and, most significantly, citizens came into their own and truly realised the import of the Constitution — for themselves and their fellow country people. Let us hope to build on this spirit this year.Ritwika Sharma works at the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy and leads Charkha, Vidhi’s Constitutional Law Centre The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/key-constitutional-values-invoked-last-year-must-be-built-on/story-CmuhKRX1c8aBuO1fbO5vWP.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Don’t participate in events sponsored by tobacco firms, Delhi govt tells schools||In the interest of “public health”, Delhi government asked its schools to avoid participating in any event sponsored by firms promoting sale or use of tobacco in any form. This comes after the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare sounded caution against e-cigarette manufacturing companies, which promoted these devices as “harm reduction” alternatives of smoking.“It is important that we remain vigilant against such attempts to target young children and protect them from exposure to tobacco use. As per guidelines issued by the MoHFW, a Tobacco Free Educational Institute must not participate in any event sponsored by any firm or seller which promotes the use, manufacture or sale of tobacco products in any form. Prizes or scholarships offered by such firms should not be accepted by educational institutions or students,” the Directorate of Education said in a circular on Thursday.Last year, the Centre had banned e-cigarettes and similar devices through “The Prohibition of Electronic Cigarettes (Production, Manufacture, Import, Export, Transport, Sale, Distribution, Storage and Advertisement) Act, 2019.The notices were issued based on the statement of the Convention Secretariat of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHOFCTC) on “Foundation for Smoke Free World (FSFW)”. The convention said FSFW was established in 2017 and has received a pledge of $80 million USD annually for 12 years starting in 2018 from a tobacco company. WHO FCTC also added that through the said foundation, the tobacco company has been trying to influence school children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/don-t-participate-in-events-sponsored-by-tobacco-firms-delhi-govt-tells-schools/story-MLps7GfCnALiv5Ag5scFVP.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||N-E Delhi riots: Court quashes plea by Natasha Narwal for preservation of call detail records of witnesses||A Delhi court has dismissed an application filed by JNU student and Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, for preservation of mobile numbers, customer application forms, and call detail records of witnesses, including police officials, in the conspiracy case related to the north east Delhi riots.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said Narwal seemed to be doing a “fishing and roving” enquiry as she had sought for a wholesome call detail records (CDRs) of the witnesses including protected witnesses for a period of many months and it was not for a specific instance or a date and with certainty.The court said privacy was also an issue while stating that there were various issues of safety and security of police officials and their informers which has to be accounted for while dealing with such an application.The application had sought preservation of call detail records of 26 witnesses, including protected witnesses and police officials, from December 2019 to April 2020 and from the period of April 2020 till date of recording of their statements. It had said that there were reasons to believe that the witnesses were not present at the sites of the protests as indicated in their statements.It further alleged that the witnesses were called to the Special Cell police station several times prior to the actual date of recording of their statements.Narwal, along with another Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, has been arrested for hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/n-e-delhi-riots-court-quashes-plea-by-natasha-narwal-for-preservation-of-call-detail-records-of-witnesses/story-U7pH6wXP3KunmVbwRKP8XM.html
04-01-2021||Ranchi||After stone-pelting on carcade, Jharkhand CM diverts route to reach home||An irate mob on Monday pelted stones on Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren’s carcade while he was returning to his official residence from the state secretariat.The attack was made near Kishoreganj in the state capital in the evening while chief minister Soren was on his way back from project building. The protesters, most of whom were women, were on road venting anguish over the brutal murder of a lady in Ranchi. The lady’s body was recovered from Ormanjhi locality on Sunday, prompting the BJP, the main opposition party to take to the streets. The police handled the situation and diverted the carcade via Seva Sadan. The IG and DIG took control of the situation assuaging the protestors’ sentiment that was on the boil. The chief minister reached his residence safely.Earlier, BJP mahila morcha delegation led by state president Arati Kujur met Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu highlighting the government’s failure in protecting women. She requested the governor to intervene into the matter and take appropriate action.She said, “the women were being raped and subjected to torture while the Hemant Soren government was busy celebrating the completion of one year in power”. It’s frustrating and ridiculous, the government must go, she said.The Bharatiya janata yuva morcha too staged a protest across districts. Yuva Morcha state president Kislay Tiwari said the Hemant Soren government has been neglecting the crime scenario and lost its trustworthiness. “If this is the scenario of the state capital, the condition in other places could be well understood,” he said, adding that the government should be dismissed immediately.Also read: No solution was found as farmers ‘adamant’ on rollback of farm laws - TomarCommenting on the incident, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said it was a deliberate attempt to disturb peace in the state capital. “The incident is deplorable. Such violence in name of protest in the state capital is an attempt to disturb the peace by stoking tension and violence. Some were reportedly been injured in the incident and had undergone treatment in Medica hospital,” he said. Bhattacharya said the administration knows how to deal with such anti-social elements and it will take appropriate action against those behind the incident.The JMM leader said that the frequent incidents of rape were unfortunate and mentioned that the state government has taken various measures such as opening fast track courts for speedy trial and conviction of the accused and special POCSO courts besides the launch of an app-based help for women in distress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/after-stone-pelting-on-carcade-jharkhand-cm-diverts-route-to-reach-home/story-0Td5xX2noXoAhNF2o17fdK.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||PU launches portal for verification of transcripts||An online portal for the verification of academic qualifications/transcripts which can be verified from anywhere in the world was inaugurated on Monday by Panjab University vice chancellor Professor Raj Kumar, who also praised the examination branch for its efforts to develop it.Candidates can now fill an online application form and upload the documents they want verified through the portal (http://transcript.puchd.ac.in/) after paying a fee.A transcript is a certified record (inventory) of a student throughout a course of study with full enrolment history including all courses (or subjects) attempted, grades earned and degrees and awards conferred.PU’s controller of examination, Jagat Bhushan, while highlighting the salient features of the portal said that it would allow full Interaction between the candidate and the certificate section, of which all records will be maintained.“Candidates will get SMS and email about the status of their application instantly when updated by the certificate section so they will not have to contact PU for the status of their certificates,” he said.The portal was developed to speed up and ease the work of the certificate section and make it transparent. Candidates can upload their documents after submitting the form.They will also be informed by the certificate section through SMS and email in case there is any discrepancy in the form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-launches-portal-for-verification-of-transcripts/story-Vc9rT8h4sHLj6LJL47tV3M.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Constable, son held for cheating in recruitment exams||The Delhi Police on Monday said they had arrested a head constable of the force and his 21-year-old son for allegedly using a proxy candidate to clear the written exams for the recruitment of constables, for which the son had applied to.The written exams were conducted on November 27 last year and the proxy candidate had impersonated the head constable’s son at an exam centre in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. The man, who had appeared in the exam in place of the head constable’s son is yet to be arrested, the police said.The arrests were made on Sunday from Delhi by a team of the crime branch, which has been probing a case of impersonation, cheating, forgery, and criminal conspiracy registered on the complaint of the officials of the staff selection commission (SSC). The arrested persons were identified as head constable Vineet,46, who was posted with the railways unit of the Delhi Police, and his son Kashish (single name), said a senior police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity.“Our investigations in the case are still on,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rakesh Pawaria.According to the officer cited above, the head constable’s son, who was pursuing B.Com from through distance learning, had applied for the post of constable in Delhi Police and had opted Bihar’s Muzaffarpur as his exam centre. On the examination date, another person impersonated Kashish and solved the question papers.“The impersonator could not be detected at the exam centre and had completed the written exam procedure. But during the further scrutiny, the SSC found something wrong and filed a police complaint with the Delhi Police since the candidate originally was from Delhi,” the officer said.Accordingly, a case was registered and during the investigation the role of the head constable emerged as the person who had allegedly arranged the proxy candidate for his son. “We arrested both of them,” said DCP Pawaria. Police said they were probing if any organised syndicate is involved in the entire matter, as similar arrests were made in at an examination centre in Noida on the day of the written exam, for providing proxy candidates in place of real candidates.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/constable-son-held-for-cheating-in-recruitment-exams/story-icc2GFfvecz1AwvOZYppjN.html
04-01-2021||City||Jamia to hold open book exams for undergraduate, postgraduate students||New DelhiFollowing protests from students over online proctored examination, Jamia Millia Islamia on Sunday announced guidelines for online open book examination for its undergraduate and postgraduate students. A compulsory mock examination will also be held for students, university officials said.To appear for their online examinations, students would have to log in to the university’s examination portal using their credentials and download the question paper. They have also been asked to use separate sheets to answer each question and upload the answer scripts question-wise for easy evaluation.Students will be given three hours to complete the paper and will get one additional hour to upload the answer scripts to the portal. Students with disabilities will be given five hours and those requiring a scribe will have to arrange it on their own, the university added.In case students are unable to upload the answer scripts due to technical glitches, they can also email it to obe2020@jmi.ac.in. “Answer sheets can only be emailed if submission of response through the portal is not possible. Documentary evidence, such as screenshots, is also required to be emailed along with answer response,” the controller of examinations said in the guidelines.The university has also said that students submitting scripts “through such an alternate medium, may also face delay in declaration of their results, due to verification/scrutiny and validation of process of submission.”Jamia’s declaration comes months after Delhi university – which also conducted its first online OBE in August last year – saw a delay in declaration of results as multiple email submissions by students had resulted in duplicity of answer scripts.Qasim Usmani, a final-year undergraduate student of Sociology, who has been a part of the student community opposing the proctored exam mode said, “We wanted assignment-based assessments but the university said as per University Grants Commission guidelines, they had to conduct exams. Online OBE was one of the options we proposed.”“The OBE option put forward by the university allows us to approach our teachers for question papers if the portal doesn’t work, asks for question-wise answer scripts for smoother evaluation, and doesn’t require high-speed internet for downloading papers or uploading scripts. Following consultations with student groups, we realized this was the best way out,” he said.ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jamia-to-hold-open-book-exams-for-undergraduate-postgraduate-students/story-mCUBuFCau93wDE8y6sGNHP.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Active cases in Delhi below 5,000 mark, first since May last year||The total number of active cases or those with current coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the city has dropped below the 5,000 mark for the first time since May 10 when there were 4,781 active cases in Delhi. On Monday, there were 4,689 active cases as per the daily health bulletin released by the government. With fewer than usual tests, Delhi reported 384 new cases of the infection on Sunday, as reported a day later in Monday’s bulletin. The city has been conducting fewer than 80,000 tests for three days in a row – on New Year’s Day and over the weekend. On Sunday, the city had conducted just 50,288 tests in comparison to 75,067 tests conducted each day on average for the last seven days and 78,668 on average the week before that. Over 60% of the tests were conducted using the more accurate RT PCR method, which has happened for the first time since the alternate rapid antigen tests were introduced in mid-June. The positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – remained at 0.76% on Sunday, making it the eighth day the positivity rate has remained below 1%. Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control if a positivity rate of 5% or less is maintained for at least two weeks. Delhi’s positivity rate has remained below 5% for over a month now. The city, however, reported 12 deaths due to the infection. With fewer cases, the seven-day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – remained above 3% the eighth day in a row as well. On Monday, Delhi’s seven-day average CFR stood at 3.27%. The cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of the total number of cases and deaths – stood at 1.69%. In comparison, India’s cumulative CFR stands at around 1.44%. “These are our corona warriors who endangered their lives day and night to save others. The Delhi government salutes their spirit,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a video on the work done by Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility – 2,000 bed Lok Nayak hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/active-cases-in-delhi-below-5-000-mark-first-since-may-last-year/story-ueiGg37QSPUscOYqDSNJrI.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Chilla border: Farmers plan parade on Republic Day||Noida: Farmers camped at the Chilla border, between Noida and Delhi, conducted rehearsals on Monday morning for a parade they hope to carry out at Rajpath on Republic Day, while braving the rain and drop in mercury.“We will take our tractors and carry out a parade on Rajpath, parallel to the Republic Day parade. Several other farmer organisations are part of the plan. Maybe that will get the government to finally pay attention to our issues,” said Ramveer Singh Tomar, a protestor from the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Bhanu faction.On Monday, the farmers were joined by a Delhi resident who wanted to celebrate his birthday with them.“His name was the same as mine – Yogesh – and he had turned 27. He sat with us to celebrate his birthday and had brought daal-chawal with him, which he shared with some of us. This was his way of lending support to our cause. People understand our plight and have been supporting us in their own way,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU-Bhanu.Police said they are maintaining status quo.“For now, the status quo is being maintained both in terms of law and order, and traffic,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/chilla-border-farmers-plan-parade-on-republic-day/story-WiU7ewAmBu6qsBbnoIzCBK.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad see best air quality of season on Monday||Noida: Noida and its adjoining areas saw their best air quality of the season on Monday, with rain and easterly winds washing away pollutants from the air. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), due to an active western disturbance (WD) in the Indian Himalayan region – a phenomenon that causes snow in the northern states – the entire national Capital region (NCR) is currently seeing rainfall activity, with peak rains on Monday. The air quality that had been oscillating between “severe” and “very poor” for past three days, improved to “moderate” category on Monday.“The region’s air quality improved primarily due to the rain and the easterly winds which were slightly warmer and were flowing at a speed of 10 kmph. The wind speed and directions will remain the same on Tuesday (January 5) as well, which may keep pollution levels under check,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 154 on Monday, against 364 day earlier. Greater Noida’s AQI was 134 on Monday, against 364 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad was at 168, against 384 a day earlier.An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered “moderate”, between 201 and 300 is “poor”, between 301 and 400 is considered “very poor” and above 400 is considered “severe”.The AQI levels of the three cities were all in the “severe” category on January 1 and 2, with Noida and Ghaziabad the top two most polluted cities in the country.Levels of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, a major pollutant in the region, improved from being at seven times at the starting of the year, towards almost matching the permissible limit on Monday.The PM2.5 levels in Noida were recorded at 91.12 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3) on Monday, against 210.36µg/m3 a day earlier, and 382.37µg/m3 on January 1. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida improved to 64.91µg/m3 against 201.25µg/m3 a day earlier, and 310.14 g/m3 on January 1, while for Ghaziabad it was 477.54µg/m3 on January 1, which improved to 255.91µg/m3 on Sunday and 84.41µg/m3 on Monday.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the AQI will remain favourable for another two days and deteriorate only slightly towards Wednesday, after the rain stops.“The overall air quality has improved to the “moderate” category, as forecasted. Rain observed over many places over the Delhi region and associated wet deposition of pollutants has led to a clean environment. Under the influence of an active Western Disturbance, a wet spell with widespread precipitation is likely to continue Monday and Tuesday. The AQI is likely to improve marginally and stay in the “moderate” to “satisfactory” category Monday and Tuesday. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and in the “moderate” to “poor” category on January 6 and 7,” said a Safar statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-see-best-air-quality-of-season-on-monday/story-GO4yxrfrt6NRL66XtF6F4K.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||No weightage for legal studies in BA LLB (H) course in UILS: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Monday dismissed pleas to give additional weightage to students clearing legal studies subject in the 10+2 exams and seeking admission to the five-year integrated BA LLB (Hons) course at Panjab University’s (PU) University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS). Even as a detailed judgment was awaited, lawyer Harlove Singh Rajput said that weightage allowed for those who had studied economics and legal studies in 10+2 would not be given and rules given in the prospectus for admissions would be followed.A clutch of petitions for and against the award of weightage to students studying the two subjects in 10+2 examination had been filed in HC after admissions through written tests were scrapped due to Covid-19 last year and PU decided to hold counselling on the basis of marks obtained in the 10+2 exam. However, certain changes were introduced in the manner of counselling which was challenged in these pleas. On December 1, HC stayed the counselling process.PU had decided to award weightage of four marks each while admitting students to B Com LLB course (Hons) but not for BA LLB (Hons). The petitioners had argued that PU could not be allowed to adopt a pick and choose policy for similar courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-weightage-for-legal-studies-in-ba-llb-h-course-in-uils-hc/story-xeBA5R0hUf7XyqL7UrPL1I.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Light rains predicted in Noida today; Wednesday may see dense fog||Noida: The India Meteorological department (IMD) has said that light rains the region is currently experiencing will continue on Tuesday as well, keeping the cold wave and cold day conditions under check. Rains and thunder activities on Tuesday, however, will be followed by dense fog in the entire national Capital region, especially in open areas such as expressway and highways, on January 6, 7 and 8, officials said. According to the IMD, Noida recorded 15mm of rain on Sunday and about 2.5 mm on Monday (till 5.30pm). “Tuesday would also see light rainfall activity along with easterly winds. This will keep the mercury high, as a clouded sky helps trap temperature. Thus, the maximum temperatures would hover around the season’s average, which is around 20 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperatures will be about three degrees higher than the season’s average, which is about seven degrees Celsius, so the minimum temperature will be around 10 degrees Celsius for next two days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (IMD). He added that the mercury will, however, drop from January 8 as the wind directions would change from easterly to icy-cold north-westerly, with dense fog from Wednesday. “The mercury will start dropping from Friday and Saturday due to the change in wind. The region will also see dense fog from Wednesday, January 6 to January 8 as the western disturbance’s withdrawal will keep the winds low and moisture high. This would lead to dense fog,” Srivastava added. On Monday, the minimum temperature for Noida was recorded at 12 degrees Celsius, against 11.2 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The average minimum temperature for NCR, based on Safdarjung observatory was 11.4 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature for Noida was recorded at 22.6 degrees Celsius, against 19.3 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The average maximum for NCR was recorded at 22.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/light-rains-predicted-in-noida-today-wednesday-may-see-dense-fog/story-a2FjutJaF94btAFbQfFUeN.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad roof collapse: ‘Substandard material’ and ‘design issues’ led to structural failure, finds initial report||Ghaziabad: An initial report of site inspection has indicated “substandard material” and “design issues”, which might have led to structural failure at the cremation ground in Muradnagar, resulting in the death of 24 people in a roof collapse on Sunday. The report is now a part of the inquiry being conducted by the divisional commissioner (Meerut) and inspector general (Meerut range) into the incident.The senior officers had called on the chief engineers of the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) and the municipal-corporation for an initial site inspection of the cremation ground. “Inspection revealed that there were issues related to substandard material and design which finally led to structural failure. Upon inspection, the material appeared to be of inferior quality and more testing is to be done to ascertain the quality. The officials of Muradnagar Nagar Palika could not show us the proper designs of the structure,” said VN Singh, chief engineer of the Ghaziabad development authority. The executive officer of the Nagar Palika, besides a junior engineer and a supervisor, were arrested on Monday in connection with the incident. “The incident was more likely triggered due to rain and it seems that slabs of the structure were not properly bound, which led to the collapse of the entire structure,” he added. Officials said they also found out that the junior engineer of the Nagar Palika had allegedly signed the measurement book, while the executive engineer of the public works department, and their assistant engineer, had allegedly provided their signatures for forwarding of bills. Manish Verma, executive engineer of the PWD, did not respond to calls. The contract for the construction was given to Ajay Tyagi, who has been booked. The police said that the suspect is absconding. “The inquiry assigned to us is most likely to get complete by Tuesday and will be forwarded to the state administration. We are analysing all aspects and documents related to the incident,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range). The inquiry at Muradnagar was directed by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday. Meanwhile, it has come to light that Tyagi had allegedly also procured contracts for a number of civic infrastructural works with the Ghaziabad municipal corporation. “Tyagi has contracts with the corporation. At this point there are only allegations that inferior quality material was used at Muradnagar and this should be inquired. If there is some scientific report which confirms this, we will take up suitable action. The initial report was sought by the district magistrate and this needs to be investigated,” said MS Tanwar, municipal-commissioner. “However, we are conducting random inspections of our works and are also checking up the quality of construction of works taken up by Tyagi,” he added. The structure which collapsed was about 40 feet in length and assigned to the contracture for Rs 50 lakh from the Fourteenth Finance Commission. Nagar Palika’s executive officer Niharika Singh on Sunday said that construction was pending and had faced delays due to lockdown. Meanwhile, hundreds of onlookers came to the Ukhlarsi cremation ground where leftover bags, shoes, helmets and other items of the victims were lying scattered in the debris. “It is one of the biggest incidents in the district where so many people have lost lives. The debris indicates that the material was inferior quality – parts of it can be broken down with a normal brick. There are no priests at the cremation ground as people attacked them after the incident on Sunday. They have locked their house and left the place,” said Sunil Sharma, a local resident of Muradnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-roof-collapse-substandard-material-and-design-issues-led-to-structural-failure-finds-initial-report/story-6ACbGXrWmwHQ8zCySXGDxO.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Muradnagar roof collapse: Families place bodies on road, block way to press for demands; three officials arrested||Ghaziabad: Families of the victims of the roof collapse tragedy, which took place in Muradnagar, blocked the Delhi-Meerut Road for almost seven hours on Monday by placing the dead bodies on the road, in order to press for their demand for hiked compensation . Their other demands include a government job for one member per family, free education for children of the deceased and strict action against the erring persons.The Ghaziabad police arrested three officials of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika in connection with the incident on Monday, who had been named in the FIR lodged after the incident. Officers said that the construction work had been assigned to Ajay Tyagi, a contractor who has also been named in the FIR, who is absconding since the incident. The Ghaziabad police on Monday also announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest.“In connection with an FIR lodged into the incident on late Sunday, we have arrested Niharika Singh (executive-officer of Muradnagar Nagar Palika), Palika’s junior engineer CP Singh and a supervisor, Ashish Kumar,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), Ghaziabad.“We have arrested three persons and five teams are conducting raids to nab the contractor. We have levied IPC sections based on the complaint and are investigating the case in detail. The FIR also names other persons and officials,” Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad, told reporters at the protest site in Muradnagar.As many as 24 persons had died when the roof of a concrete shed, about 40 feet in length, at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground collapsed, when a group of about 50-60 people were there to attend the funeral of a 65-year-old man. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to each of the families of the victims, and had sought a report from the divisional commissioner (Meerut) and the additional director general (Meerut zone). The autopsy of the 24 victims went on till late Sunday, after which the bodies were handed over to the families. Men, women and children from the victims’ families as well as from nearby localities staged the sit-in alongside six bodies at Delhi Meerut Road for seven hours before they finally lifted the blockade. The families said that they narrated their plight before officials and also raised questions why their demands were not being accepted despite a major tragedy having occurred. “Our entire family is shattered as I lost my grandson, who has left behind his sister, and I also lost my son-in-law who is now survived by his widowed wife and two minor children, aged four and six years. Both families are left without any earning member. It is now a question of survival of my daughter-in-law and her children,” said 70-year-old Ram Das. Like Das, Iqbal Singh lost his son, Nitin Singh, 40, to the tragedy. “He was in a private job in Delhi and I work in Delhi to sustain the family. Since the lockdown started my employer has been paying me just Rs 8,000 per month. I am now left with my son’s widowed wife and his two children, aged six and five years. Their entire future is ruined and I can hardly sustain their education,” Singh said. The families said that they put forth several demands but officials continued with deliberations with state officials in Lucknow and UP cabinet minister Suresh Khanna, who was in Ghaziabad. “We demanded Rs 20 lakh for the families of each of the deceased, government jobs to one of their family members, free education of their children and strict action against the erring persons. We kept reminding the officials but each time we went to them, they said that they were talking to state officials,” said Yogendra Singh, Nitin’s brother. The blockade of the major road, an erstwhile national highway, disrupted traffic for seven hours. During the protests, victim families continued to press for their demands before Anita C Meshram, divisional commissioner (Meerut), and Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range) who had come to Muradnagar. “We gave assurance to the families that their demands will be considered with compassion and that all assistance will be made available for them. Three persons have already been arrested and teams are searching for the contractor,” the IG (Meerut range) said, without elaborating which demands of the victim families were finally met. Khanna, on Monday evening, reached Muradnagar and met the victims’ families. The district administration later issued a statement in which it said that the minister gave assurance of compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the victim families and jobs based on qualification. “An inquiry has been set up by the CM and once the report is received, others will be punished. Three persons have been sent to jail. We have given assurance for compensation of Rs 10 lakh and jobs (based on qualification). We will take strict action based on investigation and inquiry. The contractor will be arrested soon and there will be an exemplary punishment,” Khanna told reporters at Muradnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/muradnagar-roof-collapse-families-place-bodies-on-road-block-way-to-press-for-demands-three-officials-arrested/story-IlHotq3nnrasIdDJD15njP.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||Abhishek Banerjee on 5-day tour of north Bengal where BJP gained most in 2019||In the crosshairs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the run-up to the West Bengal assembly polls due in a few months, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee on Monday started a five-day tour of the north Bengal districts where the saffron camp won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and now poses a major challenge to the ruling party. This is the first time Abhishek Banerjee is visiting the region alone for so many days only to look into organizational issues plaguing the TMC. Since October last year, BJP state and national leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, have been singling out Abhishek Banerjee in their speeches and social media posts, calling him “tolabaaj bhaipo” (extortionist nephew in Bengali) and accusing him of amassing wealth through unfair means. After joining the BJP on December 19, former minister Suvendu Adhikari intensified this attack by raising short slogans against Banerjee. Mamata Banerjee, often referred to as pishi (aunt) by the BJP leaders, has almost become a secondary target if one goes by the rhetoric.Also read: Supreme Court’s judgment on Central Vista project on TuesdayTMC leaders told HT that Abhishek Banerjee, who is a Lok Sabha member and heads the party’s youth wing, will mostly hold internal meetings with legislators and senior leaders from the region. He will hold two internal meetings in Siliguri on Tuesday. He is scheduled to meet leaders from Darjeeling, Alipurduar, South Dinajpur, Cooch Behar and Malda over the next few days. On Thursday, Banerjee will address party workers at a public meeting in Gangarampur in South Dinajpur district where Mihir Goswami, the TMC legislator from the South Dinajpur seat, joined the BJP in November. In 2019, the TMC’s tally in the Lok Sabha came down from 34 seats to 22, giving the BJP a position to pose a challenge to Banerjee for the first time. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, the BJP was ahead of the TMC in 35. The West Bengal assembly has 294 seats and Shah has announced that his party will oust the TMC government by winning more than 200. Also read: ‘2020 was the 8th warmest year in India’ - IMDMamata Banerjee, too, spent three days in north Bengal in mid-December and her rally in Cooch Behar, where the BJP claims to have made deep inroads, witnessed a huge turnout. BJP leaders of both state and national level are also frequently camping in north Bengal. The most prominent among them is BJP national president JP Nadda. “Abhishek Banerjee is coming to north Bengal mainly to take stock of the situation on the ground and personally interact with leaders who are facing dissidence in the ranks,” a senior TMC leader aware of the visit said on condition of anonymity. Troubled by infighting among district leaders in north Bengal, Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor travelled to Siliguri together in October to iron out differences in the ranks. The duo discreetly held meetings with leaders from five districts at a hotel near the Tenzing Norgay bus terminus in Siliguri. The spate in infighting in north Bengal has its roots in the induction of younger faces in district committees during a reshuffle in July last year. The structural changes have made many old-timers insecure, TMC leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/abhishek-banerjee-on-5-day-tour-of-north-bengal-where-bjp-gained-most-in-2019/story-C6P4CA6f3NQZPEvZnl5rbK.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Agency to be hired on January 9 to prepare DPR of Heritage City||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Monday said it will hire an agency on January 9 to prepare a detailed project report for an urban zone named ‘Heritage City’ near Mathura. The authority had in early December started the process to hire an agency that will be engaged in the development of the Heritage City, said officials. “Once finalised, the agency will start the work on DPR of this one-of-its-kind urban zone named Heritage City. The proposed city will offer a unique experience to visitors and investors. It will have theme-based areas, parks and miniatures of ancient cities such as Mathura, Vrindavan and Barsana associated with Lord Krishna,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.The agency will complete the DPR of the project in the next three-four months, said the officials.Yeida has proposed to develop the Heritage City at a small town Raya near Mathura with an aim to promote tourism and create opportunities in this region. The city will spread on 9,000 hectares of area along the Yamuna Expressway. The Yamuna river front will be beautified on the lines of Gomti river front project and the remaining land will be developed as industrial, residential, commercial and mixed-land uses in this town, the officials said. The authority has earmarked 700 hectares for tourism projects to be built on the theme of heritage in order to promote the ancient city of Mathura and places associated with Mahabharata. The 175 hectare area is earmarked for river front development along Yamuna, at least 1,000 hectares for industrial and remaining will be divided into residential and other uses, said the officials. However, the exact nature of land in this city will be earmarked once DPR of this project is finalised, they said.The UP government has already directed Yeida to expedite the work on this project.On December 21 last year, Yeida had made a presentation to the Uttar Pradesh Braj Tirth Vikas Pradhikaran about the heritage project following instructions from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/agency-to-be-hired-on-january-9-to-prepare-dpr-of-heritage-city/story-Fyaq9bzsYkcSshtNkcYlOI.html
04-01-2021||City||BJP worker among two held with 400gm heroin in Ludhiana||The special task force (STF) arrested two men, including a BJP worker, in two separate cases after recovering a total of 400gm heroin from their possession.In the first case, Amandeep Singh, alias Deepa, 23, of Indira Colony, Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Giaspura, was nabbed with 390gm heroin near Lohara Canal Bridge. He had hidden the contraband in his jacket.During questioning, he revealed that he smuggled heroin for one Ravi Kumar, alias Raghu, of Maha Singh Nagar, Daba. Sub-inspector Rampal said Amandeep was facing trial in another case of liquor smuggling. He was a labourer and turned to drug peddling to make easy money. He had been working with Ravi for the past one year.The sub-inspector said both accused had been booked and a hunt was on to arrest Ravi.Meanwhile, a BJP worker, Pawan Suri, 31, of Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, was arrested near his house after recovery of 10gm heroin from his possession.Inspector Gurbachan Singh said Pawan used to buy heroin from a resident of Ambedkar Nagar to sell it among addicts.He was earlier an office-bearer of the Ludhiana Youth Congress and had joined the local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with a group of Congress workers five days ago.Two separate FIRs under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act have been registered at the STF station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-worker-among-two-held-with-400gm-heroin-in-ludhiana/story-EKMPZASlrOIliagUASquTM.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad to conduct dry run for Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday||Ghaziabad/Noida: The district health departments of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar will conduct a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday. Both the districts have identified six sites each where the mock drills will be conducted to assess the preparedness of infrastructure and resources required for the inoculation drive. Ghaziabad officials said that they have changed the previously designated sites and now identified six sites -- IDST College at Modi Nagar, ITS Dental College at Muradnagar and community health centre at Loni as three sites in rural areas while three urban sites were designated for the dry run at Gayatri Hospital in Lohiya Nagar, Yashoda Hospital, Nehru Nagar, and Santosh Hospital near old bus stand. Earlier, district women hospital was included in the list of six sites, the officials said.“The dry run will commence at 10am and end by 4pm on Tuesday. Each session room will be given a list of 25 beneficiaries and the procedures of vaccination will be taken up. The sites will have waiting area, vaccination room and an observation room, among others. Our teams will conduct the dry run and report to us,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad. The GB Nagar district administration has identified six medical facilities where the health workers will be apprised by the trained officials about the methods of vaccination. These sites include the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (better known as Child PGI) in Noida, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, Sharda hospital and community health centres of Bisrakh, Dadri and Bhangel blocks. GB Nagar CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said that the dry run will start with introductory session of two hours. “While in the first part of this session, the trained workers will give the detailed demonstration about the process of vaccination, the health workers will manifest the vaccination process through mock drill in the second part of this session. As many as 72 health workers, besides the in-charge of the hospitals and doctors from the health department, will be present during the dry run of the vaccination,” Ohri said. For the purpose of vaccination, the Ghaziabad district has identified a list of 44 locations, including 30 private healthcare facilities, where actual vaccination will take place once the vaccine arrives. The district has identified about 21,800 healthcare workers who will be vaccinated under the first phase. “During the dry run, our teams will carry vaccine boxes (with ice packs) to the vaccination facility. So, they will get attuned to the process when actual vaccine arrives. We have identified 29 cold-chain points and one vaccine store for storage of vaccine. During the dry run, we will be co-ordinating the activities from the Covid control and command centre and will identify gaps for improvement,” the Ghaziabad CMO said. GB Nagar CMO Ohri further said that the police commissionerate has deployed adequate forces to ensure smooth and safe transport of the vaccines from cold chain points to vaccination sites during Covid inoculation drill. “The district has 13 cold storage points where vaccines can be stored, besides the main vaccine depot at my office. We have also identified 73 centres where the actual vaccination will take place. We have already prepared a list of 21,543 doctors and other medical staff, who will be inoculated,” he said. Ohri further said that it is mandatory for the vaccination centres to have three separate rooms for the purpose. “While the first one will be the waiting room, the second and third rooms will be for vaccination and post-immunization assessment. Also, there will be separate entry and exit points at all the vaccination centres. We will keep the name, address and mobile number of every person, who’ll get the shots in the first phase,” he said. Meanwhile, the UP additional chief secretary (health), Amit Mohan Prasad, said that all the divisional commissioners and district magistrates have been asked to ensure that syringes, vaccine, AEFI (adverse event following immunization) kit and other logistics reach the session sites in time. “The waiting and observation areas should have proper sitting arrangements. It has to be ensured that the vaccination team reaches the site 45 minutes in advance. The government has also appointed sector officers to ensure the dry run sessions on time,” he said. It may be noted that the Drugs Controller General of India, which is the regulating body in the country, has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.The Uttar Pradesh government has already issued guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination and identified three categories of people who would be vaccinated in first, second and third phases. In his directions, UP’s additional chief secretary has stated that the health care workers (HCWs) which includes staff of government and private health care facilities, will get the vaccine in the first phase. The second phase is scheduled for frontline workers such as police personnel, home guards, jail staff and employees of Nagar Palikas, among others. The third category includes people aged over 50 years and also those aged below but having issues like diabetes, cancer, and high blood pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-ghaziabad-to-conduct-dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-on-tuesday/story-Ef71gLJouNYWSiAsMGgQ1K.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Noida to adopt Greater Noida’s model of e-files of every work||NOIDA: The Noida authority has decided to adopt Greater Noida’s model of preparing e-files of every work to maintain more transparency and accountability. The move will benefit the general public and reduce time spent on processing the files, said officials.“The UP government has asked us to adopt the Greater Noida authority’s model of preparing the electronic file instead of manual files to process all kinds of work. We will soon start work on this to execute the same on the ground,” said a Noida authority official, not authorized to speak to media.The move will benefit the thousands of allottees, who can get their work done online, the officials said.“Once it is implemented, the authority will inform farmers and other allottees about a particular work on mobile numbers. The public handling will become more easier with the new system. However, the staff will have to be put under training for the new model,” said another authority official.The Greater Noida authority had in April last year directed the staff to start preparing of electronic files instead of traditional paper files to process various routine or big budget projects, including land acquisition from farmers. The move was aimed at reducing public interaction during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Greater Noida authority had also started the process to acquire 1,400 acres of agricultural land via direct buying from farmers in order to ready industrial pockets to be allotted for manufacturing units through e-filing to be processed online.“We had then directed all project engineers and other staff members to restart land acquisition via making e-files and following all standard operating procedures. In e-files, it takes less time in processing and carrying out work of all kinds,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-to-adopt-greater-noida-s-model-of-e-files-of-every-work/story-vDA8yQtw9XvpN4zLMsZV6I.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Man killed by lightning in Jewar||Greater Noida: A 22-year-old man died due to lightning after he took shelter in a makeshift hut in Jewar during the rain on Sunday evening. Local people said that the man was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead. The victim has been identified as Gautam Bharti, the police said. Locals said that the lightning struck Bharti when he was talking to someone using earphone attached to his mobile phone . Rajesh Chaudhury, a local, said that Bharti had gone to the field when it started raining. “He took shelter in a makeshift hut. However, due to heavy rain he was struck by the lightning. His mobile phone and earphone were damaged and he was critically injured,” he said. Umesh Bahadur, SHO, Jewar police station, said that Bharti’s brother Puroshotam Bharti on Monday informed police about the incident. “The family has not filed any complaint in this regard,” Bahadur said. In a separate incident, a makeshift shelter for construction workers, engaged in the development project under rehabilitation scheme of the proposed Jewar airport, collapsed in Jewar-Bangar village, injuring nine workers on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Sonu, a construction worker, said that the workers were sleeping when it started raining at 2am. “The tin shed collapsed in which nine workers received minor injuries,” he said. However, the police said that this incident was not reported to them. Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida Zone 3, said that police have not received information in this regard. “We talked to the SHO Jewar, but this incident was not reported by anyone. We have directed the police to visit the spot and take necessary action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-killed-by-lightning-in-jewar/story-sJ8E2ryUklwOnCidHorAaL.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Four arrested for assaulting salesman at clothing store in Noida||Noida: Four men in their late twenties were nabbed by the Noida police on late Sunday night for allegedly assaulting a salesperson at a clothing store in Atta market. The store owner also sustained minor injuries in the incident, the police said. The incident took place around 9pm on Sunday. The suspects were identified as Pintu, Sunil, Sanjay and Vipin, all residents of Sector 16.According to police officials, Pintu also worked as a salesperson at a clothing store and had an argument with another salesman at a neighbouring shop in the market.“A complaint was filed by the owner of the store who alleged that the suspects came to his shop and assaulted one of his workers,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.In his complaint, the owner, Anwar, has alleged that Pintu had an argument with his salesman, Ashu, in the evening over a petty personal matter. Around 8.45pm, Pintu came back with at least 6-7 people and got into an argument with the victim. The suspects then assaulted him in front of several customers, said the complainant.The officials said that the owner also sustained minor injuries in the incident which was caught in the shop’s CCTV camera.The footage shows five men manhandling Ashu and then more joining them and hurting him. The suspects fled after they heard a patrolling vehicle, the police said.“A team traced four of them and apprehended them later. There are at least three-four more people involved who are at large. A search is on for them and they will be nabbed soon. The suspects were booked for assault. They are all known to the owner and live in the same neighbourhood,” said the SHO.The four suspects were produced before a magistrate on Monday and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-arrested-for-assaulting-salesman-at-clothing-store-in-noida/story-uygkoy1XiLGzrfcKGRVjzJ.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bar body observes hunger strike over physical hearings in Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) on Monday observed a hunger strike demanding resumption of physical hearings in high court. PHHCBA president GBS Dhillon said that nearly 200 lawyers including the Bar body executive members and clerks observed a hunger strike between 10 am and 4 pm at the HC complex on Monday. “The HC Bar executive committee is meeting tomorrow to chalk out a future course of action. Bars in Punjab and Haryana have also given an ultimatum to the HC court administration to decide on resumption of physical hearing by January 11 in the lower courts as well,” he said. The Bar body, which has nearly 4,000 members, is demanding that physical hearings, suspended since March 21 due to the Covid-19 outbreak, start in a phased manner. The closure has hit lawyers, Bar body employees as well as litigants, it says. Lawyers argue that if 15 out of the 25 high courts are holding virtual and physical hearings , then the Punjab and Haryana HC too can go ahead with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bar-body-observes-hunger-strike-over-physical-hearings-in-punjab-and-haryana-hc/story-3nefkUwTin9fc571rXRv4K.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Driving licence,vehicle registration through Mohali Sewa Kendras||Documents for driving licence and vehicle registration can now be submitted through Sewa Kendras and not to the licensing and registration authorities of the state, Aashika Jain, additional commissioner (general), said here on Monday. For hassle free services, now applicants will not have to submit files through the document management services (DMS) mode to the licensing and registering authorities. Sewa Kendra personnel will assist those who are not technology savvy or do not have internet access to process their documents.The Kendras will work at the front end to accept the requisite documents from applicants and submit the scanned copies to the licensing and registering authority in Vahan 4.0 DMS (citizen service) module online. It’s to be noted that the Kendras will only scan the original documents, after which the licensing and registering authority will verify and approve the record online. Service charge for the facility will be Rs 50.The printed driving license (DL)/registration certificate (RC) documents will be delivered directly to the applicant via speed post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/driving-licence-vehicle-registration-through-mohali-sewa-kendras/story-Fu23UrDhpwQGCgGZiffYhL.html
04-01-2021||Gurugram||Cannabis, worth ₹11 crore, recovered from truck on KMP Expressway||The police on Sunday seized 2,233 kilograms of cannabis (ganja), worth ₹11 crore in the international market, from a fodder truck on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway near Pachgaon in Manesar. According to the police, there has been a spurt in the smuggling of drugs since March last year. The police have so far have recovered drugs worth ₹14 crore in the last eight months across the district. According to the police, the cannabis was being transported in a truck from Odisha and was on its way to Uklana in Hisar in Haryana. The driver of the truck, Bhupinder Singh, and the co-driver, Omji Singh, both residents of Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh, were arrested. During interrogation, they allegedly told the police that they have been working with a transport company for the last three years. Recently, they came in contact with some people of their village, who used to allegedly sell ganja and smuggle it to states such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. They lured them to smuggle it from Odisha to different parts of Haryana, by promising them ₹4 lakh per consignment. This was their first job, said the police. Last week, they came to Koraput in Odisha to unloaded a consignment of metal, which was sent from Hisar. One of the suspects met them and offered ₹4 lakh for the delivery of drugs to Uklana in Hisar. They were allegedly given an advance of ₹20,000 and were asked to hide the drugs beneath some fodder. They were told to deliver the consignment to a drug peddler in Uklana, after which they were supposed drive back the empty truck to another location in Hisar, from where they were supposed to load another consignment through the transporter, said the police. “The contraband substance was to be handed over to a peddler in Uklana but the crime investigation agency (CIA) team of Sector 10A intercepted the truck at KMP near Panchgaon during a routine checking. The police recovered the cannabis from 70 sacks. The remaining 380 sacks were filled with inferior quality fodder,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). An FIR was registered at the Manesar police station under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the suspects were taken on a two-day police remand, the police said. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said, “This is the largest recovery of drugs in the last three years in the district. We have adopted a zero-tolerance policy towards drug trafficking in the district. The main reason behind the spurt in the drug-peddling cases is the rise in the demand. After the lockdown was lifted, the demand has increased and therefore drug peddlers are more active nowadays. However, crime units and police teams are working very hard to nab the peddlers and the middlemen involved in the trade.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cannabis-worth-11-crore-recovered-from-truck-on-kmp-expressway/story-SNo02xPBXuOb1qFq3XgJxO.html
04-01-2021||City||Four, including two police officials, injured during a shoot-out near Bhondsi||Five suspected carjackers and a police team allegedly exchanged fire near Bhondsi on Monday, leaving two police officials and two of the suspects injured. Their arrest, which followed an hour-long chase, has solved more than four dozen cases in the district, claimed the police. The gang was involved in 20 recent cases of car robberies reported from various places in Gurugram, such as Iffco Chowk, Sohna Road, Golf Course Extension Road, Kherki Daula, Manesar, Hero Honda Chowk and Shankar Chowk. “This gang used to come from Hanumangarh and target victims on the expressway and service lanes. They have robbed more than 100 cars at gunpoint and have looted more than ₹50 lakh,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). During primary investigation, it was revealed that the gang was also involved in several cases of murder, attempt to murder, snatching and robbery in Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.According to the police, during the chase, the two suspects suffered gunshot wounds on their legs, while two police officials were injured in their arms. They were all admitted to Gururgam’s Civil Hospital. As per the police, one of their crime teams received a tip-off on Sunday that the carjackers in a Scorpio were planning to rob commuters on Sohna Road after crossing Badshahpur. Around 1am, a team of police officials from crime unit 39, was on patrol duty, when they saw a black Scorpio car moving towards Sohna from Vatika Chowk. There were allegedly five men in the SUV. The police said they tried to stop them but seeing a police vehicle, they accelerated. Sangwan said that the police team chased them and tried to intercept the SUV but they started speeding up. “After the vehicle crossed a temple in Bhondsi, the criminals started firing on the police vehicle, following which the police tried to fire back at their tyres,” he said The police teams, meanwhile, informed the control room, which alerted the teams deployed at the check points at Bhondsi and Sohna.Sangwan said when the police team signalled the driver to stop, the occupants started firing at them. “They used narrow lanes to flee towards Rithoj village but the teams chased them. After a while, the SUV hit a stone as the rear left tyre got busted after the police team fired at them,” he said. When cornered, the suspects allegedly tried to run away on foot while shooting at the police.  The police said the suspects fired 50 rounds, while the police fired 30 rounds in retaliation. The police managed to nab two of the criminals. However, the remaining three managed to flee the spot taking advantage of the dark. During the firing, two police officers, exempted assistant sub-inspector Kapil and head constable Sandeep, received bullet injuries on their arms. They were immediately rushed to the Civil Hospital, where they were administered first aid. The suspects were identified as Sandeep Singh (24) of Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, and Sunil alias Sonu (29) of Dadri in Haryana Sangwan said two countrymade pistols with six live cartridges were recovered from them and so was the stolen car. The three other suspects have also been identified and raids are being conducted to nab them.  In the last three months, this is the fourth such alleged encounter that ended with the arrests of the suspects. On November 3, six people, including four policemen, were severely injured in retaliatory firing by a group of suspected criminals in Nuh’s Punhana during a raid to arrest a 30-year-old man, who was accused in several cases of ATM theft, robbery, cattle smuggling and carjacking. Earlier, on October 10, the police had arrested two alleged criminals in Manesar after an exchange of fire out of which one died undergoing treatment. Two countrymade pistols, 20 live cartridges, a backpack and a Swift car were allegedly recovered from the possession of the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-including-two-police-officials-injured-during-a-shoot-out-near-bhondsi/story-an5DAtmJweLTOroyvnDUmM.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Yodha Singh, 3 others acquitted in robbery case||The Chandigarh district court on Monday acquitted gangster Yodha Singh and three others in a 2018 case related to car theft at gunpoint.According to an FIR lodged at the Sector 36 police station on March 21, 2018, Rajdeep Singh from Kharar, who was working with rideshare company Ola, complained to the police that a car hit his taxi near the Sector 53 gurdwara while he was on his way back to Mohali after dropping off a customer at Sector 17. As he got down to check, four men stepped out of the other car and took his valuables at gunpoint and fled with the car.After a case was registered under section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and section 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, 1959, the Chandigarh crime branch in April arrested Yodha Singh, Gulab Singh, Amrik Singh and Davinder Singh.The court acquitted all four after advocate Varun Kumar , counsel for Devinder Singh said that the investigation officer (IO) had first confirmed that no such incident (theft of car) had been captured by CCTV cameras at the gurdwara. “If any such crime had taken place, then it would have been captured in the footage,” he argued.Vaneet Kumar, another lawyer, said that Rajdeep Singh, during cross examination, had said that nothing had been recovered from the four men when they were arrested, but the crime branch IO had said that when he was tipped off about Yodha and three of his aides coming to Chandigarh he set up a checkpoint and arrested them, recovering the stolen car and a country made pistol in Rajdeep Singh’s presence.Vaneet Kumar also said no “case property such as a country made pistol or car was produced during trial.”Yodha Singh alias Jodha has been involved in series of carjackings, kidnappings and robberies over the past years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-yodha-singh-3-others-acquitted-in-robbery-case/story-VkT6qAy0pL2lWk3BY8xojO.html
04-01-2021||Gurugram||Afternoon shower leaves several areas flooded; portion of Sohna Road caves in||Spells of rain on Sunday and Monday left several low-lying areas of the city waterlogged. A small portion of Sohna Road, near Central Park Resort, also caved in following the rain over the weekend.The city witnessed light rain from around 3.30pm onwards on Monday that continued till 8.30 pm on a sporadic basis.Waterlogging was reported from low-lying areas, such as sectors 27, 28, 54, 47, 49, 50, 10A, Hero Honda Chowk, Khandsa Road, Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road and the Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. More than 100 officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) were deployed across the city, along with 30 motor pumps and suction machines, to drain out rainwater. Till 9pm on Monday, officials of the MCG were still present at various places prone to waterlogging, such as Vatika Chowk and Khandsa-Narsinghpur stretch, anticipating more spells of rain.“It rained after 3.30pm on Monday. Since the intensity was low, the rainwater naturally receded towards stormwater drains in most areas. At some points, where the drains were either absent or choked, officials of the MCG were deployed along with necessary machines to channel rainwater towards the nearest outlet,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.Sharma said that motor pumps were installed by the MCG at Sector 10A, Khandsa-Narsinghpur stretch, Sector 27, Hero Honda Chowk, among other areas to drain out rainwater.“With the prediction of more rain, motor pumps will continue to operate at these locations as a precautionary measure so that they can be turned on as soon as it starts rainwater and heavy water accumulation does not occur. Until the weather clears up more than 100 of our officials have been directed to stay on continuous alert,” said Sharma.Portion of Sohna Road caves in Earlier in the day, around 6am, a small portion of the road, opposite Central Park Resort on Sohna Road, caved in following the rain on Sunday.As per traffic police officials, due to the ongoing construction of Sohna elevated road, only basic re-carpeting had been done on the main carriageway. The rain on Sunday eroded the top bitumen layer and the movement of heavy vehicles led to a small cave-in on the rightmost lane of the carriageway carrying traffic from Vatika Chowk towards Subhash Chowk.Traffic police officials said that they had placed a truck, prior to the cave-in, as a precautionary measure and also placed traffic cones to alert commuters.With one of the three lanes barricaded, the cave-in also resulted in congestion on the stretch.By 3pm, traffic police along with a few daily-wage earners from the construction site filled the cave-in with a gravel layer. Later, the entire stretch was subsequently opened to traffic.“The cave-in was minor. It was less than two feet deep and two feet wide. After being alerted about the same, we had placed a truck before the affected spot as a precautionary measure. With the assistance of workers from the contractor, we quickly filled the stretch with mud, gravel, and stones and opened it for traffic movement. After the overcast conditions are over, the affected spot will be repaired,” said Jitender Rana, traffic inspector, Gurugram traffic police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/afternoon-shower-leaves-several-areas-flooded-portion-of-sohna-road-caves-in/story-efkpfJebRcuURydbfVcq9I.html
04-01-2021||Gurugram||Air quality ‘satisfactory’ for first time in over three months||Air quality in the city improved to the “satisfactory” category of the air quality index (AQI) on Monday for the first time since September last year, after a gap of over three months. Following spells of rain on Sunday and Monday, pollution levels dropped significantly, with Gurugram recording 65 on the CPCB’s AQI bulletin — down from 260 on the previous day and 336 on Saturday. The city had last witnessed “satisfactory” air quality on September 27, when the AQI was recorded at 82.As per the official forecast, the favourable air quality is expected to last for at least two more days and pollution levels over the next week are expected to remain in the “moderate” to “poor” categories of the AQI. Gurugram remained the least polluted city in the national capital region (NCR) on Monday, followed by Manesar, which also recorded satisfactory air (with 67 on the AQI, down from Sunday’s reading of 288). According to the data from the city’s air quality monitors, the concentration of PM2.5 in Gurugram ranged between 34 and 86ug/m3 over the course of the day. The safe limit, as per Indian standards, is 60ug/m3. Delhi, Faridabad, Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida, meanwhile, all recorded “moderate” air quality, with AQIs ranging between 134 and 179. “Winds have been originating from the east of NCR with speed of up to 20 and even 30kmph. This would typically push up pollution levels in the city, but in the event of rain, we have seen this kind of improvement for the first time in months. Since Gurugram and Manesar have seen cleaner air throughout the winter, it’s not surprising that the air is cleaner than in other parts of the NCR,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality... has improved significantly owing to rain and better wind conditions favourable for dispersion of pollutants. The air quality is likely to remain in the moderate to satisfactory category on 04.01.2021 and 05.01.2021. The air quality is likely to remain in the moderate to poor category on 06.01.2021.” Winds are expected to originate from the east or southeast of Delhi at speeds between 15-20 kmph, with a generally cloudy sky, thundershowers and moderate to dense fog in the morning, over the next two days.While Gurugram’s automatic weather station did not capture any temperature or rainfall data over the past 24 hours, data from the IMD’s nearest AWS at Palam (in Delhi) showed the minimum temperature to be 12.3 degrees Celsius on Monday, while the maximum temperature stood at 20.4 degrees Celsius. As per Palam data, 5mm of rainfall had been received until 8am on the morning of January 4.While these are warmer conditions than the region was experiencing just a few days ago, the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Gurugram predicts another cold wave around January 7, when the minimum temperature is expected to dip to about 9 degrees Celsius and maximum to 18 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-satisfactory-for-first-time-in-over-three-months/story-O9xW541e3g3a91hVmfah6M.html
04-01-2021||Gurugram||Former MLA to march towards Delhi seeking SYL Canal construction||Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, which that has been leading a march for the construction of Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal from Ateli till Delhi, said that it would surround Delhi on January 7 and court arrests, if the Central government did not act in the matter. The march that started on December 30 from Ateli and reached Gurugram on Monday, with protesters covering a distance of about 100 kilometres so far.Punjab and Haryana are locked in a dispute over the sharing of the Ravi-Beas waters for decades. While Haryana wants its share, as was decided when the state was carved out of Punjab along with Himachal Pradesh 50 years ago, successive Punjab governments have refused to share the water. The 212km-long SYL Canal was to carry Haryana’s share of water to its dry and arid southern part, with 121 kilometres of the canal to run through Punjab and the remaining 91km through Haryana. The Haryana portion was completed in June 1980, but Punjab is yet to complete the canal. While addressing a press conference in the city on Monday, Samiti chairman and former Ateli MLA Naresh Yadav said that farmers of Ahirwal region in southern Haryana were in need of water, but the Central government had not taken any steps in this regard. “Despite the Supreme Court ruling in favour of Haryana, Punjab is not ready to share water with Haryana. Farmers of the region are struggling due to this, “ said Yadav. He said that thousands of acres of land had turned barren in the Ahirwal region due to shortage of water and that construction of the SYL Canal was the only solution. “We demand that the Central government immediately starts construction of the SYL Canal to save farmers in the region,” said Yadav. He said that thousands of farmers will surround Delhi on January 7 if the Central government failed to take action on the construction of the canal soon. BJP spokesperson Raman Malik said that the Punjab government needed to build the canal and the central government will take care of everything else. “SYL is the lifeline for South Haryana. The construction of the canal is needed for the people here. However, we need to take cognisance of the fact that the Supreme Court has already given some orders. The Punjab government needs to complete the canal. We will look into the aspects of how and when to bring the canal,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/former-mla-to-march-towards-delhi-seeking-syl-canal-construction/story-EE5j97AN3yqicmfyor6nbK.html
04-01-2021||City||Farmers angry with Haryana govt over being hit with tear gas||A day after Haryana police lobbed tear gas shells at farmers on their way to Delhi, angry farmers accused the Haryana government of “behaving like a tyrant” and attacking them for no reason.Farmers said that expired tear gas shells were used on them due to which at least three people sustained serious injuries while 30-40 farmers had breathing troubles due to toxic foam. The Rewari police denied that having used expired tear gas shells.Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra have been protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, at the Rajasthan-Haryana border, since December 13. Last Thursday, a section of farmers had crossed the barricade at Shahjahanpur and entered Rewari on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. They were joined by their counterparts from Hanumangarh and Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan on Sunday after which they tried proceeding towards Delhi but were stopped by the Rewari police.Over 1,000 farmers, mostly from Hanumangarh and Shri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, who were stopped from proceeding ahead, are now camping near Dharuhera.Farmers from across the country have been protesting against the three new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops.Sukhjeet Singh, a farmer from Padampur in Shri Ganganagar, who sustained injuries to his leg during Sunday’s standoff, said, “We have farmers as old as 70 years of age with us, but the police didn’t take anything into account before going on the offensive and subjecting us to expired tear gas,” said Singh. He demanded that an inquiry be initiated to investigate the alleged use of expired tear gas.He said that the police had blocked the route by placing containers, trolleys and trucks. “They even removed the steering wheels of some trucks and deflated the tyres so that we are unable to move ahead,” said Singh.He said that the Haryana government was being undemocratic in stopping farmers from proceeding ahead. “Are we not citizens of this country? Do we need a special ID card for the Haryana government to allow us to proceed?” said Singh.Jalandhar Singh, a 25-year-old from Ganganagar, had sustained injuries after a tear gas shell landed on his foot. “Along with the others, I was trying to ward off the tear gas shells when one of them landed on my leg. There was no time to react. The shots were being fired one after other, “ said Singh.Zakir Hussain, a farmer from Pir Kamariya village in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh, said that protesters had requested the police to allow them to proceed peacefully. “The police started lobbing tear gas from the bridge above. All these shells were dated from 2017 to 2020. For nearly two hours, they continued to fire tear gas,” said Hussain.Resham Singh, a farmer from Hanumangarh, said that the police had fired hundreds of tear gas shells and some of them had landed in trolleys with gas cylinders. He said that two trolleys had caught fire but was contained by farmers. “The police was lobbing shells from the top. One of them fell into our trolley that contained gas cylinders. There could have been a big blast but the police didn’t stop. Without any provocation, the police acted ruthlessly with us,” said Singh.Harvinder Singh Gill, a farmer from Shri Ganganagar, said that the goal was to reach Delhi border but the Haryana police were blocking their path. Gill said that farmers would continue to camp near Dharuhera for the next two days and wait for the Supreme Court hearing and the ongoing talks, before deciding on the next course of action. “Our goal has always been to reach the Delhi borders. We will wait for the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to decide if and when they want us to proceed. Until that, we will camp here,” said Gill.Farmers camping at the new site were also inconvenienced due to the downpour. While those with trolleys are using their vehicles for shelter, tarpaulin tents were put in place for those without vehicles.Hazoor Singh, a 61-year-old, sitting under a makeshift tarpaulin arrangement, said that while farmers had been protesting at Singhu and Tikri as well, the Haryana government had been the least cooperative. “The Haryana government bothers us a lot. They are lobbing tear gas shells on those who produce food. The government is being arrogant,” said Singh, a native of Jagtewala in Shri Ganganagar.Rajesh Kumar, DSP, Bawal, said that the police did not let the farmers move ahead from their camp on Monday. Kumar said that the police was well prepared with the deployment. He denied that expired tear gas shells had been used on the protesting farmers.Due to traffic diversions, commuters also faced trouble in reaching Dharuhera on Monday.Neeraj Kumar, 26, said that he had to walk for 15 kilometres to reach Dharuhera. “I took a bus from Pachgaon but we couldn’t proceed ahead since the route was closed by the police. I will start walking now and hope to reach my workplace in two hours. We were not given any explanation about the diversions,” said Kumar, who works with an automobile manufacturing company. Bharatiya Janata Party’s Haryana spokesperson, Raman Malik, said that while the government was engaging with farmers to address their concerns, it needed to maintain the law and order situation as well. “Unlike certain political leaders, who are looking towards disruption, the government is aiming towards resolving the farmers concerns in a constructive manner. The government is looking into the interests of all farmers and not a handful of farmers, and while doing so, it has to maintain the law and order situation as well, “ said Malik||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-angry-with-haryana-govt-over-being-hit-with-tear-gas/story-yXJkhV0fBeAqTbsOVKPHpI.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Jawan project: Physical education teachers in Ludhiana to be trained to guide army aspirants||More than 70 physical education (PE) teachers from Ludhiana will be trained virtually on January 6 so that they can prepare students of government schools who are interested in joining the Armed Forces. During the 45-minute training session, the teachers will be told about the selection procedure and practical training required by candidates. They will further train government school students under the Jai Jawan Project started by the state government.The aim to train the PE teachers is to make optimum use of the resources so that they can guide students adequately.The teachers will prepare interested students for the written and physical tests to join the Armed Forces, which will include 400-metre run, sit ups and pushups, psychological test and interview. The students will also be informed about the various entrance examinations which they have to clear.The department of physical education will conduct the online training for PE teachers of Jalandhar and Kapurthala also on January 6.District education officer (elementary cum secondary), Rajinder Kaur, said, “We have very talented students in government schools. This initiative of the higher authorities will surely help them choose the Armed Forces as a career. The training session will prove beneficial for PE instructors as they can now guide students interested in joining the Armed Forces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jai-jawan-project-physical-education-teachers-in-ludhiana-to-be-trained-to-guide-army-aspirants/story-fZDeA3wGSB4OQGOaSgVfrO.html
04-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram ready to start Covid-19 vaccination from next week||The district health department is planning to start the Covid-19 vaccinations in Gurugram from the next week, as part of the country’s biggest immunisation exercise to tackle the coronavirus disease, according to the senior officials.More than 250,000 people in the district are likely to get the Covid-19 jab in the first phase, which includes over 36,000 healthcare workers who will be vaccinated initially. Ahead of the vaccination, the district health department is also preparing to conduct a Covid-19 vaccine dry run drill on January 7.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “In all likelihood, the vaccination exercise can start from next week. Since healthcare workers of the government and private hospitals will be covered first, the department is working on taking up at least 81 session sites for the vaccination. It will include at least two to three big private hospitals having more than 7,000 healthcare workers to facilitate vaccination. It is, however, yet to be finalised.”The department has currently identified 181 vaccination sites. With the increase in the vaccine beneficiaries count, the session sites will also increase. In the first phase, healthcare workers, frontline workers, residents aged above 50 years and those below 50 years of age but with co-morbidities will be prioritised.According to Yadav, the data collection of frontline workers, which includes municipal corporation workers, police and defence personnel, is yet to start. Combining all the prioritised population, over 6.5 million beneficiaries will be covered in the first phase across the state, with more than 250,000 from Gurugram alone.Dry run at six sitesIn gearing up for the vaccination, the district health department is also holding a dry run on January 7 at six sites. Earlier, the drive was to be held at three sites. On Monday, three more sites were added, according to Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer, to make the existing system robust before the vaccination starts next week.Three additional session sites added to the dry run drill of Covid-19 vaccination include the community centre in Sector 56 (Tigra urban primary health centre), Government Senior Secondary School in Daulatabad and another in Chauma. The other three sites confirmed on Sunday were urban primary health centres of Wazirabad and Bhangrola, and Government Senior Secondary School at Basai Enclave.On Monday, vaccinators and medical officers of the identified urban primary health centres received training from the state health department. A dry run has already been conducted in Panchkula on January 2. Singh said the thrust is on the usage of Co-WIN, a digital platform that provides real-time information on every aspect related to Covid-19 vaccination.“From the availability of vaccine to giving jabs to the beneficiaries, the portal will be used at every step. For the dry run, over 150 healthcare workers are already registered. On the Co-WIN portal, their details are uploaded. It is only after the verification and the vaccination (as a part of the demonstration) that they are supposed to receive an SMS on getting the next vaccine jab,” said Singh, mentioning that teams are already been trained to work on Co-WIN platform.At each of these sites, at least 25 healthcare workers will be part of the demonstration, along with a team of four vaccination officers and a vaccinator.Requirement of workforceTo arrange for the necessary workforce at the sites — from police personnel to data operators and assisting staff — the health department officials on Monday met the deputy commissioner to discuss the requirement.Singh said, “The women and child development department has agreed on providing ASHAs and ANMs, while the health department will use its own data entry operators along with vaccinators for the dry run.”A request for more than 1,400 additional workers to assist 286 vaccinators, once the vaccine is rolled out, has already been placed with the district administration.Senior officials of the state health department for vaccine procurement were unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-ready-to-start-covid-19-vaccination-from-next-week/story-iXl4lHnyYIgKTeF4UmqIdJ.html
04-01-2021||Gurugram||Health dept expands antigen testing to zero in on possible clusters||In a bid to detect clusters of Covid-19 infections in the district, the health department has expanded the reach of antigen camps to four more healthcare centres — at Naharpur Roopa, Fazilpur, Firoz Gandhi Colony and the department’s polyclinic in Sector 40’s Jharsa village — this week, taking the coverage of rapid antigen camps to 35 PHCs/UPHCs in Gurugram.This is up from the 31 camps held the previous week and 28, a fortnight ago. A total of 15 such camps are being organised daily, up from just under 10 per day last month, according to information shared by the district health department.Department officials said that rapid antigen tests (RATs) will continue even in areas which are no longer notified as containment zones, where their use was recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research.“Earlier, we were using rapid tests to quickly isolate positive cases from hotspot areas and break the chain of transmission. After the decline in new cases from mid-November, we are using antigen tests more as a surveillance tool. We are trying to cover as many localities as possible so we may detect any small outbreak, at which point more RT-PCR tests and contact tracing will be done in that place,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer for Gurugram.This was the case in Bhangrola, for instance, which does not feature in the district administration’s list of notified containment zones. “The number of antigen camps under the Bhangrola primary healthcare centre (PHC) has been doubled this week, from five to 10, because we started seeing more positives coming from that area through contact tracing. Anganwadis, public schools, and health subcentres have been roped in to administer rapid tests to anyone walking in with symptoms. In case antigen positivity rises in the area in the next week, then we know that we have an outbreak on our hands,” said Dr MP Singh, the nodal officer for antigen campsites.However, antigen positivity rates are presently at an all-time low. “We are doing between 150 and 200 RATs per day, of which not more than two or three are testing positive for Covid. And the cases are also scattered across Gurugram, so we are able to say with surety that we are not missing any significant clusters,” said Dr Sharma.In areas like Bhangrola and Badshahpur, where most new cases are concentrated, Sharma said that the number of antigen camps has increased, but not yielded any evidence that there is unchecked transmission happening in the area.There are currently no plans to roll back the frequency or geographic coverage of antigen camps in Gurugram. “In our experience, clusters of infection are detected faster when we create access to testing. Antigen camps will continue as a pre-emptive measure. All PHCs and UPHCs will be covered on a rotational basis,” said Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer for Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-dept-expands-antigen-testing-to-zero-in-on-possible-clusters/story-Y6BeyNu5tBIM18lUffhzYP.html
04-01-2021||City||Jagraon Bridge retaining wall construction: Ludhiana MC paid contractor ₹44.7 lakh in excess, finds audit||The municipal corporation (MC) paid Rs 44.7 lakh in excess to the contractor for the Jagraon Bridge retaining wall construction project, a third-party audit ordered by the state government has revealed.Following an inquiry into the suspected embezzlement of funds meant for the project, the state government, on the recommendations of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, had ordered a third-party techno-financial audit in August last year. Following the revelations through the audit report, the state government has now asked MC to recover the amount from the contractor and submit a report. The corporation has also been asked to provide clarification on certain points, including revision of design and non-approval of some rates by the competent authority.The points highlighted in the audit report include extension of indirect benefit for non-compliance of performance security clause, excess payment on account of rate allowed beyond awarded rates, excess payment on account of carriage of rubble, no credit for steel against dismantled reinforced cement concrete and avoidable expenditure for excessive thickness of parapet wall, among others. “Notices will now be issued to MC officials concerned and the contractor citing the recommendations of the audit. The process to recover the amount will be initiated after receiving a reply to the notices,” said MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, who has also directed additional commissioner Rishipal Singh to submit an action-taken report in this regard by January 15. Singh was not immediately available for his comments despite multiple attempts to reach him. In August last year, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had raised objections over the alleged Rs 77-lakh discrepancies in the retaining wall construction project, which was being carried out at a cost of around Rs 2 crore. Sandhu had alleged that certain officials had sought permission to increase the project cost by Rs 44 lakh on the pretext of design change, prompting the state government to order an audit. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors led by leader of opposition in MC General House, Harbhajan Singh Dang, had also sought action against the officials for the alleged discrepancies.Amid the row, the historical, bowstring-girder bridge, constructed in 1888, was thrown open to traffic in October following repairs lasting over four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagraon-bridge-retaining-wall-construction-ludhiana-mc-paid-contractor-44-7-lakh-in-excess-finds-audit/story-8gtL41y6tqIqWdfpF1WqjN.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid shadow: No cultural programme at Republic Day function in Ludhiana this year||Keeping citizens’ safety in mind amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration has decided to use only half the seating capacity of the Guru Nanak Stadium for the Republic Day celebrations this year, while no cultural events will be presented.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday said a full dress rehearsal for the district-level Republic Day celebrations will be held at the stadium on January 23. He was speaking at a meeting organised to review the arrangements for the celebrations at Bachat Bhawan.Sharma said in view of the pandemic and government directions, no cultural function or PT show will be organised on the occasion. Stating that only 50% capacity of the stadium will be utilised for seating, he said all people attending the function must wear masks and follow other safety guidelines.The function will be broadcast live on the official Facebook page of the district public relations officer at “www.facebook.com/dproludhianapage”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-shadow-no-cultural-programme-at-republic-day-function-in-ludhiana-this-year/story-YiFI71wvLDMButn7dViHkO.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police intensify crackdown on sale of plastic kite string||With incidents of mishaps caused by plastic kite strings increasing, police have chalked out a plan to rein in their illegal sale. Special teams have been formed to conduct sting operations and raids to arrest sellers of the banned string. The teams, formed at police station level, will keep a check on the shopkeepers who have a history of selling plastic kite strings despite a ban by the police commissioner. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the teams will move around in civil clothes and approach different shops to buy the banned string and take action against those selling it. As part of a special drive against the string’s sale and storage, at least 50 cases have already been lodged against shopkeepers violating the ban.He added that apart from lodging an FIR under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code against violators, sections of wildlife and environment Acts will also be added, as the string was harmful for animals, birds and the environment. Balwinder Kumar, 38, of Shimlapuri, said he and his 10-year-old son had a close shave after the string got tangled around his neck while riding a two-wheeler. Kumar, who runs a mobile phone accessory shop, said his son and he were going to Nakodar to pay obeisance at a shrine on December 21, last year. When they reached the elevated road near Jagraon Bridge, the plastic string got entangled around his neck.“It started slashing my throat like a blade. I lost control on my motorcycle. However, I applied brakes, and managed to stop the vehicle. I freed myself and went to the hospital for first aid,” he said. He demanded a ban on the sale of plastic kite string.Another victim Sandeep Kumar 28, of Haibowal said on January 2 when he was crossing Laxmi Nagar on his motorcycle, a string got stuck to his face. When he tried to free himself, he suffered injuries on his hand, fell on the road and suffered more injuries, which could have led to his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-police-intensify-crackdown-on-sale-of-plastic-kite-string/story-hM0Yr7EOc5iT3Cnhahi9AP.html
04-01-2021||Pune||PMPML to develop state-of-the-art bus station at Hinjewadi||In a bid to offer better service to passengers, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) had begun an independent ‘Design Studio’ to upgrade and beautify their bus stands. Initially, the Deccan Gymkhana bus stand was modified and upgraded, while now the Hinjewadi bus stand will be developed by the organization. From e-charging point to CNG filling station, modern signage boards and several other passenger facilities will be added to the stand. “As the unlock process began and we resumed our services for the common public, we’re finding new ways to increase our revenue. As a part of it, we are going to now develop the 1.5 acre plot inside Hinjewadi Phase 2 I-T park. There are many IT and industrial companies in Hinjewadi and daily thousands of people come here for work. So for their benefit, as an easy mode of transport and also to increase our revenue, the current temporary bus stand at the spot will be developed,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD). Two years back, the PMPML got this land of 1.5 acres from MIDC inside Hinjewadi phase 2. A small bus shed has been built at the spot for bus operations and the land was used for parking of buses. As it was not developed, the number of bus routes and schedules were limited, and now when it will be modified with modern facilities it will benefit the passengers. “Currently most of the IT and industrial companies in Hinjewadi have given their employees work from home option, so there are fewer passengers. But we hope that soon the picture will change and the employees will return to routine. Looking at the increasing number of passengers, we will be developing this 1.5 acre land into a modern bus stand,” added Jagtap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-to-develop-state-of-the-art-bus-station-at-hinjewadi/story-qxIwDhMu97muIvun8cKDbO.html
04-01-2021||City||Pune district reports 2 deaths, 348 new Covid-19 cases||PUNE Pune district, on Monday, reported two deaths due to Covid-19 infection in 24 hours, according to the state health department.The district reported 348 new cases which took the total cases to 3.74 lakh of which 3.54 lakh have recovered, 7,809 have been reported dead and 12,270 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The Pune city reported 157 new cases taking the total cases to 1,92,206, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 80 new cases taking the total to 93,979 and 111 new cases in Pune rural which took the total to 88,563.Two deaths were reported one each from Pune city and Pune rural which took the death toll to 2,083 and 4,412 respectively. No deaths were reported from PCMC and the toll here stands at 1,277.The department reported that 10,362 patients were discharged on Monday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.47 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.88%.Also, 2,765 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 19.47 lakh.In addition, 29 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 50,849. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.55%. Out of 1,30,04,876 laboratory samples, 19,47,011 have been tested positive (14,97%) for Covid-19 until January 4. Currently 2,41,728 people are in home quarantine and 3,078 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-2-deaths-348-new-covid-19-cases/story-ioCULYxxvTD1jEj2qMppHI.html
04-01-2021||Pune||PMC stares at staff and machinery shortage as polio and Covid vaccine drives overlap||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is likely to face a staff shortage as it is planning to begin the annual pulse polio immunisation program in tandem with the large-scale Covid vaccine drive. India is yet to be declared a polio-free country; however, the massive pulse polio drive has gained accolades around the globe. The pulse polio drive aims to target around 3.08 lakh kids in the city alone and amidst the Covid-19 vaccination program, which is likely to go on for months, the civic body is now planning for vaccine carriers and storage facilities for both large scale immunisation programs and manpower requirements. The pulse polio drive will begin on January 17 and will go on until January 22, 2020 during which the civic body will vaccinate 3.08 lakh kids. The first day round will primarily include vaccinating kids at the booths set up in various places while on the remaining days, kids would be vaccinated through home-to-home immunization, railway stations, bus stops and other crowded places. The civic body will have around 1,500 booths dedicated to the polio vaccine and will need 4,500 personnel to man these booths. The PMC has estimated it would need 25 cold chain equipment and 520 vaccine carriers. The city task force meeting which met to discuss the polio immunisation drive listed the major challenges involved this year would be a shortage of manpower as schools and colleges are shut and also there is an urgent requirement of vaccine carriers. As a solution, the task force recommended that the other PMC departments especially the solid waste management and women and child departments can supply volunteers. Dr Archana Patil, director health services, Maharashtra said, “We do not know exactly as to when the Covid-19 vaccination would start but we are preparing for our annual polio immunization program which runs for about five days and covers one crore kids in the state. We have enough cold storage capacity, walk-in freezers, walk-in coolers, ice-laced refrigerators, and vaccine carriers, but they would be engaged for the polio drive. Covid vaccination would eventually cover the entire population and would go on for months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-stares-at-staff-and-machinery-shortage-as-polio-and-covid-vaccine-drives-overlap/story-kCQBUZfajHqjLxVt6UFAhO.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Local tekdi lovers welcome court order||While the PMC plans to resume work on clearing the debris and demolishing the kuccha road once they get the court order, the local residents who took up this issue and persevered to protect the hills of the city have mixed reactions. “The 35,000 Punekars who petitioned against any construction activity on this tekdi are grateful to PMC for their strong affidavit in court rejecting permission to MIT. As per the rules, very limited construction is allowed on the Hill Top Hill Slope zone. It’s surprising that MIT is so bent on constructing a road just for students to water plants up on the hill. There are better ways to carry out plantation drives on hills without disturbing the hill topography and destroying the biodiversity and I am sure many green NGOs will be happy to guide MIT students on this,” said Sushma Date, member of the Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti who was one of the members who pursued the issue with PMC. Days after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) asked the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) to clear debris gathered on Vetal tekdi which exists because of a road being built on the hill slope, area residents met municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar with a delegation of residents from Erandwane, Deccan, and Kothrud, to urge him to deny permission to MIT to build the said road, citing DC rules 2017, that disallowed any construction on hill slopes. While the residents living in the vicinity of MIT are not entirely content with the order pointed out that MIT acts with arrogance with locals and the officials might try to go to higher courts. “As the tekdi is in the green zone on the hilltop hill side, they are not supposed to put any kind of debris on the hill. Still, they have done it. After getting rejected by the court also they will try to do all types of mischievous things on site. Actually, they should remove the entire debris they have dumped on site. It is really dangerously dumped. It can cause casualties in the future,” said Aniruddha Khandekar, a resident of Kothrud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/local-tekdi-lovers-welcome-court-order/story-syi5ziRTW99r7gmz5RVpHO.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Vetal tekdi road work: Pune court rejects MIT’s plea seeking stay on PMC action||A local court on Monday rejected a plea filed by the Maharashtra Academy of Engineering and Educational Research MAEER’s MIT seeking stay on removal of debris by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) used for the unauthorised development of road at Vetal Tekdi, according to the PMC law officer. Civil judge junior division AB Tahsildar rejected MIT’s application thus giving a green signal to the PMC to continue its work of clearing the debris and demolishing the kuccha road that was being built by the college at Vetal Tekdi. Lawyer for PMC Sanjay Murkute said, “Today the court rejected the application for temporary injunction sought by MIT. The only remedy available to the plaintiff (MIT) is an appeal under section 47 of the MRTP act to the state government and therefore the plaintiff cannot be permitted to ride two horses at a time. On this background, the order of status-quo which was granted earlier by the court is vacated and as of date, there’s no order stay on the action as per section 53 of the MRTP act. The copy of the order is awaited.” According to Murkute, PMC had submitted in the court on MIT’s application for temporary injunction on the very ground that no development of any kind of whatsoever nature is permissible on the lands included within the Hill Top Hill Slope Zone (HTHS) is permissible under the relevant statutory provisions and the provisions of the Development Control and Promotion Regulations, 2017 (DCPR2017). On 22 December 2020, the court heard both sides and further directed the counsels to submit written notes of argument. Manjusha Idhate, chief law officer, PMC, “We welcome the decision of the court. We will not allow any development in the green zone.” After repeated attempts to contact MIT, there was no response from the administration. On November 19, 2020, the PMC served a stop-work notice to the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT), citing unauthorized work on the hill slope at survey no 123 in Kothrud whereas the MIT denied reports that any norms are being flouted while carrying out the work. Following the campaign by residents which within 48 hours managed to get more than 30,000 signatures for a petition for saving the Vetal Tekdi, which is also marked by PMC as a draft heritage site, PMC issued strict instructions to MIT officials to excavate the ‘internal road,’ as well as clear the debris collected nearby housing societies. A stop-work notice was issued to MIT citing unauthorized work on the hill slope at survey number 123 in Kothrud, and following which the PMC had dug up the road being constructed and ordered the institute to clear the debris within two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vetal-tekdi-road-work-pune-court-rejects-mit-s-plea-seeking-stay-on-pmc-action/story-GQdIxaNjhy3kMTLQao5LCJ.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Prominent junior colleges remain shut, focus on collecting swabs||A handful of schools and junior colleges re-opened on Monday, however prominent junior colleges in the city continued to remain shut. Fergusson college, SP college, Modern college, Shivajinagar, BMCC and others did not re-open their junior college offline lectures for students. Along with all Covid protocols, it is mandatory for the junior college administration to conduct a Covid test of all teaching and non-teaching staff and also get permission from the PMC committee who will check the preparations done by colleges. “We are fully prepared for starting our junior college and all the necessary arrangements of social distancing and Covid protocols are done in our college. Starting of college for students needs to be done carefully, so we have planned to start with class 12 chemistry practical and students will be called in batches from tomorrow. And then gradually other stream students of class 12 and after a few days, class 11 lectures will start. As of now, class 11 admission process is still going on, also we are conducting online lectures for both class 11 and 12,” said Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern college of Arts, Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar. Similarly, Ferguson College also didn’t commence their class 11 and 12 offline lectures from today. Ravindra Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson college said, “Today we didn’t start the junior college as our teachers’ Covid tests were done and also PMC’s committee will come, check our preparations and then allow us to start the junior college. We are taking extra precaution about arrangements to start the junior college, social distancing to be maintained properly. Also, the consent from parents to send their children to college is important. Without consent, students won’t be allowed to attend classroom lectures. Once we complete the Covid testing of all our faculties and get permission from PMC, the junior college will start.” SP college’s junior college section had arranged a special drive for Covid swab collection inside the college premises for all their junior college staff.“Until yesterday, only four of our faculties had completed their Covid test and we have more than 150 staffers including teaching and non-teaching. So, to make it fast, we arranged a Covid swab collection camp in our college today, where all the junior college staffer gave their swabs. We will get their reports by tomorrow and accordingly we can start the junior college lectures and practical initially for class 12 students.” said Kanchan Shende, vice principal SP junior college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/prominent-junior-colleges-remain-shut-focus-on-collecting-swabs/story-Eo1WgXju0j3zU8M6D94EZL.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Majority of schools await confirmation from PMC before starting school||On Monday, many parents in the city were confused about whether to send their child to school or not as many private schools in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits continued to take online classes. A majority of private schools in PMC have not received a confirmation yet whereas others are awaiting inspection and official letters from the civic body. Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner, PMC said only 42 schools of 529 schools have received written permission from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to start offline school from Monday. “Some schools have been inspected and some are yet to get permission. In this week, as schools get permission, they will start offline classes,” Jagtap said. Archana Panch, vice-principal of New English School said there are a total of 713 students in class 9 and class 10 combined. “Many parents have given consent. We have asked students to carry consent form when they are coming. However, we are still in online classes mode as the PMC has not yet sent a confirmation for starting school. As soon as we get that we will start offline classes. We are eagerly waiting to start offline classes,” said Panch. She further added that offline classes will be held on alternate days as the strength of the school is high. “Alternate classes will be held. Moreover, there are all the precautions that we are taking that the PMC has asked. Our teachers are all tested for Covid. The results are awaited. We have only asked teachers who have tested negative to attend school. Others are asked to stay at home until their reports come,” she added Vidya Galinde, principal, HHCP Huzurpaga girls high school said that the school and teachers are very eager to start offline classes. “We have to submit the list of preparations done by us to the PMC. After this, the PMC will issue a permission letter to us and we can start offline classes. Meanwhile, we are constantly in touch with parents and communicating with them about the situation,” Galinde said. She added that about 59 per cent of parents have consented to send their daughters to school. “Class 10 is important for the child. As we start offline classes soon, we will be focusing on writing more as due to online classes, writing did not get due emphasis. Moreover, practical is also important for students. As we begin alternate offline classes, we will be starting practical as well so that girls have a fair amount of experience before appearing for their examination,” Galinde said. Medha Sinnarkar, principal at Apte Prashala said that the school is ready for inspection and the PMC was expected to conduct a visit on Monday itself. “We are ready with all the required precautions. We have made different seating arrangements so that social distancing is followed. The consent by parents is very low with us. But we are hopeful as schools open up, parents would be willing to let the children attend the school,” said Sinnarkar. She added that the school has also made an emergency room, in case there is a student who needs immediate care. “We have kept a bed, sanitisers, masks and gloves in this room. Should anyone need immediate medical attention, we have all the necessary things in that room until the child is taken to the hospital,” said Sinnarkar. Box *Total number of schools in the PMC limits: 529 *Total PMC schools: 44 *Number of schools inspected by the PMC: 232 *Private schools reopened on Monday: 22 *PMC schools reopened on Monday: 20 *Total schools given permission: 126 *Students of class 9 who attended school on Monday- 136 *Students in class 10 who attended school on Monday- 226 *Teachers tested: over 80 percent *Parents’ consent: 30 percent *Source: Education department, PMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/majority-of-schools-await-confirmation-from-pmc-before-starting-school/story-CX1YLBqcKRhFYt5bXTARuM.html
04-01-2021||Pune||One UK returnee tests positive for new virus strain in Pune||A city-based youth who had returned from the United Kingdom has tested positive for the new UK Covid-19 strain. A total of eight samples have tested positive for the UK strain in the state, said state surveillance officer.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sent a total of six samples of UK returnees to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for genome sequencing to detect if they have been infected with the new strain (UK).The said person is now under home isolation as he tested negative for the infection two consecutive times and was asymptomatic.Dr Vasihali Jadhav, assistant health officer, PMC and incharge of contact tracing, said, “We have sent a total of six samples to NIV among those who tested positive after returning from the United Kingdom before the flight could be banned. Out of these six, one has been tested positive with the new strain while we are awaiting results of the remaining five.”“The one, male aged 26, who has tested positive is now under home isolation till January 10. He was under quarantine at Naidu Hospital. He was asymptomatic but was isolated as per the new protocols. He had arrived in the country on December 13 and after he tested negative on the 14th and the 15th day we discharged him. He is now in home isolation. His family members had earlier tested negative for Covid-19,” she said.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “We have found a total of eight samples positive for the new strain. These eight include five from Mumbai and one each from Pune, Mira Bhayandar and Thane. All these samples were sent to NIV and further contact tracing is going on.”As per the latest protocols on Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), any person returning from the UK who tests positive for Covid-19, the samples of such persons have to be sent to city-based NIV for genome sequencing to detect if the person is affected with the new mutated UK strain or the currently circulating strain.Health minister Rajesh Tope urged citizens to not panic under such circumstances and continue to follow the appropriate protocols.The UK strain is a worry for the administration as it has been found to be highly infectious and transmissible. However, multiple experts have said that although the strain might infect more number of people the symptoms remain similar and are not in any way severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-uk-returnee-tests-positive-for-new-virus-strain-in-pune/story-WbQbn28w6rgfqqzXS0NwyM.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Avian flu causing migratory birds’ death at HP’s Pong Dam, toll rises to 2,400||With the number of migratory birds dying at the Pong Dam wetland in Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district on the rise for a week, the ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease has confirmed H5N1 virus as the cause of the fatalities. More than, 2,400 birds of different species have been found dead at Pong Lake over the past week. Over 600 of them died on Monday. The reports of samples sent to laboratories are expected on Tuesday. Preliminary results of five samples of Bar Headed Goose received for avian influenza testing at High-Security Animal Disease Laboratory, Bhopal have tested positive for the H5N1 virus, says a communication by the NIHSAD. The wildlife officials at Dharamshala, also confirmed the report on condition of anonymity. Wildlife authorities had sent 17 samples to Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, and five samples to the High-Security Animal Disease Laboratory (HSADL), Bhopal, to ascertain the cause of death. Earlier, the initial sample reports received from Veterinary Lab, Palampur and Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar also pointed out flu- like symptoms. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, who chaired a meeting with wildlife authorities to take stock of the situation said that Pong Lake area was already shut for activities like grazing, fishing, and tourism. “As a precautionary measure, sale of poultry products and fish has been also banned in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora subdivisions,” said Prajapati. The DC said that the samples were also being collected from poultry farms in the area and people have been told stop grazing and farming activities in peripheral areas. BAR-HEADED GEESE WORST HIT Most of the fatalities are being seen among bar-headed geese, the world’s highest-flying birds that migrate from far-off Siberia and Mongolia. Birds from other species such as the common teal, shoveler, river tern and black-headed gull were also found dead. The Kangra district administration has banned all kind of activities, including fishing, grazing and boating, in 1-km area of the lake. The next 9-km area has been declared a surveillance zone. The divisional forest officer (wildlife), headquarters, Devinder Singh Dadhwal, who has experience working in Pong Wetland, said that never have such a large number of bird deaths been reported from the area. “If it turns out to be avian flu, it would be for the first time in Pong Wetland,” he said adding that the wildlife sanctuaries and zoos in the region have also been put on alert. The Pong Dam Wetland — an international Ramsar site — hosts more than 1 lakh migratory birds of 100 species that fly thousands of kilometres from Mongolia, Siberia, trans-Himalayan region and Central Asia in winter every year. ANNUAL BIRD CENSUS MAY BE SUSPENDED The wildlife authorities may have to suspend the annual avian count conducted in Pong wetland if the situation is not under control. The three-day mega exercise is conducted in January and February. The Pong Dam Lake, constructed on the Beas river in 1960, was declared a bird sanctuary in 1983 and given the status of the wetland of national importance in 1994. In 2002, it got the status of a Ramsar site. Last winter, 1.15 lakh birds of 114 species were spotted on the wetland. The bar-headed geese are most plentiful in Pong. Other prominent avian visitors include the northern pintail, Eurasian coot, common teal, common pochard, northern shoveler, the great cormorant, Eurasian pigeon and the ruddy shelduck. The fortnightly census conducted on December 15, 2020, recorded around 57,000 migratory birds. Since 1988, as many as 425 bird species have been sighted in Pong wetland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/avian-flu-suspected-behind-migratory-birds-death-at-hp-s-pong-dam-toll-rises-to-1-700/story-udxEKkf2YlnKg9rob0LO3N.html
04-01-2021||City||Governance in Himachal completely collapsed: Rathore||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore while reacting to the cold war between the state government and bureaucracy said that the governance of the present state government has completely collapsed and because of this chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has to revoke his decisions.In a statement issued by Rathore, he said that the state government is proving to be helpless in front of the bureaucracy.“In his three-year tenure, Jai Ram has failed to coordinate with the public representatives and bureaucrats and because of this government’s work is on paper only,” he said.He said that there is no development in the state and no help is being provided to the public.“No attention is being paid to hard-working government officers and CM is blaming government officers for his failures. The economy of the state is ruined and the government does not seem to be worried about it. They do not have any control over rising unemployment and inflation,” said Rathore.Raising questions over the CM’s silence on farmers’ movement, Rathore said that Thakur should clear his stand to farmers as the new agri laws as against the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/governance-in-himachal-completely-collapsed-rathore/story-2RhSpxo4E1fqYQfDYdE8wL.html
04-01-2021||Pune||PCB to form town vending committee before it goes ahead with street vendor registration plan||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) plans to form a town vending committee comprising elected board members before carrying out a hawker survey as per the directions of the ministry of defence. Nineteen cantonment boards across the country have received directions from the defence ministry to carry out survey and complete the paper work for implementing the PM Swanidhi scheme for street vendors where a soft loan of Rs 10,000 is extended by the Centre to bona fide street vendors. There are over 1,000 hawkers in Pune Cantonment area.PCB chief executive officer (CEO) Amit Kumar said that the board administration has to find out details of vending and non-vending zones in the area before it goes ahead with the task. “Also, we have to form a town vending committee of whom CEO is the chairperson empowered to take a decision. The committee will be formed as per the central act,” he said.The committee will play an important role in complying eligibility and criteria prescribed by the Cantonment Act. Also, the registered vendors will be eligible for availing benefits under the PM’s Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Scheme. Under the centrally sponsored scheme, street vendors can avail Rs 10,000 one-time interest and guarantee-free bank loan with a provision to return in 12-month instalments and the vendors who repay the loan before one year will get seven per cent interest and digital payments of loan instalments will provide cashback between Rs 50 and Rs 100. The pilot project was launched in Ambala cantonment in August and is being replicated across nineteen cantonments of the country.Under the central government project, smart cards given to registered street vendors will carry their name, address, age and photograph and also specify whether it is a stationary vendor or mobile vendor as registered, according to the cantonment administration records. The central government hopes that crowded public places, including busy roads and streets in cantonment areas, will be freed of congestion caused by the unregistered hawkers.A major chunk of cantonment hawkers are located at Fashion Street, Kumbharbavdi vegetable market and Chhatrapati Shivaji Market. Similarly, during last one decade hawkers have occupied prime spaces on the road near Aurora towers, MG road and Bootee street. The Nuisance Prevention Squad (NPS) has proved to be less effective in curtailing the mushrooming growth of hawkers in the cantonment area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcb-to-form-town-vending-committee-before-it-goes-ahead-with-street-vendor-registration-plan/story-qfpDC3lQtf85xh361KiuaO.html
04-01-2021||City||PRI polls: 9 of 13 panchayats in Spiti choose village heads through consensus||At a time when the candidates in the fray for Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) elections are moving door-to-door to garner support, residents in the tribal Lahaul and Spiti district have shown the way for electing their representatives unanimously. The elections for the panchayats in Himachal are slated for January 17, 19, and 21.An example has been set-up by nine out of the total 13 panchayats in the snow-bound Spiti region where only four panchayats will witness the secret ballot elections as the rest have already reached consensus on the posts of pradhan and up-pradhan.The polling for panchayats in Spiti is slated for January 17.Even the Bharatiya Janata Party’s national president JP Nadda’s native panchayat, Vijaypur, which falls in the Bilaspur district, had set an example of sorts by electing its new representative by a community consensus.The filing of the nomination papers was closed on January 2 and the last date of withdrawals is January 6.“This time the tribals tried hard to evolve consensus amongst the aspiring candidates even as both the major political parties Congress and BJP are backing their own workers. People in the region realised that elections in the pandemic were more challenging for them and tried their level best to evolve consensus,” said Gian Sagar Neg, additional district magistrate, Kaza, who himself played a vital role in convincing the candidates. “In many panchayats, the post of pradhan and up-pradhan and other members were decided through a toss, he said. In Tabo, which is one of the biggest Buddhist learning centers in the Lahaul and Spiti region, the local leaders owing allegiance to Congress and BJP evolved consensus to select the candidates.When the Centre had only imposed the lockdown on March 24 last year, Spiti valley had begun formulating strategies, raising awareness, and holding discussions about the virus in February 2020.Locals formed a committee for preventive measures and sustainable development (CPMSD) comprising youth, women, local panchayats, gram sabhas, social action groups, and lamas from five monasteries.“Campaigning door-to-door may lead to a spike in the Covid-19 cases and the region still lacks medical facilities,” said Lara Tesring, a local tour operator in Kaza. The committee decided to shut all hotels, dhabas, and transport services in the area before the national lockdown was imposed. However, in spite of the different strategies to check the pandemic, the virus claimed three lives and 519 persons tested positive of the total 5,298 who were tested. As of now, there are 19 active cases in the region. Spiti region gripped by intense cold wave after a fresh snowfall, the night temperature in the region dips to -18°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pri-polls-9-of-13-panchayats-in-spiti-choose-village-heads-through-consensus/story-0wbJ0KHwQ10Sm84kMPg3cM.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC to bring resolution against farm bills in West Bengal assembly||The ruling Trinamool Congress will bring a resolution at the West Bengal legislative assembly against the three contentious farm bills, party supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. “We would hold the assembly session for one or two days and there we would bring a resolution to withdraw the farm bills. We would try so that the resolution is passed unanimously. I know the BJP will not support it. But I expect other parties would support,” Banerjee said. Banerjee had earlier lent her support to the farmers and had even sent a team of MPs to meet the protesting farmers at Singhu border. Over the phone, she even spoke to farmers protesting in Delhi against the Centre’s new agriculture laws.Meanwhile, the tussle between the centre and the state over release of funds under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi program to farmers in West Bengal continued. Also read: Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8Banerjee alleged that the centre is depriving the farmers of West Bengal by not sending funds under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi program. Under the scheme, an income support of Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments is provided to small and marginal farmer families having combined landholding or ownership of up to 2 hectares.“I had urged the centre to send the money to the state government so that we could distribute it to the farmers. But they want to send it directly bypassing the state. I called the Union agriculture minister a few days ago and asked him why the centre does not believe in the state government,” she said. Earlier, the BJP had hit out at the TMC after the Calcutta High Court had directed the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India to perform an audit of the distribution of relief materials and compensation in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan that hit West Bengal in May last year. Alleged nepotism and malpractice by the TMC panchayat leaders involved in the distribution of compensation had turned into an issue in poll-bound West Bengal. The state had later moved the Supreme Court against the order.BJP leaders had earlier alleged that the Mamata Banerjee administration was not allowing the centre to send funds directly to farmers as it would prevent the state and TMC leaders from siphoning off money.On November 6, the centre had informed the Mamata Banerjee administration that around 21.7 lakh farmers from West Bengal had enrolled themselves for the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi program in the union government’s portal and that the state government was yet to complete the verification process. “I want the farmers to get the funds and so we have already written to the Union government to share the details of the farmers who have enrolled themselves, so that the state can start the verification process,” said Banerjee. BJP leaders in the state have hit back saying that the CM was presenting things in a wrong manner. “The Centre had repeatedly asked the state to provide the names of farmers and their bank accounts. The state didn’t send. Union home minister, during his visit to the state, had said that if the state sends the data, the Centre would immediately release the funds. The centre had sent funds after cyclone Amphan had hit the state. What happened to that money?” said Jaiprakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-to-bring-resolution-against-farm-bills-in-west-bengal-assembly/story-yQWe7oWq5lBxVdCnWIp5tM.html
04-01-2021||City||Interrogation of 5 held for dacoity reveals murder||PUNE: A gang of five men, arrested by the Pune rural police for dacoity, were found to have committed an unregistered murder, during their interrogation on Monday.The five have been identified as Kiran Bhausaheb Thite (21) a resident of Shirur; Gaurav Balu Dhawale (21) a resident of Khope Vasti in Ashtur, Haveli; Santosh Gorakh Brahmane (20), a resident of Ahmednagar; Bhausaheb Gautam Kuduk (22), a resident of Georai in Beed; and Dakshines alias Darshan Anil Dangat (21), a resident of Umbraj in Junnar, according to police.One December 28, 2020, the five had allegedly assaulted multiple workers at a petrol pump in Loni Kalbhor and robbed them of valuables worth Rs 37,000 and cash worth Rs 2,500, according to police.A case under Sections 394, 34, and 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Loni Kalbhor police station.The local crime branch of Pune rural police, led by senior police inspector Padmakar Ghanwat, was investigating the case.The five were arrested and during their interrogation in the dacoity case, they revealed having killed a driver of a cab they had hired to go from Sonesangavi to Malthan road in Pune.The five tricked him into driving them to a secluded spot where they smashed his head and killed him.The deceased driver has been identified as Yogesh Machindra Garje (25), a resident of Ranjangaon in Shirur. Garje was killed on Saturday and reported missing on Sunday by his family to the Ranjangaon MIDC police station.His body was allegedly stuffed in the trunk of the car, driven to Haveli and thrown into the Mula Mutha river, according to police. The search for the body is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/interrogation-of-5-held-for-dacoity-reveals-murder/story-xoCg4adIqt4TUWG1UxybqM.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Walkway that connects Aqua and Blue lines to be dismantled||Noida: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has planned to dismantle the 300-metre walkway connecting Delhi Metro’s Blue Line (Sector 52 station) with Aqua Line of Noida Metro (Sector 51 station) and develop a new walkway to facilitate commuting of passengers. The move comes after the Noida authority recently allocated the land between the two stations to a private company, NMRC officials said. “The authority has allotted the land between the two stations to a private company. The company is likely to develop a commercial building at the spot, so the walkway needs to be dismantled,” said Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC. NMRC has issued a fresh tender seeking application to develop the new walkway. According to the NMRC’s tender documents, the walkway project will be developed in the next two months at the cost of Rs 1.49 crore. Sharma said that the existing walkway will soon be dismantled. At present, the e-rickshaw service between the two stations is continuing, the officials said. When asked, the officials said that NMRC also plans to make a skywalk in future once the neighbouring area is developed. Praveen Mishra, executive director, NMRC, said that the land has been allotted to a Swedish company dealing in furniture and kitchen appliances. “This is a planned development. The existing walkway will be dismantled and a new walkway will be developed in the neighbourhood,” he said.NMRC had inaugurated the two-metre wide walkway for pedestrians and a five-metre wide pathway for e-rickshaws to ferry passengers between Aqua Line and Blue Line on August 18, 2019. The Noida Metro had also provided 10 free e-rickshaws on this stretch to facilitate connectivity. While the Aqua Line connects Noida to Greater Noida, the Blue Line provides connectivity to Dwarka in Delhi. The walkway plays an important role in facilitating commuters of Aqua Line and Blue Line. Mishra said that NMRC recently engaged a urban transport consultancy firm to conduct a study on how to increase Aqua Line’s ridership. “The company has submitted its report. NMRC has also formed a committee to evaluate the report and take necessary measures. The report recommends launch of feeder bus service, seamless connectivity, parking facilities, etc. NMRC will work on these issues to improve ridership,” he said.On March 22 this year, NMRC had suspended Aqua Line services in view of the Covid 19 pandemic and the subsequent guidelines issued by the government. On September 7, it resumed partial operations on the Aqua Line while on September 12, it commenced full operations. The average daily ridership of Aqua Line before the lockdown in March last year was 22,758, while the average daily ridership in December stood at 7,915.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/walkway-that-connects-aqua-and-blue-lines-to-be-dismantled/story-dMT7L2MAEvKWRWlxoeVxBN.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||Pollution control boards slap Rs 2.76 crore fine for violating air pollution norms in NCR||Environment compensation amounting to Rs 1.59 crore has been imposed on construction sites that violated air pollution norms during surprise checks in December by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Another Rs 1.17 crores was imposed on those violating air pollution norms during transportation of construction and demolition waste according to the CPCB.The Commission for Air Quality Management for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas had directed the CPCB, the State Pollution Control Boards of Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi Pollution Control Committee to constitute special teams and launch inspection drives at construction sites, during processes and transportation of materials related to Construction & Demolition (C&D) in NCR.Also read: ‘Give me one week’s time’ - Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covid-19 efficacyInspections were conducted by these agencies from December 24 to 31 by constituting 227 teams. These teams carried out surprise checks and inspections at more than 3,000 C&D sites of wherein it was found that about 386 sites were non-compliant with the various C&D Waste Management Rules and dust mitigation measures stipulated by the MoEFCC and the CPCB. They also ordered work to be stopped at 12 locations.About 325 vehicles were found to be violating norms related to transportation of C&D materials. Fortnightly inspection drives will be continued according to a statement by the Commission on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/pollution-control-boards-slap-rs-2-76-crore-fine-for-violating-air-pollution-norms-in-ncr/story-gdv5JIah0jT4j7puyQ6apK.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad police to get a dedicated hospital||Pune: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police will have a dedicated, independent hospital as the state government approved recruitment for staff positions and asked the police leadership to look for space, according to an official present at a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday. “The GR for creation of these hospital positions was issued in May 2018, but the positions were not getting filled and there was no dedicated space for the hospital. The government has now given a go-ahead for the health department to complete the recruitment and asked for a space to be found for the hospital,” said Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The government resolution from May 2018 had made provisions for 2,633 hospital staff positions which had to be filled in three rounds - first round of 1568, second of 552 and third of 513.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pimpri-chinchwad-police-to-get-a-dedicated-hospital/story-IWnSPBC8eohmuiHew76rXO.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||800 volunteers to help Ganga Sagar pilgrims maintain Covid-19 norms in Bengal||The West Bengal government would set up a dedicated team, comprising 800 volunteers, which would help millions of Ganga Sagar pilgrims to maintain Covid-19 safety protocols. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee also directed officials to ensure that all pilgrims undergo Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) before they could reach the mela ground and added that wearing masks should be made mandatory. “We would hold the Ganga Sagar mela at a smaller scale this year. We have somehow managed to control the Covid-19 situation and cannot afford to have another spike. We don’t want to close down. But the mela needs to be scaled down this year,” said Banerjee. This year the Ganga Sagar mela - the second largest congregation of pilgrims in India after the Kumbh Mela in Prayag - would be held between January 8 and January 16. Millions of pilgrims are expected to take the holy dip between 6:02 am on January 14 and till 6:02 am on January 15. “We would try to limit the mela this time because of Covid-19. Last year five million pilgrims had attended the mela. Even if a million or two come this year, it could trigger a pandemic. We would not be able to stop anyone from coming. We need to stay alert and work responsibly,” said Banerjee, urging officials to discourage pilgrims from attending the fair this time. Also read: Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8Screening camps at 13 entry points of the mela ground, a 600-bed Covid-19 hospital, six wellness centres, eight safe homes, 11 quarantine centres and five isolation centres are being set up as a part of an elaborate Covid-19 management plan. Drones, water ambulance and air ambulance would be pressed into action. “As pilgrims would be coming from across the country it would be better if they could be made to undergo RAT the moment they enter the state. Camps with RAT facilities could also be set up at various locations en route so that there is no rush at the camps on the Island,” Banerjee said. She asked officials to coordinate with other state governments so that the West Bengal government could have prior information on the number of pilgrims expected to arrive in Bengal. “We would form a dedicated team comprising 800 volunteers which would help pilgrims maintain the safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintain social distance and use hand sanitisers. The team has been named Sagar Bondu (Sagar Friend),” the chief minister said. For the first time, provisions have been made for pilgrims to take the holy dip sitting in the comfort of their home (e-snan) and be part of the mela via the website. Pilgrims can book online a tirtha samagri pack comprising Ganga Jal in a container, prasad and the holy tika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/800-volunteers-to-help-ganga-sagar-pilgrims-maintain-covid-19-norms-in-bengal/story-2eQWANPxtpeyjkwzD0S5TN.html
04-01-2021||City||Pune continues with trend of fewer vehicle registrations; sales in 2020 reduce by 38.16% over 2019||PUNE The number of vehicle registration declined by 38.16 per cent in 2020 as compared to 2019, according to the data of the Pune regional transport office (RTO).In 2020, 1,51,229 vehicles were registered as compared to 2,44,566 in 2019.There was a dip in vehicle registration mostly due to Covid-19 induced lockdown when there were restrictions on most activities across India with RTO office too closed for over two months, said officials.In 2019 as well, the number of vehicles registered were less by 12.06% as compared to 2018, when 2,78,113 vehicles were registered.“Due to the pandemic restrictions and lockdown showrooms were shut or operational for a restricted time and this had an impact on sales of vehicles,” said Vinod Kale, vice-president (sales), Wonder Cars.“During Gudi Padwa and Akshaya Tritiya the sale of vehicles usually go up, but during this time lockdown was in place, but the sales are picking up from this month (January 2021),” he said.The sale of new vehicles, however, increased gradually in the post lockdown months in 2020. As many as 16,810 vehicles were registered in October while 21,076 vehicles were registered in November and 15,855 vehicles were registered in December 2020. There was more purchase of the vehicles in these three months in 2019. As many as 24,854 vehicles were registered in October 2019. In the months of November and December in 2019, the numbers of registered vehicles were 29,745 and 16,270 respectively.In the car market because of the affordability and availability in the market, there is a rise in the sale of used cars. “There is a waiting period to buy a new car and many people can’t afford it. So we have seen a growth in the transaction of used cars after lockdown,” said Kiran Ingale, CEO, Car Galaxy, a second-hand car dealer in the city.“Now useful financial services are also provided to buy used cars,” he said.Registration of e-vehicles, meanwhile, was more in 2020 as compared to 2019. In 2020 a total 1,458 e-vehicles came on the road, while in 2019, 1,001 e-vehicles were registered.In 2020 e-motorcycles saw a substantial rise especially in November and December, said officials.Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, Pune RTO, said, “The increase in the registration of e-vehicles is a positive move. There are still issues faced by common people regarding e-vehicles. There is the issue of affordability, battery capacity and lack of charging facilities. If battery replacement policy will be rolled out then we expect a boost in e-vehicle sale.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-continues-with-trend-of-fewer-vehicle-registrations-sales-in-2020-reduce-by-38-16-over-2019/story-qQUCGsKsm5MvjBSJU8QlAJ.html
04-01-2021||City||Fewer anti-corruption cases in 2020, but Pune still tops ACB list in state||PUNE The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of Maharashtra has reported a 28% decline in the number of cases registered in 2020, as compared with the number of cases registered in 2019. This is specifically where are traps are laid to catch corrupt officials, based on complaints filed.Even with the deceased numbers, Pune range registered the highest number of cases in the state.Of the five districts in Pune range - Pune, Satara, Solapur, Sangli, and Kolhapur - the sole case in April 2020 was registered in Pune.April 2020 witnessed an 88% decrease in such cases compared with April 2019, while May 2020 witnessed a 61% decrease as compared to May 2019.In April 2020, the Pune range of ACB registered the only such case as compared to 13 in April 2019 - which is a 12% decline. In May 2020, the Pune range of ACB registered three cases, compared to 20 in May 2019 - which caused a decline of 17%. “We deal with only government officials and not private citizens as accused. The government offices, besides police and health staff, were mostly empty - they were running with 5% strength. The trap cases had no scope as there were no people present in offices. Even then, the number declined only in April and May, rest of the time, Pune has done ok. Until February we had an upward trend,” said Rajesh Bansode, superintendent of ACB, Pune.The overall number of cases in Pune range deceased from 139 in 2019 to 184 in 2020, while the number in the state fell from 825 in 2019 to 596 in 2020.However, even with the overall decrease in the number of cases, Pune range registered its highest number of cases compared to the seven other ranges in the state. Pune range had 137 total cases followed by Nashik range with 97 and 89 in Aurangabad. Revenue and police department officials remained top contributors to the list of accused in ACB cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fewer-anti-corruption-cases-in-2020-but-pune-still-tops-acb-list-in-state/story-Xn67FwkzBoqEbW6nCDQQVI.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Prithviraj Kapoor’s sister wants to visit father’s Peshawar haveli, now to be a museum||Gurgaon: Soaking in the sun in the lawns of her Gurgaon home, Shanta Kapoor Dhawan, 93, younger and favourite sister of theatre and movie star, the late Prithviraj Kapoor, describes another house with great accuracy: The one that her father built in Pakistan’s Peshawar. “There were 40 rooms in our sprawling five-storey haveli, but our happiest moments were spent in the family baithak (sitting room) on the first floor in the evening where the elders would talk, sitting on the floor, their backs supported by bolsters dotting the carpeted floor. We children would huddle there munching on nuts and dry fruit after a long day of fun and play”.Dhawan has been relieved and thrilled in equal measure to learn that the threat to demolish the haveli has been averted and that the Pakistan government with the provincial government of Khyber Pakhtoonwala now plans to renovate and turn it into a museum. Two years to build haveliAunt to the great showman Raj Kapoor, though two years younger to him, Dhawan says, “My father Dewan Basheswarnath Kapoor would tell us that it took two years to build the mansion which was completed in 1922. In fact my brother Trilok Kapoor and nephew Raj were born here. However, destiny took us to Kolkata and then Mumbai when Prithviraj Bhapa became a star. But I remember every nook and corner of the haveli the way it was,” she says.Dhawan’s adolescent school years were spent Kolkata and adulthood in the glamour of Mumbai with yesteryear heroines like Nargis, Meena Kumari and Munawar Sultana for friends. After marriage she moved to Jamshedpur with her engineer husband and brought up her two sons and two daughters there. Now living with her younger son in Gurgaon, she says: “Of late I still see the Peshawar home in my dreams with its floral patterns and jharokhas hanging over balconies and the large inner courtyard where I learned to hop, skip and jump. I yearn to go there just once as I am the last living Kapoor for whom it was home.”When Raj Kapoor’s sons visitedEarlier in 1990, actors Randhir and the late Rishi Kapoor, sons of Raj Kapoor, had visited the haveli and requested that it be preserved as a museum. It was after Rishi Kapoor’s death last April that the Pakistan government started finding ways and means to preserve the building as well as thespian Dilip Kumar’s family home close by. The final go- ahead for the museum came at the instance of Pakistan premier Imran Khan.Dhawan recalls, “Both Raj and Dilip Kumar were Peshawar friends and the friendship blossomed in Mumbai when both struggled and then rose to great heights in films. I am a witness to that era from Peshawar to stardom”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/prithviraj-kapoor-s-sister-wants-to-visit-father-s-peshawar-haveli-now-to-be-a-museum/story-to74E9LCCiig0pBGoGYLtL.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Teenager falls into quarry off Vetal Tekdi, fractures leg||A 16-year-old boy who had gone to visit Vetal Tekdi with his friends slipped and fell off the edge of the hill on Sunday morning. Identified as Tanishk Vishal Lodha (16), the teenager has suffered a fractured right leg and has sustained injuries on his back and head. Officials of the fire brigade rushed to the spot and rescued the teenager from the water body at the bottom of the stone quarry, located beside the hill, with blood running down his face. Sanjay Bhavekar, an official of Erandwane fire brigade division who is posted at the tower located atop Vetal Tekdi was the first one to respond.The teenager had come to the hill with friends and he was wearing sports shoes. His friends told the officials that his foot slipped and he fell.“The children who generally come to run in that area came to my office near the tower and informed me. I went down and found him in the water body. We moved him around 30-35 foot and took him to the opposite bank because the water was deep on the side where he fell. His right leg was fractured. So, one of the men held his leg. Before entering the water, I had informed the control room. He had hit his back and his head,” said Bhavekar.The visitors who regularly visit the trail said that incidents like this one are rare.“Vetal tekdi is generally a safe place unless someone takes undue risks. A lot of youngsters go there regularly. Such incidents are rare. However young children, should always be accompanied by an adult,” said Sushma Date, a regular visitor at Vetal Tekdi.However, the fire brigade official said that he gets two-three such cases every year.“There is a sign post board, but people try to peep and enter the water too. Plus, excess rainfall had ensured that the water-level at the shallow part was waist-deep,” said Bhavekar.As a word of precaution, Onkar Oak, a trekker and a coordinator of multiple rescue groups said that basic caution needs to be observed by the visitors.“This is the first incident that I have heard of at Vetal Tekdi. The ones who visit the quarry are trained rock-climbers who go there for practice. Besides the route near the quarry, the rest of the patch is safe. Basically, it is a well trodden route. The ones who have recently started going there should follow the GPS-tagged route. First timers should go with a known person and everyone should return before dark. The people visiting the quarry side should not try to challenge the edge near the quarry. People should avoid wearing floaters or heels. Unknown routes should not be followed by the new and young ones at least. Share live location with the people who know you,” said Oak.Another part of Vetal Tekdi was recently in news for the excavation work done by the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) to build a road. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had put a stop to the road work and asked MIT to clear the debris from the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/teenager-falls-into-quarry-off-vetal-tekdi-fractures-leg/story-q4ngn7lyUpqOUoonR5GnNN.html
04-01-2021||Pune||PMC plans to vaccinate 44 lakh in 6 months||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has prepared a draft plan to vaccinate the entire city in just 176 working days or approximately six months. The strategy was drafted by the city’s first task force chaired by the PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar. The vaccination process would be carried out in multiple phases and also based on the disease epidemiology and vaccine availability, as per the draft report.The task force has drafted the strategy after it met on December 29. Based on the central government’s guidelines, the Covid-19 vaccine will be offered first to healthcare workers, frontline workers, persons above 50 years of age, persons younger than 50 years of age with 14 associated comorbidities based on the evolving pandemic situation. Finally, the remaining population will be vaccinated based on the disease epidemiology and vaccine availability.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “This is just a draft policy. Whenever the vaccine is finalised and we begin the drive, for the first month we will vaccinate Covid warriors and frontline workers. Then, under the third phase, we will prioritise senior citizens and those with comorbidities.”The PMC currently has a cold storage space adequate to cover eight lakh population at a time, including the transportation vehicles i.e. an insulated vaccine van available for Pune Municipal Corporation, 22 cold boxes and 700 vaccine carriers are available under the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) for vaccine transportation to intermediary stores and delivery to outreach session sites respectively. The civic body needs 40 cold boxes and 1,500 vaccine carriers. Gap analysis is being conducted by the immunisation department. The Pune Municipal Corporation has also placed it’s requirement order with the state government and will also purchase some at the PMC level and through CSR, which will fulfil the additional demand for existing UIP and for Covid-19 vaccination programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-plans-to-vaccinate-44-lakh-in-6-months/story-QDNRDUYDf6zpI1GsegAsCI.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Pune police reach out to senior citizens by paying home visits||Pune: The Bharosa Cell of Pune police gets a call from a senior citizen seeking assistance to pay a visit to Bank ATM. The constable answers the 1090 helpline at the senior citizen cell at Pune Commissioner office, Camp and soon a beat marshal from the nearest police station knocks on the elderly’s front door to accompany him. “We get 8 to 9 calls daily from senior citizens and on an average around 250 calls in a month. Our constables are trained to be polite and make them comfortable over the phone,” said PI Uttam Chakre, head, senior citizen cell. The cell has met over 160 senior citizens since December 2020 as part of their daily visits programme. “Senior citizens were our priority even before the Covid pandemic. We want to reassure them that the police are their friends and that they should use the helpline 1090 without any hesitation,” said PI Swati Khade, Bharosa Cell, who also helps assign constables for visits to senior citizens residences across the city. According to the police, of the 5 lakh senior citizen population in the city, only 19000 are registered with the cell. “By paying home visits, we are also looking at increasing the registration count,” Khade said. One such visit was held on NIBM road where a group of senior citizens of NIBM Road Residents Forum (NRRF) met constable Shakeela Patel. It is one of the active groups of senior citizens that coordinated with Kondhwa police station to obtain and distribute senior citizen cards to about 300 people. Vishwas Joshi, secretary, NRRF senior citizens, said, “We had a meeting with the police to understand how the police can help senior citizens. We discussed our issues with them and were told about the helpline to seek help of any kind.” “The elderly sometimes even call us simply to pass their time,” said Khade. The cell also helps resolve family disputes over property. “We have so far managed to give 19 senior citizens their homes back,” she said. Currently, the cell is organising online sessions for senior citizens in association with senior citizen groups to familiarise them with the Maintenance and Welfare Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-reach-out-to-senior-citizens-by-paying-home-visits/story-YiLpcI9pVrjDJZnMkBhpXP.html
04-01-2021||City||Speeding truck kills 20-year-old biker in hit-and-run accident in Ludhiana||A 20-year-old man was killed and his friend is struggling for life after a speeding truck hit their motorcycle and drove off on RK Road near Cheema Chowk on Sunday. The deceased, Ranjan Kumar, was a resident of Giaspura. His injured friend was identified as Pitambar Kumar.Complainant Sanjay Singh told the police that his son, Ranjan, and his friend, Pitambar, were on their way to Cheema Chowk on his motorcycle. When they reached near the PSPCL power grid, a truck hit their motorcycle and sped away.Onlookers rushed the duo to a nearby hospital, but his son succumbed to his injuries. Pitambar is stated to be a critical condition due to his grievous injuries.Assistant sub-inspector Anil Kumar, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the unidentified truck driver at the Moti Nagar police station. Police are scanning CCTV cameras near the accident spot to trace him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-truck-kills-20-year-old-biker-in-hit-and-run-accident-in-ludhiana/story-SPnfkXKdZyAx8s7uk48mxL.html
04-01-2021||City||Ludhiana resident loses ₹1.89 lakh to online fraud||Looking up customer care information for a digital wallet platform cost a city resident dear, as fraudsters stole Rs 1.89 lakh from his bank account.The victim, Rahul Sharma of Vishal Vihar Colony, Tibba Road, said he recharged his mobile phone SIM on November 14 using the PhonePe app. But, he had some trouble with the transaction, and looked up the customer care number for the digital wallet app on Google.The next day, he received a call from an unidentified number and the caller introduced himself as an executive of the app. The caller made him input a code on the application and as he did that, he got alerts regarding withdrawal of Rs 1.89 lakh from his bank account linked with the app, Sharma alleged.He filed a police complaint on November 17. “Following investigation, we have identified the accused as Antar Singh of Madhya Pradesh; Ambarasu Nachimuthu, Ezhilarasi Vadizhagan and S Varadarajan of Tamil Nadu; Akash Sonkar of Howrah, West Bengal; and Alijan SK of Murshidabad, West Bengal,” said ASI Sukhdeep Singh, who is investigating the case at the Tibba police station.All accused had been booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and a manhunt had been launched for their arrest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-resident-loses-1-89-lakh-to-online-fraud/story-wmjxhgBAb01Ubqfk70Id0I.html
04-01-2021||Dehradun||Madan Kaushik ran away from debate: Manish Sisodia on Uttarakhand minister’s no-show||A day after Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik wrote a four-page open letter to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Delhi deputy chief minister (CM) Manish Sisodia calling him a “tourist politician”, Sisodia on Monday alleged that Kaushik “ran away from the debate as he had nothing to talk about on development in Uttarakhand.”Sisodia had reached Dehradun for the open debate challenge on Monday on which he had earlier written an open letter to Kaushik. Sisodia, during his first visit to Dehradun last month, had asked the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led BJP government to list “only five development works in its three-and-a-half years of tenure so far.” Also Read: Most parents don’t want schools to begin until April: SurveyTo that Kaushik had said that he could list “not just five but over 100 such works” in a debate not in Uttarakhand but AAP’s den, Delhi. Following that, Sisodia had said that he would be in Dehradun on January 4 for the one-on-one debate with Kaushik. Sisodia reached the pre-decided auditorium for the debate on Monday morning but Kaushik didn’t appear. “After Kaushik accepted the debate challenge, I was happy that this would be good for a healthy democracy as leaders from two different governments would come face to face before the public and talk of their development works. But by not coming today [Monday], Kaushik seems to have run away from the debate,” said Sisodia. Alleging that Kaushik didn’t come because he had “no development work” to list, Sisodia said the BJP government has done nothing for the people of state. “The 100 programmes that Kaushik was talking about must be only on paper. If they would have been implemented, then Kaushik would have come here today [Monday]. He didn’t come because none of the programmes have been implemented,” said Sisodia. Addressing the gathering of AAP workers in the auditorium, the Delhi deputy CM termed BJP governance as the “sting model of governance” in a jibe on a sting on alleged corruption allegations on CM Rawat. “While our governance model in Delhi is the [Arvind] Kejriwal model of governance, the one here in Uttarakhand is the sting model of governance. We have worked to improve Delhi’s schools, hospitals, power and water supply and to generate jobs. All this can’t be done by the BJP government because it is neck deep in corruption and focussing on stings,” said Sisodia. During the event, he asked the AAP workers to prepare for the 2022 assembly elections. “It is clear that the contest in 2022 would be between BJP and AAP and nobody else because it is only the AAP which can fulfil the dreams of Uttarakhand,” said Sisodia. He also invited Kaushik to Delhi on January 6 for the debate. “If he comes to Delhi, then I will show him our works in education, health, power, water, women security and others.”Despite several attempts, Kaushik couldn’t be contacted for a reply. BJP state vice-president Devendra Bhasin meanwhile, termed the debate challenge in the auditorium as “mere drama.”“AAP and Sisodia did drama there by putting up their hoardings and gathering their own party members. They are not serious in state politics. We are always ready for a debate in a neutral forum and with a serious environment,” said Bhasin. Countering Sisodia’s “sting model of governance” jibe, Bhasin said, “Kejriwal’s model of governance is tell lies and spread misconceptions. Their governance is also of betraying their own like what they did to Anna Hazare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/madan-kaushik-ran-away-from-debate-manish-sisodia-on-uttarakhand-minister-s-no-show/story-gKhjoAZKkOSnOml7IAxJKK.html
04-01-2021||Pune||How, why and why not? Track-ing use of dedicated cycle spaces in Pune||PUNE The Save Pune Traffic Movement (SPTM), a Pune-based NGO, has conducted a survey to establish a baseline about usage of cycle tracks. The survey seeks to enable PMC to identify reasons for low usage and to take steps to improve the same. The survey concludes that between 8% and 18% of city cyclists use the tracks, depending on location and time of the day. The survey was conducted at six cycle tracks in western Pune. The survey showed that the number of cyclists on the road, in general, is as high as 25% during the early morning hours. Save Pune Traffic Movement is a non-governmental organisation, promoting transport projects aimed at making the city safe, convenient and attractive for Puneites, by adopting sustainable modes like walking, public transportation and cycling. The survey was carried over two weeks – from the last week of October till the first week of November. The survey states that the design of these cycle tracks is expected to follow guidelines set forth by Pune’s Urban Street Design Guidelines or the Urban Cycling Design Guidelines, included in the Pune Cycle Plan, which differ only slightly from each other. The cycle tracks, adjacent to footpaths, largely conform to the guidelines, except for one important design element. The tracks are expected to be 5cm lower than the footpaths. However, the survey claims that all new cycle tracks and the adjacent footpaths are at the same level. SPTM director Harshad Abhyankar said, “SPTM strongly advocates decisions supported by data rather than conjecture. We conducted this survey to establish a baseline about usage of tracks. PMC should identify reasons for such low usage and take steps to improve it. We intend to repeat the study and we hope we see the numbers improving.” The survey findings have been submitted to PMC’s non-motorised transport (NMT) committee. PMC cycle plan head and executive engineer, Lalit Bode, said, “As the per directions of the PMC commissioner we have sought a budget from the PMC and immediate repairs will be carried out in a first phase and later, new tracks will be constructed. We will take the survey findings into consideration while going ahead with plans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/how-why-and-why-not-track-ing-use-of-dedicated-cycle-spaces-in-pune/story-awGFu5tIAxK3KTcNa6GiBK.html
04-01-2021||Patna||Bihar: Man hacked to death for being in a relationship with neighbour’s wife||A 55-year-old man was allegedly hacked to death by his neighbour for being in a relationship with the latter’s second wife. The man’s genitals were also chopped off.According to the police, the incident took place in Gopalganj district late Sunday evening.Sub-divisional police officer Naresh Paswan said that the neighbour and his two wives were arrested.Police said that late Sunday, the victim came to the neighbour’s house to meet his wife. The neighbour’s family caught him and hacked him to death. They also chopped his genitals.Also Read: Educational institutions in Bihar evoke lukewarm response on Day 1 of reopeningThe matter came to light when he did not return home. His wife lodged a complaint against five persons, including the neighbour, suspecting that her husband might have been abducted in a land dispute-related matter.Early Monday, police visited the neighbour’s house and found the body. In another incident, Sitamarhi police recovered the body of a 17-year-old boy, who had gone missing on January 2, from the bank of Manushyamara river on Monday. The boy’s genitals had been cut off as revealed by the post-mortem report.SHO of the Belsand police station Rakesh Kumar said that the body also bore an injury on the head. As per the complaint filed by the boy’s father, the boy had gone to a nearby village on Saturday evening, but did not come back.The SHO said that police recovered a knife, wrist watch and an iron rod from the spot. Four suspects were detained for interrogation. A case has been registered under Section 302 of the IPC against unknown persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-man-hacked-to-death-for-being-in-a-relationship-with-neighbour-s-wife/story-KtWCUkn6ffEE7ltVQDg4VN.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||PMC Bank scam: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife joins ED probe||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha Raut on Monday joined the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) probe in the alleged money laundering in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case.Varsha Raut reached ED’s Fort office in South Mumbai on Monday afternoon. ED officials are to question her in connection with “suspicious” transactions that cropped up while the officials were scanning Pravin Raut’s transactions. Pravin Raut is Sajany Raut’s friend and former director of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, a subsidiary of the Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL), which is accused of defrauding PMC Bank of over Rs6,670 crore by fraudulently obtaining nearly 70% of the bank’s overall loans.During an investigation into PMC Bank case and the involvement of HDIL, ED discovered that Rs95 crore had been siphoned off through HDIL by Pravin Raut in “active conspiracy and connivance” with various persons. The sources of the funds were illegally availed loans or advances etc. by HDIL from PMC Bank. There was no document or agreement in support of these payments made to Pravin Raut. Further, as per the HDIL’s ledger, the funds were given to Pravin Raut for acquiring land in Palghar, the ED said.Also Read: Ask Congress why it is against renaming Aurangabad, instead of questioning us: Sanjay Raut to BJPPravin Raut paid an amount of Rs1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri from the proceeds of crime. Madhuri then transferred Rs55 lakh in 2010 and 2011 as interest-free loan to Varsha Raut. The amount was utilised to purchase a flat in Dadar East, the ED said.Investigation further revealed that Varsha Raut and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha Raut received Rs12 lakh from this entity as overdrawn capital converted into a loan on a contribution of mere Rs5,625. The loan amount of Rs12 lakh is still outstanding. ED officials wish to question Varsha Raut regarding these transactions.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has already provisionally attached Pravin Raut’s properties worth Rs72 crore under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the PMC Bank fraud case.Pravin Raut was also arrested by the Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) in February in connection with the Rs1,034 crore redevelopment fraud case, in which Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) is the complainant.ED’s money laundering probe in the PMC Bank case is based on the Mumbai EOW’s September 2019 FIR registered against HDIL, its promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan, the bank’s former chairman Waryam Singh and managing director Joy Thomas and some other accused for allegedly causing losses worth thousands of crores to the bank to reap gains for themselves.Previously, Sanjay Raut had termed ED’s action as a witch hunt. He said his wife works as a teacher and had taken a loan of Rs50 lakh from her friend 10 years ago. “For the past one-and-a-half months, ED has been following up with us. We’ve given all the documents they demanded and showed our IT (income tax) returns and my Rajya Sabha affidavit. As the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) failed in their intention, they are now targeting our family members,” Sanjay Raut alleged.On September 23, 2019, RBI had barred PMC Bank depositors from withdrawing money after it came to light that PMC Bank’s top management had allegedly sanctioned around 73% of the bank’s loans to Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) group unlawfully and concealed the firm’s non-performing assets (NPAs). The RBI regulator had first capped the withdrawal limit at Rs1,000. Later, depositors were allowed to withdraw money upto Rs50,000 in a six-month period, which was further increased to Rs1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-scam-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-s-wife-joins-ed-probe/story-csX9udxCO0wjpK7m56MiQN.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Five steps to register property in Pune||Step 1:For a change of the ownership or purchase of any property, flat or land, registration is a must. It gives legal protection of ownership. The property should be registered at the sub-registrar’s office in your area. It reduces the risk of the frauds and resolves disputesStep 2:Before purchasing a property verification of the title of the property and estimation of value is important. With the help of an advocate, citizens can conduct verification to check the ownership of the property. Its estimation is important before getting into an agreement.Step 3:Terms and condition are fixed in the document for preparation of stamp papers and sale agreement. Stamp duty is a tax collected for transactions that involve legal documents such as the sale deed, conveyance deed and sale agreement.Step 4:To transfer or purchase any property, citizens need to visit the sub-registrar’s office and pay the stamp duty which would be applied as per sale price. The sale price should be always greater than the ready reckoner prices.Step 5:After paying the stamp duty and submitting the required documents citizens need to approach the registrar’s office. Both buyer/s and seller/s should remain present in the office when the documents are registered.Registration of property is important without which the transaction is not considered legal. Any agreement like purchase or sale should be registered at the sub-registrar’s office. It is a simple process which gives legal ownership to the purchaser, says Vijay Pawar, advocate.The registration process can be done online as well, but citizens will still have to visit the sub-registrar’s office when the documents are registered.Helpline 88880 07777||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-steps-to-register-property-in-pune/story-qsANiDcrNiQAlDLJAHwS4N.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Another deadline missed: Rs1,000 crore BRTS sinkhole||If politicians and officials have scant concern for public money going down the drain, Pune’s Katraj-Swargate Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system is a classic example. It’s been 14 years and with an expenditure of over Rs1,000 crore on a stretch just 5.5km, the civic body in Pune has added very little to improve the lives of commuters using the road. For the past four years, this stretch, dedicated for Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses, has been out of use. Neither is it being utilised fully by private vehicles. This has resulted in an additional traffic load on the rest of the carriage way. In 2016, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) decided to revamp it – by revamp, the civic body meant setting up big bus stops and a bit of other works, including realignment. In four years, and even after spending Rs 100 crore, it has missed several deadlines to be ready in service; the latest being January 1 when the Pune Mayor boastfully announced its reopening. However, within a day, Pune’s public transport body disposed of his plan and expressed its inability to run its buses on the stretch, citing safety concerns. The BRT corridor was originally introduced here in December 2006, when no other Indian city had experienced it. Jaipal Reddy, the then Union Urban Development Minister, said during the inauguration that the modern public transport will to beat traffic chaos on this busy road. Instead, it added more chaos, as PMC struggled to keep it running without hitch. This was due to hasty implementation, ill preparedness and indiscipline of commuters made the stretch risky, with accidents becoming regular phenomenon. So, every time when there was mishap on this stretch, the civic body carried out some or other repair work. On every occasion, crores of rupees were spent by PMC, that has early budget of Rs 6,000 crore for a city with population of 35 lakh, covering 331 square km (before the merger of 23 villages). In over one-and-a-half-decade, the Katraj-Swargate route on Satara road has been a laboratory for the PMC to carry out various road experiments; each one failed to provide a positive result. The splurge of public money has attracted the attention of activists and common citizens on multiple occasions, but in vain, as their anger could not convert PMC’s apathy into empathy, beyond the ordering of audits. Involved in this great saga are bureaucracy and various political outfits, which governed the civic body at some point. When the project was launched, the city’s politics was controlled by former Congress MP Suresh Kalmadi, with his party at the helm of affairs in PMC. Post 2007 till 2017, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) under Ajit Pawar controlled the reins. In 2017, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) snatched power from the NCP by electing 98 elected representatives in the 165-member civic body. The blame, as corporators point out, lies mostly with officials for, a) their lackadaisical approach, and b) lack of coordination. The Katraj-Swargate road, however, is not the only example of public money being splurged in Pune. Some of the fancy beautification projects or flyovers – have been bigger problems than solutions. The recently demolished flyover at SPPU junction is a classic example of how it added to traffic chaos rather than solving the problem, because of its faulty design. Another flyover at Wakad, constructed on the Katraj-Dehu road, too, has failed to solve the traffic due to design flaws.Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-another-deadline-missed-rs1-000-crore-brts-sinkhole/story-gTcK3JoV5mKgL8He29KVtI.html
04-01-2021||Ranchi||Bird flu: Jharkhand zoos on high alert after reports of bird deaths in different states||The wildlife wing of Jharkhand forest department has sounded a high alert for zoos and bird sanctuary in wake of death reports of a large number of birds, including migratory birds, in different states of the country, officials said on Monday. The department on Monday issued an advisory in this regard and zoos have been asked to follow the guideline issued by the wildlife division of Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change on Sunday. The Centre has asked all the states including Jharkhand to take all possible measures to prevent the deaths of birds. The division in its letter, a copy of which is with HT, said, “Although the exact reasons for the deaths are being ascertained, preliminary report indicates that it is a case of avian influenza virus.” Jharkhand chief wildlife warden Rajeev Ranjan said, “Though Jharkhand has not yet reported any such death of birds, it is being reported from various states of the country. An unconfirmed report suggests that the virus has also killed some birds in West Bengal. So, we need to be on high alert.” He said they have issued an advisory in this regard to all zoos and bird sanctuary asking them to take all necessary precautions to prevent the transmission of the disease. “We have also asked to keep a close vigil on the health of the animals in the zoos,” Ranjan said. Also read: Jaishankar to fly to Sri Lanka tomorrow, sked includes meeting with Prez, PMRajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Madya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat have recently reported deaths of hundreds of birds. The Centre has asked all the states to report incidences of animal mortalities to the Centre. Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park, popularly known as Birsa zoo, at Ormanjhi block, has enhanced the routine spray and health check of animals in the zoo. The birds are being served amino modulator drug in water and food to make their immune system stronger against the diseases. Spread over an area of 104 hectares of land, the zoo has over 600 birds of 37 species kept in five big enclosures. “We have doubled the anti-virus spray. Earlier, it was done once in a week. From this week, it will be done twice in a week. Similarly, the check-up of animals’ health, which was done once in a week, will be conducted twice in a week,” said the zoo director YK Das. He said the health of the animals is also being monitored through CCTV cameras installed in the zoo. As many as 156 CCTV cameras, a closed-circuit television surveillance system with video data analysis, have been installed for more than 80 animal enclosures and sensitive points. The zoo saw deaths of five peacocks in November. However, the zoo director said, “All the five peacocks had been rescued from Dhanbad and they were seriously injured. They were sent to Birsa zoo but they succumbed to injury during treatment. They did not die of any disease or virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/bird-flu-jharkhand-zoos-on-high-alert-after-reports-of-bird-deaths-in-different-states/story-jPLB46j5CYxRFs0PZjCAKK.html
04-01-2021||Dehradun||22-year-old tourist found dead in Uttarakhand||In a tragic incident, a 22-year-old man from Jammu & Kashmir’s Udhampur, was found dead in the hill station of Auli, 300km away from Dehradun, on Sunday afternoon. He had gone to visit the place along with four friends with whom he studied in Noida. According to the police, the man, identified as one Udyot Sharma, had been missing since Saturday evening. His body was found during a search operation by a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). Praveen Alok, SDRF spokesperson, said, “Sharma and four of his friends had come to Joshimath town of Chamoli district from where they trekked to Auli on Saturday The five went ahead to another spot beyond Auli.” “By Saturday evening, four of them returned. They waited for him in vain. They then approached the police. They police informed the nearest SDRF team which rushed to the spot to search for him,” said Alok. The team, however, failed to find him because of the dark and bad weather. “The team then returned and resumed the search operation on Sunday morning during which Sharma’s body was found 4km away from Auli. His body was then brought down and handed over to local police,” said Alok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/22-year-old-tourist-found-dead-in-uttarakhand/story-UMzAD2IzdFefGV7ZrSjqPJ.html
04-01-2021||City||Pankaj Mithal takes oath as new chief justice of J&K and Ladakh high court||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha administered the oath of office to justice Pankaj Mithal as the new chief justice of the common high court for the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir and Union Territory of Ladakh in Jammu on Monday.Sinha congratulated Mithal on his new appointment.The registrar general of the high court read out the warrant of appointment. Proceedings of the oath ceremony were conducted by Nitishwar Kumar, principal secretary to the L-G.Chief justice Mithal has been appointed in view of the retirement of chief justice Gita Mittal recently.Mittal; judges of the high court, J&K; Judges from Allahabad high court; Members of Parliament; advisors to the L-G, the chief secretary; administrative secretaries; senior officers of the judiciary, civil administration, police; family members and friends of Mithal were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pankaj-mithal-takes-oath-as-new-chief-justice-of-j-k-and-ladakh-high-court/story-yBcJGMj9JARARTASdQEHvJ.html
04-01-2021||Bangalore||Maiden run of train connecting Bengaluru with its airport begins||The maiden run of the train from the Bengaluru City Railway Station to the Kempegowda International Airport started on Monday, much to the delight of commuters demanding the facility for over a decade.Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa joined many others to greet people on the occasion.“Starting today, Bengalureans can take a train to the Kempegowda International Airport, Devanahalli station. The trains will operate from Bengaluru city station to the newly built KIA, Devanahalli Railway halt station,” the Chief Minister tweeted.Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers Sadananda Gowda too greeted people and expressed gratitude to the Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.“Today, the local train service commenced between Bengaluru city & Devanahalli Halt Station connecting Kempegowda Airport. This crucial train link to a busy international airport reduces travel cost, time & energy drastically. Also decongests city roads. Thank you @PiyushGoyal ji,” Gowda tweeted.According to the Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of Bengaluru Ashok Kumar Verma, the train started at 4.45 am.Lok Sabha member of Bengaluru-central P C Mohan accompanied the DRM in the maiden run. “ Member of Parliament Bengaluru Central P C Mohan accompanied the inaugural train from Bengaluru city railway station to the airport halt railway station starting its maiden journey from Bengaluru station at 4:45 AM. Thank you sir for constant support and guidance,” Verma tweeted. Mohan too expressed joy for being part of the maiden run. There was no rail link between the city and the airport though there was a railway line adjacent to the airport. Various citizen groups had been demanding to improve mobility and a hassle-free journey from the city to the airport at an affordable cost. According to the South Western Railway, three pairs of DEMU services would be introduced in the section from today. The services would continue until further announcements, it said in a release on Sunday, adding that in addition to three DEMUs, Bengaluru Cantonment Bangarpet Yesvantpur DEMU and Yesvantpur Bangarpet KSR Bengaluru DEMU would run via KIAD Railway Station with a stoppage at KIAD. Stating that Bengaluru International Airport Limited and South Western Railway have partnered to establish a Railway halt station near Kempegowda International Airport, it said in a tweet that this synergy would offer hassle-free, quick, environment-friendly commute to the airport and is bound to benefit thousands of passengers daily.The train would be run only six days a week with no service on Sunday as for now.The fare would be Rs 15 from the city to the airport.Until now, people had been spending Rs 270 to travel by Vayuvajra, the special air- conditioned bus of the state- owned Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation.Private cab operators were charging Rs 700 to Rs 1,200 for each trip. With this rail service, one can spend a maximum of 45 minutes to reach the airport from Bengaluru city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/maiden-run-of-train-connecting-bengaluru-with-its-airport-begins/story-dkrZraZAkitT6JZ39nfhwI.html
04-01-2021||City||Assam: Underground passage on Indo-Bangla border sparks fears of infiltration, smuggling||The discovery of a passageway below the fencing on the India-Bangladesh border in Assam’s Karimganj district has sparked fears about possible illegal infiltration, smuggling and other criminal activities. The district police had found the passage, initially reported as a 200-metre-tunnel connecting both countries, last Friday while probing a case of the alleged abduction of two Karimganj residents. Officials of the Border Security Force (BSF) entrusted with manning the border area clarified that the so-called tunnel is actually a hume pipe (a concrete tube) placed underneath the border fencing to drain water. Also Read: Assam to conduct class 10 and 12 board exams in May, results in JulyOn December 28, police in Karimganj’s Nilam Bazar received a complaint that two persons from Karimganj had been abducted and taken to Bangladesh. During investigation into the complaint, police detected the underground passage. “We have arrested three persons in connection with the case and are conducting further investigation. These persons have a connection to cow smuggling,” Karimganj superintendent of police Mayank Kumar said. In a statement, BSF’s Mizoram and Cachar Frontier mentioned that a hume pipe measuring around 30-40 feet in length and 3 feet in diameter was laid prior to construction of the international boundary border road (IBBR) and international boundary border fence (IBBF) to allow the flow of water from India to Bangladesh. The BSF also contradicted the police version about abduction and said that the “abducted” persons had actually taken money from a Bangladeshi national to smuggle cows across the border. But when the duo failed to smuggle in the cattle, they were detained in Bangladesh. “They may have crossed into Bangladesh by themselves and the allegations that Bangladeshi miscreants abducted them and took them to Bangladesh as claimed by the individuals seems to be false and fabricated,” said the statement. The statement added that when the family members of the two individuals came to know that the BSF was aware about the duo’s presence in Bangladesh their families lodged a FIR claiming they had been abducted. “BSF has been making all efforts to curb infiltration/exfiltration and smuggling of all types in the border areas without bothering (about) the extreme climate and unforgiving conditions,” it said. In May 2018, police in Karimganj had detected a similar tunnel while probing a case of cattle smuggling. Karimganj shares a 92km-long border with Bangladesh and there are 22 unfenced patches. “In the present case, criminals could have been using the passage to cross over to Bangladesh and vice versa. There have been incidents in the past of criminals committing crime in India and going to Bangladesh and also of citizens of that country entering our territory,” said a senior police officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-underground-passage-on-indo-bangla-border-sparks-fears-of-infiltration-smuggling/story-MOicWmUcZGUrzPXEn5c2KO.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Thunderstorm, moderate rains likely in parts of Delhi in next 2 hours: IMD||Several areas in Delhi are likely to experience thunderstorm and light showers in the next two hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain is likely to occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of West, North-West and North Delhi during the next 2 hours,” the weather department said. Between 8.30am on Saturday and 2.30pm on Sunday, Delhi recorded 39.9mm rain, which is far higher than the 21.7mm average rain quota for all of January. More rain, as well as hailstorm and thunderstorms, are expected till Tuesday, according to IMD scientists.An active western disturbance is lying as a middle and upper-level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan. A north-south zone of wind confluence is also observed from north Punjab to the northeast Arabian Sea, with a strong interaction between southwesterly winds and lower level moist southeasterlies.These conditions are likely to persist till January 5 due to which moderate to intense rain with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places in northwest India are expected till the night of January 5 with peak activity on January 3 and 4 over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan ) and on January 4 and 5 over the western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand).Also, after cessation of the wet spell, fresh northerly-northwesterly winds are likely to set in over plains of northwest India causing cold wave to severe cold wave conditions at isolated places over Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan from January 7 onwards, the IMD had earlier said.Meanwhile, several regions in northwest India continue to receive widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning. The Met department had predicted intense rain over Alwar, Tizara, Kotputli, Deeg, Bharatpur in Rajasthan; Aligarh, Jattari, Iglas, Khair, Sahaswan, Hathras, Barsana, Khurja, Anupshahar, Gabbana, Chandausi, Bhajoi, Sambhal in UP; Palwal, Hodal, Aurangabad, and Nuh in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/thunderstorm-moderate-rains-likely-in-parts-of-delhi-in-next-2-hours-imd/story-P3Efl57mIhviDelSrTk60N.html
04-01-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Couple killed in front of minor son over land dispute||A 42-year-old man and his 35-year-old wife were killed in West Singhbhum by their cousins on Saturday night, police said on Monday.Police recovered the bodies from bushes 100 metres away from the deceased couple’s house in the village on Sunday and arrested five persons, including the woman’s cousins.“Five persons are accused of murdering the couple in their house late Saturday over a land dispute. All the accused are relatives of the deceased couple and hatched a conspiracy to kill them after they got to know that the man was planning to sell a piece of land that belonged to his father-in-law. They admitted to their crime during the interrogation and said that they had warned him against selling the land,” Dr Heeralal Ravi, Kiruburu sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) said Monday morning. Also Read: Jharkhand MGNREGS workers likely to get a hike of Rs 31 in minimum wage “The eyewitness to the incident, the couple’s 12-year-old son, named the five accused and told us about the land dispute which the accused corroborated later during cross interrogation,” said Dr Ravi.The bo said the accused came to their house midnight Saturday armed with iron rods, sticks, axes and spears and killed his father and mother. “They all were inebriated and kept beating my parents. I somehow managed to escape and saved my life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-couple-killed-in-front-of-minor-son-over-land-dispute/story-8g1pHQXA8o6v5uGCdQpBHN.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Harike Pattan wetland on alert after bird deaths at Pong Dam in Himachal||The state forest and wildlife authorities are on alert at Harike Pattan wetland after scores of migratory birds were found dead under mysterious circumstances in Pong Dam sanctuary in Himachal Pradesh. The cause behind the mortality of birds in the neighbouring hill state over the past few days is being investigated as the reports of samples sent for testing is awaited. Ferozepur divisional forest officer, wildlife, Nalin Yadav said on Monday that teams have been deputed to ensure extra vigil around Harike Pattan to spot any incident of bird casualty. “Around 60,000 migratory birds are estimated to have already arrived at the wetland. Though no avian has been found dead in and around the water body so far, our teams are on alert in case of any suspicious incident,” he said. The Harike wetland is located on the border of Ferozepur and Tarn Taran districts, where the Sutlej and Beas rivers merge. Besides migratory birds, including gulls, terns ruff and reeve, Harike attracts resident migratory birds such as black-headed ibis and woolly-necked stork every winter. Yadav said he is in touch with the wildlife authorities at Pong Dam for any development. “The Himachal Pradesh authorities have sent samples to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Bareilly to ascertain the cause of the birds’ death. There is still no indicator behind the sudden avian mortality,” he said. In November 2019, over 18,000 migratory birds perished due to avian botulism, a bacterial disease, at Sambhar Lake in Rajasthan. According to experts, avian botulism does not transmit to humans but this fatal bacterial infection is fatal for birds. It spreads through carcasses of fish and other aquatic life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-harike-pattan-wetland-on-alert-after-bird-deaths-at-pong-dam-in-himachal/story-m7Oy6Oro0WmWDtvwvUYTdK.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||CPI(M) leader says Sourav under pressure to join politics, triggers storm||Senior CPI(M) leader Ashok Bhattacharya’s statement that BCCI president and former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly, who suffered a heart attack and is now hospitalised, was under pressure to join politics created a storm on Sunday.Speculations were rife that the former batting great will join the BJP ahead of the state assembly elections due in April-May this year. But Ganguly himself never made his intentions quite clear about taking the political plunge.He underwent angioplasty after a “mild” heart attack on Saturday. He is under treatment in a private hospital in Kolkata.“Some people wanted to use Ganguly politically. That probably exerted pressure on him. He is not a political element. He should be known as Sourav the sporting icon,” Bhattacharya, the BCCI presidents longtime family friend, said.“We should not create pressure on him (for joining politics). I had told Sourav last week he should not join politics and he did not oppose my views,” Bhattacharya who visited Ganguly at the hospital said.Reacting to the former minister’s comments, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “Some people see politics in everything due to their sick mindset. Like millions of his fans, we only wish that Sourav recovers fully.” Senior Trinamool Congress leader and state minister Sobhandeb Chatterjee, who also visited the former cricketer at the hospital, said that there had never been any effort to induct Sourav “into our party. We are proud to have him as the icon of sports.” Ganguly’s former teammate and state minister Lakshmi Ratan Shukla, TMC MLA and daughter of late BCCI president Jagmohan Dalmiya, Baishali Dalmiya, Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and several others also visited him.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday visited the hospital to enquire about his health.Ganguly had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan a week back “in a courtesy visit”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cpi-m-leader-says-sourav-under-pressure-to-join-politics-triggers-storm/story-7r5Q2wSnYV5t7TQ9uuuFtN.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||BJP leader’s car allegedly shot at in West Bengal’s Asansol||BJP’s West Bengal state committee member Krishnendu Mukherjee on Monday alleged that “TMC goons” have opened fire on his car in Asansol in Paschim Barddhaman district but he was saved by a whisker as the assailants failed to open the vehicle’s doors.The ruling party in the state, however, dismissed his allegation and said the incident might be a fallout of Mukherjee’s old rivalries.“As I was returning home in Asansol’s Hirapur from Kolkata on Sunday night, three unidentified persons, whom I suspect to be TMC goons, stopped my car near my house and tried to open the doors, failing which they opened indiscriminate fire on the vehicle.“The driver shouted for help and I repeatedly honked the horn to grab the locals’ attention, following which the assailants fled the spot,” Mukherjee said.He alleged that the TMC was behind the incident and he has informed senior BJP leaders about the incident.A complaint has been received from Mukherjee and CCTV footages in the area are being scrutinised, an officer at Hirapur police station said.Dismissing the charges, TMC’s Asansol Dakshin MLA Tapas Banerjee alleged that Mukherjee is accused in several extortion, smuggling and even murder cases and was absconding for a long time and the incident might be a fallout of his old rivalries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-leader-s-car-allegedly-shot-at-in-west-bengal-s-asansol/story-3ZfVvrlhOCercqmYDzzAiJ.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Ask Congress why it is against renaming Aurangabad, instead of questioning us: Sanjay Raut to BJP||Amid a row over renaming Aurangabad Sambhajinagar, the Shiv Sena on Monday said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should question Congress on its opposition to the renaming of the city in Marathwada region, which is due for civic polls soon. Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said his party’s stand on renaming Aurangabad Sambhajinagar has been clear for three decades. Sena’s partner in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government Congress is opposed to the move to rechristen the city saying that instead of emotional issues, the party should focus on matters concerned with people’s livelihood and development during elections.Also Read: Women farmers start Maharashtra’s first rural home kitchen in Ahmednagar“BJP, Congress, [Samajwadi Party legislator] Abu Azmi, AIMIM, all the political parties in the country know what is Shiv Sena’s stand on renaming Aurangabad Sambhajinagar. Hinduhriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray had renamed it 30 years ago; now the government has to give its stamp which will happen,” Raut said while speaking to media on Monday. Raut added that the renaming should have happened under the previous BJP-led government. “If BJP is really worried about renaming Aurangabad then they should question the parties that are opposing it, rather than question the Shiv Sena,” he said. “Instead of questioning us, BJP should ask Congress why it is against the proposal. This is not a political fight. They should convince AIMIM as well.”The Congress’ opposition to the renaming is being looked at as another flashpoint among the ruling MVA allies. However, the Sena has dismissed speculation that the matter could cause a rift and affect the stability of the state government. In an attack on BJP, the Sena Rajya Sabha MP asked why the BJP-led central government not cleared a proposal to rename Aurangabad airport after Chhatrapati Sambhaji. “The proposal to rename Aurangabad airport as Dharmavir Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj International Airport was sent to Centre nearly a year ago. BJP should go to Delhi and ask the government why this proposal has not been cleared,” he said.Chhatrapati Sambhaji was a son of Chhatrapati Shivaji, who was killed in the custody of the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. In June 1995, the Auranagabad municipal corporation, which has been run by the Shiv Sena for over three decades now, had passed a resolution recommending a change in name of the city. While successive governments failed to bring about a conclusive end to the issue, the Devendra Fadnavis-led state government, too, did not change the name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ask-congress-why-it-is-against-renaming-aurangabad-instead-of-questioning-us-sanjay-raut-to-bjp/story-SnNYmF6diNrlEm5NpWUeVP.html
04-01-2021||City||In a first, flower documented only as dried specimen in India photographed in Manipur||A flower documented only as a dried specimen in India has been photographed for the first time in Nambol in Manipur’s Bishnupur district.The flower, identified as Smooth Uncaria (Uncaria laevigata), was photographed by Dr Kh Shamungou, an environmentalist at his courtyard garden at Nambol, 18km south of Imphal, recently.“Yes, this may be the first photograph of a living plant of this species in India,” said Tabish Qureshi of one of India’s most popular flower websites www.flowersofindia.net. “I could not find any picture of the living plant on the Internet except one site.”Botanist Dr Nidhan Singh of IB(PG) College, Panipat, identified the genus, the first part of botanical name of the flower (as Uncaria).“Nidhan Singh said it is a species of Uncaria,” said Qureshi, a physicist at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. “I then searched and identified it as Uncaria laevigata after comparing it with the known species of East Himalayas.”Also Read: Dzukou valley wildfire spreads to Manipur, Amit Shah assures all helpAccording to www.flowersofindia.net, which currently has a repository of over 6,000 identified flowers, Smooth Uncaria is a large climber with elliptic leaves and prominent hooked spines. Flowers are stalkless, flat-faced, hairless with a narrow tube.The plant is found in forests at altitudes of 600-1,300m from northeast India to China and south Asia. It flowers during May-November, the website said.Smooth Uncaria is a commonly used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat diseases of the cardiovascular and central nervous systems like hypertension, light-headedness and numbness.When contacted, Dr Shamungou said,”I named the flower Ningol Khoidumlei as it looks like Kabok Khoidum (a local snack made of puffed rice with jaggery) and it flowers during the Ningol Chakouba festival season (October-November).”There are also reports of some people spotting the Smooth Uncaria in Senapati district of Manipur. “I think I have seen it (Smooth Uncaria) at Senapati,”says Homen Kangjam, the farm manager at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Hengbung. According to Botanical Survey of India, t present, there are about 44,500 species of plants already identified and classified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-a-first-flower-documented-only-as-dried-specimen-in-india-photographed-in-manipur/story-e17DX0eZyNRCHDynzBSQ6M.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal: 2 die in stampede at musical programme in Kalimpong||At least two women were killed and four others injured when a stampede broke out while hundreds were trying to enter a musical programme at a local fair in the Kalimpong hills of north Bengal late Sunday night. “Six persons were injured, of which two have succumbed. The incident took place near the ticket counter when people were trying to enter a musical programme at a mela ground,” said Harikrishna Pai, superintendent of police, Kalimpong. The dead have been identified as Anita Chettri, 40 and Banita Gurung, 46, both residents of Chandraloke area in Kalimpong. The injured were Parima Rai (18), Pratiksha Chettri (14), Marsang Subba (20), and Anita Subba (31). A musical programme with singers from Kathmandu in Nepal and the adjacent Darjeeling district had been organised at a mela ground in Kalimpong. Also Read: Daily Covid-19 cases drop below 1K-mark in West Bengal after six months“The ticket counter was overcrowded and the people were in a rush to enter the programme. As soon as the gate was opened, scores of people tried to rush in, which led to the stampede. Many fell from the staircase,” said Rabi Pradhan, chairman of Kalimpong municipality. Locals said that even though six were grievously injured, a few others sustained minor injuries. The mela ground (Kalimpong stadium) has the capacity to accommodate over 20,000 people and the sub-divisional office gives them permission to organise such programmes. Police are trying to confirm whether the organisers had taken permission for Sunday’s musical programme. “A case is being registered against the organisers of the event. thE Administration is in touch with the families of the deceased and injured persons and offering all possible assistance,” said Pai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-two-die-in-stampede-at-musical-programme-in-kalimpong/story-06auuTgOvMnx7onbRr9TMJ.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to be hit by another spell of rain today||A day after intense rain threw life out of gear in several parts of the Capital, Delhi is likely to witness hailstorm and thunderstorm Monday as well.The city recorded 39.9mm rain between 8.30am on Saturday to 2.30pm on Sunday — far higher than the 21.7mm average rain quota for all of January.“When there is an induced cyclonic circulation in association with a western disturbance, the system is very intense. Moisture is feeding in from the Arabian Sea, so we are seeing widespread snowfall in the hills and intense thundershowers in the plains. We are expecting hailstorm in some parts of the city on Monday and thundershowers on Tuesday. Once the western disturbance moves away, minimum temperatures are likely to fall again to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius but they may not fall as low as 1 or 2 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Also Read: Rain and thunderstorms likely over N-W India till TuesdayMeteorological conditions are likely to be favourable for rain till January 5 and could continue to cause a moderate to intense wet spell with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at many places over northwest India till January 5 with peak activity on January 3 and 4 over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan ) and on January 4 and 5 over the western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand).Meanwhile, the air quality index improved to the “moderate” category on Monday morning. According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board, AQI stood at 153 at 9am.On Sunday, at 354, AQI was in “very poor” category, a marginal improvement from Saturday’s AQI of 443 in “severe” category. Scientists said that the air quality was likely to improve further on Monday and remain in “moderate” or “poor” category till January 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-be-hit-by-another-spell-of-rain-today/story-6Z0QEjFeJatw22aZgy5KdP.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Man found dead at his South Delhi apartment; murder suspected||Police found a 37-year-old man dead and his wife lying unconscious at the couple’s apartment in South Delhi’s Chattarpur Extension, officials said on Sunday. The deceased, Chirag, was lying on the floor on Saturday and his wife, Renuka, who was lying unconscious on the bed, is under treatment, they said. Police suspect that the man was stabbed by someone. A senior police officer said, “We received a call from the landlord that his tenants were not opening their door. At the same time, we found a post on Facebook in which a woman had shared information about her husband’s murder. We opened the door and found the couple lying in an unconscious condition.” A case of murder has been registered against unidentified people. Efforts are on to identify the accused, he said. The couple did not have a child and from initial inquiry, it was found that there were differences between them. They had been living at the apartment for seven years and worked at an insurance company, police said, adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-found-dead-at-his-south-delhi-apartment-murder-suspected/story-9oVDw4PtD6bPgDndpXbGPN.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC attacks Vijayvargiya over misogynistic tweet against Mamata||Women leaders of the Trinamool Congress have slammed BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, accusing him of posting a misogynistic tweet against West Bengal Chief Minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee.Vijayvargiya, also the saffron party’s Bengal minder, shared a photo of Banerjee, in which she is seen cooking in a tribal village, on Twitter and, in an accompanying statement, said in Hindi, “Didi has already started doing the work she will have to do after 5 months.” Banerjee’s photo was taken at Ballavpur village where she had stopped for some time while returning to Kolkata from Birbhum district last week.The assembly election in the state is due in April-May this year. Reacting sharply to Vijayvargiya’s post, TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar claimed that the country is filled with misogynists from the BJP who think the place of a woman is in the kitchen.“If you are a woman and you have aspirations to join active politics, remember - our country is plagued with MISOGYNISTS from BJP like these who plan to send women back to the kitchen,” Ghosh Dastidar tweeted.“Can’t imagine the lack of respect that women in Kailash Vijayvargiya family must be facing,” the doctor turned politician said.West Bengal minister Shashi Panja said, “BJP shows their true colors again! This is what they think of the only sitting female CM in India. No wonder our women are not safe under their rule! Before your misogyny strikes again, remind yourselves of the Chaiwala who’s now your boss!” Actor turned party MP Nusrat Jahan said “Shri Kailash Vijayvargiya’s comments are OUTRIGHT MISOGYNISTIC! BJP crossed the mark by insulting every single woman who cooks, provides for families and has aspirations. Mamata Banerjee is the only female CM in India at present and once again, BJP targets and abuses her. #Shameful.” BJP Mahila Morcha state president Agnimitra Paul, however, wondered how that tweet of Vijayvargiya could be misogynistic.“Cooking cannot be a demeaning job. Our mothers and grandmothers cooked for days to sustain the family. Millions of women - working or housewives - cook with passion for their near ones every day. There are thousands of male chefs who are proud of their work. How can the tweet be demeaning or misogynistic?” she told PTI.Paul, also a fashion designer, claimed that at a meeting in the past, TMC MP Abhisek Banerjee had asked the crowd if they will wear sari and bangle if attacked.“Isn’t that demeaning to Indian women? Wearing sari and bangle is the pride of Indian women. What would the TMC women MPs have to say about that?” Paul asked.Mamata Banerjee made a sudden detour and entered the tribal village while returning to Kolkata after wrapping up a two-day visit to Bolpur in Birbhum district on December 30.She joined tribal women and cooked vegetables during the surprise visit to the village.Vijayvargiya on that day had said the chief minister’s sudden visit to the village was nothing but a “drama”. His alleged misogynistic tweet was posted on the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-attacks-vijayvargiya-over-misogynistic-tweet-against-mamata/story-kkNt52VMmDGOXgu8UVDJpK.html
04-01-2021||Patna||Schools, colleges reopen in Bihar today. Read guidelines here||Educational institutes such as schools, colleges, and coaching centres will reopen in Bihar after almost 300 days of being shut due to the coronavirus pandemic. Students of Classes 9 to 12, teachers and other non-teaching staff have been asked to take all Covid-19 precautions and adhere to the guidelines issued by the government while attending school.Morning assembly sessions and games periods will not be held as there would be high chances of spread of infection during these. To prevent a large gathering of students, students’ lunchtime has also been changed to scattered timings.  Here are the guidelines that educational institutes would have to follow:1. Drivers and conductors should wear masks at all times. Schools that provide pick and drop services to students should ensure that the service providers always have their masks on. A minimum distance of 1 to 2 feet should be there between the students and they have been told not to talk to each other during the drive.    2. Students should walk to their classes from the main gate using demarcated pathways and there should be a distance of at least 2 to 3 feet between each student. St Dominic Savio High School has formed a team of teachers to ensure that social distancing is followed, according to Hindustan.3. Instructions have also been issued for the parents. They are to send their kids to school with gloves, masks, sanitisers and water bottles, according to their schedules. They are to send only home-made food for lunch.4. Entry gates, laboratories, washrooms, libraries etc are to be sanitised. Only 50% of the total strength of students should be in school at a time. 5. School administration should take the parents’ permission before opening schools on Sunday. They should ensure that teachers who have a cold or fever, do not attend school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/schools-colleges-reopen-in-bihar-today-read-guidelines-here/story-p27EquGS0nOYDTV5qWXFwL.html
04-01-2021||City||Kashmir: Heavy snow disrupts traffic, govt sounds high alert||As snowfall continues in Kashmir, more than 4,000 vehicles are stranded on the national highway at different places after the closure of the Srinagar - Jammu national highway.South Kashmir has received more snow than central and north Kashmir. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted more snowfall in southern parts of Kashmir for next two days. “There is a possibility of more snow in Pir Panjal region due to a Western Disturbance. The weather can improve only after January 6,” a senior IMD officer said.At many places in south Kashmir, the depth of snow is over 2 to 3 feet, which has hampered pedestrian movement. The government has set up several control rooms to help people across the Valley and asked them to remain on high alert.Also Read: J&K logs 182 fresh infections, one death; 96% recovery rateThe Srinagar-Jammu national highway is closed for the second consecutive day as there have been fresh landslides on the highway. Officials said more than 4,000 vehicles are stranded at various places on the national highway. On Sunday night, the J&K traffic police had issued an advisory asking people not to travel on the national highway. Officials said that over two feet of snow has been recorded at Jawahar tunnel and Qazigund.The tourist resort of Gulmarg recorded around one feet of fresh snowfall last night.Srinagar recorded a temperature of -0.7 degrees Celsius, while Jammu recorded 12 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, Kashmir University has postponed all exams scheduled for Monday due to heavy snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-heavy-snow-disrupts-traffic-govt-sounds-high-alert/story-exrmo6KDvKdMsQ3ztX2LyI.html
04-01-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Air quality monitoring stations set up at 15 places in Varanasi||With a view to providing a healthy environment to the people of Varanasi, the state government has set up hi-tech ambient air quality monitoring stations (AAQMSs) at 15 places across the city.The stations were built after identifying the most crowded and industrial areas of the city. The places include Tarna, Panch Koshi Marg, Padav, Cantonment station, Orderly Bazar, Baulia, Kandva, BHU, Adampur, Bhelupur, Maldahiya, Chittaranjan Park, Manduadih, Shastri Chawk and Sarnath.“The ambient air quality monitoring stations have been built at 15 locations in Varanasi under the Smart City project. The AAQMS have six types of state-of-the-art sensors. They provide real-time information about the standards (level) of pollution in the air,” said Gaurang Rathi, municipal commissioner of Varanasi and also chief executive officer of Varanasi Smart City project. The sensors keep sending air quality index information every ten minutes.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh Day: 3-day celebration will showcase Aatmanirbhar UP, says CM Adityanath“Once the data is received, the officers concerned work to maintain control over pollution, like diverting traffic, water spraying, cleaning of roads, along with controlling the construction work in industrial areas, etc,” Rathi added.“As soon as the level of harmful gases, including carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen, increases in the atmosphere, the sensors send data along with signals to the integrated command and control centre. In addition, noise pollution, temperature, humidity and ultraviolet rays can also be detected by these sensors. The dust sensors are based on nanotechnology and are also capable of measuring the amount of fine dust particles in the air,” he said.A team of experts maintains the data and if any datum does not confirm to the standards, the information is immediately sent to higher authorities.These systems detect the dust particles and poisonous gases that pollute the environment and are also harmful to it. They are proving to be effective in curbing environmental pollution, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-air-quality-monitoring-stations-set-up-at-15-places-in-varanasi/story-KPt1exLF5oqUXX7Xm6LWvL.html
04-01-2021||Lucknow||Indigenous Covid vaccine evidence of Aatmanirbhar Bharat might: UP CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday described the realisation of the indigenous coronavirus vaccine dream as evidence of the might of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) motto of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.आदरणीय PM श्री @narendramodi जी ने वैश्विक महामारी कोरोना के विरुद्ध समर में स्वयं अग्रिम पंक्ति में रहकर हमारा नेतृत्व किया है।उनके मार्गदर्शन में ही स्वदेशी कोरोना वैक्सीन का स्वप्न साकार हुआ है। यह आत्मनिर्भर भारत की शक्ति का प्राकट्य है।प्रधानमंत्री जी का हार्दिक अभिनंदनIn twin tweets in Hindi, Adityanath said: “Under the leadership and guidance of PM Narendra Modi, India is moving towards becoming a Covid-19 free country. The DCGI’s approval for emergency use of ‘Swadeshi’ vaccine of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech is an example of the fruition of hard work of our superior scientists. Congratulations to all....PM Narendra Modi, in India’s war against Covid-19, led the country from the front. It is under his guidance that indigenous corona vaccine dream has turned into a reality. This is evidence of the might of Aatmanirbhar Bharat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/indigenous-covid-vaccine-evidence-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-might-up-cm-adityanath/story-8ScMn5Nl9IluS0MRxaLgKO.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||Daily Covid-19 cases drop below 1K-mark in West Bengal after six months||The New Year has brought some good news. Daily Covid-19 cases in West Bengal have dropped below the 1,000-mark after a gap of nearly six months. On Sunday, West Bengal registered 896 new Covid-19 cases. It was the second consecutive day that the state reported less than 1,000 new cases. On Saturday, 863 fresh cases were reported.On July 9, 2020, the daily Covid-19 cases had crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time. While on July 8, the state had reported 986 cases, on July 9 the state registered 1,088 fresh cases. In November, the state was recording more than 4,000 new cases every day. Also Read: Covid-19: India approves first 2 vaccines, UK to begin another immunisation drive“The number of Covid-19 cases in the state is declining steadily. The number of active cases, which had shot up after the festive season in October, has dropped drastically since December 2020,” said a senior official of the state health department. While there were 36,761 active cases in West Bengal on November 1, the number dropped to around 24,000 on December 1. On January 3, 2021 there were only 10,446 active cases. Daily cases have dropped below 10 in the state’s eight of the 23 districts. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas reported the maximum number of daily cases with 194 and 253 cases respectively. The state, till date, has reported at least one Covid-19 case, in which the infected person had returned from UK and was found to be carrying the new Covid-19 strain, which has surfaced in the UK and was said to be spreading faster. Last week, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had directed government officials to remain on guard against the new strain of coronavirus. With active Covid-19 cases dropping in the state, the government has already started freeing up beds in private hospitals, which had earlier been requisitioned for treating such patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/daily-covid-19-cases-drop-below-1k-mark-in-west-bengal-after-six-months/story-A2fTQYdtyjds0nOk6MzoeI.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Dense fog envelopes Delhi today, affects visibility||There was dense fog at Palam with visibility under 50 metres, while the visibility at Safdarjung was around 150 metres till 7am. By 8.30am visibility had improved marginally, officials said.At 8.30am, the visibility at Safdarjung observatory was 500 metres and at Palam, it was 200 metres.Delhi’s minimum temperature recorded on Monday was 11.4 degrees Celsius.Also Read: Rain and thunderstorms likely over N-W India till TuesdayIndia Meteorological Department scientists said that the increase in moisture and cold were favourable conditions for the development of fog.Air quality has improved after the rain in many parts of northwest India. Delhi has an AQI of 162 in “moderate” category. The AQI was in “severe” category on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dense-fog-envelopes-delhi-today-affects-visibility/story-6rVgE65JyAh8SpEkZCV5iK.html
04-01-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Day: 3-day celebration will showcase Aatmanirbhar UP, says CM Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the three-day statewide celebrations to mark Uttar Pradesh Day will showcase Aatmanirbhar Uttar Pradesh (self-reliant UP). The celebrations will be held from January 24 to 26.Adityanath said this at a meeting he held to review preparations for Uttar Pradesh Day. He also said the celebrations will be dedicated to those who had made the people of UP proud with their fighting spirit, unique thought-process and resilience. This day is celebrated every year on January 24 to mark the foundation day of the state.Also Read: Atmosphere of security attracting investors to UP: CM Yogi Adityanath“This celebration will belong to every citizen of the state and should have mass participation. The Uttar Pradesh that has taken shape over the last more than three-and-a-half years by accepting every challenge as a new opportunity and emerged as a self-reliant state is something to be shown to all,” Adityanath said, according to a government press statement.He said the state government will bestow Uttar Pradesh Gaurav Samman on all those who had added to the pride of the state with their sheer grit and dedication towards self-reliance, be it women self-help groups (SHGs), progressive farmers or the artisans who scripted new sagas of success with their skills.The chief minister directed officials to encourage local talent in various variety programmes to be held across the state. The Shilp Mela and other exhibitions will showcase the public welfare schemes of the government, the ODOP (One District One Product)-related events, distribution of tool kits under Vishwakarma Samman, besides displaying the journey of Lord Ram and inspiring stories from the Mahabharata.The celebrations will also include a band display by acid attack survivors (women), staging of the Shabri-Ram episode of the Ramayana and the acts related to historical and mythological characters like Sita, Draupadi, Jhalkari Bai and Uda Devi by Kinnar (transgender) artistes. These will be the highlights of the celebrations which will also feature a display of the Ram temple model, the dramatisation of freedom struggle focussed around Meerut and exhibition on the “Vishwa Yatra” of Lord Ram, said a state government press statement after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-day-3-day-celebration-will-showcase-aatmanirbhar-up-says-cm-adityanath/story-oUg5M0vegkslGkd7l5QsVK.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain partially closed||The Ghazipur and Chilla borders connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad and Noida continue to remain partially blocked on Monday with only one carriageway open for those leaving Delhi. At both the borders, traffic going towards Delhi was diverted, with farmers blocking one carriageway as their agitation against three new farm bills continues. The Singhu and Tikri borders, however, continue to remain completely blocked since November. A senior police officer said traffic moving from Delhi to Noida is smooth as usual at Chilla border, while the carriageway leading to Delhi remains blocked. Farmers also continue to block one carriageway on the Delhi-Meerut elevated expressway, while the other one for those exiting Delhi is open with normal traffic, he said.Also Read: Farmers’ protests: Heavy rain hits UP Gate, Noida sites, but fails to dampen spirits“We have sufficient deployment of security personnel at both the borders to ensure law and order,” the officer said.At the Ghazipur border, the NH-24 service lane that has been blocked by the farmers November 27 onwards, also continued to remain closed for traffic on Monday.Apart from the Chilla and Ghazipur borders, seven border that continue to remain completely blocked, are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piau Maniyari, and Mangesh borders.Delhi traffic police, in its advisory, asked people to use alternate routes to enter Delhi via Chilla, Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders. The traffic police said that the currently open borders to Haryana are the following Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.Traffic AlertSinghu, Auchandi ,Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.In one of their tweets, the Delhi traffic police said, “The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders.”Police also tweeted, ”Singhu, Auchandi ,Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-chilla-ghazipur-borders-remain-partially-closed/story-EYJ4KLPBoQJdGXCp8OpMGP.html
04-01-2021||Patna||Prioritise persons with disabilities for Covid vaccination: Bihar social welfare dept||The directorate of persons with disabilities, social welfare department, has requested the health department to consider disabled persons as part of the highly vulnerable group for Covid-19 vaccination drive in Bihar and vaccinate them on priority basis, said an official requesting anonymity on Sunday.In a letter, the directorate has also requested the health department that serious cases among persons with disabilities be vaccinated in presence of doctors.The directorate officials stated that persons with disabilities are often exposed to different infections as a majority of them are dependent upon others for routine activities.Also Read: Centre draws plan for vaccine roll-outThe Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar will take place at polling booths and at each booth, 100 people will be vaccinated. As per the government plan, health care workers will be vaccinated first while frontline workers like police, bank employees and Aanganwadi workers will be vaccinated next.In the third phase, people above 60 years of age will be be vaccinated. As per the government directive, public representatives, government department workers, businessmen in the market are to be covered in this phase.The population of persons with disabilities in the state is around 5.1 million. “Over 33% among them are serious cases. For any kind of movement, they are dependent either on their family members or on their attendants and are quite vulnerable,” the commissioner, directorate of persons with disabilities, Shivajee Kumar said.But they have not been included in any of the three phases under the vaccination drive.“Many disabled people may not be able to turn up at the vaccination centre and the department will have to arrange this facility at their places,” Kumar said. “Besides, there is also the need to administer the vaccine in presence of a doctor to avoid any kind of adverse impact,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/prioritise-persons-with-disabilities-for-covid-vaccination-bihar-social-welfare-dept/story-mHOtDfjqi9CDwmmVqZm5iO.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Man killed for objecting to youth urinating in public: Police||Four persons were arrested for allegedly killing a man who objected to one of them urinating in public, Navi Mumbai police said on Sunday.On Friday, Sachin Patil (35) was found severely injured on the road and was declared dead by doctors after being rushed to a nearby hospital, a Rabale MIDC police station official said.“Our probe zeroed in on Akash Gaikwad (20) who had picked up a fight with Patil after the latter told him not to urinate in public. The incident took place in Sathe Nagar.Gaikwad and three of his friends later assaulted Patil and left him to die on the road,” he said.All four were arrested while trying to flee from Sathe Nagar, he said, adding that they have been charged with murder and remanded in police custody till January 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-killed-for-objecting-to-youth-urinating-in-public-police/story-90fDVlUpo1b2SoB8PK7NzN.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Illegal tree felling in Gandhi memorial, police register FIR||Several trees were cut illegally at the Gandhi Smarak Nidhi compound near the National Gandhi Museum at Rajghat, prompting the police to register a first information report. The Delhi police have also sent a report to the Public Works Department (PWD) since it is responsible for the maintenance of the road, along which the trees have been felled. According to the report, seen by HT, the police had received information from an informer about tree felling at the memorial. A police visited the Gandhi Smarak Nidhi compound on December 27, and found at least 5-6 recently chopped trees. Roots of some of the trees were burnt and cleared with a plough.The police collected evidence, took photographs and submitted a report to the Public Works Department. Police have also registered a first information report (FIR) under sections of Delhi Tree Conservation Act against unknown persons at the IP Estate police station.A senior PWD official said that it was protocol to inform the land owning agency, if action was being taken on an offence relating to their jurisdiction. He said the proceedings in the case will “completely depend on the police”. “Since the trees were on the side of PWD road, we were informed of the legal action that the police initiated. It is protocol,” the official said.The memorial building is situated along the Ring Road. According to police’s report, the police team found a man using tree cutting machine to chop the trees. Police said the gates were locked from inside when they reached the spot.“There were chopped tree logs in the compound. On inquiry, the man cutting the tree said that he was instructed to cut the trees by a senior member of the Gandhi Smarak Nidhi trust. Our team inspected the spot and found that many trees had already been cut. The roots were also burnt and covered using sand. We asked the people at the spot if they had permission but they were unable to produce it so we registered an FIR,” said a police officer privy to the case details, who did not wish to be named.The Gandhi Smarak Nidhi trust said there was a miscommunication because of which the trees were chopped. Sanjay Singh, the chairperson and secretary of the trust, said, “There are electrical lines on the top of it (trees).Therefore, I asked the gardener to trim the branches. Because of that the tree has fallen. The gardener misunderstood and he cuts some other tree. There was some miscommunication. Our principle is growing more trees. In a month or two, we will plant more trees in that space. But immediately we have taken action and now we are planting more trees in the area.”For cutting a tree in Delhi, it is mandatory to submit an application to the government’s Tree Officer about the number of trees to be cut and the reasons. The officer then visits the site before granting permission. On October 9, the Delhi cabinet had approved the transplantation policy for the preservation of trees in the Capital. Under the new policy, 80% of trees affected by a construction project will have to be transplanted. Construction agencies will also have to ensure that 80% of transplanted trees survive after being relocated. The policy also mandates that for every tree cut, 10 saplings must be planted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/illegal-tree-felling-in-gandhi-memorial-police-register-fir/story-EfMiu5DN5OYhGD6dTjtHDK.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale| Her solitude was her companion||Her arms were covered with bangles, her ears decked with shiny stones, and stones were adorning her fingers too. She could be heard approaching from a distance, because of the chhan-chhan sound of her anklets.For more than 20 years, Suhana Begum lived alone, homeless, in central Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti. She died on the first day of this new year. “She was discovered lifeless, late in the morning, on the street where she would usually sit,” says Imtiaz, a kebab seller in the vicinity.Ms Begum’s age was not known but she was white-haired and seemed advanced in years. She often spent her days wandering around the Basti lanes. Sometimes she would step inside Hazrat Nizamuddin’s dargah, the area’s famous sufi shrine, and enjoy a brief nap in its sunlit marble courtyard, or silently sit in a corner there and busy herself arranging her bangles, nose ring, and necklaces.Although she off-and-on stayed in a homeless shelter nearby, Ms Begum would most frequently sleep at night on the broad pavement in front of a car repairing workshop. Once, before the coronavirus pandemic, she talked to this reporter while seated on a mattress laid on her sleeping place. That night, she was wearing a golden yellow sari, and was ornamented in her usual fashion. She was just done with dinner—the food stall owners in the neighbourhood gave her meals for free. Playfully waving her arm to make her bangles jingle, she said that she bought all her jewels “from a shop for almost nothing.” She insisted that her home was this entire Basti. “I’m lawaris (belonging to no one) but I’m under the protection of Nizamuddin Baba,” she had said, referring to the aforementioned Sufi saint.But she wouldn’t tell why she was lawaris? “My father… My mother… their stories are over… my childhood days were spent with my saheliyan (women friends).” Though she did reveal that before arriving in Delhi she used to live in Jabalpur, in a Sufi shrine there.Not appearing to be overwhelmed by her solitary life, she didn’t put much premium in having a husband or a friend. “When your heart aches, you have to comfort it yourself.”The last encounter with her took place a few nights ago. She was sitting in a street corner and being teased by the neighbourhood’s young boys, who were calling her by a nickname they knew she despised. “The day she died, those very boys were seen with tears on their faces,” says Rashid Jung, who lives on that street. A few hours after her passing, Ms Begum was buried in the nearby Panj Peeran Qabristan. Her final journey included 30 people, all of whom were from the Basti, informed the graveyard’s caretaker, while showing her fresh grave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-her-solitude-was-her-companion/story-edJM3WNL83MQICoOoXG7dP.html
04-01-2021||City||Cops ‘canecharge’ farmers protesting against Punjab BJP president’s visit to Sangrur over agriculture laws||The police on Sunday allegedly lathicharged the farmers demonstrating protest against Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Kumar’s visit to Sangrur town after the protesters broke through barricades and entered into a scuffle with cops. Three farmers, including a woman, sustained injuries in the clash. The police claimed three of their personnel also were injured.The farmers opposing the centre’s agriculture laws were trying to march towards the residence of district BJP chief Randeep Singh Deol where Ashwani Sharma was going to address a meeting of party workers over the upcoming local bodies elections in Punjab. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) Sangrur block president Gobinder Singh alleged that police used force against farmers and punctured their tractor-trolleys at the behest of BJP government at the Centre. “It is unfortunate that the BJP leaders come secretly and hold meetings in towns. They should know that their policies forced the farmers to come on the road. If they want to rule in the country, they should communicate with the common man,” he added.Davinder Singh, a protester, said, “The BJP chief is holding meetings with fake farmers in an attempt to establish that the new laws are pro-farmer. We condemn lathicharge on farmers at the behest of the Punjab governor and the director general of police (DGP).”Kirti Kisan Union district youth wing convener Jasdeep Singh alleged that the police brutally beat a farmer, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Bahadurpur village, who was admitted to the Sangrur civil hospital.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni said the farmers held a peaceful protest but a bunch of youths tried to break the barricades with tractors which caused injuries to cops. “There was no lathicharge but only a scuffle between police and youths. Three cops and a youth named Gurpeet Singh sustained injuries in the scuffle,” he claimed.Ashwani Sharma said, “Everyone has the right to hold a protest in a democracy. But we also have the right to hold meetings. We hope that the farmers’ concerns will be addressed in a meeting called by the central government on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-canecharge-farmers-protesting-against-punjab-bjp-president-s-visit-to-sangrur/story-ShuglyiUGmQ0IAELptZ32H.html
04-01-2021||City||Personal finance: It’s good to go into debt (funds)||If you’ve been reading this space, you’d know about the fundamental questions you need to ask yourself before investing (short goal, long goal, risk appetite, age of retirement; and then, revisit them at a later stage) and the different kinds of mutual funds there are. Today, we’ll talk a bit about asset allocation, or to put it differently, why debt funds could be an important element in your investment portfolio.As we mentioned last week, mutual funds give better returns over a period than the average inflation rate and equity funds are best suited for investors inclined to benefit from the highs and lows of the shares market. However, is it wise to opt for equity funds alone? Returns on equity stocks may leave you inclined to say, why not. But there is always the risk of loss of capital. The wisdom of the herd derives from stock market crashes and therefore, preaches reliance on fixed-income assets like fixed deposits, government bonds, etc.Domestic equity indices tanked hard in September 2020 after their US counterpart received a hit following the poor performance of the American economy. Amidst the fear of resurging coronavirus cases in the European countries, Indian investors witnessed a slump in both the indices as the country’s domestic economy mirrored the sentiments of its western counterpart. A debt allocation would have perhaps saved from such unforeseen losses.The underlying instruments of most debt funds sold in the market are fixed income deposits and money market instruments. Manish Kothari, co-founder and CEO, ZFunds, an online mutual fund platform in India said, “It is true that currently, debt instruments are earning interest rates that are lower than inflation, but they can provide a safe investment option with a fairly stable income. Equities can turn volatile as we have seen many times in the past and sometimes for very long periods too. In order to make your portfolio less correlated to stock market falls, a portion of one’s assets should be invested in debt instruments.”What’s more, if you break a debt fund (for an emergency, or to meet a short-term goal), you would not need to sell your higher returning but more volatile equity asset and incur a loss. “It is recommended to add some fixed income instruments like fixed deposits, Post Office Schemes, government schemes, etc. offering guaranteed returns and debt mutual funds,” Raj Khosla, founder and managing director, MyMoneyMantra, an online comparison portal for loans and credit cards, said.Here’s what to look for when you’re picking out a debt fund: Consistent performance, corpus size (the total amount of money invested by all investors in a debt fund; a big corpus fund indicates greater stability), risk factors involved like credit and interest rate risks, growth in returns over time and expense ratio (fund’s operational expenses divided by its average assets; the lesser the better).There’s also hybrid fund, which invests in both equity and debt instruments — the high-risk factor synonymous with equity is balanced with stable returns from fixed interest-bearing instruments. Depending on your risk appetite, one can choose between aggressive hybrid funds (up to 75 per cent exposure to equity and 25 per cent exposure to debt) and conservative hybrid funds (roughly 70 per cent exposure to debt and 30 per cent to equity).How does one decide which sort of hybrid fund to invest in? According to Kothari, it comes down to two things: risk appetite and time horizon. For investors looking for a regular stable income in their portfolio, a conservative hybrid fund is surely suitable. However, for investors who can afford the ups and downs, an aggressive fund could generate higher returns. If the investment horizon is short, a conservative fund would score over an aggressive hybrid fund, because the latter can see lower returns or even losses in the short to medium term, as they invest predominantly in equities. For longer time horizons of say five years or more, aggressive hybrid funds can provide much higher inflation-beating returns.At any rate, staying invested in debt and hybrid funds for long periods (10-15 year cycle) is the key to earning returns that not only beat inflation rates but also help meet financial goals. New first-time investors investing for say five years can earn returns good enough to buy a car. The risk of volatility is low since a part of the investment is debt funds.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-s-good-to-go-into-debt-funds/story-6Q7oOc2yzbaPaS6xEnxCjK.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Women farmers start Maharashtra’s first rural home kitchen in Ahmednagar||To supplement the uncertain and often meagre income earned from traditional agriculture, a group of women farmers in Ahmednagar’s Shrirampur town have started Maharashtra’s first rural home kitchen. The women cook and pack traditional Maharashtrian snacks and finger foods at the kitchens for customers from Mumbai and Pune, with whom they are connected through a digital marketplace called KisanKonnect. Started by a group of 11 farmers from Rahata, Shrirampur and Junnar areas of Maharashtra, KisanKonnect is a farmer producer company (FPO). It was started as a digital platform to deliver fresh farm produce such as vegetables and fruits directly to customers’ homes in Mumbai and Pune in April, a month after the country went into lockdown owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. Following the lockdown, farmers began suffering huge losses as markets were closed, and the supply chains for fruits and vegetables were broken owing to the restrictions. Customers were also unable to get vegetables and fruits easily. Farmers then set up their own digital space and supply chain, took orders from customers online and delivered fresh produce directly to the doorstep of customers during the lockdown. The kitchen was started around Diwali in a small, 400-square-feet room at the MIDC area in Shrirampur by a group of 20-25 women as a part of the already functional KisanKonnect. It started using the digital platform’s supply chains, call centre and customer care services over the past few months and tapped customers from Mumbai and Pune. For around three months now, the KisanKonnect kitchen has retained all its old customers and has also gained new ones, and produces up to 100kg of snacks a day, which are packed and transported to customers within 48 hours after receiving the order online. Gauri Raje, a founding member of KisanKonnect, said, “We started by cooking only Diwali snacks. But our customers insisted we continue selling snacks after Diwali as well. So we have branched out to produce other food items such as chutney, aachar, Maharashtrian and Gujarati sweets and finger foods after Diwali, too. The platform has not only helped us earn a supplementary and stable income apart from the income from farming that our families earn, but it has also given the women employees a sense of empowerment and financial independence.” Vandana Rashinkar, another founding member of the kitchen, said that the platform has boosted their confidence. “I have observed that women who work at the kitchen have developed a sense of confidence and tremendous financial independence. I used to believe we are not as educated as women who work in firms in big cities. But now, we are still able to earn money independently just like them. Seeing that we bring money home every month, our families are also supporting the venture.” Before working with the KisanKonnect Kitchen, these women have been farmers working along with their other family members on their family’s farms. “The income from farming is volatile and based on many external factors such as the climate, market connectivity, healthy growth of crops etc. During the complete lockdown months, it was difficult to keep this income stable,” Raje said. Families of these women earn up to Rs5-6 lakh per annum from farming. Many of them are large joint families, depending on a single farm land for the household income. With KisanKonnect, these women earn up to Rs10,000 a month by doing a convention seven-eight hour shift. If women wish to work over time, they are paid extra money per hour. All expenses of the kitchen, raw materials and salaries of the women who work at the kitchen are managed through the profit earned from selling the snacks. KisanKonnect Kitchen is soon planning to branch out into other nearby cities such as Nashik and Aurangabad. Currently, KisanKonnect has over 400 farmer members, with over 2,000 farmers supplying their produce and making a turnover of over Rs4 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/women-farmers-start-maharashtra-s-first-rural-home-kitchen-in-ahmednagar/story-y3poBtgyBOa2oqsl4DouhJ.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||HSC exams after April 15, SSC tests after May 1: Maharashtra minister||The higher secondary certificate (HSC) exams are likely to be held after April 15, while those for the secondary school certificate (SSC) are mostly to be held post-May 1, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Sunday. “The exams will be tentatively held during this period and the state board will come up with a detailed timetable with respect to this soon,” said Gaikwad. Usually, exams for HSC (Class 12) begin in February, while those for SSC (Class 10) begin in the month of March. However, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown, the education department has decided to push the exams to April and May. While the Maharashtra board is currently accepting the registration forms for HSC and SSC exams, it is expected to give more clarity on the nature of exams soon. Teachers had requested for more clarity on the exam pattern and other specificities, especially because schools continue to remain online in many parts of the state. The board had earlier announced a 25% reduction in the syllabus for Class 1 to Class 12. Gaikwad said a decision with respect to reopening schools for the lower classes (Class 1 to Class 8) will be taken soon. “The decision will be taken after assessing the situation in the state and based on the guidelines issued by the health department from time to time,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hsc-exams-after-april-15-ssc-tests-after-may-1-maharashtra-minister/story-2veTU1lMc3EXT3vYsNWwMM.html
04-01-2021||City||Ludhiana: 26 test positive for Covid-19||As many as 26 new patients tested positive for Covid-19 in the district in the last 24 hours, however, no casualty was reported. There are 315 active patients in the district at present. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said reports of 1, 624 samples sent for testing, are still pending. He said added that the cumulative count of cases in Ludhiana now stands at 24, 870, while 3, 716 patients belong to other districts and states. He informed on Sunday, 59 persons were sent for home quarantine. Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-26-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-6R3Afo2Wb4LUOFa8bdAvkM.html
04-01-2021||City||Domestic help, aides steal Rs 6 lakh, jewellery from hosiery owner’s house in Ludhiana||Hired five days ago, a domestic help decamped with Rs 6 lakh cash, gold and diamond jewellery from the house of a hosiery unit owner in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar on Friday. At the time of the incident, the hosiery unit owner was in his factory, while his family members had gone out.The police verification of the help, who had identified himself as Rahul, had not been carried out.Complainant Suresh Rana, 46, said that his family had asked their locality’s gardener, Lalit Parsad, to find a domestic help for them. On December 25, 2020, Prasad sent a 14-year-old boy named Sonu for work. But after two days of trial, the family asked Sonu to send someone else as they were not satisfied with his work. On December 27, Sonu came with a youth and introduced him as his elder brother, Rahul. The family found Rahul’s work satisfactory and hired him. On January 1, when Rana returned home, he found that the main gate of the house was open and there was no one at home. His wife had left for Delhi to meet some relatives earlier in the day, while his son and daughter were out shopping. When Rana entered the house, he found the LPG cylinder leaking, and an almirah kept in the bedroom ransacked. The thieves had taken away at least Rs 6 lakh in cash, some gold and diamond jewellery, he claimed. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, West) Gurpreet Singh said the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the house had captured Rahul and his two accomplices taking away the valuables. Rana does not have any details about domestic help’s address and he is not even sure if Rahul is his actual name, said the ACP. The ACP added that the police have questioned the gardener, Lalit Parsad, but he said that he had found Sonu roaming around in the locality for work and sent him to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/domestic-help-aides-steal-rs-6-lakh-jewellery-from-hosiery-owner-s-house/story-QeAcZtjhCUeISIZ0p0vzhJ.html
04-01-2021||City||Ludhiana: Miscreant makes off with elderly man’s scooter parked on street||Contrary to the police commissioner’s claims of hassle-free FIRs, an elderly man was forced make multiple rounds of the police station for three days to lodge an FIR for vehicle-theft. The FIR was finally lodged on Sunday, but that too after the matter was brought to the knowledge of a senior police official. Surjit Singh, 68, who owns a cycle parts factory in the city, said that he had gone to Gurdwara Khuhisar Sahib in Kot Mangal Singh area on December 31. He had parked his Honda Activa scooter (PB 10 HC 2557) in the street and gone to pay obeisance. After some time, when he returned, he found the scooter missing and immediately informed the police.But he claimed that the police kept dilly-dallying the matter even after he procured CCTV footage, from a nearby shop, in which the miscreant, whose face was covered with a handkerchief, could be seen executing the crime. The man, wearing a blue turban and jacket, was seen casually walking towards the scooter and then driving off with it. It is not yet clear whether the accused had used a master key or some other method to unlock the vehicle. Under the “hassle-free FIR scheme” the police had invited residents to send their complaints regarding theft, snatchings and vehicle theft via e-mail. Police had also assured them that an FIR would be lodged within 24 hours.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said cops have been instructed to lodge FIRs immediately after receiving complaints. He added in the Active theft case too, appropriate action will be taken against cops for delaying the matter..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-miscreant-makes-off-with-elderly-man-s-scooter-parked-on-street/story-eLh5eEpbRTiU3LO9vLSHNL.html
04-01-2021||City||Barricades breached in Rewari||Farmers agitating on the Delhi-Jaipur highway near Bhudla-Sangwari village in Rewari for the past three days removed the barricades placed by police to restrict their movement on Sunday. They were joined by protesters from Tikri. The police used tear gas shells to disperse the agitators when they reached Masani barrage near Dharuhera. As per the farmers, cops stopped them initially, but later allowed them to move ahead. Farmers associated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) also reached the Shahjahanpur-Khera border in Rajasthan from Tikri while taking out ‘Chetna YatraHooda khap begins march towards Tikri borderHundreds of farmers associated with Hooda khap on Sunday started a march towards Tikri border from here on their tractor trailers. Hooda khap is considered one of the most-influential khap bodies in Haryana, especially in state’s Deswali belt.Om Prakash Hooda, head of the khap, said they have started the tractor march to enter the national capital on January 26 and take part in a ‘tractor parade’ if their two demands are not met.“We have installed tricolour on our tractors in advance to take part in the tractor parade on the Republic Day if the government does accede to our demands,” he added. Another leader, Krishan Hooda, said supporters of their khap and other farmers of their region will make arrangements of essential items from their villages for the protesters.“This is the do or die situation for farmers. The government should talk to the farmers with an open heart, otherwise they will have to face dire consequences. We will only return if the government accepts our demands,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/barricades-breached-in-rewari/story-E29t2bWlfOjt0yguzIqIXK.html
04-01-2021||City||Ludhiana man shoots neighbour, his brother over parking||A Jainpur village resident shot and injured two brothers living in his neighbourhood, over a parking dispute on New Year’s eve. The accused, identified as Gurjant Singh, is currently on the run. Complainant Paramjit Singh, 28, a farmer, said that one bullet pierced through his shoulder while the other hit his brother, Sikandar Singh, 31, in the thigh. Paramajit said the confrontation took place on the evening of December 31, when a panchayat member, Balkaran Singh, had come to his house to discuss a property deal. Balkaran had parked his Mahindra Scorpio car outside their house, over which the accused raised an objection. Paramjit’s mother told him that he shouldn’t have an issue as the car was not parked outside his house. Following this, Gurjant allegedly started hurling abuses at the complainant’s mother. Hearing the commotion, Parmajit and his brother rushed outside and tried to intervene. But Gurjant suddenly took out his gun and opened fire at the brothers. On seeing them injured, the accused fled the scene. Family members then rushed them to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), where they are now recuperating. Sub-inspector Manjinder Kaur of the PAU police station, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 25/ 54/ 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against Gurjant and a manhunt launched for him. The victim added that Balkaran had defeated Gurjant in the panchayat elections earlier, due to which the latter had been nursing a grudge against him, and so started a fight over a petty issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-shoots-neighbour-his-brother-over-parking/story-OB6M7f0gLJ2EZCjkpahuXJ.html
04-01-2021||City||Deepender visits agitating farmers at Kurukshetra toll plaza||Congress Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda on Sunday reached Kurukshetra’s Thana toll plaza where farmers are protesting and accused the government of not taking their issues seriously.“More than 50 farmers have died, but the government has turned a blind eye towards their plight,” he said while addressing the protesters.He asked the government to give martyr status to the farmers who died during the protests at Delhi border and compensation to their families. “The government should resolve this issue without any further delay as number of farmers is increasing at the Delhi-Haryana borders with each passing day and the situation may become uncontrollable if the government fails to accept the demands of farmers,” he added. Farmers’ stir at the toll plazas entered Day 9 on Sunday with several opposition leaders approaching them to support their agitation against three agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deepender-visits-agitating-farmers-at-kurukshetra-toll-plaza/story-STicpE7x87UY1O8w6z6QWL.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man smashes bottle on kin’s head over molestation plaint||The Shivaji Nagar police in Govandi have launched a search for a man who tried to kill his 18-year-old relative by smashing a liquor bottle on her head on New Year’s Eve. According to the police the accused wanted to take revenge against the woman for lodging a molestation complaint against him in 2019. His friend, who was an accomplice in the attack, has been arrested. The two accused had also attacked the woman’s 16-year-old brother.Some locals helped the injured woman and her brother reach the hospital. Their condition is stable.According to the police, the woman and the main accused, said to be in his early 20s, live in the same neighbourhood in Shivaji Nagar. On December 31, the main accused had a heated argument with the woman and her brother, the police said. “He was angry as the woman had lodged a criminal case against him. During the heated argument, the accused in a fit of rage hit the woman with a liquor bottle on her head. The accused and his friend also attacked her younger brother,” said inspector Someshwar Khatpe of Shivaji Nagar police station.The two also abused the siblings and threatened to kill them and fled the spot. Shivaji Nagar police then filed a case against the two accused and launched a manhunt to nab them. “The man’s friend was arrested a day after the incident from the area. A local court remanded him in police custody till Tuesday,” said sub-inspector Alpesh Lavand. The two accused are booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 504 (abusing), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Lavand added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-smashes-bottle-on-kin-s-head-over-molestation-plaint/story-YmNffHRPOlCJHvVU4SLurL.html
04-01-2021||City||Four farmers from Punjab, Haryana die at Singhu, Tikri||Four protesters, three of them farmers, who were camping at Delhi’s borders to demand a repeal of three contentious farm laws passed by the Parliament in September last year, have died in the last 24 hours, police said.Police records showed that a total of nine people, including Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh, have died at the Kundli-Singhu border, while 10 have died at Tikri border so far. Farmer leaders, on the other hand, said 46 farmers had sacrificed their lives across all of Delhi’s border points.As per records, 18-year-old Jashanpreet Singh of Punjab died of ‘heart attack’ and Jagbir Singh, 65, of Jind died due to biting cold on Saturday night at Tikri border. At Kundli-Singhu border, Kulbir Singh, 52, a resident of Gangana village in Sonepat was found dead on Sunday in a tent and Shamsher Singh, 45, a resident of Sangrur also died at civil hospital in Sonepat, after his health deteriorated. Shamsher of Lidhran village is survived by wife, two young sons and a daughter. Village sarpanch Jaspal Singh said Shamsher went to the border 4-5 days ago to join farmers’ protest against three agriculture laws.Family members of Jashanpreet Singh said he left with a group of 30 residents of Chauke village from Bathinda on Saturday morning to participate in the ongoing farmer agitation. He collapsed while walking with his friends. Jashanpreet was studying in Class 12 at a private school in Chauke village. He was the only son of his parents.Rohtak’s PGIMS spokesman Dr Gajender Singh said Jashanpreet was referred to the institute from Bahadurgarh civil hospital on Saturday night after he suffered a heart attack. “After reaching here, he passed away. Another farmer, Jagbir Singh, who suffered a cold stroke, died here on Saturday night. We have conducted their post-mortem examinations and handed over their bodies to their family members,” he added.Shamsher Singh, investigating officer of Kundli police station, said the protesting farmers had spotted the body of Kulbir Singh at a tent near the protesting here on Sunday morning.“The farmers said he had complained of body pain and gone to bed on Saturday night after eating langar. After receiving news of his demise, his co-villager Yudhishthira suffered heart attack and was rushed to civil hospital in Sonepat, from where he was referred to a private hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. Another farmer, Shamsher Singh from Sangrur in Punjab, also suffered a heart attack and died during treatment at Civil hospital here. He had joined the stir five days ago, according to farmers. We have handed over the bodies to their family members after conducting autopsies,” he added.Singh said nine people, including Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh have died at Kundli-Singhu border so far, most due to heart attack or the cold.Inderjit Singh, vice-president of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha 46, said farmers had “sacrificed their lives” in the ongoing agitation.“These people are those who died either on borders or on their way to the stir,” he added.District vice-president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) Motu Singh Kotra said Jashanpreet’s family was active members of the association and he had been participating in the agitations against the central laws in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-farmers-from-punjab-haryana-die-at-singhu-tikri/story-eP3lBRFy7is9jownSqTLPP.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Not many parents in Mumbai open to idea of restarting schools: Experts||Reopening of schools in the city, which are shut till at least January 15 amid the fear of a new strain of the virus causing Covid, is likely to receive a mixed response, according to experts. Several government and aided schools are looking forward to the reopening, citing loss of learning in online mode. Private schools, however, are considering continuing with the online mode, as parents are willing to send their children only after the vaccination. Private schools said they have a Covid-19 protocol in place in case they are allowed to physically open, but not many parents might opt for the plan. “We have all the resources for online learning and over the past few months, our students have been able to cope up with the new normal. While we do have the preparedness to reopen, we have doubts about parents sending their children to school, as there is still a lot of anxiety about the virus. We have not taken their views as it makes sense to do so only after permissions are given to reopen physically,” said Rohan Bhat, chairperson, The Children’s Academy Group of Schools, which has schools in Kandivli and Malad. Some schools said they are still exploring the possibility of calling some students only for exams and practicals. “For the higher grades – Class 9 and Class 10 – we are hoping that students get a practice of writing an actual exam and would thus like to call them in case the authorities permit. Most of our parents are ready to send their children for this purpose,” said Kavita Sanghvi, principal of Chatrabhuj Narsee Memorial School in Vile Parle. The school has also prepared its campus by ensuring regular sanitisation, putting up information banners on rules with respect to social distancing on each floor. Fr Francis Swamy, principal of St Mary’s School (ICSE), Mazagaon, said that while the institute is planning to continue its learning modules online, it is exploring the idea of calling students for select interactions if authorities permit. “Children are cooped inside their homes for a long time now and we want them to come and interact with the teachers and with each other and do some activities together with due precautions,” he added. The scenario is different at government-run and aided schools, which are awaiting guidelines from the local authorities to start offline classes. Many schools said that while online learning was interesting in the beginning, it is slowly losing its charm as teachers are not able to gauge how much a child has understood. “As the class size is big, it becomes difficult to know if children have understood in the online mode. We are eager to start offline teaching because children, especially from Class 10, require paper-solving practice,” said Jagdish Indalkar, principal of KVK School, Ghatkopar. The school has purchased sanitisation machines and has installed hand wash stations in every washroom. The principal of a civic school in the eastern suburbs said that while the attendance is likely to be average in the initial few days, it will slowly pick up. “Parents need to get the confidence that it is safe to send their children to schools and that will only happen if we take a decision to reopen partially,” she added. Arundhati Chavan, president of the PTA (parents-teachers’ association) United Forum said that while parents are gradually trying to make peace with the fact that offline schools would have to start, many who have the option of continuing online may still opt for it. “Parents, especially from low-income families, might want to send their children to schools if the institutes take adequate measures because learning is taking a hit without offline classes. A blended learning model seems to be the way to go,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-many-parents-in-mumbai-open-to-idea-of-restarting-schools-experts/story-C9GHfUDh5EEBNOuctDaNGI.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Woman found dead in Khar building: Mumbai Police to probe attempt to rape angle||The Khar police, which is investigating the murder of 19-year-old Janhvi Kukreja who was found dead on New Year’s Eve in her friend’s building at Khar, suspect that there was a rape attempt on the victim, minutes before she was allegedly murdered.“The position of the victim’s body suggested that she was brutally assaulted to death and might have been a victim of attempt to rape,” said an officer from Khar police station.To verify their suspicion, the police have sent Kukreja’s clothes for forensic analysis and are in the process of collecting other evidences from the murder spot (second floor passage of the building) as well as the rooftop where the party was going on.“We are waiting for the medical reports of the victim,” said Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (zone 9). A detailed post-mortem report is also awaited. According to the autopsy report, the victim was brutally assaulted around 2.30am and had injury marks on thighs and hips. The cause of death was stated as head injury.Khar police had placed the victim’s alleged boyfriend Shree Jodhankar, 24, and a friend, 19-year-old Diya Padankar under arrest for murder and assault on Saturday. The police said the arrests were made based on circumstantial evidence and witnesses’ statements. Trimukhe said they are probing the reason behind the murder. They have taken down the initial statements of the 12 people present at the party. But as all of them were in an inebriated state, they are yet to record the actual statements. They also found alcohol bottles from the rooftop. The police officers also suspect that those who attended the party, including the accused, had also consumed drugs. “We have taken blood samples of all the party attendees and have sent them for analysis,” added Trimukhe.Jodhankar also sustained injury marks to the back of his head and is undergoing treatment at Cooper hospital. The police said, as per the initial inquiry, it appears that Jodhankar fell during the scuffle and sustained the injury.In his statement, Jodhankar said he does not remember the incident and that he had left the building at 2.10am to meet a friend at Sion, said a crime branch source. He also told the police that Kukreja had fallen down the stairs at night during the party and was in hospital. He also said that he did not remember anything else and was unsure how he had reached Sion, said another crime branch source. Jodhankar’s bike was parked in the building throughout the night, said the source.When his friend asked Jodhankar how he had sustained injuries on head, he said he had fallen down. He also said his friend had taken him to Sion hospital, where he received first aid, added the source. Crime branch officers said those who were present at the spot revealed that Kukreja had left the rooftop of Bhagwati Heights building around 2.30am after a heated argument with her alleged boyfriend and the girl he was with. However, after allegedly killing her, Jodhankar and Padankar returned to the party, which led the others attending the party to think that Kukreja had gone home, said the police. It was not until 6am that the murder was discovered. Officers at the crime scene said a woman from the building was walking her dog when she saw blood dripping from the staircase. Following this, the police was informed about the crime.“Until then, the party was still on and the murder went unnoticed, as people used the elevators and not the stairs in the building,” said the officer.The organiser of the party revealed that Jodhankar and Padankar had a fight with Kukreja before she left the rooftop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-found-dead-in-khar-building-mumbai-police-to-probe-attempt-to-rape-angle/story-IQ8QCTL5e0wawUaUmqqetN.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena denies show of strength outside ED office following notice to Varsha Raut||The Shiv Sena has denied that it was planning a demonstration outside the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office at Ballard Pier on Tuesday. The clarification was issued after a few reports claimed that the ruling party had planned an agitation outside the office of the investigating agency, with thousands of workers scheduled to attend. The Sena has been aggressive against the ED since it sent notice against Varsha Raut, wife of its member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut, and had started mobilising its workers for the demonstration. However, the reports were dismissed by Raut. “These news are false. We will come on streets when required but not for this reason. Such acts of vengeance will be answered by legal means. Why should we fear when we have [done] nothing wrong?” tweeted Raut. The Sena leader further said that he had the support of his party’s workers, but there was no reason for such a show of strength at this moment. He underlined that he understood the anxiety of the workers. The demonstration was being planned on the lines of the one put up by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) during its chief Sharad Pawar’s scheduled appearance before ED officers in September 2019. According to a senior Sena leader, there was a strong section of the party which was against taking on the ED. “Many Sena leaders have entered into questionable financial dealings and just infuriating the ED will not serve us any purpose. It’s better to tackle this case legally instead of aggravating the situation,” said the leader, on condition of anonymity. Varsha is expected to visit the ED office on January 5, after she asked for it to be rescheduled. ED had summoned Varsha concerning the transfer of ₹50 lakh from the accounts of Pravin Raut, an accused arrested in connection with the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case, which is also being probed by ED. Pravin was one of the directors in Guruashish Constructions, a subsidiary of Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL). He was arrested along with the HDIL directors for illegally availing loans from PMC Bank. Raut has been accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of running a campaign to destabilise the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-denies-show-of-strength-outside-ed-office-following-notice-to-varsha-raut/story-wvFs6cX7i4NfuQK4ZDuPYJ.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||NCB raids across Mumbai: Actor detained, 2 drug dealers booked||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has detained a 22-year-old Tollywood actor and arrested a drug supplier during two raids recently conducted in Mira-Bhayander and Bandra. The agency is also on the look-out for a second dealer who fled during one of the raids. According to the NCB officer, they first laid a trap at Gurunanak Marg near Bandra (West) railway station on Saturday and arrested Chand Shaikh. During his search, 400g mephedrone (MD) was found in the storage compartment of Shaikh’s two-wheeler. After questioning Shaikh, NCB got another lead, and on Sunday a team raided the Crown Business Hotel near Golden Nest Circle in Bhayander (East), where they nabbed the actor. She was with alleged drug supplier Saeed Shaikh, who managed to flee before the NCB could nab him. Zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the development and said, “Contraband drugs were seized from the hotel and we are inquiring with the actress for further details.”The drugs recovered from the hotel were allegedly sourced by Saeed, a resident of Mira-Bhayander. It was learnt that he is allegedly the main supplier of MD in Mumbai and Thane, said an NCB officer. NCB has registered an offence against Shaikh and Saeed under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, while the actor is being questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-raids-across-mumbai-actor-detained-2-drug-dealers-booked/story-MbguapAZUMwC9ux6w4FmXM.html
04-01-2021||City||Bhiwandi: Attack on 2 ahead of gram panchayat elections||In two separate incidents in Bhiwandi, gram panchayat election candidates were attacked recently. Two unknown bikers opened fire on Deepak Mhatre, 48, Shiv Sena shakha chief in Kalher, Bhiwandi, early on Sunday while he was exiting his car with his wife. The Sena leader escaped the firing. The incident was captured on CCTV cameras near his house, and police are searching for the two accused. R Wani, inspector, Narpoli police station, said, “The incident occurred around midnight on Sunday. Deepak Mhatre is safe, and no one was injured in the incident. We have registered a case and our team is searching for the accused.”“I noticed that a biker was following me, but I didn’t realise that they have this intention. After we parked the car and got out, the pillion rider fired one round at us. I first tried to make sure my wife was safe. Later, I tried to throw stones at them till then they fired two more rounds before fleeing. I don’t know who these people were but only know that they have done this because of the election,” said Mhatre.In the second incident, panchayat member Bhanudas Patil, 51, and his brothers Santosh and Vinod were beaten up by 20 youngsters and are receiving treatment in hospital. Santosh is contesting in the upcoming gram panchayat election. Narpoli police are investigating both matters. The brothers were on their way to the hospital to meet their aunt on Saturday when the group of attackers beat them and threatened to shoot them for opposing their party leader. Narpoli police have registered a case but are yet to arrest the accused. In 2017, Congress corporator from Bhiwandi, Manoj Mhatre was murdered at his residence before the civic elections. Seven accused persons allegedly fired at him, and also assaulted him with a sharp weapon on February 16. The conspiracy was allegedly planned by Mhatre’s cousin Prashant Mhatre who was later arrested by police along with the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-attack-on-2-ahead-of-gram-panchayat-elections/story-OIMtELIGkNksqHcw9Pa1bI.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records dip in maximum temperature, but no relief from ‘poor’ air||In a respite from rising temperatures, the city and suburbs on Sunday recorded a dip in maximum temperature. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), temperatures are likely to remain low for the next three to four days.The Colaba station of IMD recorded a maximum temperature of 27.4 degrees Celsius, which was 3.1 degrees below normal. This was a marginal drop from Saturday’s 28.8 degrees. Santacruz weather station recorded a maximum temperature of 28.9 degrees Celsius, which was 2.1 degrees below normal and drop from 30.1 degrees recorded on Saturday.The minimum temperature at Colaba was 21.2 degrees Celsius, 1.9 degrees above normal, while at Santacruz, the minimum temperature was 19.7 degrees Celsius, which is 2.6 above normal.“Maharashtra is experiencing a mini winter, where the minimum temperatures are likely to drop significantly over the next three to four days. The minimum temperature at Mumbai and Thane can drop to 16-18 degrees Celsius,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of the western region, IMD. The IMD has also forecasted mild rainfall in some parts of the state.The drop in temperature has been attributed to an active western disturbance owing to a cyclonic circulation over Central Pakistan and neighbouring areas.Meanwhile, air quality in the city continued to remain poor. System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research, an overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator—of 276 (poor) was recorded. Of the 10 stations, at which the air quality was measured, Navi Mumbai breathed the worst quality of air, as an AQI of 327 (very poor) was measured. This was followed by Mazagaon where an AQI of 322 was recorded.“Lower variation in temperature along with the inflow of polluted continental air will lead to poor AQI in next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-dip-in-maximum-temperature-but-no-relief-from-poor-air/story-aInUeUjVzgS8zlNyTHHuEJ.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to face 15% water cut on January 5 and 6||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced 15% water cuts in the city on January 5 and 6 owing to routine maintenance in the city’s water supply pipeline network. The water cut will be in effect from 10am on January 5 to 10am on January 6.According to BMC, except for a few areas in the eastern suburbs, all areas in south Mumbai and western suburbs will be impacted due to the water cut.The water cut is being undertaken due to repairs of the chlorine injection points at Yewai in the water supply network, which supplies drinking water from Vaitarna lake. The BMC said all areas in the city except Mulund, Dadar East, Parel and Matunga will remain unaffected due to the planned water cut.This is the fourth time that the BMC has undertaken water cuts in the last few months. A civic body official said, “There are several activities that are being undertaken to ensure the drinking water quality in the city does not get affected.”The BMC has appealed to citizens to cooperate with the civic body and to ensure sufficient water due to the planned water cuts.The civic body supplies around 3,750 million litres of water daily, against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres. Meanwhile, the seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems, the Vaitarna system supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-face-15-water-cut-on-january-5-and-6/story-UR7JZMbin5gxa4NqROhXLM.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Advanced CCTVs, emergency talk back systems at Chandigarh railway station by 2021-end||As part of an amenities overhaul, the Chandigarh Railway station is all set to get new CCTV cameras and emergency talk back systems, while the Shatabdi coaches will be equipped with improved lighting.Currently, 35 CCTV cameras are installed at the station, but their recordings are of poor quality. These will be replaced by high-resolution IP cameras, which don’t require a recording device. Divisional railway manager Gurinder Mohan Singh had earlier said that they plan to have a system of 80-100 cameras to cover the railway station premises.For the safety of women, lady coaches of mainline electric multiple unit (MEMU) trains will have emergency talk back (ETB) system. “In case of emergency, passengers can press the ETB button in a coach to directly speak to the driver and guard. Multiple such buttons will be placed in lady coaches,” said station superintendent Anil Aggarwal.To illuminate the coaches of Chandigarh Shatabdi (train number 12045/46) better, LED lights will be used. Besides, the Ambala railways division also plans to install three elevators at the Mohali railway station.“Tenders have yet to be floated. If there are no delays, the projects should be complete by December 2021,” Aggarwal said.The Rs 136-crore makeover project for the Chandigarh railway station has already been delayed by a year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Along with beautification, the project aims to bring an “air concourse”, on the lines of airport terminals at all six platforms, and subways to segregate passenger flow. While this was earlier set to be finished by December 2021, the deadline has been moved to December 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/advanced-cctvs-emergency-talk-back-systems-at-chandigarh-railway-station-by-2021-end/story-USMfNleqnousevZAhCbAkK.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: 5,500 fliers from Europe and Middle East spared quarantine, says Mumbai civic body data||Almost two weeks after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started screening passengers arriving from Europe, Middle East and South Africa for new Covid-19 variant, over 11,000 passengers have arrived of which around 50% passengers were exempted the mandatory hotel quarantine, considering they had further travel plans or resided in other states. Some were exempted owing to emergency travel, states the BMC data.The civic body started quarantining incoming passengers from many countries from December 23, as a precautionary measure to detect a new variant of Covid-19 that was first reported in the United Kingdom (UK).According to BMC’s data, over 11,000 passengers have arrived from Europe and the Middle East between December 23 and January 1, of which over 5,500 passengers were allowed to leave Mumbai as they were from other states, had future travel plans or were given exemption due to emergency.A BMC official said, “We are regularly testing passengers on completion of the seventh day, and positive samples are sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for further investigations. However, not a single passenger is tested for the new strain of Covid-19 yet. We are going to continue testing until further guidelines on the same from the state or central government.”As per BMC’s protocol, every passenger has to be kept at mandatory quarantine facilities and undergo a Covid-19 test on the seventh day. Further, the passengers are hospitalised if they are tested positive. If they are tested negative, the passengers are allowed home quarantine for seven days.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, last week, said, “We are quarantining and testing incoming passengers from Europe and the Middle East, and have not found any case of the new strain. Around 50-70% of the total incoming passengers daily, are not from Mumbai, hence there is no question of any load on the civic body.” Meanwhile, starting last week, the BMC also opened up its jumbo Covid-19 centre in Byculla for those passengers who cannot afford to quarantine at hotels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-5-500-fliers-from-europe-and-middle-east-spared-quarantine-says-mumbai-civic-body-data/story-yMDOHypLHmrKn0CskoK7CI.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Noida traffic police issued 4.96 lakh fines last year, recovered ₹3.43 crore||Noida: The Gautam Buddha Nagar traffic police issued almost five lakh fines last year worth almost ₹18 crore of which ₹3.43 crores have been deposited by violators. This is in contrast to the figures from 2019, during which the traffic police had issued almost double the number of fines – 9.07 lakh – while the amount they totalled was lesser – ₹11.04 crore – but revenue collection through the fines was more – ₹5.51 crore.The reason behind the uneven figures, according to Noida traffic inspector Ashutosh Singh, is that last year the government had revised penalties for traffic violations, which is why the total compounding fee was higher in 2020 as compared to 2019’s figures.The annual data provided by the district traffic department shows that at over 1.3 lakh, the number of people riding motorcycles without helmets tops the list, followed by 1.2 lakh unauthorised parking penalties, over 72,000 wrong side driving cases, 37,000 cases of driving without seatbelt, more than 22,000 fines for jumping traffic signals, over 16,000 pollution check violations and over 14,000 cases of driving without drivers’ license. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Gutam Buddha Nagar, said: “Officials also issued fines for speeding, tripling on motorcycles, using phones while driving, black film (on car windows), rash driving, insurance, hooter/siren, and drunken driving.”Singh said that the traffic police department issued fines throughout the year. “In January, the traffic police issued 55,424 fines for different violations. From February onwards, the number of fines decreased due to the outbreak of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. In February, March and April, we issued 27,245, 19,823, and 11,581 fines, respectively, as people had restricted their movements due to the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown,” he said. However, from May onwards, vehicular movement increased and so did the penalties. In May, June and July, traffic officials issued 19,402, 56,434, and 60,180 fines, respectively, 48,488, 51,491 and 49,806 fines were issued in August, September and October, respectively. In November, 56,540 penalties were issued and in December, 39,663 penalties were issued.Saha said that the traffic police department organises awareness programmes to sensitise people to follow traffic rules. “We have also started appointing traffic volunteers in different sectors and societies to ensure they help enforce traffic rules in their neighbourhood,” Saha said. According to Singh, this year more CCTV cameras will be installed on Noida roads, which will facilitate automatic issuance of fines for speeding and other violations. “These cameras will be networked and connected to the traffic control and command centre in Sector 94. The violators will be issued fines. They can pay these off at the traffic police’s office, online or at the court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-traffic-police-issued-4-96-lakh-fines-last-year-recovered-3-43-crore/story-4fZ7qgj8aZiHiwg0fz2bmK.html
04-01-2021||City||UP govt plans ‘new Noida’ on 20,000 hectares||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government has asked the Noida authority to work out a plan to develop a new Noida area on 20,000 hectares of land. Noida’s boundaries will expand till Bulandshahr, which is an adjoining district, and the city will double its size for which 20,000 hectares will be acquired, officials of the Noida authority said. The move is aimed at creating more opportunities for industries in Noida, where no more land is left for industrial purposes, said the officials. This 20,000 hectares of land is located between Greater Noida and Bulandshahr, and was notified (earmarked for development) by the UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) about 10 years ago, they said. However, UPSIDA, a public sector undertaking of the Uttar Pradesh government spearheading the development of industrial infrastructure in the state, could not develop the notified area because it is already occupied in other industrial zones located elsewhere in the state, the authority officials said.“Since the industrial development is almost saturated in Noida with hardly any land left to be allotted for industrial use, the Noida authority can carry out the development on this land once the UP government finishes required formalities on this,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer, Noida authority.The UP government is likely to finalise the ‘model of development’ for the new area in the next four to six months and hand over the land to the Noida authority if all goes well, said the authority officials. The government had started the process for developing a new Noida area two months ago.The state government is yet to decide the exact area of land to be earmarked for industrial, residential, mixed-land use and commercial, among other purposes.At present, Noida is spread on 20,000 hectares of land surrounded by Yamuna and Hindon rivers. It has around 16,000 hectares of urbanization area, of which 47% is for residential development, 13% industrial usage and rest of the area is developed for other usages that include commercial, institutional, and green purposes. It has left with at least 250 hectares of land, which is earmarked for the industrial usage but yet to be acquired from the farmers, the officials said.“We have investors who want to buy the land and set up business. But land is an issue because against our target of 500 acres, we could only acquire 125 acres in last one year. The problem is that the land is located at different patches and has legal issues. If we get a chance, the authority can develop and meet the demand for the industrial land in this region,” said Maheshwari.Realtors and industrial unit owners have welcomed the move.“Noida is a brand and if expanded, then it will attract investors naturally,” said Surendra Nahta, president of micro, small, medium enterprise (MSME) association, GB Nagar.RK Arora, president of National Real Estate Development Council in UP, said, “If the Noida authority developes land for the industrial use, it will create jobs and fuel the local economy. It will positively impact the real estate sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-plans-new-noida-on-20-000-hectares/story-8iWpLx3nVis6YAhtI9eulK.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Two vehicle thieves arrested in Greater Noida west||Greater Noida: Police have arrested two men from Greater Noida West on Sunday for allegedly stealing vehicles. At least four motorcycles, seven doctored registration plates and some tools were recovered allegedly from their possession, said officers. The suspects Munil Alam, 24, and Chanchal Sharma, 25, are residents of Nithari village in Noida. According to officers, the suspects allegedly used to steal motorcycles and dismantle them before selling their parts to individuals as well as in the scrap market.Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station, said that the police had received information about the two suspects being on the move on two motorcycles near Gaur City. “A team was deployed at the spot to check them. When they arrived, personnel stopped the suspects, who failed to produce registration papers of the motorcycles,” he said. The team frisked the suspects and some tools and seven doctored registration number plates were found on them.“During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they used to recce different places and spot unattended two-wheelers and motorcycles. They used to steal these vehicles and alter the registration number plates. They then used to sell these stolen vehicles to individuals at cheap rates and sometimes dismantle the vehicles and sell the parts in scrap markets,” Chauhan said. Police conducted a search at their hideouts and recovered two more stolen motorcycles from the spot. A case has been registered against them under Section 379 (theft) and Section 482 (punishment for using a false property mark) of the Indian Penal Code. The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-vehicle-thieves-arrested-in-greater-noida-west/story-m8GEsw71e6oejQ4iKLzdjK.html
04-01-2021||City||Rain, thunderstorm likely to continue till Tuesday in Noida and Ghaziabad||NOIDA: Light to moderate rains with thunderstorms are likely in the next two days over Noida and its adjoining areas, keeping the temperature relatively lower, the weather department have predicted. Not only that, the region is also likely to experience gusty winds, with speed of 20-30 kilometre per hour (kmph).On Sunday, the minimum temperature recorded was 11.2 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 16 degrees Celsius. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there is a possibility of hailstorms at isolated places in Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad districts till Tuesday. “While rainfall recorded on Sunday in Noida and Ghaziabad was 14.5 mm, between 8.30am and 5.30 pm, the maximum humidity in the last 24 hours was recorded 100% in this area,” the IMD stated in its daily press release. The IMD has also forecasted that the hailstorm can cause damage to property and crops. “It can also cause traffic disruptions and water logging in low lying areas. It is, therefore, suggested to avoid outings for two days. Rains would lead to rise of the minimum temperatures due to easterly winds and cloudy sky, however, the maximum may drop slightly by a few degrees,” it said.The release further said that while the area will have partly cloudy skies, as it is expected to have very light rain or drizzle on Tuesday, the skies will be mainly clear, with shallow to moderate fog, on Wednesday morning.The average air quality improved from the “severe” to the “very poor” category in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, according to 24-hour data issued by government agencies on Sunday. The presence of pollutant particulate matter (PM) 2.5 and PM 10, however, remained high, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The average 24-hour AQI at 4pm on Sunday was 384 in Ghaziabad, 348 in Greater Noida, 364 in Noida, according to CPCB’s Sameer app. On Saturday, it was 462 in Ghaziabad, 450 in Greater Noida and 448 in Noida.The pollution control board states that an AQI in the “very poor” category may lead to respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, while “poor” air quality causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-thunderstorm-likely-to-continue-till-tuesday-in-noida-and-ghaziabad/story-UpVaw95NExlsOF2PjdtqFM.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Noida: 20-year-old booked for raping teen||Noida: A 20-year-old man has been booked for allegedly raping a 19-year-old woman late Saturday in an area located under the Section 20 police’s jurisdiction. According to the police, the woman and the suspect are residents of the same neighbourhood. Police said the matter came to light when the family approached them. “The families of the suspect and the woman are neighbours. The two families had an ongoing feud. On Saturday around midnight, the suspect came over to the girl’s house and took her and her older sister away on the pretext of talking to them. He later sent the older sister away making some excuse. He then pulled her to a deserted alley where he proceeded to rape her, the victim alleged,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.The woman later returned home and informed her family of the ordeal, after which they filed a complaint with the police. Based on it, a case was registered against the man under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code.Police officers said that the woman was immediately sent for a medical examination but the report was inconclusive for rape.“The man fled from the spot after the incident and we have teams out looking for him. He will be nabbed soon and due action will be taken against him,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-20-year-old-booked-for-raping-teen/story-o5GDfWkB9htTPHtPIsm01L.html
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University mulling over reopening dental college in Sector 25||Lying closed for the past nine months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital in Sector 25 may be reopened soon.The Union ministry of health and family welfare had recently asked the state governments and UT administrations across the country to take steps to reopen dental colleges by January 4 following a suggestion by the Dental Council of India (DCI).Therefore, a meeting to reopen PU’s dental college was held on Saturday with vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. But, no decision was taken and another meeting is likely soon.“The emergency cases are already being attended to and classes are being conducted online. The varsity will take a decision on reopening the dental college and its facilities soon,” said PU’s official spokesperson Renuka Salwan.Guidelines issued by DCIAccording to the protocols issued by DCI, college authorities may reopen their campuses in a phased manner, ensuring safety, health and well-being of students, faculty and staff. They should also be equipped to handle any eventuality arising due to Covid-19.The guidelines mandate physical distancing of six feet and use of face masks. Faculty, students, paramedical staff and other supporting staff have to be trained on methods to control the transmission of coronavirus.For clinical matters, DCI has prohibited attendants’ entry in the clinical area, except those with paediatric, geriatric and physically challenged patients, with all safety measures. Moreover, all dental procedures as prescribed in DCI Curriculum (BDS Course Regulations 2007) should be carried out in the clinics by students and faculty members with appropriate protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-mulling-over-reopening-dental-college-in-sector-25/story-a92OxuVxxK9qXCWpIVehsL.html
04-01-2021||City||90% Covid victims in Noida had comorbidities, reveals death audit||NOIDA: The death audit of fatalities related to the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has found that 82 out of the 90 deaths so far in Gautam Buddha Nagar district were cases which had co-morbidities.The district’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said, “The death audit revealed that as many as 46 patients had hypertension, while diabetes and cardiac problems were found in 34 and 19 patients, respectively. Among others, co-morbidities like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, malignancy, bronchitis and asthma were found.” He added that it was found that the first four-five days after having been infected with the Sars-Cov-2 are the most critical for Covid-19 patients. “During this time, the virus infects the lungs and other parts of the body. That’s why health officials have been asked to track cases as early as possible,” Dr Ohri said. The CMO added that male patients account for nearly 76% of the total deaths in the district. “So far, only 22 female patients in the district have lost their lives due to Covid-19. Also, only 20 out of the 90 Covid-19 deaths were from rural areas. This indicates that either the rate of spread of virus is exceptionally high in urban areas, or that the people living in rural areas have better immunity,” he said. The audit also revealed that out of the 90 fatalities, as many as 57 patients, (nearly 64% of the tally) belonged to the age group of over 60 years. “None of the patients, between the age group of 0 to 20 years, succumbed to the virus. However, among those 57 deaths in patients above 60 years of age, as many as 48 had co-morbidities,” the death audit said. Among the 13 Covid-dedicated healthcare facilities in the district from where deaths have been reported, while Sharda hospital reported 31 deaths, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) reported 25 deaths. “As many as seven deaths were reported from Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College in Meerut, while the remaining 34 deaths were reported from other hospitals,” the CMO said. When contacted, Ajit Kumar, joint registrar of Sharda University Medical College, said that the turnout of Covid-19 infected patients has gone down significantly in the recent past as the general public has become more aware about maintaining safety and sanitisation. “We have certainly crossed the alarming stage. Even our doctors and paramedics are no more afraid of the treatment of infected patients, realising that it’s not an incorrigible disease. The number of daily new cases reported in our hospital has also come down to three-four now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/90-covid-victims-in-noida-had-comorbidities-reveals-death-audit/story-IRIk2r6AeRpIRmj3k1FWpO.html
04-01-2021||City||NGO helps marginalised women in Noida villages overcome poverty using awareness||NOIDA: Thirty-nine years old Ameena, who belongs to the economically weaker section of society, is certain about one thing that she will get ₹1,000 monthly as pension once she crosses 60 years. Ameena, a tailor who lives at Morna village in Noida, is not alone. There are at least 50 in her cluster who have got included in different pension and life insurance schemes of the government. This could become possible due to a campaign by a group of professionals from different backgrounds that includes IITians, lecturers and housewives, among others. They formed a not-for-profit organisation -- ‘myloktantrafoundation’ -- in August last year after they found out that many women belonging to the EWS category were ‘unaware’ of the financial schemes that can change their lives. The outfit, which has now more than 20 volunteers, started educating such marginalized women about the different government schemes to empower them economically.“We were not aware of the schemes. But now we are happy to get a pension scheme,” said Ameena.Similarly, Malina’s family has opted for PM Jivan Jyoti Beema Yojna at an annual premium of ₹330. “I started working as a maid in 2015. But I managed to open a bank account last month and got a life insurance done at ₹1 per day with help of the volunteers,” said Malina, who resides in Noida. Since August, the organisation has managed to help 700 people via 15 camps that they organized in slums of Noida’s sectors 10, 15, 16, Nithari, and Morna, among other areas. The organisation that was started by four people -- Vimlesh Gangwar, a retired lecturer, Usha Dubey, a housewife, Abha Dubey, an associate professor, and Smita Singh, additional commissioner of income tax, has now grown into a bigger force with volunteers in more than a dozen sectors to help the needy. While Vimlesh, Usha, and Smita are residents of Noida, Abha is from Indirapuram in Ghaziabad.“Our job is of providing the right information about government schemes to such women that can give them financial security and secure their lives after they cross 60 years. During my work at a Covid support group desk, I realized how vulnerable these people are due to lack of information about schemes. So we formed this group to help them,” said Smita.The group, which aims to cover all slums and villages in Noida by 2025, organizes camps on Saturdays and Sundays in places, where it finds the needy.“Most of the domestic helps cannot even open their accounts with the banks due lack of documents. We have partnered with banks and got accounts opened of those who do not have one,” said Abha Dubey, associate professor at MMH College, Ghaziabad.The group members spend money from own pockets to organize camps and educate them about the importance of Aadhar and bank account, and inform them about small savings scheme, Sukanya scheme and schemes on life cover.Now, Anand Gupta, an IITian who also runs a school for slum children in Sector 16, has come forward to help the cause. “The good thing with this campaign is that it talks about the financial inclusion of those people who cannot get benefit of these schemes because they do not have an address as most of them live in slums,” said Gupta, an IIT-Kanpur passout and a management consultant.The group now plans to set up camps at housing societies to cover more maids. “For example, there are at least 200 maids in our society and most of them do not have Aadhar, or any life cover or saving plan. This campaign is for them,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngo-helps-marginalised-women-in-noida-villages-overcome-poverty-using-awareness/story-WeFrpCTxNjGMpqMI2YWUMK.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees three Covid-19 deaths, a first since March||The city on Sunday recorded three deaths – lowest in the past nine months – due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 11,135. At 0.5%, the city also saw the lowest case fatality rate (CFR) for a day so far. Mumbai’s cumulative CFR is presently 3.7%. On Saturday, Mumbai reported seven Covid deaths and on Friday, Mumbai reported nine deaths. On March 30, Mumbai recorded one death due to Covid-19. The first Covid death in the city was reported on March 17, while the first covid case in Mumbai was reported on March 11. By the end of March, the city had reported a total of seven deaths due to Covid-19. By April 3, Mumbai reported 18 more deaths, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in charge of the civic body’s public health department, said, “Sunday’s number of deaths is the lowest deaths due to Covid-19 reported in the city since March. The civic body’s interventions, such as Mission Save Lives, a studied strategy launched by BMC on June 30, have worked.” On June 30, Mumbai’s CFR was 5.8%. According to the data from the state government, subject to further reconciliation, Mumbai reported 109 deaths in April, 984 in May, 3,237 in June, 1,722 in July, 1,260 in August, 1,236 in September, 1,281 in October, 566 in November, and 223 in December. Mumbai on Sunday reported 581 Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases in the city to 2,95,241. There are 8,916 active Covid-19 cases in the city. The recovery rate in Mumbai is 93%, and the overall growth rate is 0.21%. The doubling rate of Covid cases in the city is now 356 days. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a city- based public health expert, said, “The interventions by the civic body and the state have helped reduce the case fatality rate in the city. Increased awareness among citizens regarding seeking timely medical help in case they develop symptoms, the extra care taken by co-morbid patients have also contributed to reducing the number of Covid deaths in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-three-covid-19-deaths-a-first-since-march/story-8o9PL4jHHVSB0wnWTpi3HM.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Marginally better air in Delhi, AQI in ‘very poor’ zone||Rain and strong winds helped improve Delhi’s air quality marginally on Sunday. The air quality index (AQI) on Sunday was 354 in “very poor” category, a marginal improvement from Saturday’s AQI of 443 in “severe” category. Scientists said that the air quality was likely to improve further on Monday and remain in “moderate” or “poor” category till January 9.“The air quality is improving, but at a very slow pace because of high moisture levels. Pollution particles tend to become heavy and cling together when moisture levels are high. But we are expecting further improvement by tonight. More rain is expected and winds are likely to be strong for a week. So air quality is not likely to deteriorate significantly till January 9,” said VK Soni, scientist at India Meteorological Department’s air quality division.An AQI of 201 to 300 is considered poor while an AQI of 301 to 400 is considered very poor and can cause respiratory illness in people on prolonged exposure.According to the air quality early warning system of ministry of earth sciences, the winds are likely to be coming from east-southeast direction of Delhi with a speed 10-18 kmph on Monday. There is likely to be light to moderate rain and thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (20-30 kmph) and possibility of hailstorm at isolated places. The ventilation index is likely to be 5000 m2/s on January 4. The wind speed on Sunday was around 15 to 20kmph.The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse pollutants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor. Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Faridabad, Hisar, Noida, Narnaul, Meerut and Moradabad also recorded “very poor” category air even after the rains while Lucknow’s AQI was in severe category on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/air-improves-slightly-slips-into-very-poor-category/story-yYDXrvOgE4U4HLZcd8aX8H.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||DCGI nod for Covid-19 vaccines: Doctors give thumbs-up, but flag minor issues||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved two Covid-19 vaccines for restricted emergency use in India. Doctors across the country have given a thumbs up to the decision, but have also flagged ‘minor issues’ that need to be addressed in the long run. In the state, over 19 lakh people have been infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, since its outbreak in March 2020. Almost 50,000 have succumbed to the virus and over 80% of them are above 50 years of age. Scientists around the globe have been racing not only to find a cure, but also a vaccine to stop the chain of reaction. Finally, after days of waiting, DCGI, apex drug-regulating body, on Sunday approved the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine ‘Covishield’ and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use in India. But fear and anxiety among public clouds the landmark day in medical history. “How can I trust the efficiency of the vaccine? It generally takes 10-12 years to produce a vaccine. Whereas, this vaccine which hasn’t even cleared the third trial, gets approval. We might be a mere guinea pig in their experimentation,” said Shruthi Mishra, 27, an architect and resident of Borivli. Vaccine is the only hope To answer this question, Dr Rajesh Mishra, general secretary at Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine, said new advanced technology has helped shorten the time process of identification of the virus and production of its vaccine. “In 2009, when the swine flu pandemic started, within six-seven months, the vaccine was produced. Now, after 11 years of it, why is it so surprising that we have been able to produce a vaccine within a year? We are yet to get a few answers about the longevity of the vaccine, but at present, at least, it will help to stop the chain of reaction,” he said.Dr Anthony Fauci, the top United States (US) infectious disease expert, told The Associated Press, “The speed is a reflection of years of work that went before...That’s what the public has to understand.”To fight with any pandemic, it is essential to attain mass immunity as also called herd immunity to stop the spread of the virus through a chain reaction. “This can be done through two ways- natural herd immunity, where a substantial part of the society contracts the virus and develops immunity. But this can lead to a large number of deaths of the infected patients. Secondly, it can be achieved through vaccination. At present, it is our only hope to bring back life to normal,” said Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, head of the department, pulmonary and critical care medicine, University of Health Sciences Rohtak and Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19.Another important thing that has been highlighted by doctors is that Covishield is a vector-based vaccine and the chance of acquiring Covid-19 is zero. “The Covishield vaccine has been produced by taking a part of a viral vector-borne disease to produce antibodies in our body. Also, Covaxin is an inactivated intramuscular vaccine where the inactivated (killed) version of Sars-CoV-2 is injected to produce antibodies. Thus, the beneficiaries cannot get infected with Covid-19 from the vaccine,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultants (AMC). Dr Baid who was also part of the dry run trial at the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital on Saturday said, “These vaccines are logistically more viable as it doesn’t require -70-degree Celsius refrigerators for preservation.”Citizens are also questioning the need for two dosages. Experts opine that the first dosage just induces the antibodies. While the second dosage, boost the antibodies.‘No severe side effects’In August, during the first phase of the trial, an adverse effect of the vaccine was reported. A patient was hospitalised after receiving a dose of the Covaxin. The issue was reported to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation-Drug Controller General of India (CDSCO-DCGI), within 24 hours of its occurrence. “The adverse event was investigated thoroughly and determined as not vaccine-related,” the spokesperson of Bharat Biotech said in a statement.On September 6, AstraZeneca which is developing a Covid-19 vaccine—Covishield along with the University of Oxford, temporarily had to halt the phase 3 trials around the globe, after a participant reportedly developed severe adverse reactions. Later, the company resumed clinical trials of its coronavirus vaccine candidate after confirmation from the regulatory authorities that it was safe to do so.Doctors sharing their personal experiences said they haven’t witnessed any severe reaction among volunteers. “Several of my doctor friends in the US and UK have taken the two dosages but none has witnessed any serious adverse effect. It would have been impossible to hide such incidences from media and drug regulating bodies,” said Dr Mishra.Dr Chaudhry sharing a recent incident stated that one of the professors from his university took part in the clinical trial. Following which, she complained of uneasiness and discomfort. “She had a 99’F fever with body ache. But with paracetamol, she recovered within a day,” he said. “So, people may develop a few reactions, but its severity will be extremely minor,” he added.“The vaccines have been certified 100% safe, however, some side effects like mild fever, pain and allergy are common for every vaccine, so do not worry and get your vaccine shot,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, director-critical care, Fortis Hospitals, Mumbai, and member of state’s Covid-19 task force.Doctors flag minor issuesHowever, doctors demand a few questions be answered which are still unknown to the medical fraternity. For instance, the questions include how long the vaccine remains effective, whether already infected patients need to take the vaccine, how many doses a patient with the history of infection needs to take, how it will work on children, pregnant women and immune-compromised patients.“We still need clarity on how long the vaccine-induced immunity will last in our bodies. Also, it is unclear if a beneficiary can be a carrier after some months of the vaccination,” said Dr Mishra.There is also a confusion among the public and doctors if people with a history of Covid-19 infection, need to take the dosages. Citing an example, Dr Chaudhry said that he (53-year-old) contracted the infection in July. It has been five months since the infection. Now, he is puzzled if he needs to get vaccinated. “Even if I get vaccinated, I am not sure if I should also get the second shot,” he said.Also, there is no clarity if immune-compromised patients can undertake the vaccine. “We have to optimise the vaccine for such patients. The dosages have to be defined as per their need,” said Dr Chaudhry.Dr Pandit said those with compromised immune systems need to first take approval from their doctors before they take the vaccine shot. “As of now, no data is available for vaccination of children and pregnant patients; an advisory in the UK suggested that pregnant patients can take the vaccine only if they are at a high risk of contracting the disease and that it should be taken as late in pregnancy as they can,” he said.Doctors also emphasized on conducting long-term research and epidemiological studies to understand its sustainability. Dr Chaudhry which calls this as an ‘urban phenomenon’ states that already overcrowded slums like Dharavi have developed antibodies among over 60% of the population. “So, we need epidemiological studies to decide if we need to include urban or slums into the list of priority for vaccination,” he added. In the third phase of Covaxin, 30% of the volunteers have been selected with above 50 years of age, he said.Senior state health officials said that to earn the trust of the public, the manufacturers need to bring more transparency. “We know that Covishield has 70% efficiency rate, which is fine, as no vaccine can provide 100% protection against any virus. But we still don’t know about the efficiency rate of Covaxin. We are still unaware if we can vaccinate health workers with severe comorbidities. These things need to be cleared so that we can also convince people to come forward for vaccination. It is a voluntary process and we can’t force anyone to get vaccinated,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dgci-nod-for-covid-19-vaccines-doctors-give-thumbs-up-but-flag-minor-issues/story-QX7BIVL1P0eTaqqHOQIxIM.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Stop registration of rum, whisky brands cheaper than Rs 140, suggests Delhi govt panel||A committee set up by the Delhi government to help augment excise revenue, check malpractices and transform nature of liquor trade in the Capital, has recommended that the state government discontinue the registration of new rum and whiskey brands below priced ₹140 for a 750ml bottle in order to ensure “better quality options”.“With regard to registration and the eligibility of the brands registered in Delhi it has been observed that the existing licensing fee regime has not been revised since long. One of the mandates of the committee is to transform the nature of liquor trade commensurate to the changing stature of the national capital. The consumer in Delhi needs to be provided with better quality options across different price segments,” said the report.It further said, “This would require facilitating registration of not only niche low-selling high-value brands in the national capital but also protecting the consumer at entry segment from denial of his choice by way of brand pushing or pushing of brands with negligible national presence. Therefore, the committee is of the view that economy brands of whiskey and rum with MRP up to Rs 140 should be discontinued.”The report does not mention what should happen to whiskey and rum brands that are already in the market and are priced below ₹140. Brands, however, need to renew their registration on a yearly basis. The report has been uploaded on the excise department’s website and currently open for feedback from the public and industry stakeholders till January 21. Once the feedback process is closed, the committee will help the government drafting Delhi’s 2021-22 excise policy, which the Delhi cabinet will then consider for approval. The committee also made recommendations aimed at bringing a shift from hard liquor like whisky and rum to soft liquor such as beer and wine. In the report, which HT has seen, it has asked for restructuring of duties on soft liquor brands to ensure a drop in their maximum retail price (MRP).The committee has also recommended that bars in Delhi be allowed to stay open till 3am, serve liquor on rooftops and terraces, allowed to serve full bottles on the table, the legal drinking age be brought down to 21 years, number of dry days be reduced to three a year and that liquor stores be distributed more equitably across the city.The committee has also recommended that the Delhi government take full charge of wholesale trade of liquor and minimise its presence in retail trade.Delhi has around 720 liquor stores and around 800 hotels, restaurants and bars with licenses.Once the feedback process is closed, the committee will help the government drafting Delhi’s 2021-22 excise policy, which the Delhi cabinet will then consider for approval.The committee was set up in September by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance and excise portfolios, to augment Delhi’s excise revenue, simplifying liquor pricing mechanism, checking malpractices, ensuring equitable access, and helping the government in its ease-of-doing-business policy.Delhi’s estimated excise revenue for 2021-22 is ₹7,651 crore — up from the previous three-year average of ₹5,068.7 crore, said an official in the finance department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stop-registration-of-rum-whisky-brands-cheaper-than-140-suggest-delhi-govt-panel/story-GiX3E8qnb0qypsQJ5xj6CI.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Two shoot man dead in front of his son in Bhajanpura over business rivalry||A 42-year-old man was shot dead by two men in front of his son over a business rivalry in north-east Delhi’s Bhajanpura on Friday afternoon, police said.The attack also left a passerby with minor injuries to his face.One of the suspects was caught by the public from the crime spot itself and handed over to the police, while the man — who police claim planned the attack — managed to escape and is on the run, said Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (north-east).The DCP identified the victim as Mohammad Ikram, a resident of Loni in Ghaziabad. Ikram lived with his wife and children and worked at a private water treatment plant. Ikram, investigators said, had a business rivalry with his neighbour Arif.On Friday afternoon, Ikram and his son Mohsin were riding a motorcycle and were headed towards Bhajanpura for some work when they received a phone call.“Ikram got off his motorcycle to take the call. His son walked to a nearby restaurant to buy snacks. When Mohsin returned to his father, he found two men pointing their guns at him,” said another police officer.Before Mohsin could react, one of them allegedly shot Ikram. “The shooting immediately alerted the locals who managed to catch hold of one of the shooters, identified as Shadab. Shadab, while trying to escape from the crowd, fired another shot whose pellets hit a passerby in his face. He was eventually overpowered,” said the officer.Shadab was later handed over to the police and Ikram rushed to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead.The police have registered a murder case at Bhajanpura police station and are searching for Arif.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-shoot-man-dead-in-front-of-his-son-in-bhajanpura-over-business-rivalry/story-MZjafBE6rNvgysGnpAo4JO.html
04-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad roof collapse: Victim families demand strict action||Families of the victims of a roof collapse in Muradnagar in Ghaziabad district have demanded stern action against the contractor, alleging that there were lapses in the construction, leading to the incident that left at least 24 dead. “The incident was likely due to the poor quality of construction, because the entire roof came down in one go,” said Udham Singh, one of the survivors. Like him, other families also demanded strict action. “I lost my father, who was a daily wage worker and the only earning member in the family. The incident was a result of shoddy construction and should be investigated. We demand strict action against the contractor and officials,” said Pawan Kumar. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in a video statement on Sunday said he has directed the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police to take up relief and rescue work and ensure the injured are given the best treatment. “A report has been sought in connection with the incident. I have even told district officials to send a report to the state administration so that the causes of the incident come to light and accountability can be fixed,” Adityanath added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey confirmed that there were 24 deaths in the incident. The Ghaziabad police on late Sunday night registered an FIR under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (causing damages) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant etc) of IPC. “The FIR names the contractor, executive officer of Muradnagar Nagar Palika, a junior engineer, a supervisor and several other unidentified officials and persons,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Officials of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika, who asked not to be named, said the construction cost around ₹55 lakh, the contract for which was awarded to one Ajay Tyagi. Of this amount, around ₹40 lakh has been paid so far. Tyagi could not be reached despite repeated attempts to reach him. The officials added that the work order was issued on February 4 last year. The work order mentioned that work was to be completed within 60 days, but was put on hold due to the nationwide lockdown. “Construction of the shed and quality control checks were pending. The quality checks were to be taken up by the appropriate agency. The tender was awarded after due procedure and the contractor is based in the city,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-roof-collapse-work-of-shelter-remained-pending-despite-completion-time-of-60-days-victim-families-demand-strict-action/story-iXMUuYOoerIEIfeE60KodN.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||BJP campaigns to demand MCD funds, AAP hits back||Delhi BJP on Sunday held a public awareness campaign on the funds it claimed the Delhi government owed the three municipal corporations, demanding immediate release of Rs13,000 crore.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) rubbished the BJP campaign, saying the figure of Rs 13,000 crore is “imaginary”. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta along with MPs and other senior leaders held a protest and distributed pamphlets informing people about how the corporations are unable to pay salaries and pension to its employees.Gupta said, “We want to tell people of Delhi that the government is not releasing the pending dues to the corporations. This has made the life of the corporation employees difficult. Delhi’s sanitation system, mid-day meal for school children, pension of retired employees, salaries of doctors, pension of elderly and widows, maintenance of parks are affected, but CM Kejriwal is doing nothing to address these problems.”In December last year, the mayors of the three municipal corporations had sat on an indefinite protest outside Delhi chief minister’s residence. They had to call it off following a Delhi high court order. The BJP had then said that it will continue the protest in a different way.Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said that this protest was part of the BJP’s continuous campaign to demand MCD dues from the government. “The corporations have been facing financial problems and the government has turned a blind eye to their demands. On Sunday, our leaders and party workers protested at the booth level and will now be going from door-to-door to distribute pamphlets to inform people how the government owes the corporations Rs 13,000 crore.”Khurana said that the party aims to connect with 50 lakh people during its campaign.The AAP said the BJP is spreading lies. “Due to the rampant corruption in the BJP-ruled corporations in the last 15 years, they have no other way of hiding their failures than spreading a lie regarding the AAP government. The claim that the AAP govt owes an imaginary Rs 13,000 to the corporations is a mere drama by the BJP. Citizens of Delhi gave BJP the responsibility of the MCD so they were supposed to take care of the sanitation of Delhi; they did not perform their duties but made MCD a den of corruption. AAP has run the Delhi government efficiently and if the citizens of Delhi give us the responsibility, we will do the same in the municipal corporations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-campaigns-to-demand-mcd-funds-aap-hits-back/story-YjZIP0ULyyqA63ahMldACJ.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Paramilitary, armed Delhi Police men to guard all vaccine storage sites in Delhi||Armed personnel from paramilitary forces, along with officers of Delhi Police, will keep a hawk-like vigil at all storage centres in the city, where the Covid-19 vaccines will be stored in bulk in the city.In the last few days, Delhi police officers have held many meetings with the state government on the transportation and storage of the vaccine once it reaches the national Capital.A senior police officer, privy to the details, said,” Currently there is a security audit of all the 600 plus places where the vaccines will be stored, which include primary, secondary and tertiary stores. At the primary units, which will store the vaccine in large quantities, paramilitary forces and Delhi police personnel will secure the premises. The security audit of the other places is on to ensure that there are no law-and-order problems.”The reports of the security audit, which has already started, will be shared with the district deputy commissioners of police for necessary action. The number of police teams at each store will depend on the findings of the audit. At places there are CCTVs which are non-functional. Some other places are poorly lit. Police have mentioned all such shortcomings and are working with government agencies to fix them. All such security loopholes will be fixed in a week, the first police officer said. Read more| Healthcare, frontline workers to be vaccinated in first phase in Delhi: Satyendar Jain as Centre approves 2 vaccinesA second police officer, who did not wish to be named, compared the security of the primary storage centres to that of polling booths or centres where ballot boxes are kept. “Outside the main centres, local police will ensure that there is no traffic congestion or crowding. There will be barricades and CCTV cameras will monitor all the main gates. The happenings inside the main centres will be relayed to the control room in real-time. In smaller centres, it is important to ensure that only registered people come for the vaccination drive. In congested colonies, it is possible that unregistered local residents visit the centre and ask authorities to give them the vaccine shots first. At such specified locations, a quick reaction team will be present,” the second officer said. Police have also drafted a detailed transportation plan for the safety of the vaccine. Special commissioner of police (operations) Muktesh Chander said vans from the Police Control Room will escort and tail the vehicle in which the vaccine is transported. “We are yet to be intimated about the day when the vaccines will arrive. It can come by train, by road or by air. But the security protocol will stay the same. PCR vans will escort and tail it. The traffic police on the road will also create a traffic-free corridor. The local police will guard the storage centres round-the-clock. This drill will be followed even when the vaccine is transferred from the primary to the local ones.” Read more| Delhi govt to vaccinate all residents free of cost, says health minister Satyendar JainOutlining the Capital’s plan for the first phase of the vaccine roll-out, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said last week that the government had identified 5.1 million people who will be the first to get Covid-19 shots under the Central government’s “priority category”. The chief minister said that registration is currently underway for people identified in three priority categories – health care workers, front line workers and at-risk population – and an SMS will be sent to a person’s mobile number notifying them about the date, time and place of vaccination.Following the chief minister’s announcement, the 80,000 strong Delhi police had started a registration drive and begun updating the phone number of all members of the force. Special commissioner Chander, said that police have also given details of the date of birth of each police officer. “It is an automatic process, in which those above 50 will be the first to get the vaccine shots. Apart from that we also sought information from police personnel who are below 50 years in age but have co-morbidities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/paramilitary-armed-delhi-police-men-to-guard-all-vaccine-storage-sites-in-delhi/story-6C409d4BSAsukzAg51DtbK.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi prepared to start vaccinations, says health minister Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said that the Capital is “fully prepared” to start vaccinating its masses, a day after the Drug Controller General of India granted approval to the Covid-19 vaccines of the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech. “Delhi is fully prepared to start vaccinations. In the first phase, it will be administered to health care and front line workers. Delhi has around 300,000 health care and 600,000 front line workers. After that we will administer the shots to people aged above 50 years and those with co-morbidities,” said Jain.The city government had earlier estimated the number of people who would be administered vaccines in priority at 5.1 million – of which the number of people aged over 50 years and those with co-morbidities was pegged at 4.2 million.“The dry run was successful. It shows that Delhi is ready for vaccination. We have planned for 1,000 vaccine centres. While we will start with 500 of them, the numbers will be scaled up to 1,000 in phases. Now that the approval has been given, we hope that the vaccine will be available in a week’s time,” said Jain.Each centre is supposed to administer 100 vaccine shots a day under the current plan.After the dry-run on Saturday, Jain had said that not only health care and front line workers — as announced by the Central government — but all residents of the city, who are eligible, will get the Covid-19 vaccines for free.Jain’s announcement was slightly different from the one made by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who said the Covid shots will be free for the most prioritised beneficiaries —one crore health care and two crore front line workers in the first phase.Both Jain and Vardhan inspected Saturday’s dry-run at separate centres in Delhi. Three locations were chosen for the exercise – a private hospital, a government hospital and a government clinic.Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, who also leads a committee helping the Delhi government with the preparations for Covid-19 vaccination, said: “Delhi is ready for vaccination drive. The dry run has taught us that we have to concentrate our efforts on three specific areas – managing crowd at the vaccine centres, verification of those registered for the vaccine and monitoring patients for 30 minutes after the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-prepared-to-start-vaccinations-says-health-minister-jain/story-eQUTVNjxl1ogYzprznXPhN.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||AAP accuses BJP of graft in waste segregation||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday again accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) of corruption and irregularities worth “crores” in the process of waste segregation involved in work related to road construction.The BJP, however, was quick to dismiss the allegations as “baseless”.“The BJP-led MCDs has indulged in corruption in the waste segregation process. They pay Rs 1,450 in excess for every tonne to private contractors for segregation of waste concerning work related to road construction. When tenders were floated, the work was evaluated at Rs 1,800 per tonne. However, the MCDs are paying the private contractors Rs 3,250 per tonne. They did not follow any due process in arriving at this figure. It has been flagged in an audit report,” said the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.He added, “The scam is worth crores. The matter should be thoroughly investigated. The BJP leaders clearly have a role in this corruption. Action must be taken against them. If they claim that they are yet to see the audit report, I shall send it to them.”The BJP’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Mr Pathak has a habit of flaunting the possession of irrelevant papers. His allegations, as usual, are baseless. Waste segregation with regard to road construction works were taken over by government companies long ago. In the last many years, none of the MCDs have made any payment for segregation of waste related to road construction works.”Earlier, the AAP had accused the MCDs of Rs 2500 crore scam. The Delhi government has also ordered an inquiry into the allegations. The Delhi BJP has denied the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-accuses-bjp-of-graft-in-waste-segregation/story-oTbjPzSrwKTlhle1ewSkvO.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||65 nabbed from Rohini for serving, consuming hookah||At least 65 people —including customers, owners and staff — of a cafe and a restaurant in outer Delhi’s Rohini were arrested between Friday and Saturday after the Delhi Police launched a crack down on two premises for allegedly serving hookah, illegally. PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) said that while one of the premises was a cafe in Prashant Vihar, the other was a restaurant. “Both the premises did not have licence to serve hookah and the gathering was in violation of Covid-19 guidelines,” said Mishra. The officer said that the first raid was at the cafe on the night of New Year. A total of 27 people — 22 customers, four employees and the owner —were arrested from there for either consuming or serving hookah. The second raid happened at a restaurant in Rohini Sector 8 on Saturday and 38 people were arrested. These included 29 adult and three minors. Six staff members and the owner of the restaurant were also among those arrested. The DCP said that this premise also didn’t have a licence for serving hookah and Covid-19 guidelines were being violated. The police have booked the arrested people for disobeying an order passed by a public servant and under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-nabbed-from-rohini-for-serving-consuming-hookah/story-ey5HiZ5BWenGq231h5JnVI.html
04-01-2021||Delhi||North MCD demolishes temple in Chandni Chowk||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation demolished a temple in Chandni Chowk early on Sunday morning on the directions of the Delhi high court, sparking a political blame game between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Aam Aadmi Party. The temple, located on the road which is being redesigned only for pedestrians only as part of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment plan, was declared “illegal” by the high court and the order for its removal was passed in 2015. While the BJP, which rules the north MCD, blamed the AAP for not making attempts to save the temple; the AAP said the demolition has exposed the real face of the BJP. The AAP on Sunday also held a protest against the BJP. A senior north corporation official, who wished not to be named, said, “The temple was demolished to avoid contempt of court. We just followed the court order.”A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the matter.Work on the the long-delayed Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, which visualises a decongested and pedestrianised heritage market along the 1.5-km road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid, had begun in 2018. A special body, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), had been set up to execute the project. A senior north corporation official said the planners had noted several encroachments on the road, including the temple. In 2015, while taking stock of the progress of the redevelopment plan, the high court had directed the North MCD and the Delhi government to remove all encroaching structures, including the temple. The Delhi government’s religious committee had recommended to the architects to include the temple in the redevelopment plan. The government, in November 2019, petitioned the high court to modify its directions regarding the removal of religious structures. However, the court, overruling the stand of the religious committee of the Delhi government, ordered the removal the unauthorised temple. The order was challenged by the Delhi government in Supreme Court, which disposed it of after the government said it would move “a suitable application before the high court for further directions, as may be warranted”.In November 2020, the high court refused to entertain a plea by the Shri Manokamna Siddh Shri Hanuman Seva Samiti, saying that any request to intervene must come from the AAP government itself.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash alleged that the demolition was carried out “under pressure” from Delhi government “We have written several times to the SRDC not to tamper with the religious places in Chandni Chowk and include them in the redevelopment work and beautify them. Through a letter on August 8, 2019, the Delhi government directed the corporation to remove the encroachment in shape of temple in Chandni Chowk. From 2019, till now we have taken careful decision in this regard and did not demolish the temple but a hearing in this connection was scheduled on January 12 and the officials had to submit a report to the court so they took the action on court directions,” he said.AAP’s Durgesh Pathak, however, said in an affidavit before the high court, the north MCD had expressed its willingness to abandon the temple. Pathak said, “The BJP-ruled MCD, in its affidavit, had clearly expressed its willingness to abandon the Hanuman temple and last night it completed whatever it had stated. Now, the BJP is telling a lie before the media. If it is not true, why is the BJP silent even though such a huge incident has taken place? Why has there been no protest by any BJP leader on this incident so far?”AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said that it is a matter of great regret that the north civic body has demolished the Hanuman temple in the Chandni Chowk.“Lord Rama will never forgive the BJP people. The BJP-ruled MCD sought the protection of the police in the darkness of night and demolished the Hanuman temple when it was raining late at night and people were sleeping in their homes. The BJP should respond to the people of the country, what was the hurry to demolish Hanuman temple? The misdeeds of the BJP will not hide in the darkness of the night,” Bharadwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-demolishes-temple-in-chandni-chowk/story-GMAd01udDTXsLL0nGLrUYJ.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Metro trial run from PCMC to Phugewadi successful||Pune Metro successfully conducted a six kilometre trial run between Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to Phugewadi. It is a priority stretch of Pune Metro and services are expected to start commercial operation on this stretch soon. Last year, Pune Metro completed a successful trial run on the same route in one kilometre stretch from PCMC to Sant Tukaramnagar station. According to Pune Metro officials, Covid-19 had disrupted the work for six to seven months. Nevertheless, this important stage was passed by the Metro on Sunday. Pune Metro completed 45 per cent of work. Metro has sped up the work in PCMC to Swargate reach-1 and Swargate to Ramwadi reach-2 via duct, station and underground routes work is in progress in these two reaches. On Sunday, the metro departed from PCMC station at 1.30 pm and it reached Phugewadi station at 2.00 pm. DD Mishra, executive director, Ravi Kumar, chief project engineer and metro officials Sandeep Sakale, Shriram Manjhi, Raja Raman and Ravi Tata were present. Chetan Phadke operated the train. The test was successfully completed by observing the safety of the railway track. This is an important step of the Pune Metro to complete work within the deadline. For the trial run, the Metro used three coaches. Dr Brijesh Dixit, managing director Mahametro said, “It is the success of hard work. Due to support of all Punekars, it has happened.” Hemant Sonwane, general manager of Pune Metro said, “This is the first time we have conducted a trial run of Metro train on a 6-kilometre stretch. Earlier, it was only one kilometre trial run from PCMC to Sant Tukaramnagar. PCMC to Phugewadi is our priority stretch which we want to start on a commercial basis as soon as possible.” Pune Metro has applied to Pune Metro Research Design Standardization (RDSO) commissioner of metro railway safety and railway board to seek permission. This test is one of the crucial parts to get permission from the agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/6-km-metro-trial-run-from-pcmc-to-phugewadi-successful/story-mkmakOK8I11chowhy3McKI.html
04-01-2021||Kolkata||Eyes on Bengal polls, Owaisi seeks help from anti-TMC leader Abbas Siddiqui||Making his first significant move to emerge as a threat to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the assembly polls due in West Bengal a few months, Asaduddin Owaisi, leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Sunday met a popular young Muslim leader, who, in recent months, has emerged as the most vocal critic of the ruling party. On a tour of the state for a day, Owaisi drove down to Hooghly district in the morning to meet Abbasuddin Siddiqui, the young scion of the Siddiqui family which is the custodian of the famous Furfura Sharif shrine, one of the most popular places of pilgrimage in Bengal. After a two-hour meeting, Owaisi said Siddiqui will decide how the AIMIM will contest the polls while he will stay behind the young leader. Though Siddiqui kept his cards close to his chest, saying he will announce his next move later, the news of the meeting triggered reaction among Muslim leaders and TMC ministers. They alleged that Owaisi’s sole intention is to split Muslim votes and help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which has set the target of winning more than 200 of the state’s 294 assembly seats. Also read: Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talksAbbas Siddiqui, in recent months, has accused the TMC of not doing enough for the minority community and using it as a vote bank instead. Significantly, other members of the Siddiqui family, especially Toha Siddiqui, the most prominent among the elders and whose support helped the CPI(M) and TMC in the past, maintained silence on Owaisi’s visit. But Toha Siddiqui made it clear that he will not support any move that will help the BJP. “Hindus comprise 70 per cent of the state’s population. If they wanted to, the BJP could have come to power long ago. We will not do anything to let our Hindu brothers down,” he said. Furfura Sharif is built around the mausoleum of Pir Abu Bakr Siddiqui. It also has a mosque built in 1375. Furfura Sharif draws millions from across the country during the Urs festival and the annual fair dedicated to the Pir. “The AIMIM will stand behind Abbas Siddiqui. We will work with him and strengthen his cause. I have decided to leave all decisions to Siddiqui. I am confident that our performance will be comparable to what we achieved in Bihar. Only the minority vote is not our target. We want to fight for tribal people and other backward classes as well. If anyone can stop the BJP, it is Siddiqui,” Owaisi told the media after the meeting. Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01 per cent during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30 per cent now. The Muslim population is concentrated mainly in Murshidabad (66.28 per cent), Malda (51.27 per cent), North Dinajpur (49.92 per cent), South 24 Parganas (35.57 per cent), and Birbhum (37.06 per cent) districts. In Darjeeling, Purulia, and Bankura, where the BJP won Lok Sabha seats last year, Muslims account for less than 10 per cent of the population. Most of the new branches of the AIMIM are located in Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur, while Siddiqui’s followers are spread across southern Bengal. Swing in Muslim votes can influence poll results in more than 100 seats, according to surveys by the BJP and election strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-Pac. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee roped in Kishore for the 2021 poll preparations after the BJP won 18 out of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Also read: ‘Tourist politician’ - Uttarakhand minister’s dig at Manish SisodiaSiddiqullah Chowdhury, a minister in the TMC government and leader of the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, the most prominent Muslim organisation in Bengal, told HT that Owaisi has no place in the state’s politics. “AIMIM does not belong to Bengal. These are tactics to create divisions among Muslims but it will not work. Moreover, where was Abbas Siddiqui when thousands of Muslims were killed in political skirmishes during the Left rule? I am sure the other members of the Siddiqui family will not support Abbas,” said Chowdhury. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim said, “Neither Siddiqui nor AIMIM can rule Bengal. They can only help the BJP. We saw it happen in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.” Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a rally, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “Owaisi can go to any party or contest polls anywhere. The BJP is not concerned. The TMC is worried because it treats the Muslim vote bank as its property. If the TMC really worked for the welfare of Muslims why should it be worried?” Owaisi reiterated that he or his party have nothing to do with the BJP. “AIMIM did not contest the Lok Sabha polls and yet the BJP won 18 seats. How did that happen? Mamata Banerjee cannot even manage her own party. Her MLAs and MPs are joining the BJP every day. Our aim is to stop the BJP,” said Owaisi. In the Muslim-dominated Murshidabad district, Manoj Chakraborty, the three-time Congress legislator from Berhampore said, “Owaisi is an agent of the BJP. His only job is to split Muslim votes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/eyes-on-bengal-polls-owaisi-seeks-help-from-anti-tmc-leader-abbas-siddiqui/story-gI03fwrvtwQtsVQCX7pKGL.html
04-01-2021||Pune||Pune civic body admits gaps in Swargate-Katraj BRTS||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has admitted that India’s first pilot Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) corridor between Katraj-Swargate had several lacunae as a result of which civic body had to revamp it.The report prepared by PMC road department following instructions from standing committee stated that pilot BRTS project was 6.2 kilometre in 2006-07 and it was designed in the middle of road and the bus stops were designed at the one side of the BRTS. It started functioning in 2008 though it faced multiple hurdles, often forcing the civic body to suspend PMPML service here.The eight-page report, a copy of which is with HT, was submitted on Tuesday and lists out various repair work carried out on the stretch.According to the new design, the position of BRTS bus stops changed and it was placed in the middle of the road. There are ten bus stops in the stretch from Swargate to Katraj. Earlier, there was a lane for private vehicles along with service lane near Katraj. Now, it has been completely revamped and there is the addition of another lane in the mixed traffic lane. Footpath and cycle track has been shifted to the corner of the road. Earlier, it was adjacent to the BRTS route, according to the report.Hemant Rasne, chief, standing committee chief said, “Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol had given instructions to restart a BRTS from January 1. However, due to some reason, it has not been restarted. On the other hand, the road department has tabled a report to the standing committee which we will discuss soon.”After Mohol announced about starting of bus rapid transit corridor (BRTS) corridor from Katraj and Swargate on Satara road from January 1, Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) submitted a letter to PMC to put in place basic passenger safety facilities before reopening the route. The letter stated if these things are completed then only the bus service will be started on this route.Amar Shinde, executive engineer, road department, who is handling BRTS work, said, “We have completed all necessary work to start BRTS on Swargate-Katraj route. We have also written letters and conducted meetings with PMPML officials about starting the route.”Satish Gavane, traffic superintendent, PMPML, said, “It will take some time to make the route operational as the corporation has not fit automatic doors to BRTS bus stops, but, it will start soon.”Aba Bagul, Congress leader, said, “Mere visit and announcement of restarting BRTS is not enough. The work of Swargate-Katraj BRTS has not been completed. It is too early to reopen the stretch for public transport buses.”Qaneez Sukhrani, secretary, Nagrik Chetan Manch, said, “PMC has not executed a BRTS, but a mixed transport system and pulled funds on the wrong pretext. Now, it will have to further waste expenditure on BRTS which is a risk to the public as it is a failure in the city since it is not compliant with BRTS global concepts and features.”The report further states that in the pilot project, there was no provision of the stormwater drain, drainage lines, electrical cables and utility services. Over the period, the corporation laid down the stormwater drain, drainage and electrical cables, street lights along with new water pipelines. The corporation has spent Rs 6.5 crore for utility services.In the pilot project, the corporation had spent Rs 127.48 crore in 2006-2007. After that, PMC spent Rs 85 crore for revamping the entire stretch with changing cycle track, footpath, winding mix lane, and placing the bus stop at the middle of BRTS lane.Reason for delayed of workRestructuring of water pipelines, drainage lines, electrical cables, street lights, removal of encroachment of Dhankawadi-Balajinagar structure for footpath and cycle track has delayed the process of revamping Swargate-Katraj road and BRTS stretch.According to the report, flyovers, underpasses and right-hand door buses of BRTS have created obstacles to complete work within deadline.Deadlines missedMay 31, 2018; August 1, 2018;December 2018; March 2019; May 2020; January 1, 2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-admits-lacunae-in-swargate-katraj-brts/story-ouGAWLpUjco0JSQ748wXZJ.html
04-01-2021||Pune||50mn doses ready as DCGI approves Serum’s Covishield||Pune-based Serum India Institute’s (SII) gamble to start producing vaccine shots at its Manjri-based facility eight months before when the efficacy of Covishield vaccine was not established,has finally paid off as they got the approval from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday. Minutes after DCGI issued a statement, approving Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use, SII said it is ready to roll out the vaccines in India. Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of SII, tweeted, “Happy new year, everyone! All the risks Serum institute took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. Covishield, India’s first Covid-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks.” Director DCGI VG Somani said on Sunday, “The subject expert committee of central DCGI met on January 1 and 2 and made recommendations based on the proposal for approval of restricted use in emergency situations of Serum institute’s Covishield vaccine. It has approved the use with adequate safety and restricted used in emergency situation. The committee included experts from various medical fields.” As of date, the institute has over 50 million doses ready and the vaccine manufacturer has set a target of producing 500 million doses by July 2021. In his earlier interaction with media, Poonawalla had stated that most proportion of the vaccine would be set aside for the Indian market, as per the institute’s deal with Melinda Gates foundation, which has also invested in the project, the vaccine would also be supplied to the Covax countries, including African nations. Umesh Shaligram, director of research and development at SII, at a webinar on Thursday however claimed that the vaccine producer has stockpile of 75 million doses. It was in early May when Pune-headquartered SII received an original vaccine seed from the UK and started production of Covishield, the Oxford-developed vaccine which was yet to get even preliminary approvals by Indian and UK authorities. To produce vaccine at a mass level considering the urgency of its requirement, SII expanded its capacity at its Manjri plant in Pune. According to SII, the manufacturer has assembly lines to crank out 500 doses per minute. This even as India was yet to face the first severe wave of Covid-19. This huge risk has now reaped huge benefits for the institute as DCGI approved the vaccine on Sunday. The emergency use authorisation will now allow the vaccine to be administered on a mass scale. When the institute had begun the mass production with its own investment and had called it a huge risk as the vaccine candidate was yet to get any approval even from the government in the UK where the vaccine was being produced, Poonawalla said, “it’s a gamble, he is willing to play” . The institute had invested about a $100 million in this project.Over the eight months, the vaccine production went on smoothly even as it met with a controversy when a volunteer from Chennai alleged that he faced neurological damage due to the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/50-million-doses-ready-as-dcgi-approves-serum-institute-s-covishield/story-WqBYY1VOKEwMUrvbDhdOEI.html
04-01-2021||Mumbai||‘Wall of Humanity’ set up to help needy in Kalyan||In an initiative to provide clothes and essentials to the needy, a wall in Kalyan’s civic garden, Rani Lakshmi Bai Park at Karnik Road, Kalyan, has been transformed into a Wall of Humanity where residents can simply donate wearable cloths, toys or any other items that the needy can pick them conveniently and take away.This idea of the Wall of Humanity was supported by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) when Sachin Raut, 28, founder of the NGO Helping Hands approached the civic commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi to help provide a wall in KDMC vicinity.Raut said, “I saw a similar wall at Karjat that served as an inspiration for a similar wall in my own city. I approached the civic commissioner who immediately gave a go ahead. The wall was inaugurated on January 1.”Around 12 racks have been fitted to the wall where one can leave the clothes or toys or any other items that they want to donate. Since the last two days, around 25 individuals including children have visited the wall and taken away donated clothes.“People have donated toys that I will be putting in a dedicated drum so that children can pick them easily and take away. Our members keep checking the wall and look after its maintenance so that it is not misused. Along with the security guard of the garden, we ensure that the donated items are not taken by thieves or miscreants,” added Raut.The NGO that works for the betterment of underprivileged by providing education, donating clothes and cycles for tribal children since the last three years have 40 members.The racks fitted to the wall are made of waste furniture items. In future, the NGO also has plans to take up more such walls in the city.“We have also checked two other walls in Wayale Nagar and Yogidham to provide the same facility. I am sure a lot of people will be benefited by this,” added Raut.The NGO has approached the nearby shops and residents to donate. In the coming days, they will also keep a suggestion box at the wall so that people can suggest changes or other requirements to make this initiative better.Milind Gaikwad, deputy engineer, waste management department, KDMC, said, “We liked the idea when the civic commissioner asked us to implement it. It actually motivated us to come together for each other’s help, especially when we all are fighting a pandemic. We will come up with more such walls in the future. The NGO has agreed to maintain the wall and also reach out to people. We are also trying to spread awareness among more people.”People can donate at:Rani Laxmi Bai Udyan, Karnik Road, Syndicate, Kalyan (W)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wall-of-humanity-set-up-to-help-needy-in-kalyan/story-y7WWcaabbUk0xSZMtxEpHJ.html
04-01-2021||World||Zalmay Khalilzad departs for Afghanistan, Pakistan, Qatar, Turkmenistan||US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad departed for travel to South and Central Asia and the Middle East on Monday.According to an official statement issued by the US State Department, Khalilzad will be meeting with the two Afghan teams in Doha, encourage them, and offer US support to accelerate the peace process -- an immediate, significant reduction in violence and ceasefire and an agreement on a political roadmap and power-sharing as soon as possible.In the region, Ambassador Khalilzad will encourage Afghanistan’s neighbours to support an end to the violence and a political settlement as soon as possible, the Department said.It further said that in Kabul, Ambassador Khalilzad will meet with Afghan leaders and convey US support for the Afghan people and security forces.During this trip, Ambassador Khalilzad will continue to encourage projects and plans for expanded regional connectivity, trade, and development which will be aided by an Afghan peace agreement and will help sustain peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/zalmay-khalilzad-departs-for-afghanistan-pakistan-qatar-turkmenistan/story-EQp8nHWshXs65GbvkHsQqL.html
04-01-2021||World||Mexican president offers asylum to Julian Assange||Mexico’s government is ready to offer political asylum to Julian Assange and supports the decision of a British judge to deny extradition of the WikiLeaks founder to the United States, President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said on Monday.“I’m going to ask the Foreign Minister ... to ask the government of the United Kingdom about the possibility of letting Mr. Assange be freed and for Mexico to offer political asylum,” Lopez Obrador told a regular news conference.“Assange is a journalist and deserves a chance, I am in favor of pardoning him,” he said. “We’ll give him protection.”The extradition request from the United States, where Assange could face charges including breaking a spying law, was denied on the basis that Assange’s mental health problems put him at risk of suicide, a British court ruled.Lopez Obrador, who called the decision a “triumph of justice”, a year ago urged Britain to release Assange, calling his detention “torture” and saying WikiLeaks documents had showed the world’s “authoritarian” workings.Assange, 49, has spent most of the last decade either in prison or self-imposed confinement, following his release of thousands of secret classified files and diplomatic cables that caused embarrassment to many governments around the world.Lopez Obrador, a leftist who took office in December 2018, has long railed against ruling elites and rhetorically has sought to break with establishment politics and economics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexican-president-offers-asylum-to-julian-assange/story-ovG9jOaG1ZW8i1aPpUQERI.html
04-01-2021||World||CIA’s new recruitment website aims to diversify spy agency||Striving to further diversify its ranks, the CIA launched a new website Monday to find top-tier candidates who will bring a broader range of life experiences to the nation’s premier intelligence agency.The days of all American spies being white male graduates from Ivy League schools are long gone. The CIA director is a woman and women head all five of the agency’s branches, including the directorates of science and technology, operations and digital innovation.But while the CIA has been diversifying for years, intelligence agencies still lag the federal workforce in minority representation. With thousands of job applicants annually, the CIA wants to do more to ensure its workforce reflects national demographics.The revamped website has links for browsing CIA jobs complete with starting salaries and requirements, sections on working at the agency, and a streamlined application process.“We’ve come a long way since I applied by simply mailing a letter marked ‘CIA, Washington, D.C.,’” said CIA Director Gina Haspel, who joined the agency in 1985. She said in a statement that she hopes the new website piques the interest of talented Americans and gives them a sense of the “dynamic environment that awaits them here.”Haspel has made recruitment a priority since she became the first female director in May 2018. Since then, the CIA has started advertising on streaming services, launched an Instagram account and an online “onion site,” a feature that makes both the information provider and the person accessing information more difficult to trace.Last year, the CIA designated its first executive for Hispanic engagement, Ilka Rodriguez-Diaz, a veteran of more than three decades with the agency. She first joined after attending a CIA job fair in New Jersey.“The CIA had never been on my radar,” she wrote in an op-ed in The Miami Herald after getting the job in October. “I didn’t think I fit the ‘profile.’ After all, the spies I saw on TV were male Anglo-Saxon Ivy leaguers, not Latinas from New Jersey. Still, I went to my expert life coach, my mother, for advice. She said, ‘No pierdes nada con ir.’ (What have you got to lose in going?) So, I went to the job fair. The rest, as they say, is history.”Across the more than a dozen U.S. spy agencies, including the CIA, 61% of intelligence professionals in fiscal 2019 were men compared with 39% women, according to an annual demographics report compiled by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.In fiscal 2019, the intelligence community saw an incremental increase in the number of minority professionals — 26.5%, up from 26.2%. But that’s still lower than 37 percent in the federal workforce as a whole and 37.4 percent in the civilian labor force, the report said.The largest minority or ethnic group at all the intelligence agencies, including the CIA, was Black or African American at 12% followed by Hispanic at 7% and Asian at 4%. Persons with disabilities represent 11.5% of the workforce at all the U.S. intelligence agencies — up a point from the year before.“Even with all the challenges 2020 posed, it was a standout recruitment year for CIA. Our incoming class is the third largest in a decade and represents the most diverse talent pool, including persons with disabilities, since 2010,” said CIA spokesperson Nicole de Haay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-s-new-recruitment-website-aims-to-diversify-spy-agency/story-cBsQkpuPS5KHk7l6q45mtK.html
04-01-2021||World||‘Truth matters,’ says Georgia official resisting Donald Trump pressure||Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, says he was just following the law when he rejected claims by Donald Trump, his fellow Republican, that the president’s election defeat was the result of widespread fraud.Trump returned the 65-year-old former businessman to the limelight when he called Raffensperger on Saturday to badger him to “find” enough votes to reverse Democratic President-elect Joe Biden’s victory in the state, according to audio of the call published by the Washington Post on Sunday.As Georgia’s top election official, Raffensperger oversaw multiple recounts of the Nov. 3 ballots, each of which reached the same result - that the southern state had narrowly favored a Democratic presidential candidate for the first time in a generation.In the face of Trump’s unsubstantiated claims, Raffensperger echoed the findings of his counterparts across the United States that there was no evidence of widespread election fraud.Interviewed on ABC’s “Good Morning America” on Monday, Raffensperger said the White House had pushed him against his better judgment to take Trump’s call.“Did you consider it a lawful request when the president asked you to find the votes?” Raffensperger was asked.“I’m not a lawyer. All I know is that we’re gonna follow the law, follow the process. Truth matters, and we’ve been fighting these rumors for the last two months,” he replied.Having for weeks pushed back against Trump’s unfounded claims of fraud, he told Trump on the call on Saturday that the vote showed Biden was the rightful winner.“Well Mr. President, the challenge that you have is the data you have is wrong,” Raffensperger could be heard telling Trump on the recording of Saturday’s call.The White House declined to comment.Raffensperger and his colleagues for weeks had warned that Trump’s rhetoric placed them in danger.“Stop inspiring people to commit potential acts of violence. Someone’s going to get hurt, someone’s going to get shot, someone’s going to get killed,” Gabriel Sterling, the manager of the state’s voting systems, said at an emotional Dec. 1 news conference.Noting Raffensperger’s wife had been getting sexualized threats, he added, “It has all gone too far. It has to stop.”It was unclear if the state had taken security measures around Raffensperger after the threats emerged. REPUTATION AS ‘STRAIGHT SHOOTER’After years as a civil engineer and successful businessman, Raffensperger served two years on a city council and four years in Georgia’s House of Representatives before succeeding Kemp in 2018 as the top election official.Acquaintances of Raffensperger in the state House described him as a “straight shooter” who backed traditional Republican priorities, supporting a bill to cut regulations on small businesses, for example, and voting against a tax on gasoline, according to a profile in the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.A lifelong Republican, Raffensperger was an early supporter of Trump in 2016, and the president returned the favor by endorsing him for secretary of state. But whatever goodwill existed between the two men has since disappeared.“Brad Raffensperger: he’s not some liberal. Like he’s no hero of mine,” Hillary Rosen, a Democratic strategist, said on CNN. “He is a solid conservative Republican standing up to the president. That’s what makes it so significant.”Trump’s relentless attacks since the Nov. 3 election included an accusation that Raffensperger hid tens of thousands of illegal votes, ensuring Biden’s victory. Georgia’s Republican incumbent senators - David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler - have called on Raffensperger to resign.Perdue and Loeffler themselves are locked in tight campaigns ahead of Tuesday run-off elections that will determine which party controls the US Senate.Raffensperger has come under fire from the party establishment across the state for not bending to Trump’s will.Ronald Ham, the Republican party’s head in rural Brantley County, said Raffensperger should take Trump’s allegations about voter fraud more seriously. He said there were discussions among some party leaders about recalling him. “I’ve been a little too critical of Brad, but where there is so much smoke I would want to verify,” Ham said. “He’s a good guy, but he won’t survive re-election if he gets that far.”Raffensperger told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution in late November that he and his wife of 44 years had leaned on their faith to cope with the pressure. “We’re straightforward people, simple people,” Raffensperger said. “We’re quiet people in an unquiet role.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/truth-matters-says-georgia-official-resisting-donald-trump-pressure/story-YUqWTn6gMrtqyLkQT5ey1I.html
04-01-2021||World||US screened 500 million fewer airport passengers in 2020||A US agency screened 500 million fewer people at US airport checkpoints in 2020, down 61% over 2019, amid a sharp slowdown in air traffic demand because of the coronavirus pandemic.The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) said Monday it screened 324 million passengers throughout its airport security checkpoints in 2020, down from 824 million passengers screened in 2019. In recent weeks, travel has rebounded slightly. On Sunday, TSA screened 1.327 million people at airport checkpoints, the highest number screened since mid-March, but still down 45% over the same day in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-screened-500-million-fewer-airport-passengers-in-2020/story-J6vRWAjyLi0WGygyCGJFHI.html
04-01-2021||World||US ‘extremely disappointed’ in Julian Assange extradition ruling||The US Justice Department said Monday that it was “extremely disappointed” in a British judge’s decision not to extradite WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to the United States to face trial for publishing US secrets.“While we are extremely disappointed in the court’s ultimate decision, we are gratified that the United States prevailed on every point of law raised,” the department said.It pointed to the judge’s rejection of Assange’s claims that he had been exercising free speech rights when he dumped thousands of leaked classified US military and diplomatic files onto the internet in 2010, and that the US was pursuing a political vendetta because of it.Instead, the judge ruled that Assange’s mental health is fragile and that he would be at significant risk of suicide in an American prison. The judge said it was not evident that the United States, keeping him jailed while awaiting trial, would be able to ensure his safety in prisons known for “harsh conditions.”Assange was indicted for violating the US espionage act in leaking the US files, and for hacking, based on the alleged assistance he provided former military intelligence officer Chelsea Manning in obtaining the documents from secure military computer systems.But the US case raised free speech issues, with Assange and defenders maintaining that WikiLeaks enjoys the rights of any other media to publish secret materials.If found guilty on the US charges, he could face spending the rest of his life in prison.But Assange had sought a pardon from President Donald Trump, whose 2016 election campaign benefited from WikiLeaks’ release of materials that damaged Trump’s opponent, Hillary Clinton.The Justice Department said it will appeal the decision and continue to seek Assange’s extradition, while Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said his county would offer him asylum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-extremely-disappointed-in-julian-assange-extradition-ruling/story-Y0a2N8upuAZVIk5Y5RR5sN.html
04-01-2021||World||Vietnam buys Indian rice for first time in decades: Industry officials||Vietnam, the world’s third biggest exporter of rice, has started buying the grain from rival India for the first time in decades after local prices jumped to their highest in nine years amid limited domestic supplies, four industry officials told Reuters.The purchases highlight tightening supplies in Asia, which could lift rice prices in 2021 and even force traditional buyers of rice from Thailand and Vietnam to switch to India - the world’s biggest exporter of the grain.Indian traders have been contracted to export 70,000 tonnes of 100% broken rice for January and February shipments at around $310 per tonne on a free-on-board (FOB) basis, the industry officials say.“For the first time we are exporting to Vietnam,” B.V. Krishna Rao, president of the Rice Exporters Association, told Reuters on Monday. “Indian prices are very attractive. The huge price difference is making exports possible.”Dwindling supplies and continued Philippine buying have lifted Vietnamese rice export prices to a fresh nine-year high. Vietnam’s 5% broken rice is offered around $500-$505 per tonne, significantly higher compared to Indian prices of $381-$387.The shrinking supplies will heighten concerns about food insecurity with sub-Saharan Africa among the areas where import demand has been increasing due partly to population growth.Chronic and acute hunger is on the rise, impacting vulnerable households in almost every country, with the Covid-19 pandemic reducing incomes and disrupting supply chains, according to the World Bank.StockpilingTraders said the global pandemic has also prompted Vietnam and other countries to stockpile rice.Vietnam announced last year it would stockpile 270,000 tonnes of rice to ensure food availability amid coronavirus-driven supply chain disruptions worldwide.Traders in Vietnam said the rice from India had been stockpiled in government reserves since 2016/17 and its relatively cheap price reflected low quality.“The rice quality is so poor that it is not good for direct consumption for humans, but only for producing animal feeds and beer,” said a rice trader based in Ho Chi Minh City.Vietnam’s total paddy output in 2020 fell 1.85% to 42.69 million tonnes, equivalent to around 21.35 million tonnes of rice, preliminary data from the government’s General Statistics Office showed.The country’s rice exports in 2020 were forecast to have fallen by 3.5% to 6.15 million tonnes.Robust demand from Asian and African countries has also been lifting Indian prices but they are still very competitive due to ample stocks, said Nitin Gupta, vice president of Olam India’s rice business.Vietnam could make more purchases as long as the price difference remains, Gupta said.In December, the world’s biggest rice importer China started buying Indian rice for the first time in at least three decades due to tightening supplies from Thailand, Myanmar and Vietnam and an offer of sharply discounted prices.In 2020 India exported a record 14 million tonnes of rice, provisional data from the trade ministry showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-buys-indian-rice-for-first-time-in-decades-industry-officials/story-fHUTYpSqePBEDSAjoCSq0N.html
04-01-2021||World||Lockdown looms as Boris Johnson to address UK on Covid-19 crisis||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will announce new coronavirus restrictions tonight with a third national lockdown for England looking almost inevitable.Parliament will be recalled from recess on Wednesday to debate the latest changes after a surge in cases forced the premier into action. He will speak on television at 8 p.m. on Monday. In Scotland, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon appeared to anticipate the move and said she’ll implement a lockdown from midnight.A faster-spreading mutation of the virus threatens to overwhelm hospitals and has thrown the premier’s plan to get English children back into classrooms into disarray. He had hoped Monday’s focus would be on celebrating the delivery of the first shots of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc.“The spread of the new variant of COVID-19 has led to rapidly escalating case numbers across the country,” Johnson’s office said in a statement on Monday afternoon. “The prime minister is clear that further steps must now be taken to arrest this rise and to protect the NHS and save lives.”Johnson’s government is back in crisis mode, with new virus cases exceeding 50,000 a day and hospital admissions soaring past the peak of the first wave in April. Johnson, who ended the year on a high by securing a last-minute trade deal with the European Union, on Monday warned a “surging epidemic” means stricter rules are coming.ITV reported the government plans to put the whole of England into Tier 4, the highest level in its system of restrictions, meaning non-essential shops will have to close and further curbs will be placed on socializing. Tier 4 rules effectively mirror the second lockdown in November, and already govern about 75% of England’s population.“If you look at the numbers there’s no question we’re going to have to take tougher measures and we will be announcing those in due course,” Johnson said in a pooled TV interview earlier Monday. “We will do everything we can to keep the virus under control.”Sturgeon stole a march on Johnson by ordering people to remain at home and by keeping schools closed. The resurgent virus gave her no choice, she told Scots. “We are now in a race between the vaccine and the virus,” she said.Former Conservative Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt was among those calling for Johnson to impose an immediate national lockdown. Writing on Twitter, he said schools and borders should be closed and all household mixing banned.Hunt’s successor Matt Hancock warned Monday there would be “some very difficult weeks ahead.”It’s a far cry from the government’s optimism in early December, when the arrival of vaccines was dubbed the “scientific cavalry” to the rescue. The picture changed dramatically when the emergence of a faster spreading strain of Covid-19 led to the introduction of a stricter fourth tier of regional coronavirus rules that hammered retailers reliant on Christmas shoppers.School DilemmaIn the November shutdown, schools remained open, reflecting the government’s promise to keep in-person classes going. On Monday, Johnson gave mixed messages on schools, saying that while they are safe to open, “all measures” are “under review” because of the role they play in spreading the virus.“The issue is the extent to which the mingling of kids in schools by putting lots of households together cause the epidemic to spread even faster,” Johnson said. “We’ll have to look very hard at what we do with secondary schools later on in the month.”In the meantime, many schools have openly defied orders to open. Opposition Labour Party Leader Keir Starmer said the country should immediately return to a full lockdown, and unions on Monday called for employers to offer parents paid time off to cope with childcare if schools remain closed.Matt Ashton, director of public health in Liverpool, said “much stronger national controls” are needed now. “We cannot afford to wait any longer,” he said on Twitter.Government U-TurnsThroughout the pandemic, the government has been forced to backtrack on efforts to reopen the economy, especially as the resurgent virus pushes public health services to the brink. Most recently, Johnson was forced to curtail plans to relax social-distancing over Christmas.But tougher restrictions are likely to cause Johnson more trouble among Conservative Party MPs, many of whom oppose any action that would further damage the economy.Mark Harper, chairman of the Covid Recovery Group of Tory MPs who oppose curbs on people’s freedoms, said on Monday vaccination of the over 65s must mark “a clear threshold for when a substantial relaxation in restrictions can begin.”“The government must urgently set out exactly how the vaccination roll-out will translate into a return to normal life for us all in 2021,” he said in a statement. He called on the government to set out “how and when it will lift restrictions and when our freedoms, economy and health prospects will be fully restored.”Much will now depend on how fast the National Health Service can administer vaccine doses. Johnson said there is a “massive ramping up operation” now going on to vaccinate the UK population, promising that “tens of millions” of doses will have been delivered by the end of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lockdown-looms-as-boris-johnson-to-address-uk-on-covid-19-crisis/story-cyOn4c01RUmONYr0j8CMXN.html
04-01-2021||World||Afghan rivals to resume talks as civilian killings sow suspicion||Afghan government representatives and Taliban officials are due to resume peace talks in Qatar after a three-week break, officials said on Monday, although battlefield clashes and targeted killings risk undermining efforts to end the war.The negotiations, due to get going again on Tuesday, are expected to cover contentious issues such as power-sharing and a ceasefire after the two sides reached an initial agreement on procedural rules in December. The talks began in Qatar in September months after the Taliban reached an agreement with the United States allowing it to pull its troops out of Afghanistan and end its longest war in exchange for Taliban security guarantees.The Taliban have refused to recognise the U.S.-backed government and that was an issue that would have to be tackled, said a member of the team representing the government.“An interim government is an undeniable topic of discussion, because we want a ceasefire and the Taliban aren’t ready to agree to one with the current government,” the delegate, Hafiz Mansoor, told Reuters in Kabul before setting off for Qatar.A Taliban spokesman did not respond to requests for comment.Under the terms of the agreement the United States struck with the Taliban, the formation of a “new post-settlement Afghan Islamic government” would be determined through negotiations between the two Afghan sides.President Ashraf Ghani’s government was elected in 2019 for a five-year term but the Taliban rejected the election.But relentless violence is over-shadowing the bid to find peace.Government officials have in recent weeks accused the Taliban of a string of high-profile murders, including of bureaucrats and journalists, and bomb attacks.The Taliban have rejected some of the accusations but at the same time, they have made gains against government forces in fighting in various parts of the country.The level of violence has prompted occasional intervention by Western forces.On Monday, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said U.S. forces had conducted air strikes against insurgents, terming it a violation of the agreement between the two sides.A spokesman for U.S. forces, Colonel Sonny Leggett, said the strikes were defensive and not a violation of the agreement, and he called for a reduction in violence.European officials have also urged both sides to reduce hostilities and move quickly towards a settlement.The United States has been scaling back its presence in Afghanistan nearly 20 years after it intervened with its allies to overthrow the Taliban in the weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on U.S. cities.Afghan security officials expect the size of the U.S. force to dwindle to about 2,500 troops early this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-rivals-to-resume-talks-as-civilian-killings-sow-suspicion/story-IJr7aQK1ZfqpUElovKp8rN.html
04-01-2021||World||Nigeria says war crimes probe hampers fight against insurgents||Nigeria’s government condemned the International Criminal Court (ICC) for recommending a full investigation into possible war crimes by the nation’s security forces.ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said last month a preliminary probe concluded that there is “a reasonable basis to believe” members of the Boko Haram militant group and security forces from the West African country committed war crimes and crimes against humanity. Judges at the Hague-based tribunal must approve her request in order for it to proceed.The ICC is acting like “another ‘fighting force’ against Nigeria, constantly harassing our security forces and threatening them with investigation and possible prosecution,” Information Minister Lai Mohammed said in a statement emailed January 4. Bensouda’s actions are an “unbridled attempt to demoralize our security men and women as they confront the onslaught from bandits and terrorists,” he said.Boko Haram insurgents have waged a violent campaign in northeastern Nigeria since 2009 to impose the group’s version of Islamic law on Africa’s biggest oil producer, leaving thousands of people dead and millions displaced. The ICC opened its preliminary investigation a decade ago.The probe found that, while the Islamist group and its splinter organizations are responsible for the “vast majority of criminality,” allegations against Nigerian security forces are “also sufficiently grave to warrant investigation,” according to a December 11 statement from Bensouda’s office.“Nigeria did not join the ICC so it can become a pawn on the court’s chessboard,” Mohammed said. “It beggars belief to see that a nation that is fighting an existential war against bandits and terrorists is constantly being held down by an international body which it willingly joined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nigeria-says-war-crimes-probe-hampers-fight-against-insurgents/story-DteRFkRx5Z3NXJVdcoliCL.html
04-01-2021||World||‘Big question mark’: UK scientist on Covid-19 vaccine efficacy against South African variant||As the United Kingdom on Monday rolled out the second vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a leading Oxford scientist said that there was a “big question mark” around the effectiveness of vaccines on the South African variant of SARS-CoV-2. The new Covid-19 strain, named 20C/501Y.V2, has caused a rapid surge in the coronavirus cases in South Africa and two cases of the variant were also discovered in the UK on December 23.Sir John Bell, an Oxford professor working with the UK government on its vaccine program, told Times Radio that there’s no data to suggest that South African variant is more deadly than the one originated in Britain, however, he was concerned about the mutations in the former. Bell said that a team of researchers are looking at how currently available vaccines could tackle the virus variants.“There’s still the research to be done, but if you want my gut feeling, I think the vaccine will be effective against the Kent strain and I don’t know about the South African strain. I think there’s a big question mark about that,” the professor said.Also Read | Africa left with few options for Covid-19 vaccines, says South AfricaThe South African variant was first identified in Nelson Mandela Bay in samples dating back to the beginning of October 2020, and the variant also was identified in Zambia in late December 2020. Bell opined it’s unlikely that the highly transmissible mutations will “turn off the effect of vaccines entirely.”“We’ve got a bit of headroom because the vaccines work, I think, much better than any of us thought they would work,” he said. “We do have some room to manoeuvre. If they worked 20% less well because of a mutation we’d still have good vaccines.”UK health secretary Matt Hancock has said that he is “incredibly worried about the South African variant” of the coronavirus, calling it “even more of a problem” than the new UK strain. According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there is no evidence to suggest that the South African variant has any impact on disease severity or vaccine efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/big-question-mark-uk-scientist-on-covid-19-vaccine-efficacy-against-south-african-variant/story-ZsukFMbtLIqVcChh5RXv9J.html
04-01-2021||World||UK begins Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccination as spike prompts new curbs||An 82-year-old dialysis patient was the first person to receive the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine on Monday, as Prime Minister Boris Johnson admitted that stricter measures will be needed to control continuing spikes in new daily cases.For the sixth consecutive day, the UK recorded over 50,000 new cases, prompting new calls for another lockdown by opposition Labour, and health authorities reconsidering the current four-tier alert system that is increasingly assessed as being unable to control the numbers.Health secretary Matt Hancock called the beginning of the Oxford vaccination programme a “pivotal moment”. There are currently over 500,000 doses of the vaccine available, with millions expected soon of the 100 million ordered by the Johnson government.Andrew Pollard, director of the Oxford Vaccine Group, was among the first to receive the vaccine in Churchill Hospital, Oxford. Brian Pinker, who has been having dialysis in the hospital, was the first to receive it, and said he was “really proud” of the vaccine developed in Oxford.Seeing “tough, tough” weeks ahead, Johnson said: “What we have been waiting for is to see the impact of the tier four measures on the virus and it is a bit unclear, still, at the moment. But if you look at the numbers, there is no question that we are going to have to take tougher measures and we will be announcing those in due course.”Most of England is currently in Tier 4 with the toughest restrictions, but new cases have continued to surge in various areas, including London and south-east England. Hancock admitted that the “old tier system” was “no longer strong enough” to contain the virus. There are also concerns over the new variant detected in South Africa. Hancock said he was “incredibly worried” about it, adding that “this is a very, very significant problem…We have shown that we are prepared to move incredibly quickly, within 24 hours if we think that is necessary, and we keep these things under review all the time”.John Bell, professor of medicine at Oxford, the university, said the effectiveness of the Oxford vaccine against the South African variant is currently being studied, adding that it was “unlikely” that the variant would “turn off the effect of vaccines entirely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-begins-oxford-astrazeneca-vaccination-as-spike-prompts-new-curbs/story-VOKF3mn3x8Z9nd8freCl8I.html
04-01-2021||World||Australia’s influence in Pacific Islands grows as China’s wanes||Australia is moving to boost ties with small island nations off its eastern coastline, pushing back against China’s growing influence in the Pacific Ocean as the virus outbreak hinders travel.Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s government has promised to supply its neighbours with Covid-19 vaccines in 2021 as part of a A$500 million package aimed at achieving “full immunization coverage” in the region. It also recently signed a “landmark” deal with Fiji, one of the region’s most populous nations, to allow military deployments and exercises in each other’s jurisdiction.“China has largely been missing in action in regards to providing Covid-related support in the region,” said Jonathan Pryke, who heads research on the region for Sydney-based think tank the Lowy Institute. “Australia has built up an amount of goodwill by not forgetting about the Pacific in a time of crisis.”Over the past decade, China’s growing influence in the 14-nation Pacific Islands -- whose cumulative population of just 13 million is sprawled over thousands of islands and atolls in a region stretching across 15% of the world’s surface -- has triggered alarm bells in the US and Australia. Diplomats and intelligence officials fear Beijing’s ultimate goal may be to establish a naval base that would upend their military strategies.The battle for influence in the region comes after China hit Australia with a series of damaging trade reprisals following Morrison’s decision to seek an independent investigation into the origins of the coronavirus. Australia’s largest trading partner has put curbs on everything from wine to lobsters, prompting Canberra to file a challenge against barley tariffs at the World Trade Organization (WTO).Projects StalledStill, Australia has made inroads in the Pacific after island nations quickly blocked incoming flights and cruise ships to keep the virus away from vulnerable communities in the aid dependent region. China also ordered workers developing projects tied to its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to return home, and reduced diplomatic staff in the 10 Pacific nations that recognize Beijing instead of Taiwan.In resource-rich Papua New Guinea, the region’s most populous nation and by far the biggest recipient of China’s financial backing, work on one of the region’s highest-profile infrastructure projects stalled this year, according to Paul Barker, chief executive of Institute of National Affairs, a non-profit economic research group partially funded by the private sector based in Port Morseby.Chinese staff left the marine industrial zone site in Madang on the nation’s north coast, which has received at least $73 million in funding from Beijing and will be used as a base to fish tuna, said Barker, who has lived in Port Moresby for four decades. While other China-backed projects around Papua New Guinea’s capital have also crawled to a standstill this year, he said he expects China’s on-the-ground presence, along with offers of financial aid, to ramp up again when the pandemic is under control.“It’s logical for Papua New Guinea to want to get competitive contractors and finance, and if the Chinese were to offer that going forward, the government will be interested,” he said. “While most Papua New Guineans tend to look to their ‘southern friends’ in Australia because they know them, they also want to be offered more opportunities.”‘Cold-War Mentality’China hasn’t been completely inactive. New Chinese ambassadors to the two countries that recognized it over Taiwan in 2019 -- Solomon Islands, one of the region’s largest economies, and Kiribati. The new envoy in the former British colony raised eyebrows when a photo taken on his arrival seemed to show him walking over about 30 local men lying on their stomach.China Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a daily briefing in Beijing on Monday China’s relations with Pacific Island countries have been closer since the pandemic began.“We have also considered providing vaccines to the island countries, contributing to the accessibility and affordability of vaccines in the island countries,” Hua said.The nation’s foreign ministry said in an emailed response to questions that Beijing had shared medical experience and provided materials to nations during the pandemic, while Belt and Road projects including a new highway in western Papua New Guinea and a stadium in the Solomon Islands had been “progressing steadily”.“China hopes all other countries could adopt a mutually respectful attitude and open-minded spirit to facilitate the stability and prosperity of the region, instead of maintaining ‘zero-sum’ and Cold-War mentality and building exclusive ‘small groupings’,” the ministry said.Kiribati’s plan to build two major tran-shipment ports looks set to be integrated into the Belt and Road, according to a September report by government-backed think tank Australian Strategic Policy Institute. That would “raise the prospect of Chinese military bases across the center of the Pacific” through major sea lanes and near US bases including Hawaii, the report said.China also signed a memorandum of understanding last month to potentially fund a new $150 million marine base in southern Papua New Guinea, on Australia’s doorstep. The deal may have geopolitical implications, especially as the impoverished area isn’t near rich fishing stocks.‘A Better Choice’“The pandemic is not going to deter China from executing its strategy in the South Pacific because it wants to continue to exert its influence over weak, fragile democracies,” said Paul Maddison, director of the University of New South Wales Defence Research Institute. “Under a Joe Biden administration, there’s an opportunity for the US and like-minded democracies to show sovereign Pacific nations they have a better choice in who they choose to work with.”Lawmakers in Washington and Canberra have warned developing countries to avoid taking Chinese loans, saying that Beijing would use the debt as geopolitical leverage. China has spent at least $1.7 billion in aid and loans to the Pacific Islands in the past decade, much of it on much-needed transport and utility infrastructure, according to Lowy Institute data.In response, Australia -- seen by China as an American puppet -- unveiled a A$2 billion ($1.5 billion) infrastructure fund for the region in 2018. The US, meanwhile, established a Directorate of Pacific Affairs within the White House National Security Council, which provides a hub for coordinating policy in the region with other like-minded countries.With the economic devastation from the pandemic set to linger for years, the geostrategic competition in the region is only set to intensify as nations look to recover, said Pryke from the Lowy Institute.“Beijing will be aware that Covid has shaped an economic crisis that’s made the region even more vulnerable and desperate for foreign aid and loans, creating a better strategic environment to further its interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-s-influence-in-pacific-islands-grows-as-china-s-wanes/story-ZoaRSxj84fNgFKoF6XTuXO.html
04-01-2021||World||‘It’s not social media, it’s Trump Media’: 5 key points from Donald Trump’s phone call||US President Donald Trump on Sunday was recorded on call by Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, a fellow Republican, putting pressure on the state secretary and his legal counsel to overturn Joe Biden’s victory in the state. The conversation was mainly between Donald Trump and Raffensperger, Georgia’s secretary of state, but Trump campaign individuals like Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, and attorney Cleta Mitchell were also present, as was Ryan Germany, Raffensperger’s counsel.Trump gave a glimpse of how his campaign is arriving at voter fraud numbersOne of Trump campaign’s associates who was part of the call told the state secretary that the campaign came to know dead people voted in the elections through newspaper obituaries. “We took the name, birth year, we have certain information available to us, we have asked your office for the records that you have. Same name and same birth year who have died. To make records available to us.”she said . “4,502 voters who voted but were not the voter registration list, dead people voted,” Trump added. Raffensperger resisted this claim, “The data you have is wrong. The actual number is 2,” he responded. Later, towards the end of the phone call Trump’s lawyer once again pushed for access to the state’s database but Raffensperger and his legal counsels refused to entertain their request, invoking that state data is protected by law. The state secretary stood his ground against Trump, defended the election resultsRaffensperger pushed back against Trump and insisted Biden’s win in Georgia was fair. Responding to Trump’s voter fraud numbers, he said: “Well, Mr President, the challenge that you have is, the data you have is wrong.” Trump kept alluding to a video where an individual (whose name was bleeped out) was seen committing voter fraud. Raffensperger resisted his claims commenting “I think it is very unfortunate that Rudy Giuliani and his people sliced and diced the video”. His counsel also denied the Trump campaign access to the state’s data for cross-verification purposes, continuously insisting that all data is protected by law.Trump said Raffensperger he might face a criminal investigationTrump intimidated Raffensperger and his legal counsel by warning about a criminal investigation, the Associated Press reported. “You know what they did and you’re not reporting it,” Trump said. “You know, that’s a criminal offence. And you know, you can’t let that happen. That’s a big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer. That’s a big risk.” Trump also commented that even though Raffensperger is Republican his state did not have an accurate election, unfoundedly claiming the election was off by “hundreds of thousands of votes”, reported Reuters. Adding a moment later that he only needs enough votes to flip the state, “Flipping the state is a great testament to our country” he added. He also accused Georgia officials of certifying a faulty election. Towards the end of the phone call Trump could also be heard telling Raffensperger that the only people who like what he has done(defended the election results) are the ones who will never vote for him. Donald Trump told Raffensperger his actions will lead to Republicans losing the Georgia runoffTrump told Raffensperger that if he did not act by Tuesday he would be harming the chances of Georgia Republicans David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler in this week’s runoff elections, which is set to determine whether the Democrats or the Republicans control the Senate, reported AFP. Referring to the runoffs in the call, Trump said, “It’s going to have a big impact on Tuesday if you guys don’t get it straightened out fast”. He further added that people hate the state’s government and secretary of state, both Republicans and they are not going to vote in Tuesday’s election, because of what has been done to their President. ‘It’s not social media it’s Trump Media’Donald Trump and his legal team once again brought up the issue of shredding of ballots. When one of Raffensperger’s associates tried cautioning him against videos circulating on social media, reported Blomberg. Trump commented that he gets his information from Trump media not social media. “Mr. President the problem you have with social media, is that people can say anything they want”, said the associate, “No this isn’t social media, this is Trump media ‘’ Trump commented, adding that he “does not care about social media”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-s-not-social-media-it-s-trump-media-5-key-points-from-donald-trump-s-phone-call/story-xMg2sAxLzTQe5gaSoHQnxM.html
04-01-2021||World||New coin to commemorate Queen Elizabeth II’s 95th birthday in 2021||A new 5 pound coin to commemorate the 95th birthday of Queen Elizabeth II in April will be among a set of new commemorative coinage to be issued in 2021, the UK’s Royal Mint said on Monday.The release of a 5 pound coin is reserved for significant royal events and the latest one will depict the royal cypher “EIIR”, above the words “My Heart and My Devotion”, an ode to part of the monarch’s 1957 Christmas Day broadcast which became the very first to be televised.“The commemorative coins we make provide a special opportunity to celebrate the people and events that have made a hugely important contribution to the UK and beyond,” the Royal Mint said.“For 2021, a collection of coins celebrates and explores the stories behind Scottish novelist Sir Walter Scott, who made history come to life, John Logie Baird and the making of television, and HG Wells, the man who made science fiction reality. Interwoven with the Royal Mint’s history, we also celebrate how we were the change makers in 1971 as we mark the 50th anniversary of decimal day, and wish Her Majesty The Queen a happy 95th birthday as she continues to make a nation proud,” it said.On April 21 this year, the Queen will become the first British monarch to reach the age of 95. As her image already appears on one side of all coins in circulation in Britain, the new set of commemorative coinage will each offer a different depiction from the various stages of her reign.The quote for the 5 pound coin is taken from her speech 64 years ago, when she said: “In the old days the monarch led his soldiers on the battlefield and his leadership at all times was close and personal.“Today things are very different. I cannot lead you into battle, I do not give you laws or administer justice, but I can do something else, I can give you my heart and my devotion to these old islands and to all the peoples of our brotherhood of nations.” The new coins will be available in precious metal editions or struck in regular circulating alloys, available to purchase from the Royal Mint’s website.The anniversary of the birth of Sir Walter Scott, who wrote novels such as ‘Waverley’ and ‘Ivanhoe’, will be celebrated with a 2 pound coin. The 75th anniversary of the death of science fiction author H.G. Wells, who penned works such as ‘The Time Machine’ and ‘The War Of The Worlds’, will also be marked on a 2 pound coin, with a depiction of images from his novels.Two sets of 50-pence coins will mark the 50th anniversary of decimalisation, when Britain’s modern coins came into force, and the 75th anniversary of the death of the inventor John Logie Baird, famous for his early prototypes of the television.“This year’s annual set is particularly special for The Royal Mint as we celebrate one of the biggest milestones in our 1,100-year history, the anniversary of decimalisation,” said Clare Maclennan, of the consumer division at the Royal Mint.“This was one of the largest and most intensive public awareness campaigns ever staged by the government and introduced the coins that we know today. Decimalisation was the birth of modern coin collecting and it is fitting that the anniversary has been celebrated on a 50 pence, which is Britain’s most loved coin,” she said.The Royal Mint said that each of the new sets of coinage capture and tell a story in miniature form on the tiny surface of a coin by skilled artists passionate about their craft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-coin-to-commemorate-queen-elizabeth-ii-s-95th-birthday-in-2021/story-jvzLlrgVGeKWvdL0yjwOeP.html
04-01-2021||World||Explained: How close is Iran to producing a nuclear bomb?||A 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers is being eroded and efforts to revive the pact face a new challenge with a decision by Tehran to resume 20% uranium enrichment at an underground nuclear facility.The accord’s restrictions on Iran’s atomic work had one objective: to extend the “breakout time” for Tehran to produce enough fissile material for a bomb, if it decided to make one, to at least a year from about two to three months.Iran maintains that it has never sought nuclear weapons and never would. It says its nuclear work only has civilian aims.Tehran began breaching the deal’s curbs in 2019 in a step-by-step response to President Donald Trump’s withdrawal from the deal in May 2018 and the reimposition of US sanctions.This has shortened the breakout time but reports by the UN International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which polices the deal, indicate that Iran is not moving ahead with its nuclear work as fast as it could.European states have sought to save the nuclear deal, pressing Tehran to comply even as Washington has tightened sanctions, and holding out hopes of a change in US policy once President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan. 20.Biden was part of the US administration under Barack Obama that negotiated the 2015 deal.What has Iran done till now?Iran has contravened many of the deal’s restrictions but is still cooperating with the IAEA and granting inspectors access under one of the most intrusive nuclear verification regimes imposed on any nation.* Enriched uranium - The deal limits Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium to 202.8 kg, a fraction of the more than eight tonnes it possessed before the deal. The limit was breached in 2019. The IAEA report in November put the stockpile at 2,442.9 kg.* Enrichment level - The deal caps the fissile purity to which Iran can refine uranium at 3.67%, far below the 20% achieved before the deal and below the weapons-grade level of 90%. Iran breached the 3.67% cap in July 2019 and the enrichment level has remained steady at up to 4.5% since then.* Centrifuges - The deal allows Iran to produce enriched uranium using about 5,000 first-generation IR-1 centrifuges at its underground Natanz plant, which was built to house more than 50,000. It can operate small numbers of more advanced models above ground without accumulating enriched uranium. Iran had roughly 19,000 installed centrifuges before the deal.In 2019, the IAEA said Iran had begun enrichment with advanced centrifuges at an above-ground pilot plant at Natanz. Since then, Iran started moving three cascades, or clusters, of advanced centrifuges to the underground plant. In November, the IAEA said Iran had fed uranium hexafluoride gas feedstock into the first of those underground cascades.* Fordow - The deal bans enrichment at Fordow, a site Iran secretly built inside a mountain and that was exposed by Western intelligence services in 2009. Centrifuges are allowed there for other purposes, like producing stable isotopes. Iran now has 1,044 IR-1 centrifuges enriching there.On Monday Iran said it was resuming 20 percent enrichment at Fordow, possibly complicating efforts by the Biden administration to rejoin the deal.How close is Iran to having a bomb?The breaches lengthened the breakout time but estimates still vary. Many diplomats and nuclear experts say the starting point of one year is conservative and Iran would need longer.David Albright, a former UN weapons inspector who tends to have a hawkish position on Iran, estimated in November that Iran’s breakout time could be “as short as 3.5 months”, although this presumes Iran would use 1,000 advanced centrifuges that were removed under the deal.What more would Iran need to do?If Iran accumulated sufficient fissile material, it would need to assemble a bomb and probably one small enough to be carried by its ballistic missiles. How long that would take exactly is unclear, but stockpiling enough fissile material is widely seen as the biggest hurdle in producing a weapon.US intelligence agencies and the IAEA believe Iran once had a nuclear weapons programme that it halted. There is evidence suggesting Iran obtained a design for a nuclear weapon and carried out various types of work relevant to making one.Tehran continues to grant the IAEA access to its declared nuclear facilities and allow snap inspections elsewhere.Iran and the IAEA resolved a standoff in 2020 that had lasted several months over access to two suspected former sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explainer-how-close-is-iran-to-producing-a-nuclear-bomb/story-fJ36D14d1q5d0O2rp0kGmN.html
04-01-2021||World||China asks US to stop interfering with Hong-Kong related issues||In a sharp rebuke, China has asked the United States to stop interfering with its internal affairs and judicial sovereignty on Hong Kong-related issues, Chinese state media Xinhua reported.In a press conference, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said China is a country ruled by law and anyone who violates it must be punished.The spokesperson remarks come after US Secretary of State, Michael Pompeo reacted on the sentencing of 10 Hong Kongers who have been detained in China after they tried to flee to Taiwan.Pompeo lambasted the Chinese Communist Party for the treatment to a group of 12 pro-democracy protestors who tried to flee Taiwan in wake of Beijing’s imposition of the draconian National Security Law, called for China to immediately release the ten Hong Kong activists.Out of 12, 10 individuals were sentenced from seven months to three years in prison by a Shenzhen court on Wednesday. The remaining two are underage passengers and were handed over to Hong Kong police, as reported by South China Morning Post.“China is a country ruled by law and everyone should comply with the law. Anyone who violates the law must be punished,” Hua said.She said the Chinese judicial authorities handle cases according to law and the United States has no right to interfere, urging the US side to stop slandering and smearing China.The European Union, Canada and the UK have expressed concerns over the fairness of the trial.“Canada expresses deep concern over the secret trial involving the Shenzhen 12. We urge Chinese authorities to conduct trials in accordance with due process and judicial transparency in line with international Human Rights norms and standards,” the Canadian Government’s foreign policy handle wrote on Twitter.Meanwhile, London said that the defendants were “tried in secret” and were denied access to lawyers of their choosing.We are deeply concerned that members of the Shenzhen 12 were tried in secret today, having been given just three days’ notice of their trial. Diplomats from Britain and a number of other countries, tried to attend the court proceedings but were denied entry, said UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab in a statement on Monday.The European Union on Tuesday slammed Beijing for human rights violations against 10 political activists from Hong Kong who tried to escape to Taiwan, urging authorities to ensure a fair trial and called for an immediate release of the Shenzen 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-asks-us-to-stop-interfering-with-hong-kong-related-issues/story-31VlLybakeSUgcke1eEQ6O.html
04-01-2021||World||South African Covid-19 strain raises growing alarm in the UK||The new coronavirus strain that emerged in South Africa is even more problematic than a mutated form that prompted new lockdowns across much of the U.K., health authorities said on Monday.“I’m incredibly worried about the South African variant,” U.K. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on BBC radio Monday, citing a conversation over the Christmas holiday with his counterpart in South Africa. “One of the reasons they know they’ve got a problem is because, like us, they have an excellent genomic scientific capability to be able to study the details of the virus. And it is even more of a problem than the U.K. new variant.”The South African variant is driving a surge of infections in the country, and like the U.K. strain, it appears to be more infectious than previous mutations. Still, there’s no evidence yet that the Covid-19 vaccines approved so far won’t work against the new strains.Shots will probably still be effective against the U.K. variant of the coronavirus, while questions surrounding the South African version remain, John Bell, an Oxford professor working with the U.K. government on its vaccine program, told Times Radio on Sunday. It’s unlikely the mutations would “turn off” the effective vaccines entirely, Bell said.“We’ve got a bit of headroom because the vaccines work, I think, much better than any of us thought they would work,” he said. “We do have some room to maneuver. If they worked 20% less well because of a mutation we’d still have good vaccines.”‘Cat and Mouse’Even if the new variants were able to evade the vaccines “it’s perfectly possible” to adapt and make new ones, potentially within six weeks, if necessary, Bell said. “We’re now in a game of cat and mouse. These are not the only two variants we’re going to see.”Young people under the age of 20 may also be more affected by the new U.K. variant, Imperial College London researchers said in a preliminary analysis published Dec. 31. It’s too soon to be able to say why this might be the case, and the results might have been influenced by the fact that the lockdown was keeping more adults home, but schools were open, they said.South African medical scientists are designing studies to ascertain the clinical impact of the new variant of the coronavirus found in that country, said Glenda Gray, president of the South African Medical Research Council.South African doctors have seen anecdotal evidence that more young people without pre-existing conditions are becoming severely ill with the new version, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said last month.There is no evidence that the South African variant is more transmissible or causes more severe disease than the U.K. variant, Mkhize said in a statement on Dec. 24. The two variants developed independently, and there’s evidence that the U.K. strain predates the South African one, Mkhize said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-african-covid-19-strain-raises-growing-alarm-in-the-uk/story-SmrpGj42snSUJVHPPvTcaL.html
04-01-2021||World||‘Dangerous territory’: Extraordinary warning to Trump by 10 former Pentagon chiefs||In an extraordinary rebuke of President Donald Trump, all 10 living former secretaries of defense are cautioning against any move to involve the military in pursuing claims of election fraud, arguing that it would take the country into “dangerous, unlawful and unconstitutional territory.”The 10 men, both Democrats and Republicans, signed on to an opinion article published Sunday in The Washington Post that implicitly questioned Trump’s willingness to follow his Constitutional duty to peacefully relinquish power on Jan. 20. Following the Nov. 3 election and subsequent recounts in some states, as well as unsuccessful court challenges, the outcome is clear, they wrote, while not specifying Trump in the article.“The time for questioning the results has passed; the time for the formal counting of the electoral college votes, as prescribed in the Constitution and statute, has arrived,” they wrote.The former Pentagon chiefs warned against use of the military in any effort to change the outcome.“Efforts to involve the US armed forces in resolving election disputes would take us into dangerous, unlawful and unconstitutional territory,” they wrote. “Civilian and military officials who direct or carry out such measures would be accountable, including potentially facing criminal penalties, for the grave consequences of their actions on our republic.”A number of senior military officers, including Gen. Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have said publicly in recent weeks that the military has no role in determining the outcome of US elections and that their loyalty is to the Constitution, not to an individual leader or a political party.The 10 former Pentagon leaders also warned in their Post article of the dangers of impeding a full and smooth transition at Defense Department prior to Inauguration Day as part of a transfer to power to President-elect Joe Biden. Biden has complained of efforts by Trump-appointed Pentagon officials to obstruct the transition.Without mentioning a specific example, the former defense secretaries wrote that transfers of power “often occur at times of international uncertainty about US national security policy and posture,” adding, “They can be a moment when the nation is vulnerable to actions by adversaries seeking to take advantage of the situation.”Tensions with Iran represent just such a moment. Sunday marked one year since the US killing of Qassem Soleimani, the top Iranian general; Iran has vowed to avenge the killing, and US officials said in recent days that they are on heightened alert for potential Iranian attack on US forces or interests in the Middle East.In a further sign of US-Iranian tension, the acting secretary of defense, Christopher Milller, announced Sunday evening that he has changed his mind about sending the Navy aircraft carrier, the USS Nimitz, home from the Middle East and instead will keep the vessel on duty. Just last week, Miller announced that he was sending the Nimitz home, a decision that had been opposed by senior military officers.In reversing himself, Miller cited “recent threats issued by Iranian leaders against President Trump and other US government officials.” He did not elaborate, and the Pentagon did not respond to questions.The opinion article in the Post was signed by Dick Cheney, William Perry, Donald Rumsfeld, William Cohen, Robert Gates, Leon Panetta, Chuck Hagel, Ash Carter, James Mattis and Mark Esper. Mattis was Trump’s first defense secretary; he resigned in 2018 and was succeeded by Esper, who was fired just days after the Nov. 3 election.The Post reported that the idea for writing the opinion piece began with a conversation between Cheney and Eric Edelman, a retired ambassador and former senior Pentagon official, about how Trump might seek to use the military in coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dangerous-territory-extraordinary-warning-to-trump-by-10-former-pentagon-chiefs/story-BiB13X186AasPPnkcNJESO.html
04-01-2021||World||UK court blocks Julian Assange’s extradition to US citing suicide risk||The Westminster Magistrates Court on Monday blocked the extradition of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to the United States on health grounds, saying that there are concerns over his mental health and risk of suicide. Assange, 49, is wanted in the US over the publication of thousands of classified documents in 2010 and 2011. According to his defence team, the case is politically motivated. The court’s ruling is expected to appealed by US authorities in the high court.Judge Vanessa Baraitser ruled that the US was incapable of preventing Assange from attempting to take his own life, adding: “The overall impression is of a depressed and sometimes despairing man fearful for his future.”“Faced with the conditions of near total isolation without the protective factors which limited his risk at HMP Belmarsh, I am satisfied the procedures described by the US will not prevent Mr Assange from finding a way to commit suicide and for this reason I have decided extradition would be oppressive by reason of mental harm and I order his discharge.”Assange has been in jail serving a 50-month sentence since May 2019 for breaching his bail conditions after being holed up in the Ecuadorian embassy in London for seven years since 2012.He was arrested in April 2019.He earlier faced extradition to Sweden on allegations of sexual assault which he denied. The case was later dropped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-court-blocks-julian-assange-s-extradition-to-us-citing-suicide-risk/story-J0uu8AR34vfwpV3rAd57tK.html
04-01-2021||World||Iran acknowledges it seized South Korean-flagged oil tanker||Iranian state television has acknowledged that Tehran seized a South Korean-flagged oil tanker in the Strait of Hormuz.The report on Monday alleged that the MT Hankuk Chemi had been stopped by Iranian authorities over alleged “oil pollution” in the Persian Gulf and the strait.The semiofficial Fars news agency said Iran’s Revolutionary Guard’s naval forces seized the ship.Satellite data from MarineTraffic.com showed the MT Hankuk Chemi off the port of Bandar Abbas on Monday afternoon without explanation. It had been traveling from Saudi Arabia to Fujairah in the UAE. The ship’s owners could not be immediately reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-acknowledges-it-seized-south-korean-flagged-oil-tanker/story-r3XYBcBZ2vzCMXgva2CytN.html
04-01-2021||World||Iran says it resumed 20% enrichment at Fordow in latest nuclear deal breach||Iran has resumed 20% uranium enrichment at an underground nuclear facility, the government said on Monday, breaching a 2015 nuclear pact with major powers and possibly complicating efforts by US President-elect Joe Biden to rejoin the deal. The move is the latest Iranian contravention of the deal, which it started violating in 2019 in response to Washington’s withdrawal from the agreement in 2018 and the reimposition of US sanctions that had been lifted under the accord.“A few minutes ago, the process of producing 20% enriched uranium has started in Fordow enrichment complex,” government spokesman Ali Rabeie told Iranian state media. The step was one of many mentioned in a law passed by Iran’s parliament last month in response to the killing of the country’s top nuclear scientist, which Tehran has blamed on Israel. Such moves by Iran could hinder attempts by the incoming Biden administration to rejoin the deal. The deal’s main aim was to extend the time Iran would need to produce enough fissile material for a nuclear bomb, if it chose to, to at least a year from roughly two to three months. It also lifted international sanctions against Tehran.On Jan 1, the International Atomic Energy Agency said Tehran had told the watchdog it planned to resume enrichment up to 20% at Fordow site, which is buried inside a mountain. “The process of gas injection to centrifuges has started a few hours ago and the first product of uranium hexafluoride (UF6) gas will be available in a few hours,” Rabeie said. “The process has started after taking measures like informing the UN nuclear watchdog.” Iran had earlier breached the deal’s 3.67% limit on the purity to which it can enrich uranium, but it had only gone up to 4.5% so far, well short of the 20% level and of the 90% that is weapons-grade. US intelligence agencies and the IAEA believe Iran had a secret, coordinated nuclear weapons programme that it halted in 2003. Iran denies ever having had one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-it-resumed-20-enrichment-at-fordow-in-latest-nuclear-deal-breach/story-mQDNe9bmqPDZgtu4jJvOTI.html
04-01-2021||World||Google workers announce union, escalates years of tensions with management||Employees of Google and parent company Alphabet Inc. announced the creation of a union on Monday, escalating years of confrontation between workers and management of the internet giant.The Alphabet Workers Union said it will be open to all employees and contractors, regardless of their role or classification. It will collect dues, pay organizing staff and have an elected board of directors.The unionizing effort, a rare campaign within a major US internet company, is supported by the Communications Workers of America as part of a recent tech-focused initiative known as CODE-CWA. Googlers who join the Alphabet Workers Union will also be members of CWA Local 1400.“We will hire skilled organizers to ensure all workers at Google know they can work with us if they actually want to see their company reflect their values,” Dylan Baker, software engineer at Google, said in a statement.A successful Alphabet union could limit executives’ authority, while inspiring similar efforts across Silicon Valley, which has mostly avoided unionization so far. The group said it plans to take on issues including compensation, employee classification and the kinds of work Google engages in.The announcement did not specify whether the new organization will try to secure majority support among Alphabet’s workforce, formal recognition by Alphabet or collective bargaining with the company, a process that has been aggressively resisted by US corporations. CWA’s membership includes some workers, such as public university employees in Tennessee, who engage in collective action while lacking legal collective bargaining rights.Google has clashed with some employees in recent years over contracts with the military, the different treatment of contract workers and a rich exit package for an executive ousted for alleged sexual harassment.Google worker protests in 2018 forced the company to let a Pentagon artificial intelligence contract lapse. Employee uprisings also led the company to limit the use of forced arbitration that same year.CWA has been supporting Google activists since at least 2019, when the union filed a complaint with the National Labor Relations Board alleging workers were fired for taking collective action. In December, the agency’s general counsel took up some of those allegations, accusing Google of illegally firing, interrogating and surveilling activist employees. Google has denied wrongdoing, saying it supports workers’ rights and that the employees in question were punished for “serious violation of our policies and an unacceptable breach of a trusted responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-workers-announce-union-escalates-years-of-tensions-with-management/story-ieRw4ci8am3IujUTF3PiwJ.html
04-01-2021||World||‘Likely to commit suicide’: UK judge cites clinical depression to block Assange’s extradition||A British judge on Monday rejected the United States’ request to extradite WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to face espionage charges, saying he was likely to kill himself if held under harsh US prison conditions.District Judge Vanessa Baraitser rejected allegations that Assange is being prosecuted for political reasons or would not receive a fair trial in the United States. But she said his precarious mental health would likely deteriorate further under the conditions of “near total isolation” he would face in US prison.“I find that the mental condition of Mr. Assange is such that it would be oppressive to extradite him to the United States of America,” the judge said.She said Assange was “a depressed and sometimes despairing man” who had the “intellect and determination” to circumvent any suicide prevention measures taken by American prison authorities.The US government said it would appeal the decision. Assange’s lawyers said they would ask for his release from a London prison where he has been held for more than a year-and-a-half at a bail hearing on Wednesday.Assange, who sat in the dock at London’s Central Criminal Court for the ruling, wiped his brow as the decision was announced. His partner Stella Moris, with whom he has two young sons, wept.Assange’s American lawyer, Barry Pollack, said the legal team was “enormously gratified by the U.K. court’s decision denying extradition.”“The effort by the United States to prosecute Julian Assange and seek his extradition was ill-advised from the start,” he said. “We hope that after consideration of the UK court’s ruling, the United States will decide not to pursue the case further.”The ruling marks a dramatic moment in Assange’s years-long legal battles in Britain — though likely not its final chapter.US prosecutors have indicted Assange on 17 espionage charges and one charge of computer misuse over WikiLeaks’ publication of leaked military and diplomatic documents a decade ago. The charges carry a maximum sentence of 175 years in prison.Lawyers for the 49-year-old Australian argue that he was acting as a journalist and is entitled to First Amendment protections of freedom of speech for publishing leaked documents that exposed U.S. military wrongdoing in Iraq and Afghanistan.The judge, however, said Assange’s actions, if proven, would “amount to offenses in this jurisdiction that would not be protected by his right to freedom of speech.”The defense also argued during a three-week hearing in the fall that extradition threatens Assange’s human rights because he risks “a grossly disproportionate sentence” and detention in “draconian and inhumane conditions” that would exacerbate his severe depression and other mental health problems.The judge agreed that US prison conditions would be oppressive. She accepted evidence from expert witnesses that Assange had a depressive disorder and an autism spectrum disorder.“I accept that oppression as a bar to extradition requires a high threshold. ... However, I am satisfied that, in these harsh conditions, Mr. Assange’s mental health would deteriorate causing him to commit suicide with the ‘single minded determination’ of his autism spectrum disorder,” the judge said in her ruling.Lawyers for the US government deny that Assange is being prosecuted merely for publishing the leaked documents, saying the case “is in large part based upon his unlawful involvement” in the theft of the diplomatic cables and military files by US Army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning.The prosecution of Assange has been condemned by journalists and human rights groups, who say it undermines free speech around the world.They welcomed the judge’s decision, even though it was not made on free-speech grounds.“This is a huge relief to anyone who cares about the rights of journalists,” The Freedom of the Press Foundation tweeted:“The extradition request was not decided on press freedom grounds; rather, the judge essentially ruled the US prison system was too repressive to extradite. However, the result will protect journalists everywhere.”Assange’s legal troubles began in 2010, when he was arrested in London at the request of Sweden, which wanted to question him about allegations of rape and sexual assault made by two women. In 2012, to avoid being sent to Sweden, Assange sought refuge inside the Ecuadorian Embassy, where he was beyond the reach of UK and Swedish authorities — but also effectively a prisoner, unable to leave the tiny diplomatic mission in London’s tony Knightsbridge area.The relationship between Assange and his hosts eventually soured, and he was evicted from the embassy in April 2019. British police immediately arrested him for jumping bail in 2012.Sweden dropped the sex crimes investigations in November 2019 because so much time had elapsed, but Assange remains in London’s high-security Belmarsh Prison, brought to court in a prison van throughout his extradition hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-judge-blocks-extradition-of-wikileaks-founder-julian-assange-says-likely-to-commit-suicide-if-sent-to-us/story-AzGxYoLz4AvJX6fkbMbkrK.html
04-01-2021||World||On tape: Trump tells Georgia’s Republican secretary ‘just want to find votes||President Donald Trump pressured Georgia’s Republican secretary of state to “find” enough votes to overturn Joe Biden’s win in the state’s presidential election, repeatedly citing disproven claims of fraud and raising the prospect of a “criminal offense” if officials did not change the vote count, according to a recording of the conversation.The phone call with Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger on Saturday was the latest step in an unprecedented effort by a sitting president to press a state official to reverse the outcome of a free and fair election that he lost. The president, who has refused to accept his loss to Democratic president-elect Biden, repeatedly argued that Raffensperger could change the certified results.“All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have,” Trump said. “Because we won the state.”Georgia counted its votes three times before certifying Biden’s win by a 11,779 margin, Raffensperger noted. “President Trump, we’ve had several lawsuits, and we’ve had to respond in court to the lawsuits and the contentions,” he said on the call. We don’t agree that you have won.”Audio snippets of the conversation were first posted online by The Washington Post. The Associated Press obtained the full audio of Trump’s conversation with Georgia officials from a person on the call. The AP has a policy of not amplifying disinformation and unproven allegations. The AP plans to post the full audio as it annotates a transcript with fact check material.Trump’s renewed intervention and the persistent and unfounded claims of fraud come nearly two weeks before he leaves office and two days before twin runoff elections in Georgia that will determine political control of the U.S. Senate.The president used the hourlong conversation to tick through a list of claims about the election in Georgia, including that hundreds of thousands of ballots mysteriously appeared in Fulton County, which includes Atlanta. Officials have said there is no evidence of that happening.The Georgia officials on the call are heard repeatedly pushing back against the president’s assertions, telling him that he’s relying on debunked theories and, in one case, selectively edited video.At another point in the conversation, Trump appeared to threaten Raffensperger and Ryan Germany, the secretary of state’s legal counsel, by suggesting both could be criminally liable if they failed to find that thousands of ballots in Fulton County had been illegally destroyed. There is no evidence to support Trump’s claim.“That’s a criminal offense,” Trump says. “And you can’t let that happen.”Others on the call included Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, and attorneys assisting Trump, including Washington lawyer Cleta Mitchell.Democrats and a few Republicans condemned Trump’s actions, while at least one Democrat urged a criminal investigation. Legal experts said Trump’s behavior raised questions about possible election law violations.Biden senior adviser Bob Bauer called the recording “irrefutable proof” of Trump threatening an official in his own party to “rescind a state’s lawful, certified vote count and fabricate another in its place.”“It captures the whole, disgraceful story about Donald Trump’s assault on American democracy,” Bauer said.Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in that chamber, said Trump’s conduct “merits nothing less than a criminal investigation.”Trump confirmed in a tweet Sunday that he had spoken with Raffensperger. The White House referred questions to Trump’s reelection campaign, which did not respond Sunday to an emailed request for comment. Raffensperger’s office did not respond to a request for comment.Trump has repeatedly attacked how Raffensperger conducted Georgia’s elections, claiming without evidence that the state’s 16 electoral votes were wrongly given to Biden.“He has no clue!” Trump tweeted of Raffensperger, saying the state official “was unwilling, or unable” to answer questions.Raffensperger’s Twitter response: “Respectfully, President Trump: What you’re saying is not true. The truth will come out.”Various election officials across the country and Trump’s former attorney general, William Barr, have said there was no widespread fraud in the election. Republican governors in Arizona and Georgia, key battleground states crucial to Biden’s victory, have also vouched for the integrity of their state elections. Nearly all the legal challenges from Trump and his allies have been dismissed by judges, including two tossed by the Supreme Court, which has three Trump-nominated justices.In Georgia, the ballots were counted three times. One was a mandatory hand count and one was requested by Trump.Still, Trump has publicly disparaged the election, raising concerns among Republicans that GOP voters may be discouraged from participating in Tuesday’s runoffs pitting Sen. Kelly Loeffler against Democrat Raphael Warnock and Republican David Perdue against Democrat Jon Ossoff.Rebecca Green, who helps direct the election law program at William and Mary Law School, said that while it is appropriate for a candidate to question the outcome of an election, the processes for doing so for the presidential election have run their course. States have certified their votes.Green said Trump had raised “lots of questions” about whether he violated any election laws.Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said Trump has shown “reprehensible and, possibly illegal, conduct.”Trump noted on the call that he intended to repeat his claims about fraud at a rally Monday night in Dalton, a heavily Republican area in north Georgia.“The people of Georgia are angry, the people of the country are angry,” he says on the recording.Biden is also due to campaign in Georgia on Monday, and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris stumped in Garden City, Georgia, on Sunday, slamming Trump for the call.“It was a bald, bald-faced, bold abuse of power by the president of the United States,” she said.Loeffler and Perdue have largely backed Trump in his attempts to overturn election results. But on Sunday, Loeffler said she hadn’t decided whether to join Republican colleagues in challenging the legitimacy of Biden’s victory over Trump when Congress meets Wednesday to affirm Biden’s 306-232 vote win in the Electoral College.Perdue, who was quarantining after being exposed to a staff member with the coronavirus, said he supports the challenge, although he will not be a sitting senator when the vote happens because his term has expired. Still, he told Fox News Channel he was encouraging his colleagues to object, saying it’s “something that the American people demand right now.”His rival, Ossoff, speaking at the Garden City rally, attacked Perdue and Loeffler for failing to stand up for Georgia’s voters, specifically saying that the state’s Black voters were being targeted.He said: “When the president of the United States calls up Georgia’s election officials and tries to intimidate them to change the result of the election, to disenfranchise Georgia voters, to disenfranchise Black voters in Georgia who delivered this state for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, that is a direct attack on our democracy.”___Amy and Brumback reported from Atlanta. Associated Press writer Russ Bynum in Garden City, Georgia, contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-tape-trump-tells-georgia-s-republican-secretary-just-want-to-find-votes/story-VKy4wjfP0k30EwzuQhrXZK.html
04-01-2021||World||South Korea to cut railway carbon emissions by replacing diesel trains by 2029||South Korea aims to cut some 30% of carbon emissions from railway travel by replacing all diesel passenger locomotives with a new bullet train by 2029, President Moon Jae-in said on Monday.Moon joined a trial run of the KTX-Eum, an electric multiple unit train as South Korea, one of world’s most fossil-fuel reliant economies, envisages a “greener” recovery from the novel coronavirus. Eum means link in Korean.“We will replace all diesel passenger trains with the KTX-Eum by 2029 and establish eco-friendly railway transport nationwide,” Moon said at a station in the eastern city of Wonju.“By doing that, we will cut 70,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions, which is equivalent to planting 10 million pine trees, and advance to a carbon neutral society.”The train, built by Hyundai Rotem Co, only produces some 70% of the emissions produced by diesel-powered trains, which generated 235,000 tonnes of emissions in 2019, according to state-run Korail Railroad Corp.Its top speed is 260 km (162 miles) an hour, slightly slower than the 300 kmh of the regular KTX.Moon is promoting a “Green New Deal”, a six-year plan aimed at boosting jobs and curbing heavy reliance on fossil fuels in Asia’s fourth-largest economy.Moon has declared that South Korea would be carbon neutral by 2050.The initiative focuses on investing in more environmentally friendly energy and transport, such as solar power and electric and hydrogen cars, and building digital infrastructure.Korail chief, Son Byung-seok, told Moon that the company aims to expand high-speed services from 29% of all routes to 52% by 2024, as part of the government’s plans to funnel 70 trillion won ($64.7 billion) into rail networks.Coal makes up 40% of South Korea’s electricity mix and renewable power less than 6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-to-cut-railway-carbon-emissions-by-replacing-diesel-trains-by-2029/story-Ehk1K1bSOnR370gu3BOLAK.html
04-01-2021||World||Explained: Why are Georgia Senate runoffs extremely crucial for Joe Biden?||US President-elect Joe Biden won the southern state of Georgia with a slim margin but another important election went undecided - the race to Senate. In November, no candidate for two Senate seats from Georgia received a minimum of 50 per cent votes required to win the race, according to the state rules, which meant the top two candidates go through another election, a so-called runoff, on January 5. Both Senate seats from Georgia are currently held by Republicans - David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler.Why are Georgia Senate runoffs crucial?The control over the US Senate is important in getting laws passed, confirming Cabinet appointments and Supreme Court justices on to the bench of the highest court for a lifetime. The Georgia Senate runoffs are extremely crucial for Biden’s administration since the upper chamber of the US Congress is currently controlled by Republicans.The Senate has 46 Democrats, 50 Republicans and two independent Senators - Bernie Sanders and Angus King - who generally vote along the Democratic lines. If Democrats win the Georgia runoffs, they will have effective control over the Senate with 50 votes and Democratic Vice-President Kamala Harris as the deciding vote in case of a tie.Also Read | A record 3 million early votes cast in Georgia’s US senate runoff racesLast week, Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell rejected calls from US President Donald Trump and Congressional Democrats to increase coronavirus aid to individuals from $600 to $2,000. Democrats-controlled House had already passed the measure for $2,000 cheques requested by Trump but the Kentucky senator said the money would go to many households that don’t need the aid. If Democrats get effective control over the Senate, they will be able to pass partisan bills.The Supreme Court already has a 6-3 conservative majority after the Senate confirmed the nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the top court seat, replacing liberal icon Ruth Bader Ginsburg who died in September. The Republican control over the Senate has also played an important role in the nominations announced by Biden’s transition team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-why-georgia-senate-runoffs-extremely-crucial-for-joe-biden/story-yyJxiRfKe4SlTx71QSZZ2O.html
04-01-2021||World||Philippines probes unauthorized vaccines given to soldiers, Chinese workers||The Philippines will investigate how unauthorized Covid-19 vaccines were given to President Rodrigo Duterte’s security team and reportedly to thousands of Chinese workers.The Food and Drug Administration is working with government investigators and customs officials to probe the illegal entry and use of the unregistered vaccines, Health Secretary Francisco Duque said at a televised briefing Monday.Duque was reacting to a media report that around 100,000 Chinese nationals working in the Philippines have been vaccinated as early as November even as regulators have yet to approve any vaccines for use in the Philippines.The uneven rollout of vaccines around the world is raising concerns about the potential for black markets to emerge. The Philippines, which has the second-highest number of infections in Southeast Asia, is aiming to secure at least 80 million vaccines from pharmaceuticals including AstraZeneca Plc., Novavax Inc. and Pfizer Inc., with deals expected this month and shipments by the second quarter.The military last week confirmed that soldiers in Duterte’s security team were already inoculated, but didn’t say what vaccines were used and how they were obtained. Duterte’s spokesman, Harry Roque, in a briefing Monday said the president’s security team will face the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-probes-unauthorized-vaccines-given-to-soldiers-chinese-workers/story-NId1O4ZXrqxl9gZ4pr6o4K.html
04-01-2021||World||Divided US bigger risk to world than Covid-19 in 2021: Survey||With the global economy still in the teeth of the Covid-19 crisis, the Eurasia group sees a divided US as a key risk this year for a world lacking leadership.“In decades past, the world would look to the US to restore predictability in times of crisis. But the world’s preeminent superpower faces big challenges of its own,” said Eurasia Group President Ian Bremmer and Chairman Cliff Kupchan in a report on the top risks for 2021.Starting with the difficulties facing the Biden Administration in a divided US, the report flags 10 geopolitical, climate and individual country risks that could derail the global economic recovery. An extended Covid-19 impact and K-shaped recoveries in both developed and emerging economies is the second biggest risk factor cited in the report.Biden will have difficulty gaining new confidence in US global leadership as he struggles to manage domestic crises, the report said. With a large segment of the US casting doubt over his legitimacy, the political effectiveness and longevity of his “asterisk presidency,” the future of the Republican Party, and the very legitimacy of the US political model are all in question, it added.“A superpower torn down the middle cannot return to business as usual. And when the most powerful country is so divided, everybody has a problem,” said Bremmer and Kupchan.The report warns that the pandemic and its broad impact will not vanish once vaccination becomes widespread. Uneven recoveries, variance in vaccine access and stimulus plans that fall short will push up debt levels, leave workers displaced and fuel opposition toward incumbent leaders.For the US, this will increase the polarization that fed support for Donald Trump. For emerging economies, the debt crunch could lead to financial troubles, the report said.Some concerns are more likely to be “red herring” risks that have been overplayed, the report adds. These include relations between Biden and “Trump’s fellow travelers” such as Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro, the UK’s Boris Johnson and Israel’s Binyamin Netanyahu. The Biden administration will engage on shared interests and leaders will adapt to the new status quo, the report says.Fears over a global backlash against US big tech and an Iran-US confrontation are also seen as lower risks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/divided-us-bigger-risk-to-world-than-covid-19-in-2021-survey/story-ob8rCAZU0H1XJUHml64WbO.html
04-01-2021||World||Tesla poised for expansion after just missing 2020 target||Tesla Inc. came close to meeting its 500,000 vehicle-deliveries goal for 2020, setting the stage for a new year in which it’s expanding in China and poised to open new factories in Texas and Germany.The electric-car maker said Jan. 2 it handed over 180,570 vehicles in the year’s final three months, the most for any quarter but just 450 vehicles shy of the half-million mark Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk sought for the year. Tesla has been ramping up output of its more mass-market models to meet rising global demand for battery-powered cars, with 2020’s total jumping 36% from the prior year.“The good news is Tesla has the formula consumers want,” Gene Munster, managing partner at Loup Ventures, wrote to clients. “The bad news is to keep up with this demand, the company needs to quickly build new factories in Austin, Texas, and Brandenburg, Germany. While they made it look easy in Shanghai, ramping production is difficult and will be one of the most important Tesla topics in 2021.”Musk and Tesla had a remarkable year, with the company joining the S&P 500 Index in December after five consecutive quarters of profit. The shares rallied 743% in 2020, giving the carmaker a $668.9 billion stock-market capitalization. Musk -- who ended the year as the world’s second-richest person -- took to Twitter to praise his team, saying that in its earliest days he thought the carmaker had only a 10% chance of even surviving.Tesla shares rose as much as 2.7% to $725 before the start of regular trading Monday. The stock closed at a record $705.67 on Dec. 31.The quarterly delivery figure is widely seen as a barometer of demand for both Tesla’s vehicles and consumer interest in electric vehicles worldwide. The company says its quarterly deliveries statements should be viewed as slightly conservative and that final numbers could vary by 0.5% or more.“Musk & Co. basically hitting its 500k goal for the year is a major feather in the cap for the company and the bulls as Tesla saw robust Model 3 demand over the last 10 months despite the hurricane-like consumer headwinds seen globally” because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Wedbush analyst Daniel Ives wrote in a report.‘Comfortably Exceed’Tesla had predicted in January 2020 -- before the onset of the coronavirus pandemic -- it would “comfortably exceed” sales of half a million cars. The company said in October it still expected to meet that target despite a temporary shutdown of its factories in the spring, and Musk suggested it was within reach in an internal email sent to employees in December.Analysts also predicted Tesla would meet its sales goal for the year, which further buoyed the company’s shares in the waning days of 2020. The surge withstood multiple share offerings that could boost the carmaker’s cash balance to around $20 billion.The company undershot the 181,000-vehicle threshold it needed to clear in the most recent quarter, a 30% jump over the July-September period. The push largely depended on increased output from its China plant and higher output in the U.S. of the newest vehicle in its lineup, the Model Y.Tesla said Model Y production in Shanghai has begun, with deliveries expected to begin soon.What Bloomberg Intelligence Says:“Tesla’s miss of a 500,000 delivery goal for 2020 indicates the automaker is still struggling to scale up, as the eighth year of mass-market pursuit still leaves the company about the size of Isuzu globally, even as it eclipses the combined market cap of 10 automakers that deliver more than 50 million units annually. Tesla faces compressing margins as the focus shifts to China and sales by competitors mute the profit contribution of regulatory credits initially, then threaten market share.”-- Kevin Tynan, senior autos analystWhile Tesla is the clear global market leader, its vehicle deliveries are tiny compared to the millions of gasoline-powered cars and trucks sold by established automakers such as General Motors Co. and Volkswagen AG. Those two carmakers and others are preparing to flood the nascent EV market with dozens of battery-powered models over the coming years.Quarter-End PushTo capitalize on its head start, Tesla is building two new vehicle assembly operations -- the one outside Berlin that could eventually assemble as many as 500,000 cars annually, and the other in Texas that will make the brand’s first pickup. Both are expected to start production later this year, joining its existing vehicle-assembly facilities in Fremont, California, and Shanghai.Once known for niche luxury models such as its Model S sedan and X sport utility vehicle, Tesla has broadened its appeal with the 3 and Y models priced to start below $50,000. Musk said in September that he plans to start sales of a $25,000 Tesla by 2023.As usual, Tesla delivered many cars during the quarter’s final days. Musk offered an incentive in the final three days of the year, saying in a tweet that buyers would get three months of an optional driver-assistance tool Tesla calls Full Self-Driving.Danielle Watson, a 31-year-old pharmacist, tweeted on Dec. 28 that she had just taken delivery of a Model Y. In a private message, the Greenville, South Carolina, resident said she took delivery in Charlotte, North Carolina -- a sign the lure of Tesla’s brand power in the U.S. is growing well beyond its home state of California.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tesla-poised-for-expansion-after-just-missing-2020-target/story-SYIZ5TluCSPWP53Lj2hdeM.html
04-01-2021||World||UK rolls out AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine; 82-year-old gets first shot||The United Kingdom on Monday began vaccinating its people with the Covid-19 shot developed by Oxford University along with AstraZeneca. Oxford University Hospital tweeted that Brian Pinker, 82-year-old dialysis patient, received the first shot from nurse Sam Foster at the hospital. 'I'm so pleased to be getting the COVID vaccine today and really proud it is one that was invented in Oxford.' 82-year-old Brian Pinker became the first person in the world to receive the new Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine this morning at @OUHospitals. 💉 pic.twitter.com/nhnd3Sx97m“I am so pleased to be getting the COVID vaccine today and really proud that it is one that was invented in Oxford. The nurses, doctors and staff today have all been brilliant and I can now really look forward to celebrating my 48th wedding anniversary with my wife Shirley later this year,” said Pinker, according to news agency Reuters.Nurse Sam Foster, who administered the first shot, said, “We look forward to vaccinating more patients and health and care staff with the Oxford vaccine in the coming weeks.”Earlier, British health minister Matt Hancock had said that he was delighted to roll out the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and hailed it as “a vital step in our fight against this pandemic.” He had also said that hundreds of more vaccination sites were being activated across the UK to ensure the delivery of the new vaccine. Britain’s National Health Service (NHS) said in a statement that it was the first health service in the world to deliver the AstraZeneca-University of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine and called it a “life-saving” jab. Also read: All you need to know about AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccineDirector of the Oxford Vaccine Group and chief investigator of the Oxford vaccine trial Prof Andrew Pollard too received the shot. He said protecting healthcare workers from Covid-19 is important in the fight against the disease. “It was an incredibly proud moment for me to have received the actual vaccine that the University of Oxford and the AstraZeneca teams have worked so hard to make available to the UK and the world.”The UK government had already procured 100 million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and more than half a million doses were ready for administering on Monday, the BBC reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-rolls-out-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-82-year-old-gets-first-shot/story-xYs9qujY1kB5hfFNG6e4lO.html
04-01-2021||World||Where is Jack Ma? Internet abuzz with questions about billionaire’s whereabouts||The internet is dealing with a burning question: Where is businessman Jack Ma? Speculation around the Chinese billionaire’s whereabouts surfaced after reports of him not making an appearance in the public for more than two months did the rounds, as per a Business Insider report. The founder of Alibaba was scheduled to appear for the shoot of the final episode of his own talent show Africa’s Business Heroes where he was supposed to be participating as a judge, but was later replaced by another Alibaba executive, according to Yahoo Finance which cited a news report in the UK’s Telegraph.A spokesperson of the company said that the tech tycoon was unable to join the adjudicating panel due to a conflict in the schedule, reported Financial Times.Also Read | China targets Jack Ma’s Alibaba Group, orders probe for ‘monopolistic practices’Buzz around Jack Ma’s disappearance from public space comes after China’s antitrust probe on Alibaba and Ant Group. The antitrust probe on the e-commerce empire of the former school teacher alleging monopolistic practises came after China dramatically suspended Ant Group’s $37 billion initial public offer (IPO), which was on the course to be one of the largest IPO in the world. The IPO was halted just 48 hours before its dual listing on Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges. Ant Group was also under heavy scrutiny by the Chinese government after Jack Ma’s speech that criticised the regulation system of the country and called the banks “pawnshops”. “Today’s financial system is the legacy of the Industrial Age,” Ma added, “We must set up a new one for the next generation and young people. We must reform the current system,” reported Yahoo Finance. Jack Ma has lost around $11 billion in the last three months, as per the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/where-is-jack-ma-internet-abuzz-with-questions-about-billionaire-s-whereabouts/story-KMY10S0u68IEpHuPhyRAKN.html
04-01-2021||World||Hong Kong postpones school re-openings to Lunar New Year||Hong Kong pushed back the re-opening of classrooms for more than a month as part of government measures to stamp out the spread of the coronavirus.The suspension of in-person classes at kindergartens through high school, a restriction originally scheduled to expire January 10, will be extended until the lunar new year holidays, which begin on February 12, Education Secretary Kevin Yeung said during a briefing on Monday. The city reported 53 new cases for the day, 43 of which were local.Six of Monday’s cases were untraceable, the lowest number since November 19.Hong Kong has been one of the most aggressive places worldwide to close schools despite research from the likes of the United Nations warning about the adverse consequences of doing so. Still, the city has continued to suspend classes as part of its arsenal to bring down case numbers and re-open its economy to travellers, particularly to those from mainland China.Besides schools, the government will extend other social distancing measures by another two weeks until January 20.The city recently banned travellers from the UK in the wake of a more contagious strain of the coronavirus being detected there. An earlier effort to open up quarantine-free flights to and from Singapore — the first major air travel bubble — collapsed last month after a resurgence of cases in Hong Kong.Separately, Hong Kong reported that a pet cat tested positive for Covid-19 after its owner became infected by the virus. So far, eight dogs and eight cats have tested positive in the city, though the government said there’s no evidence that pets are spreading the coronavirus to people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-postpones-school-re-openings-to-lunar-new-year/story-INXsYsG0rEHTmvCRcq5MpL.html
04-01-2021||World||China telco shares hit by NYSE delisting announcement||Shares in China’s three biggest telecoms companies fell as much as 5% in Hong Kong on Monday, the first trading session since the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) said it would delist the firms in a move China branded unwise and oppressive.By the close of trade, the shares had mostly recovered.The NYSE said on Thursday it would delist China Mobile Ltd , China Telecom Corp Ltd and China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd following the U.S. government’s move in November to block investment in 31 firms it says are owned or controlled by China’s military.Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China’s foreign ministry, said the US move was “unwise”, oppressive, and reflected how “random, arbitrary and uncertain” US rules can be.“China is firmly opposed to the United States politicisation of the trade issue, the abuse of the state’s power and stretching of the concept of national security to suppress Chinese companies,” she told a regular news briefing on Monday.The American Deposit Receipts (ADRs) listed by the three companies have a combined market value of under 20 billion yuan ($3.07 billion), or 2.2% of the firms’ equity, the China Securities Regulatory Commission has said.The delisting could put short term selling pressure on the stocks as the ADR shareholders may convert their holdings into Hong Kong shares before selling them. The stocks’ potential removal from indexes such as MSCI and FTSE could also lead to selling by index funds, said Citi analyst Michelle Fang.“However, Chinese telcos’ operations are mainly domestic focused and their sound fundamentals along with recovery trends and positive cash flows will not be affected by the delisting,” she said.After tumbling more than 4.5% to their lowest since July 2007, China Mobile shares closed down 0.79% at HK$43.85. China Telecom closed 2.79% lower, while China Unicom ended up 0.45%, versus a 0.89% rise in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.All three firms said they had not received a delisting notification from the NYSE.Citic Securities analysts played down the impact of the delisting decision.“The three firms on average only have 1.5% of their shares listed in the U.S. and the rest in Hong Kong, have ample liquidity, and haven’t done any fundraising in the U.S. for 20 years. Having shares listed in the U.S. will only pose more risk for them,” they said in a research note.Washington has hardened its stance against China in recent weeks. In December, it added dozens of Chinese firms to a trade blacklist, accusing Beijing of using them to harness civilian technology for military purposes.Hua said China would take any necessary measures to safeguard the legal rights of Chinese firms.“In recent years it’s been quite normal to see Chinese firms delist in the U.S. or have secondary listings in Hong Kong,” the Citic analysts wrote. “With the delisting, the three telcos will get a chance to have their shares re-evaluated and reduce financial disclosure cost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-telco-shares-hit-by-nyse-delisting-announcement/story-uqG7Z0UuVc6M96bOPIMRhO.html
04-01-2021||World||‘It will not work’: Bernie Sanders warns Republicans against delaying Joe Biden’s inauguration||US senator Bernie Sanders joined his Democrat counterparts in criticising Republicans who are planning to vote against accepting the results of the presidential elections unless there’s a 10-day audit. Their move reportedly cannot change the outcome of the elections but can delay president-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration beyond the expected date of January 20. The move to challenge the election results is being led by two prominent Republican figures, Senator Josh Hawley of Montana and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. Senators from Alabama, Wisconsin, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Wyoming, Louisiana, Kansas and Montana have now joined the coalition to reject the Electoral College tallies unless Congress launches a commission to immediately conduct an audit of the election results. Hawley is particularly opposing the election results in Pennsylvania, where Donald Trump lost by a margin of 80,000 votes, a state he won in 2016. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court rejected a lawsuit by the Trump campaign to overturn the state’s election over unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud. Sanders invoked the Pennsylvania Supreme Court’s judgement in his letter stating that all prior attempts to overturn election results have been duly discredited even by judges appointed by President Trump. “In the two months since the election, more than 80 judges, including some who were appointed by the President, have rejected Donald Trump and his allies’ attempts to overturn the election. There are no cases pending that will have any impact on the results. There have been numerous recounts, audits and verifications, including in the most closely contested states. Donald Trump’s Department of Homeland Security even called this ‘the most secure election in American history’,” he said.“It will not work. Joe Biden will be President at noon on January 20. This spectacle by Republican lawmakers only demonstrates their disdain for voters, democracy and the will of the American people,” Sanders added. The veteran senator from Vermont, who ran for president himself in 2020, tweeted his support of Republican Mitt Romney’s stance on his senate colleagues’ continued efforts at delaying Joe Biden’s confirmation. “I don’t often agree with Sen. Mitt Romney. But in describing the tactics of his GOP colleagues to undermine Joe Biden’s victory, he is right when he says, “I could never have imagined seeing these things in the greatest democracy in the world. Has ambition so eclipsed principle?”, Sanders tweeted. Bipartisan support against Hawley and Cruz’s attempts have been taking shape in the House. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has even warned Republicans against mounting any such challenge, reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-will-not-work-bernie-sanders-warns-republicans-against-delaying-joe-biden-s-inauguration/story-XPMUGIdPO1JKMWskcXZPQI.html
04-01-2021||World||Singapore police could access Covid-19 contact tracing data for criminal investigations||Singapore said on Monday its police will be able to use data obtained by its coronavirus contact-tracing technology for criminal investigations, a decision likely to increase privacy concerns around the system.The technology, deployed as both a phone app and a physical device, is being used by nearly 80% of the 5.7 million population, authorities said after announcing its use would become compulsory in places like shopping malls.The TraceTogether scheme, one of the most widely used in any country, has raised privacy fears but authorities have said the data is encrypted, stored locally and only tapped by authorities if individuals test positive for Covid-19.“The Singapore Police Force is empowered ... to obtain any data, including TraceTogether data, for criminal investigations,” Minister of State for Home Affairs Desmond Tan said in response to a question in parliament.The privacy statement on the TraceTogether website says: “data will only be used for Covid-19 contact tracing”.Privacy concerns have been raised about such apps in various places, including Israel and South Korea.“Concerns have focused on data security issues associated with the collection, use and storage of the data,” law firm Norton Rose Fullbright said on Singapore’s scheme in a review of global contact-tracing technology last month.Asked about the TraceTogether privacy statement by an opposition MP, Tan said: “We do not preclude the use of TraceTogether data in circumstances where citizens’ safety and security is or has been affected, and this applies to all other data as well.”Dissent is rare in Singapore, which has been ruled by the same party since its independence in 1965, has strict laws, widespread surveillance and restrictions on public assembly.Serious crime is also rare.Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has previously said privacy concerns about the tech had to be weighed against the need to curb the spread of the virus and keep the economy open.Singapore has reported only a handful of local Covid-19 cases over the last few months, and its extensive disease surveillance and contact tracing efforts have won international praise including from the World Health Organization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-police-could-access-covid-19-contact-tracing-data-for-criminal-investigations/story-xYKQMG7SjhcMbrY5MLwaaO.html
04-01-2021||World||Germany leads European manufacturing to best month since 2018||Euro-area manufacturing grew the fastest in more than 2 1/2 years in December, bringing some positive news at the end of a horrific year for the region’s economy.Growth was led by Germany, where activity expanded the most in almost three years. With all other countries covered in IHS Markit’s monthly surveys also reporting stronger readings than during the previous month, the euro-area index rose to 55.2 from 53.8.The improvement comes as governments continue to grapple with the coronavirus. The latest restrictions to contain the spread have been mostly confined to services such as bars and restaurants, allowing manufacturing to continue. That’s limiting the downside to the economy compared with the huge slump seen during the initial phase of the pandemic.“Euro-zone manufacturing ended 2020 on an encouragingly strong note,” said Chris Williamson, an economist at IHS Markit. “Rising virus case numbers are nevertheless likely to mean trading conditions remain challenging in the near-term and therefore constrain growth.”Some of the improvement at factories in December, particularly in Ireland and the Netherlands, reflected a temporary boost in demand from U.K. customers stockpiling before the end-of-year Brexit date.The results may not fully capture disruptions in late December. France temporarily closed cross-Channel traffic from the U.K. after a new, more infectious strain of the coronavirus was discovered.In Asia, manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Indexes saw improvements in some countries, though China’s momentum moderated. Its official manufacturing gauge fell in December from a three-year high. The Caixin Media and IHS Markit PMI dropped to 53 from 54.9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-leads-european-manufacturing-to-best-month-since-2018/story-iGl213pvVg7fth7cYCygZO.html
04-01-2021||World||‘Glimmer of hope’: Fauci on increase in Covid vaccinations||The US ramped up Covid-19 vaccinations in the past few days after a slower-than-expected start, bringing the number of shots dispensed to about 4 million, government health officials said Sunday.Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious-disease expert, also said on ABC’s “This Week” that President-elect Joe Biden’s pledge to administer 100 million shots of the vaccine within his first 100 days in office is achievable.And he rejected President Donald Trump’s false claim on Twitter that coronavirus deaths and cases in the U.S. have been greatly exaggerated.“All you need to do ... is go into the trenches, go into the hospitals, go into the intensive care units and see what is happening. Those are real numbers, real people and real deaths,” Fauci said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”The U.S. death toll has climbed past 350,000, the most of any country, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University, while more than 20 million people nationwide have been infected. States have reported record numbers of cases over the past few days, and funeral homes in Southern California are being inundated with bodies.Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said the pandemic is getting worse in his city as the virus spreads rapidly within households and people let their guard down with news of a vaccine’s arrival. “This is a virus that preys off of our weakness, preys off of our exhaustion,” he said on CBS’ “Face the Nation.”Experts believe that the real numbers of U.S. deaths and infections are much higher and that many cases were overlooked, in part because of insufficient testing.Fauci said he has seen “some little glimmer of hope” after 1.5 million doses were administered in the previous 72 hours, or an average of about 500,000 per day, a marked increase in vaccinations. He said that brings the total to about 4 million.He acknowledged the U.S. fell short of its goal of having 20 million doses shipped and distributed by the end of December.“There have been a couple of glitches. That’s understandable,” Fauci said. “We are not where we want to be, there’s no doubt about that.”But he expressed optimism that the momentum will pick up by mid-January and that ultimately the U.S. will be vaccinating 1 million people a day. Biden’s “goal of vaccinating 100 million people in the first 100 days is a realistic goal,” Fauci said.Dr. Moncef Slaoui, the chief science adviser to Operation Warp Speed, the government’s vaccine development and distribution effort, told CBS that 17.5 million doses have been shipped. About 13 million of those have been distributed to clinics, hospitals and other places where they will be administered, according to Fauci.The 20 million-dose goal hasn’t been reached in part because local health departments and medical facilities had to stay focused on testing to handle a surge in cases, U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams said. And the holiday season meant health workers were taking time off, he said.“I don’t want anyone to think I’m being Pollyannish here. There’s what we delivered, and we hope that those will be translated into vaccinations. That has not occurred to the way that we would like,” Adams said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”On Sunday morning, Trump falsely tweeted that the outbreak has been “far exaggerated” because of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s “ridiculous” methodology. He complained, too, that Fauci has been credited by the news media with doing “an incredible job” when Fauci “works for me and the Trump Administration, and I am in no way given any credit for my work.”Fauci and others are warning that an additional surge is likely because of holiday gatherings and the cold weather keeping people indoors.“It could and likely will get worse in the next couple of weeks, or at least maintain this very terribly high level of infections and deaths that we’re seeing,” Fauci said.Arizona on Sunday reported a one-day record of more than 17,200 new cases, eclipsing the previous mark of about 12,000 set in early December. Health officials said the jump appears to reflect infections from Christmas gatherings but was also probably inflated by a reporting lag over New Year’s weekend.North Carolina and Texas reported record numbers of people in the hospital with Covid-19 — nearly 3,600 and over 12,500, respectively..Overseas, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said more onerous lockdown restrictions in England are likely as a variant of the coronavirus has pushed infection rates to their highest levels on record. More than 50,000 new infections have been reported daily over the past six days.Scientists have said the variant is up to 70% more contagious. While Fauci said the U.S. needs to do its own study, he noted that British researchers believe that the mutated version is no deadlier or more likely to make people sicker and that vaccines are effective against it.But Scott Gottlieb, a former U.S. Food and Drug Administration commissioner who serves on the board of vaccine maker Pfizer, said on “Face the Nation” that the variant “really creates more urgency around trying to get this vaccine out more quickly and get more people vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/glimmer-of-hope-fauci-on-increase-in-covid-vaccinations/story-YJ12MaL2WyzyjQugmju7cP.html
04-01-2021||World||NHS denies report it hasn’t committed to delivering 2 million Covid-19 jabs a week||Britain’s National Health Service late on Sunday denied a media report that claimed it has not committed to delivering two million Covid-19 jabs a week.The Daily Telegraph newspaper had said the NHS declined to make the commitment due to the supply of vaccines and issues of logistics including creating an army of vaccinators to deliver the biggest vaccination programme in history. An NHS spokeswoman told Reuters the “story is not true”.“As the CMO has said, the main barrier to vaccine delivery will be availability of the vaccine, and it is completely untrue that staffing constraints are currently standing in the way of vaccine rollout, with the NHS ready to deliver vaccine as supply becomes available,” the spokeswoman said in an email.“The NHS is off to a strong start vaccinating one million people and now beginning the rapid rollout of the Oxford-AstraZeneca, which will enable us to vaccinate millions more people with the support of tens of thousands of vaccinators,” the spokeswoman added.Britain has been at the forefront of approving new coronavirus vaccines, becoming the first country to give emergency authorisation to the Pfizer/BioNTech and the AstraZeneca/University of Oxford vaccines last month.Manufacturers insist doses are being delivered to the timetable agreed with the government, the Telegraph reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nhs-denies-report-it-hasn-t-committed-to-delivering-2-million-covid-19-jabs-a-week/story-V22buX3dXCrffJiAkPJmqI.html
04-01-2021||World||World stock markets kick off 2021 at record highs||World stock markets hit record highs on Monday, the first trading day of the new year, as investors hoped the rollout of vaccines would ultimately lift a global economy decimated by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Chinese yuan surged nearly 1% against the dollar, while the greenback plumbed its lowest levels against a basket of peer currencies since April 2018. Bitcoin hovered above $32,000 on the back of a blistering 800% rally since mid-March.European stocks opened higher, with Britain’s FTSE 100 gaining 1.75%, Germany’s DAX up 1.1%, Spain’s IBEX up 1.3% and Italy’s FTSE MIB rising 0.7%. MSCI’s All-Country World Index, which tracks stocks across 49 countries, hit a record high and was up nearly half a percent on the day after the start of trading in London.“The year kicks off as 2020 ended, an everything rally with the double V dichotomy (virus vs. vaccine) seeing the hopes that either things get worse and stimulus ramps up or things get better and, well, things get better so long as there’s no hint of liquidity withdrawal and a taper tantrum,” a trader said.Asian stock markets also gained, although Japan’s Nikkei 225 index shed early gains, falling 0.4% after Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga confirmed the government was considering a state of emergency for Tokyo and three surrounding prefectures as the coronavirus spreads.Despite the optimism over vaccines, investors are still sounding caution over the path of the virus, which continues to spread amidst the discovery of a new strain.“The virus retains the upper hand for a while longer,” said Karl Steiner, chief quantitative strategist at SEB, noting that vaccinations have had an uneven start, characterized by vaccine shortages, vaccine resistance and delays.Britain began vaccinating its population with the Covid-19 shot developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca on Monday.With the lag between a full vaccine rollout and a global economic recovery, investors will count on central banks to keep money cheap.“We continue to believe that equities have further room to rise in 2021 as monetary and fiscal stimulus measures provide a tailwind, and we anticipate significant earnings growth as the global economy recovers,” said Mark Haefele, chief investment officer at UBS Global Wealth Management.Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s December meeting are due on Wednesday and should offer more detail on discussions about making their forward policy guidance more explicit and the chance of a further increase in asset buying this year.E-Mini futures for the S&P 500 were steady after also touching a record high. PAYROLLS A RISKThe data calendar includes a raft of manufacturing surveys across the globe, which will show how industry is coping with the spread of the coronavirus, and the closely watched ISM surveys of U.S. factories and services.Chinese factory activity continued to accelerate in December, though the PMI missed forecasts at 53.0.Japanese manufacturing stabilised for the first time in two years in December, while Taiwan picked up.Friday sees the U.S. December payroll report where median forecasts are for only a modest increase of 100,000 jobs.Analysts as Barclays are tipping a fall of 50,000 in jobs, which would be a shock to market hopes of a speedy recovery.“A number of incoming indicators on activity point to slower momentum as the economy closes out the year, including data on labour markets where initial claims rose during the December survey period,” said economist Michael Gapen in a note.Such a drop would add pressure on the Fed to ease further, another burden for the dollar which is already buckling under the weight of the massive U.S. budget and trade deficits.In currencies, the euro pushed back up to $1.2281, having run into profit-taking late last week when it reached the highest since early 2018 at $1.2309. It gained almost 9% over 2020.The dollar slipped to 102.80 yen. Sterling firmed to $1.3690, levels last seen in mid-2018.The decline in the dollar has been a support for gold, leaving the metal 1.3% firmer at $1,931 an ounce.Oil prices extended their rise after a couple of months of solid gains, with Brent crossing $53 a barrel. U.S. crude added 2% to $49.52 a barrel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-stock-markets-kick-off-2021-at-record-highs/story-Ux2GvLE3OMgMa3Nxu3NOxO.html
04-01-2021||World||Trump’s last stand on election gives Pence a final loyalty test||President Donald Trump will make his last stand to overturn his election loss on Wednesday when Vice President Mike Pence presides over a congressional session to ratify November’s results, an event that threatens to strain the relationship between the two men.Trump’s refusal to concede and his obsession with overturning the will of voters means the ceremony poses a test for his most loyal subordinate.The vice president’s top aides are developing options for him to acknowledge the reality of the November election result while also nodding, in a possible statement, to the president’s unfounded accusations of vote fraud.Development of the plan has fallen to Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, and General Counsel Greg Jacob, both of whom realize the potential tension in the situation, according to two people familiar with the matter.“Pence just has to play it straight. He has a specific job as defined in the Constitution,” said former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a long time Trump ally. “He doesn’t have the burden of having to force something to happen. All he has to do is preside over it.”In a statement over the weekend, Short said that Pence “shares the concerns of millions of Americans about voter fraud and irregularities in the last election.Yet the president himself is unlikely to let the day pass without comment -- and that, along with following the law, is what most concerns Pence’s friends and advisers.Congress ratifies the results of the election in a joint session every four years, as mandated by the Constitution. Typically, the session is routine and brief.Some of Trump’s allies now argue that Pence has the power to single-handedly change the outcome of the election. Last week, several House Republicans, led by Representative Louie Gohmert of Texas, filed a federal lawsuit seeking to force Pence to reject Electoral College votes from several states where Trump has, baselessly, claimed that President-elect Joe Biden won only thanks to vote fraud.On Thursday, the Justice Department, on behalf of Pence, asked a judge in Texas to deny Gohmert’s request. A federal appeals court threw out the Gohmert suit on Saturday after it was first knocked back Friday by a Trump-appointed judge.These recent machinations place enormous pressure on the vice president. Through four years in the White House, he’s remained unfailingly loyal to Trump, neither publicly disagreeing with any policy nor offering the slightest criticism of his boss.Pence, 61, has long been expected to mount his own campaign for president in 2024, a bid that would depend heavily on support from the president’s base. The possibility that Trump himself might run again has complicated that decision for Pence and other potential candidates.One former Trump campaign official called the Wednesday event one final stress test, arguing that it creates another inflection point for Trump supporters to re-litigate the results of the election.Both Trump and his fans -- thousands of whom are expected to gather on the streets of Washington -- may react with anger should Pence stand silently by as Congress ratifies the president’s defeat. Some Republican House members and at least 11 senators have said they’ll challenge Electoral College votes, forcing lawmakers to vote to accept the results.That would place congressional Republicans in the position of either aligning themselves with Trump’s claims, or risking his wrath by affirming Biden’s victory.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has indicated he doesn’t want the ratification of election results to become a spectacle -- especially if it causes discomfort for fellow Republicans up for re-election in 2022. But GOP senators led by Ted Cruz of Texas are planning just that.Constitutional scholars roundly reject the proposition that the vice president plays any substantive role in the process. The Constitution says only that the president of the Senate -- Pence -- shall “open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted.”These arguments haven’t swayed the president, who’s spent the past last several weeks consumed by his election loss, even as Covid-19 cases surged, Congress narrowly passed a major coronavirus relief package, and federal agencies dealt with a massive hack of data that has been blamed on Russia.In telephone calls with allies and advisers over the last two weeks, Trump has repeatedly discussed what he regards as rampant voter fraud. On Saturday he was scheduled to address an “election integrity watchdog group” call with state legislators to review alleged “irregularities and lawlessness” in the 2020 election. And he’s recently turned his attention toward the ceremony with Pence, who spent the holidays on vacation in Vail, Colorado.In anticipation of the vote ratification, the right-leaning group Club for Growth spent $25,000 to run a commercial on Fox News last week in the Palm Beach, Florida, market while Trump was staying at his Mar-a-Lago resort. The ad tried to counter a critical ad on Pence created by the Lincoln Project, a Trump opposition group, and highlighted Pence’s loyalty to the president.The Club for Growth is run by David McIntosh, a former member of Congress from Indiana and close friend of Pence, who was governor of the state. McIntosh recently traveled with the vice president to campaign in Georgia’s runoff Senate election, and said that during the flight, he and the vice president discussed the Lincoln Project ad.Pence wanted to make sure the president understood “he remained a good friend,” McIntosh said.Pence has privately tried to steer clear of the more conspiracy-minded advisers in Trump’s orbit, according to people close to him.The relationship between Trump and Pence has always been a delicate one that the vice president and his team have taken great care to manage. During his 2016 campaign, Trump wavered between choosing Pence and former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie for his running mate.To the Trump team, Pence brought strong conservative credentials and the support of anti-abortion groups and evangelicals -- along with a close-knit group of aides which has been far more disciplined than many of Trump’s West Wing staff.The vice president has amicably accepted Trump’s toughest assignments, including leading the federal government’s response to the pandemic.Yet despite Pence’s loyalty and conservative bona fides, rumors abounded before the 2020 election that Trump had mused about replacing him. A senior administration official said Pence and Trump still talk frequently and over the past week, spoke at least every other day.Wednesday’s election certification ceremony may mark the ultimate loyalty test for the vice president, and one which Trump will watch closely. Biden’s team called the ratification of the election results “merely a formality,” one that Biden himself presided over in January 2017, certifying Trump’s victory.“Regardless of whatever antics anyone is up to on January 6, President-elect Biden will be sworn in on the 20th,” said Jen Psaki, the incoming White House press secretary.Following Wednesday’s ceremony, Pence intends to hold a series of domestic events during which he’ll highlight the president’s legacy, said a second senior administration official, including potential speeches on the economy, China or foreign policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-last-stand-on-election-gives-pence-a-final-loyalty-test/story-UPT3ohIKov590bmz1I6f6H.html
04-01-2021||World||South Korea’s population falls for first time during Covid-19 pandemic||South Korea’s population declined in 2020 for the first time on record as births dropped to a historic low amid the pandemic.The population fell by about 21,000 to 51.8 million, according to the Ministry of Interior and Safety. The number of South Korean births slid 11% compared with the previous year, likely driving down what is already the world’s lowest national fertility rate.With the pandemic hitting jobs and hurting incomes, even more people are delaying marriage and pregnancies, accelerating the country’s aging problems, the Bank of Korea said in a report last month.South Korean policy makers for years have had little success trying to boost birth rates by subsidizing pay during childcare leave and providing free nurseries. A lack of good jobs is the big reason that young people are choosing to have fewer babies, according to Sung Tae-yoon, an economics professor at Seoul’s Yonsei University.“The economy isn’t growing as fast as it used to, and the rigid wage system that rewards employees for seniority keeps employers reluctant to hire new ones,” he said.The jobless rate for South Koreans in their 20s exceeds 9%, even as the figure for all age groups hovers around 4%.The interior ministry’s report, released Sunday, also showed households getting smaller, shrinking to an average of just 2.24 people. People living alone now account for close to 40% of the total, suggesting that the focus of welfare and housing policies needs to change, the report said.With seniors aged 60 and older now making up 24% of the population and the number of working-age people continuing to decline, government finances are likely to come under increasing pressure, especially given all the spending needed to deal with the pandemic.South Korea’s government still has a low debt-ratio compared with other developed economies, but the pace of increase has alarmed some policy makers and President Moon Jae-in’s administration is pushing for legislation to cap borrowing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-s-population-falls-for-first-time-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-eAj2L4mFDQUI2VSnnkzy0J.html
04-01-2021||World||French regulator head expects Moderna Covid-19 vaccine to arrive this week||France should receive its first deliveries of Moderna’s coronavirus vaccine this week, the head of the medical regulator said on Monday, as the government comes under fire for being too slow with its vaccine rollout. France, which has a strong anti-vaccination movement, started its inoculation campaign at the end of December, as did many other European countries.But it has only vaccinated hundreds since then, versus tens of thousands in Germany and more a million in Britain, which on Monday became the first country to roll out the Oxford/AstraZeneca shot.“I think that the Moderna vaccine ought to arrive this week,” Dominique Le Guludec, head of the Haute Autorite de Sante (HAS), told BFM TV, adding that France wanted more information on the AstraZeneca shot.The United States authorised Moderna’s vaccine on Dec. 19, Canada did so on Dec. 23 and the EU’s watchdog is expected to approve it this week.Epidemiologist and government scientific adviser Arnaud Fontanet told France Info radio that France needed to speed up its vaccine rollout and that the spread of the virus in France was too high for the government to ease restrictions.France has the seventh-highest COVID-19 casualty toll in the world, with more than 65,000 deaths.President Emmanuel Macron said in his New Year’s Eve speech that everyone in France should be able to get a COVID-19 vaccine if they wanted it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-regulator-expects-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-to-arrive-this-week/story-7d8BKXobDryiYX0EQhr2TO.html
04-01-2021||World||China’s Covid-19 whistleblower says hospital left her nearly blind||The Chinese doctor who was the first to blow the whistle on the coronavirus emerging in Wuhan has become nearly blind in one eye in a high-profile medical dispute that has sent shares of China’s biggest private hospital chain plunging.Ai Fen, who heads the emergency department at the Central Hospital of Wuhan where Covid-19 patients were first detected, said that a nearly 30,000 yuan ($4,635) cataract surgery in May at the Wuhan branch of the Aier Eye Hospital Group Co. caused deteriorating vision in her right eye. By October, her retina had detached, she said in a video posted on Weibo last week.Aier’s shares dropped as much as 9.5% in Shenzhen on Monday morning before paring losses.The hospital chain, which runs more than 500 hospitals in China and dozens across Europe, the US, and Southeast Asia, said in a statement Monday that there is no link between the surgery and Ai’s retina detachment.Ai’s extreme myopia was a high-risk factor and the detachment occurred five months after the surgery, which went smoothly, the hospital said.The dispute reflects the ongoing crisis of confidence in private medical providers in China amid rapid growth of the industry, as middle-class Chinese clamour for access to better health care. Local access to better drugs and treatments has greatly improved in recent years as China invests billions in expanding care, but patient-doctor disputes have led to doctors being attacked and even killed by bitter patients and their family members.Ai claimed that Aier doctors ignored test results that could have flagged the surgery’s riskiness and that results from one pre-surgery test were doctored to make her cataract problem seem worse.The hospital denied that tests were doctored, though it acknowledged problems like incomplete patient records after surgery and doctors’ failure to report the adverse event in time.The retina detachment could have been prevented if the doctors had detected signs of complications and paid attention to her concerns of dim vision, she said. “When the retina detachment occurred, they pushed me away to my own hospital for surgery,” Ai wrote.“I have been a very optimistic person but this eye problem has made me collapse,” she wrote. “My family needs to accompany me when I walk and I can’t hold my own baby. I feel that I am having a mental breakdown and I’m in agony.”Ai became a household name in China after local media profiled how she shared on social media a picture of test results indicating that a patient had been infected in mid-December 2019 by an unknown virus similar to SARS. It was the first public warning of a pandemic that has now killed more than 1.8 million people globally.The photo she shared went viral and was re-posted by doctors including Li Wenliang, a young physician who was among those later censured by local police for “rumor-mongering.” Li died after contracting Covid-19 in February, and his death sparked the biggest backlash Beijing had seen in years as people vented their fury at delays and cover-ups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-covid-19-whistleblower-says-hospital-left-her-nearly-blind/story-deas2BhfOoxfekIrAVNoUP.html
04-01-2021||World||New diseases deadlier than Covid-19 could hit humans: Doctor who discovered Ebola warns||The scientist, who discovered Ebola over four decades ago, has warned humanity faces an unknown number of new and potentially fatal viruses emerging from African tropical rainforests even as a woman showing symptoms of hemorrhagic fever in a remote town in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, has sparked fears of new deadly pathogens.According to CNN, the woman in Ingende was tested for several diseases, including Ebola, but they all came out as negative. It sparked fears her illness may have been caused by so-called ‘Disease X’, a new “unexpected” pathogen that could spread as rapidly as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but has Ebola’s fatality rate of 50 to 90%. The patient showing symptoms that looked like Ebola has recovered since then.Also read | Scientists focus on bats for clues to prevent next pandemicThe World Health Organization (WHO) has said “Disease X”, where “X” stands for unexpected, is hypothetical for now, an outbreak that scientists and public health experts fear could lead to serious disease around the world if and when it occurs.Also Watch l ‘Warning signs of pandemic were there’: Dr Guleria at #HTLS2020 “We are now in a world where new pathogens will come out. And that’s what constitutes a threat for humanity,” Professor Jean-Jacques Muyembe Tamfum, who helped discover the Ebola virus in 1976, said while speaking to CNN.  When asked if any new disease could be more apocalyptic than Covid-19, he said: “Yes, yes, I think so.” Also read | A year of trials: Controversies, pitfalls AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine facedMuyembe, according to CNN, has warned many more zoonotic diseases, or those that jump from animals to humans, could arise. Covid-19 is among those diseases, along with yellow fever and rabies, thought to have emerged from an unknown reservoir or the term used to indicate a virus’ natural host in the animal kingdom.Also read | Future pandemics could be deadlier, warns studyMuyembe runs the National Institute of Biomedical Research (INRB) in Kinshasa, which is supported by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and WHO and its labs are the world’s early warning system for new outbreaks of known diseases like Ebola, and -- perhaps more importantly -- for those illnesses scientists are yet to discover. “If a pathogen emerged from Africa it will take time to spread all over the world. So, if this virus is detected early -- like in my institution here -- there will be opportunity for Europe [and the rest of the world] to develop new strategies to fight these new pathogens,” Muyembe told CNN.SARS-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, is suspected to have originated in China and possibly from bats. Experts have largely attributed the outbreak of zoonotic diseases to the deforestation which sees animals’ natural habitats disappear.The coronavirus disease has affected 85 million people, of which 1,843,143 have died, across the world, according to Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tracker. India, the second worst-hit country after the United States, has 10,340,469 infections and its death toll stands at 149,649.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-diseases-deadlier-than-covid-19-could-hit-humans-doctor-who-discovered-ebola-warns/story-zPDzgfw0KeMZ0OzWJnYCWM.html
04-01-2021||World||Brazil’s private clinics seek deal for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin||A Brazilian association of private health clinics said Sunday it was negotiating with Indian pharmaceutical firm Bharat Biotech to buy five million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, which India has just authorized for emergency use.The Brazilian Association of Vaccine Clinics (ABCVAC) confirmed on its website it had signed a memorandum of understanding with the Indian firm to purchase its Covaxin vaccine, which is currently in the final stage of clinical trials.Any final deal would be subject to approval by Brazil’s health regulator, Anvisa, which has yet to approve any vaccines against the new coronavirus.Far-right President Jair Bolsonaro’s government faces mounting criticism of dragging its feet on a vaccination campaign in Brazil, which has the second-highest death toll in the pandemic, after the United States.That has left some state governments, and now the private sector, scrambling to try to launch vaccination drives on their own.ABCVAC described its planned deal with Bharat Biotech as a way to ensure Brazilians using the private health system -- typically the wealthy -- would have access to a vaccine, even as the government reserves its own initial doses for the public health system and high-priority groups such as health workers and the elderly.“We had been looking for solutions for the private market, and the possibility came up of using this Indian vaccine, which is very promising,” ABCVAC president Geraldo Barbosa told TV network Globo News.“It’s an additional sale that will not interfere with the quantity of vaccine doses the government has ordered.”ABCVAC representatives will travel to India Monday to continue negotiations, the association said.It said its clinics could begin vaccinating people by the second half of March, pending the conclusion of clinical trials and regulatory approval from Anvisa.India approved vaccines from both Bharat and Britain’s Oxford University earlier Sunday for “restricted use in emergency situations,” even though the former is still in testing.The country has set an ambitious target of vaccinating 300 million of its 1.3 billion people by mid-year.Brazil is meanwhile struggling to get its vaccination campaign off the ground, amid political squabbling and vaccine skepticism from Bolsonaro.The president regularly flouts expert advice on containing the pandemic and says he does not plan to get a Covid-19 shot himself.The government has secured 100 million doses of the Oxford vaccine but has yet to get regulatory approval or acquire the necessary syringes.Brazil’s health ministry has yet to announce the start date for its vaccination campaign.Earlier Sunday, Anvisa authorized the importation of the first two million doses of the Oxford vaccine, pending approval for their use. ‘Intolerable’ vaccine delays Many accuse the government of waiting too long.The situation has grown “intolerable,” Supreme Court Justice Gilmar Mendes said in a blistering tweet.“Neighboring countries have already started their vaccination campaigns. It is urgent we establish a time frame to do the same. Ignorance must not prevail over science,” he wrote.There are warning signs the virus is surging again in Brazil.Experts say the country of 212 million people is being hit by a second wave, and areas that once seemed to have brought the virus under control are again facing an onslaught of cases and deaths.That includes the Amazon rainforest state of Amazonas, whose capital, Manaus, was devastated by the virus last year, with haunting scenes of mass graves and corpses piled in refrigerator trucks.After a lull in cases in the second half of 2020 -- leading some experts to wonder whether so many people had been infected that the city reached “herd immunity” -- the virus is now exploding again in the region.With its morgues overwhelmed, Manaus has again deployed refrigerator trucks outside hospitals to store cadavers. A judge on Saturday ordered the Amazonas government to shut down all non-essential businesses and activities for 15 days to slow the spread of the virus.Brazil has recorded more than 196,000 deaths from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-s-private-clinics-seek-deal-for-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin/story-rBcawvZw9YLnoZ3Eks78rK.html
04-01-2021||World||National dialogue possible only after resignation of ‘illegitimate’ PM, says Bilawal Bhutto Zardari||Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) Chairman Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari on Sunday asserted that the option of dialogue at the national level will only be possible after the incumbent premier Imran Khan steps down from his post.“Once the incumbent anti-people and illegitimate puppet prime minister steps down, this will pave the way for such a dialogue,” he told a press conference, reported Dawn.Bhutto-Zardari was on a visit to Thatta to offer his condolences to the family of the late Aijaz Ali Shah Sheerazi, a former adviser to the Sindh chief minister.He said the only platform for a national dialogue would be the parliament, but before any such dialogue, the Prime Minister has to resign so that a political solution on issues faced by the people can be chalked out.Lambasting the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government for its poor performance, the PPP chairman said every segment of society, including farmers, labourers and small traders were fed up of it.“People are unable to send their children to schools and buy them essentially required commodities, medicines etc due to inflation and unemployment,” he said.Bhutto-Zardari further argued that Imran Khan could not even provide relief to workers by increasing their salaries nor could it raise the pension of retired people, while tariffs on electricity and gas continued to build up. He also said the premier has pushed Pakistan’s economy in shambles with its growth rate fallen below those of Bangladesh and Afghanistan.He also accused the government of pleasing ‘mafias’ by extending bailout packages worth billions of rupees to them.Furthermore, Bilawal strongly condemned the killing of over 10 coal miners in Balochistan and asked the government to ensure the safety and security of the workers, while demanding the implementation of the National Action Plan (NAP), reported Dawn.“Ever since the current government has come to power, we have been witnessing escape of terrorists from the custody of law enforcement agencies,” he claimed.He also slammed Imran Khan and Interior Minister Sheikh Rasheed for not fulfilling their responsibilities and victimising the opposition and threatening the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) leaders instead.He also reaffirmed PPP’s key role in the struggle against the federal government’s move to occupy provinces’ islands.Bilawal’s statement comes after the PDM held a political rally against the government in Bahawalpur.The 11-party opposition alliance has demanded the resignation of Imran Khan till January 31. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/national-dialogue-possible-only-after-resignation-of-illegitimate-pm-says-bilawal-bhutto-zardari/story-DfRg6ytcg1JrNV4Bp7b6wI.html
04-01-2021||World||‘Global outbreaks’ caused Covid-19 pandemic, says China’s foreign minister Wang Yi||China’s foreign minister said outbreaks outside of the country may have caused the Covid-19 pandemic, as Beijing steps up efforts to recast the virus narrative amid growing scrutiny over the pathogen’s origins.“More and more research suggests that the pandemic was likely to have been caused by separate outbreaks in multiple places in the world,” Foreign Minister Wang Yi said in comments published over the weekend from an interview with the official Xinhua News Agency and state broadcaster CCTV.China took “immediate actions to carry out epidemiological investigation, identify the pathogen and publicize key information including the genome sequencing of the virus,” Wang said. “All this sounded alarm bells across the world.”Wang’s comments come a year after the first known cluster of novel coronavirus cases emerged in the central city of Wuhan, before spreading around the globe. The country was criticized for initially covering up human-to-human transmission of the disease and for acting too slowly to halt its dispersion, with doctors who blew the whistle on a mysterious new pneumonia accused of spreading rumors by police. With its domestic outbreak largely contained, Beijing is stonewalling efforts to find out more about the virus’s origins, with World Health Organization experts kept out of Wuhan in 2020 and an independent probe rebuffed.Read more: China Making It Harder to Solve the Mystery of Where Covid BeganChina is also seeking to recast its response and the early history of the virus. Officials and state media have alternately pushed theories linking Covid-19 to the U.S. military, that the virus could have entered China on imported frozen food, and jumped on research suggesting cases in the U.S. and Italy pre-dated those in Wuhan. The U.S., led by President Donald Trump, has contributed to the politicization of the debate, pushing one theory that suggests a laboratory in Wuhan may have leaked the virus, either accidentally or intentionally.In the interview, Wang said China had “actively engaged” in the global response to the pandemic.“We have stood at the forefront of fighting misinformation, rebutting attempts of politicization and stigmatization,” he said. “We were determined to make sure that the objective narrative and collective memory of the battle against the pandemic would not be distorted by lies.”While WHO experts have been to China in the past year, they haven’t been allowed into Wuhan, the pandemic’s original epicenter. A spokesperson for the body said last month the WHO hoped its expert committee looking into the origin would be able to visit the city in January. China also leveled trade restrictions on Australia after it called for an independent investigation into the virus’s source.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-outbreaks-caused-covid-19pandemic-says-china-s-foreign-minister-wang-yi/story-jRoJX1SvZvTFSnDAXppbCO.html
04-01-2021||World||‘The 2020 election is over’: Republicans condemn ‘scheme’ to undo election for Trump||The extraordinary Republican effort to overturn the presidential election has been condemned by an outpouring of current and former GOP officials warning the effort to sow doubt in Joe Biden’s win and keep President Donald Trump in office is undermining Americans’ faith in democracy.Trump has enlisted support from a dozen Republican senators and up to 100 House Republicans to challenge the Electoral College vote when Congress convenes in a joint session to confirm President-elect Joe Biden’s 306-232 win.With Biden set to be inaugurated January 20, Trump is intensifying efforts to prevent the traditional transfer of power, is ripping the party apart.Despite Trump’s claims of voter fraud, state officials have insisted the elections ran smoothly and there was no evidence of fraud or other problems that would change the outcome. The states have certified their results as fair and valid. Of the more than 50 lawsuits the president and his allies have filed challenging election results, nearly all have been dismissed or dropped. He’s also lost twice at the US Supreme Court.On a call disclosed Sunday, Trump can be heard pressuring Georgia officials to “find” him more votes.But some senior lawmakers, including prominent Republicans, are pushing back.“The 2020 election is over,” said a statement Sunday from a bipartisan group of 10 senators, including Republicans Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, and Mitt Romney of Utah.The senators wrote that further attempts to cast doubt on the election are “contrary to the clearly expressed will of the American people and only serve to undermine Americans’ confidence in the already determined election results.”Republican Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland said, “The scheme by members of Congress to reject the certification of the presidential election makes a mockery of our system and who we are as Americans.”Former House Speaker Paul Ryan, a Republican, said in a statement that “Biden’s victory is entirely legitimate” and that efforts to sow doubt about the election “strike at the foundation of our republic.”Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the third-ranking House Republican, warned in a memo to colleagues that objections to the Electoral College results “set an exceptionally dangerous precedent.”One of the more outspoken conservatives in Congress, Arkansas Republican Sen. Tom Cotton, said he will not oppose the counting of certified electoral votes on Jan. 6. “I’m grateful for what the president accomplished over the past four years, which is why I campaigned vigorously for his reelection. But objecting to certified electoral votes won’t give him a second term—it will only embolden those Democrats who want to erode further our system of constitutional government.”Cotton said he favours further investigation of any election problems, separate from the counting of the certified Electoral College results.Other prominent former officials also criticized the ongoing attack on election results. In a brief op-ed in The Washington Post, the 10 living former defense secretaries -- half of them having served Republican presidents -- called on Pentagon officials to carry out the transition to the new administration “fully, cooperatively and transparently.” They also asserted that efforts to involve the US armed forces in resolving election disputes “would take us into dangerous, unlawful and unconstitutional territory.”Citing election results, legal challenges, state certifications and the Electoral College vote, the former defense secretaries said that “the time for questioning the results has passed; the time for the formal counting of the electoral college votes, as prescribed in the Constitution and statute, has arrived.”The unusual challenge to the presidential election, on a scale unseen since the aftermath of the Civil War, clouded the opening of the new Congress and is set to consume its first days. The House and Senate will meet Wednesday in a joint session to accept the Electoral College vote, a typically routine process that’s now expected to be a prolonged fight.Trump is refusing to concede, and pressure is mounting on Vice President Mike Pence to ensure victory while presiding in what is typically a ceremonial role over the congressional session. Trump is whipping up crowds for a rally in Washington.The president tweeted Sunday against the election tallies and Republicans not on his side.Biden’s transition spokesman, Mike Gwin, dismissed the senators’ effort as a “stunt” that won’t change the fact that Biden will be sworn in Jan. 20.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a letter to colleagues that while there is “no doubt” of Biden’s victory, their job now “is to convince more of the American people to trust in our democratic system.”The effort in the Senate was being led by Sens. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., and Ted Cruz, R-Texas. Hawley defended his actions in a lengthy email to colleagues, explaining that his Missouri constituents have been “loud and clear” with their belief that Biden’s defeat of Trump was unfair.“It is my responsibility as a senator to raise their concerns,” Hawley wrote late Saturday.Hawley plans to object to the state tally from Pennsylvania. But that state’s Republican senator, Pat Toomey, criticized the attack on Pennsylvania’s election system and said the results that named Biden the winner are valid.Cruz’s coalition of 11 Republican senators vows to reject the Electoral College tallies unless Congress launches a commission to immediately conduct an audit of the election results. They are zeroing in on the states where Trump has raised unfounded claims of voter fraud. Congress is unlikely to agree to their demand.The group formed with Cruz, which presented no new evidence of election problems, includes Sens. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, James Lankford of Oklahoma, Steve Daines of Montana, John Kennedy of Louisiana, Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee and Mike Braun of Indiana. New senators in the group are Cynthia Lummis of Wyoming, Roger Marshall of Kansas, Bill Hagerty of Tennessee and Tommy Tuberville of Alabama.The convening of the joint session to count the Electoral College votes has faced objections before. In 2017, several House Democrats challenged Trump’s win but Biden, who presided at the time as the vice president, swiftly dismissed them to assert Trump’s victory. Rarely have the protests approached this level of intensity.The moment is a defining one for the Republican Party in a post-Trump era. Both Hawley and Cruz are potential 2024 presidential contenders, cementing their alignment with Trump’s base of supporters. Others are trying to forge a different path for the GOP.Pence will be carefully watched as he presides over what is expected to be a prolonged showdown, depending on how many challenges are mounted.The vice president “welcomes the efforts of members of the House and Senate to use the authority they have under the law to raise objections,” Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, said in a statement Saturday.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has warned Republicans off such challenges but said little when asked about it as at the Capitol as the Senate opened Sunday.“We’ll be dealing with all of that on Wednesday,” he said.But Republicans simply said they do not plan to join the effort that will fail.Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said Sunday his colleagues will have an opportunity to make their case, but they must produce evidence and facts. “They have a high bar to clear,” he said.Congress have been loathe to interfere in the state-run election systems, a longstanding protocol. States choose their own election officials and draft their election laws. During the coronavirus pandemic many states adapted by allowing mail voting to ease health risks of voting in person. Those changes and others are now being challenged by Trump and his allies.Trump, the first president to lose a reelection bid in almost 30 years, has attributed his defeat to widespread voter fraud, despite the consensus of nonpartisan election officials and even Trump’s attorney general that there was none.The 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals rejected the latest challenge from Rep. Louie Gohmert, R-Texas, and a group of Arizona electors, who filed suit to try to force Pence to step outside mere ceremony and shape the outcome of the vote. The appellate court sided with the federal judge, a Trump appointee, who dismissed the suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-2020-election-is-over-republicans-condemn-scheme-to-undo-election-for-trump/story-Vq2KWcTsl1qt1Ig9b6E2dO.html
04-01-2021||World||Joe Biden’s inauguration to include presidential escort, virtual parade||President-elect Joe Biden’s low-key inauguration on January 20 will include a Pass in Review on the East Front, a presidential escort to the White House, and a virtual parade across America following his official swearing in at the US Capitol, the Presidential Inaugural Committee has announced.After the official swearing-in ceremony on the West front of the US Capitol, the President-elect, First Lady Jill Biden, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, and Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will participate in a Pass in Review on the East front with members of the military.Pass in Reviews are a long-standing military tradition that reflect the peaceful transfer of power to a new Commander-in-Chief, during which the President-elect, hosted by the Commander of Joint Task Force-National Capital Region, will review the readiness of military troops.Every branch of the military will be represented in this event. Participants will be socially distanced and the Presidential Inaugural Committee (PIC), a nonprofit tasked with planning the inauguration, will have vigorous Covid-19 health and safety protocols in place.“This is an exciting opportunity to work with Americans across the country to showcase President-elect Biden and Vice President-elect Harris’ steadfast commitment to a diverse, inclusive, and unified nation. There are many grand traditions to the inaugural, and we plan to honor them by highlighting more of our nation’s people than ever before while keeping everyone safe,” PIC CEO Tony Allen said on Sunday.Thereafter, the President-elect will receive a Presidential Escort from 15th Street to the White House, providing the American people and world with historic images of the President-elect proceeding to the White House without attracting large crowds and gatherings.Every branch of the military will be represented in the escort, including The US Army Band, a Joint Service Honor Guard, and the Commander-in-Chief’s Guard and Fife and Drum Corps from the 3rd US Infantry “The Old Guard”. Participants will be socially distanced and PIC will have vigorous health and safety protocols in place.In light of the pandemic, the PIC will produce a virtual parade across America that will be televised for the American people and feature diverse, dynamic performances in communities across the country, the announcement said.The parade will celebrate America’s heroes, highlight Americans from all walks of life in different states and regions, and reflect on the diversity, heritage, and resilience of the country as the country begins a new American era, it said, adding that the PIC will announce participants in the coming weeks.This programming will honor long-standing inaugural traditions; provide the American people with the iconic images of a new president, a new vice president, and their families making their way to the White House; and feature musical acts, local bands, poets, dance troupes, and more paying homage to America’s heroes on the frontlines of the pandemic, it said.“We are excited about the possibilities and opportunities this moment presents to allow all Americans to participate in our country’s sacred inaugural traditions. This innovative programming will keep people safe and use new ways to bring in Americans across the country — from rural towns and urban cities to younger and older Americans to everybody and everywhere in between,” said PIC Executive Director Maju Varghese.“This is an ambitious goal but we are committed to an inclusive and accessible celebration that brings Americans together and unifies our nation, especially during such a tough time for our country,” he said.Last month, the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies (JCCIC) had said Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris’ inaugurations will be a low-key affair restricted for the public, urging people to participate in the historic event from home in view of the coronavirus pandemic.It said that invitations to members of the 117th Congress will be limited to themselves and one guest.The PIC urged the public to refrain from any travel and participate in the inaugural activities from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-inauguration-to-include-presidential-escort-virtual-parade/story-sULjcXrYqM4NlWbQYn6rlI.html
04-01-2021||World||US President Donald Trump nominates Indian-American advocate Vijay Shanker for Associate Judge||US President Donald Trump has nominated Indian-American advocate Vijay Shanker for the position of Associate Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals.In a communique to the Senate on Sunday, Trump said the nomination of Shanker is for a period of 15 years.If confirmed by the Senate, Shanker will replace John R Fisher, who has now retired. The District of Columbia Court of Appeals is the highest court for Washington DC.Trump had first announced Shaker’s nomination last June. Currently, he serves as Senior Litigation Counsel in the Department of Justice, Criminal Division, and as Deputy Chief of the Appellate Section.Before joining the Department of Justice in 2012, Shanker was in private practice with the Washington, DC, offices of Mayer Brown, LLC and Covington and Burling, LLP.Upon graduation from law school, Shanker served as a law clerk to Judge Chester J Straub on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.Shanker completed his bachelors, cum laude, from Duke University and his Juris Doctor from the University of Virginia School of Law, where he served as a Notes Editor for the Virginia Law Review and was inducted into the Order of the Coif.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-donald-trump-nominates-indian-american-advocate-vijay-shanker-for-associate-judge/story-6fXWv1K5F8G4UgMlmhaT6J.html
04-01-2021||World||Indo-Canadian MP quits key post after violating Covid travel curbs||Amid hysteria in Canada within political circles over non-essential international travel as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic surges in the country, Indo-Canadian MP Kamal Khera has resigned as parliamentary secretary after attending a memorial service for her uncle in the US.Politicians in the country have come under increasing attack in recent days for preaching against such travel and then doing the same themselves. However, while arguing that the “purpose” of her travel was “deemed essential under the circumstances”, the Brampton West MP “decided to step aside” from her duties as parliamentary secretary to the federal minister of international development. In a statement, Khera said this was “in an effort to ensure my choices do not distract from the important work of our government to continue battling this pandemic.”Delhi-born Khera, who is a trained nurse, had won plenty of praise this spring as she helped out as a volunteer as the coronavirus crisis first came to the country. She was the first Canadian MP to contract the virus. “I hope to be able to do my part in the vaccine roll-out where there may be nursing shortages,” she added in her statement.She said her father passed away in September and her uncle a few weeks later, and she travelled to Seattle for a private memorial service for the latter attended by less than 10 persons, after not being able to attend the funeral at the time of his death. She left Canada on December 23, after the end of the Parliamentary session and returned on December 31.Her Liberal Party colleague Sameer Zuberi, who travelled to Delaware to visit his wife’s ailing grandfather last month, has resigned from parliamentary committee positions that he had held, while New Democratic Party MP Niki Ashton lost her formal parliamentary roles with her party after going to Greece to visit her sick grandmother.The finance minister of the province of Ontario Rod Phillips resigned from that post last week after it emerged that he went to the island of St Barts for a Caribbean vacation in late December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indo-canadian-mp-quits-key-post-after-violating-covid-travel-curbs/story-VYheP0img4fLvN7vu0tK3K.html
04-01-2021||World||US House presents bill to terminate Pak designation as Major non-NATO Ally||On the first day of the 117th Congress, a lawmaker has introduced a bill in the US House of Representatives to terminate the designation of Pakistan as a Major non-NATO Ally.Introduced by Republican Congressman Andy Biggs, the bill removes Pakistan’s designation as a major non-NATO ally, a status that allows for various benefits such as access to excess US defense supplies and participation in cooperative defense research and development projects.The bill also notes that the US President cannot issue a separate designation of Pakistan as a Major NATO ally, unless a presidential certification that Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that are contributing to significantly disrupting the safe haven and freedom of movement of the Haqqani Network in Pakistan.It also seeks a presidential certification that Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to prevent the Haqqani Network from using any Pakistani territory as a safe haven and that the Pak government actively coordinates with Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, such as the Haqqani Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.The bill also asks the president to certify that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives.Pakistan was named a Major non-NATO ally during the Bush Administration in 2004. Currently, there are 17 Major non-NATO ally. Brazil was the last country to given this designation by President Donald Trump in 2019.The designation gives the countries to entry into cooperative research and development projects with the Department of Defense (DoD) on a shared-cost basis, participation in certain counter-terrorism initiatives, purchase of depleted uranium anti-tank rounds, priority delivery of military surplus (ranging from rations to ships).It also gives them access to War Reserve Stocks of DoD-owned equipment that are kept outside of American military bases, offers them loans of equipment and material for cooperative research and development projects and evaluations and permission to use American financing for the purchase or lease of certain defense equipment.The designation among other things expedites export processing of space technology and permission for the country’s corporations to bid on certain DoD contracts for the repair and maintenance of military equipment outside the United States.However, President Trump in January 2018 suspended all financial and security assistance to Pakistan. The outgoing Trump Administration even considered terminating the designation of Pakistan as a Major non-NATO ally.Under the Obama Administration, US designated India as a Major Defense Partner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-presents-bill-to-terminate-pak-designation-as-major-non-nato-ally/story-9iQUJawmeVzstqyZe4GGIL.html
04-01-2021||World||10 Chinese spies caught in Kabul get a quiet pardon, fly home in chartered aircraft||Afghanistan has let off the 10 Chinese nationals caught on 10 December for operating a terror cell in the capital city of Kabul and allowed them to leave the country, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. The 10 members of the module were flown out of the country in a plane arranged by the Chinese government.Hindustan Times had reported the detention of the 10 Chinese nationals by Afghanistan’s National Directorate of Security (NDS) for being part of an espionage module on 25 December. Afghanistan had offered to pardon the 10 Chinese nationals on the condition that Beijing apologise for deploying the 10 persons including at least one woman, believed to be linked to China’s spy agency, Ministry of State Security.The terms of the release of the 10 Chinese spies is not known.Diplomats and security officials in Kabul, however, confirmed to Hindustan Times that the 10 had been allowed to board a chartered aircraft that flew them out of the country on Saturday after clearance from President Ashraf Ghani. The 10-member module, evacuated after 23 days in detention, had not been formally charged.President Ghani, who had been briefed about the detentions when Afghanistan’s intelligence agency made the arrests beginning 10 December, had tasked First Vice President Amrullah Saleh, a former NDS chief who is credited with resurrecting the Afghan intelligence agency, to handle the case.As expected, Amrullah Saleh who releases pointers from his security briefings on his Facebook page, had put out what appeared to be a cryptic denial of the arrest of the Chinese nationals on 27 December.“No foreign citizen has been arrested in an effort operation in the Khairkhaneh area. The arrested are the palmadis that are under the scope. A number of them have been arrested on suspicion of being involved in kidnapping and assassination…,” Afghanistan’s First Vice President said.Also Read: China’s spies, India and the 2013 paper by NSA Ajit Doval that saw it comingAmrullah Saleh had earlier conveyed Kabul’s offer to release the 10 spies to China’s envoy Wang Yu if Beijing submits a formal apology that admits to the violation of international norms and a betrayal of Kabul’s trust. Ambassador Wang Yu is learnt to have insisted at this meeting that Kabul does not declare the detentions. An investigative report by an Australian newspaper in mid-December had already spotlighted how Chinese communist party members had infiltrated some of the world’s powerful and influential agencies, including the consulates of Western nations and security agencies.There has been no statement by the Chinese foreign ministry on the espionage module busted in Kabul.A senior diplomat in Kabul had earlier told Hindustan Times that at least two of the 10 Chinese nationals - Li Yangyang and Sha Hung - were in contact with the Haqqani Network, the terrorist group that doubles as the sword arm of the Taliban. Sha Hung used to run a restaurant in Kabul’s Shirpur while Li Yangyang was learnt to have been operating for the Chinese Intelligence since July-August.The NDS team had seized arms, ammunition and Ketamine powder, a recreational drug , from Li Yangyang’s house in the western Kabul neighbourhood of Kart-e-Char when the first round of raids were carried out on 10 December.The Afghan security establishment believes the 10 detainees were creating a fake East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) module in Afghanistan to entrap ETIM operatives in Afghanistan.ETIM is a small Islamic separatist group alleged to be active in Xinjiang province, home to China’s ethnic minority Uighur Muslims. Its founder Hasan Mahsum, an Uyghur from Xinjiang’s Kashgar region, was shot dead in 2003 by Pakistani soldiers. Islamabad has been playing along with China that has been accused of running camps in Xinjiang region, where more than 1 million people are held in camps. Rights groups say China uses the ETIM threat as an excuse to impose restrictions on Uyghurs and discredit human rights activists outside China. The United States last month revoked the terror tag slapped on ETIM although the group continues to be designated by the UN Security Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/10-chinese-spies-caught-in-kabul-get-a-quiet-pardon-fly-home-in-chartered-aircraft/story-YhNI0zjmClMcj6T7TCCwVM.html
04-01-2021||World||Australian ‘lives and homes’ at risk as bushfire nears Perth||An out-of-control bushfire threatened lives and homes in Australia’s west coast city of Perth Monday, with locals told to shelter in place from toxic fumes.Residents in several suburbs south of Perth have been warned to be on watch as around 150 firefighters battled a blaze which has razed more than 230 hectares since Saturday.The local emergency department downgraded the fire from earlier “emergency” level, but warned there was still “a possible threat to lives and homes as a fire is burning in the area and conditions are changing”.It is not known what triggered the fire.Hazardous and reeking fumes emanating from a burning rubbish tip are also causing concern, with locals told to “shelter in place for safety”.Several roads were forced to close and motorists have been told not to travel to the fire-stricken area.There are other wildfires in and around the Perth metropolitan area too, including one that forced the evacuation of a retirement village on Sunday in the southeast suburb of Gosnells.About 60 people were moved to safety and an evacuation centre has been set up in the area. Hot and windy conditions -- pushing 40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit) -- are forecast for Perth this week.Western Australia was spared the brunt of last summer’s devastating climate change-fuelled wildfires, which mostly ravaged the country’s two most populous states New South Wales and Victoria.The fires razed more than 24 million hectares of drought-stricken bushland and forest across Australia in late 2019 and early 2020, killing more than 30 people and destroying thousands of homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-lives-and-homes-at-risk-as-bushfire-nears-perth/story-S5M74g0yNspvk7TtQDHpxK.html
04-01-2021||World||Pelosi narrowly re-elected speaker, faces difficult two years||US Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi was re-elected on Sunday for a fourth term to the position that is just second removed from the presidency.It was a narrow victory in a House that Democrats re-took with a vastly reduced majority. Pelosi, who has led her party in the House since 2003 and is the only woman to be speaker, received 216 votes to 209 for Kevin McCarthy, the top Republican, who again will be the chamber’s minority leader.“As we are sworn in today, we accept a responsibility as daunting and demanding as any previous generation of leadership have ever faced,” Pelosi, 80, said in a statement referring to the swearing-in of the 117th Congress. “We begin this new Congress during a time of extraordinary difficulty. Each of our communities has been drastically, drastically affected by the pandemic and its economic crisis: 350,000 tragic deaths, we sadly carry them in our hearts; over 20 million infections; millions without jobs – a toll beyond comprehension.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pelosi-narrowly-re-elected-speaker-faces-difficult-two-years/story-7dwPKOI0BtS5Qmr4ndSGSK.html
04-01-2021||World||US Congress passes ‘Malala Yousafzai Scholarship Act’ for Pakistani women||The US Congress has passed the ‘Malala Yousafzai Scholarship Act’ which will expand the number of scholarships available to Pakistani women to receive higher education under a merit and needs-based programme.Passed by the House of Representatives in March 2020, the bill was passed by the United States Senate by a voice vote on January 1. The bill now heads to the White House for US President Donald Trump to sign into law.The bill requires the US Agency for International Development to award at least 50% of scholarships under a Pakistan-based higher education scholarship programme to Pakistani women, from 2020 to 2022, across a range of academic disciplines and in accordance with existing eligibility criteria.The bill also requires USAID to consult with and leverage investments by the Pakistani private sector and Pakistani diaspora in the United States to improve and expand access to education programmes in Pakistan.Among other thing, it requires USAID to brief Congress annually on the number of scholarships awarded under the programme, including breakdowns by gender, discipline, and degree type; the percentage of recipients who were involuntarily pushed out of the programme for failure to meet programme requirements; and the percentage of recipients who dropped out of school, including due to retaliation for seeking education.On October 10, 2014, Malala shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Indian children’s rights activist Kailash Satyarthi for her “struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education”.In October 2012, Malala was shot in the head by Pakistani Taliban on her way home from school. In late 2008, she began making the case for access to education for women and girls despite objections from the Pakistani Taliban.Since 2010, the USAID has awarded more than 6,000 scholarships for young women to receive higher education in Pakistan. The bill expands this programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-passes-malala-yousafzai-scholarship-act-for-pakistani-women/story-ciQwYln4qxgDLsvMBd9ayI.html
04-01-2021||World||Thailand to get 2 million doses of China’s Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine||Thailand will get its first lot of Covid-19 vaccines from China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. next month, allowing the country in the middle of a resurgence of the coronavirus outbreak to begin inoculating people with the highest risks for infections.The Southeast Asian nation will receive the Chinese vaccine in three batches, with the first 200,000 doses arriving in February, 800,000 in March, and another 1 million in April, according to the Health Ministry. Thailand has also started local production of vaccines developed by AstraZeneca Plc under a technology transfer agreement, which is expected to be ready for distribution in May, the ministry said.Thailand is racing to curb the spread of a new wave of local infections that started from seafood markets near Bangkok, the nation’s capital and the largest city. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha has imposed a new set of restrictions on businesses and gatherings in Bangkok and 27 of its worst-affected provinces from Monday to contain the outbreak.Thailand, which was relatively successful in containing the pathogen after becoming the first country outside China to report the deadly virus, may see cases spike to about 1,000 a day even with strict control measures, according to the Center for Covid-19 Situation Administration. The country reported 315 new virus cases on Sunday with 294 of them locally transmitted, taking the nation’s total to 7,694.Prayuth’s government has set a target of inoculating 50% of its population, or about 33 million people, by the end of 2021 with vaccines from various sources, including the World Health Organization-backed Covax program. It’s also negotiating with other vaccine developers for additional supplies, according to the health ministry.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-to-get-2-million-doses-of-china-s-sinovac-covid-19-vaccine/story-eCYEP7jhbAxMfPjel1Qe4M.html
04-01-2021||World||Greta Thunberg, Swedish teenage climate activist, turns 18||Sweden’s Greta Thunberg, who pioneered a global climate change campaign as a 15-year-old, turned 18 on Sunday and promised to celebrate by exposing “dark secrets” at her local pub.“Thank you so much for all the well-wishes on my 18th birthday!,” Thunberg said on Twitter.“Tonight you will find me down at the local pub exposing all the dark secrets behind the climate- and school strike conspiracy and my evil handlers who can no longer control me! I am free at last!!.”Thunberg began a climate change campaign that swelled from a one-person school strike to a worldwide movement, drawing in millions of school children, as well as adults.She criticised world leaders over climate change in a speech to the United Nations in 2019, has clashed with U.S. President Donald Trump, and last month called for urgent action five years on from the Paris Accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greta-thunberg-swedish-teenage-climate-activist-turns-18/story-cXNvyxnfsL7r2EJ6aTVCMO.html
04-01-2021||World||Trump caught on tape asking to ‘find votes’ in Georgia||US President Donald Trump’s doomed attempts to overturn his electoral defeat to President-elect Joe Biden took a dramatic and potentially damaging twist after he was heard in a leaked audio pressing election officials in Georgia state, which he lost, to “find” him the votes he needed to win.“All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have. Because we won the state,” Trump said in the leaked recording of a phone call with Georgia state secretary of state Brad Raffensperger, a Republican. Other officials on the call included Trump’s chief of staff Mark Meadows. Trump lost Georgia by 11,779 votes.The recording was obtained and first reported by The Washington Post hours after Trump first reported the conversation that took place on Saturday, in a tweet, with his own spin on it. Raffensperger tweeted back shortly after disputing the president’s version.“The people of Georgia are angry, the people in the country are angry,” Trump told Raffensperger in the conversation, adding, “And there’s nothing wrong with saying, you know, um, that you’ve recalculated.”Raffensperger responded: “Well, Mr President, the challenge that you have is, the data you have is wrong.”Georgia has been a solidly Republican state that the president lost in a stunning upset, along with other swing states that put Biden easily across the finishing line in electoral college votes. He won 306 electoral college votes to Trump’s 232; and secured 7 million more popular votes.“There’s no way I lost Georgia,” Trump said. “There’s no way. We won by hundreds of thousands of votes.” For evidence, he offered conspiracy theories and numbers that have not withstood scrutiny. At one point, he cited the size of his election rallies, which attracted large number of supporters, to suggest he could not have lost.Raffensperger and all other elected Republican officials in Georgia have withstood weeks of unrelenting pressure from the president, his lawyers and allies to change the election outcome. The audits and recounts, including one by hand, bore out the initial result, but Trump was not giving up.The outgoing president and his allies have filed more than 60 lawsuits including in the swing states that he had lost by wider margins: Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Arizona and Nevada. The Trump camp lost almost all the cases including two in the Supreme Court, where a third of the justices are the president’s appointees.The final chapter in his attempts to cling to power will be played out at a joint session of US Congress on Wednesday when lawmakers meet, as constitutionally tasked, to deliver the final certification of the election results reported by the states. At least 12 Republican senators and around 140 members of the House of Representatives have announced their intention to oppose the certification, but don’t have the numbers, not even enough Republicans, to block it. It was not immediately known how the objectors will respond to the tape, which was seen by critics as an egregious attempt by the president to steal the election, with votes he did not win.Also on Sunday, the outgoing president was rebuked jointly by 10 former defence secretaries, who had served both Republican and Democratic presidents. “Our elections have occurred. Recounts and audits have been conducted. Appropriate challenges have been addressed by the courts. Governors have certified the results. And the electoral college has voted,” they wrote. “The time for questioning the results has passed; the time for the formal counting of the electoral college votes, as prescribed in the Constitution and statute, has arrived.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-caught-on-tape-asking-to-find-votes-in-georgia/story-Hxn7oM1TbzppHMoWP3nTSN.html
04-01-2021||World||Covishield vaccine to be sold to govt at Rs 200/ dose, higher price for private buyers, says Adar Poonawalla||India will not allow the export of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine for several months, the head of Serum Institute of India, which has been contracted to make 1 billion doses of the vaccine for developing nations, said Sunday.With rich nations reserving most of the vaccines that will be made this year, Serum Institute — the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer — is likely to make most of the inoculations for developing countries. The ban on exports, however, means that poorer nations will probably have to wait a few months before receiving their first shots.The vaccine was granted emergency authorization by the Indian regulator on Sunday, but on the condition that Serum Institute doesn’t export the shots to ensure that vulnerable populations in India are protected, Adar Poonawalla, the company’s CEO, said in a phone interview with The Associated Press.Also read | ‘Can deliver vaccines 7-10 days after purchase order’: Adar PoonawallaHe said that the company also has been barred from selling the vaccine on the private market.“We can only give (the vaccines) to the government of India at the moment,” Poonawalla said, adding the decision was also made to prevent hoarding.As a result, he said, the export of vaccines for COVAX — the ambitious initiative created to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines set up by the World Health Organization, vaccines alliance GAVI and CEPI, a global coalition to fight epidemics — won’t begin until March or April.Poonawalla said that Serum Institute was in the process of signing a larger contract with COVAX for 300 million-400 million doses of the vaccine. That is apart from two existing orders of 100 million doses each for the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and another one from Novovax. He said the deal would be finalized in the coming weeks.He said the first 100 million doses of the vaccine were being sold to the Indian government at a “special price” of 200 rupees ($2.74) per dose, after which prices would be higher. The vaccine will be sold on the private market at 1,000 rupees ($13.68) per dose. He said vaccines could be delivered to Indian states where they were needed within seven to 10 days of the company finalizing a deal with India’s government.Poonawalla said his company was planning to give 200 million to 300 million doses of the vaccine to COVAX by December 2021. He acknowledged that the company would have to balance distribution of vaccines between India and COVAX.“We can’t vaccinate everybody right now. We can prioritize,” he said.Serum Institute is also negotiating bilateral agreements with individual countries including Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia and Morocco, Poonawalla said. “So that at least the most vulnerable in the states of our country or in other parts of other countries are taken care off,” he said.Poonawalla said that even if all the plans by different global vaccine manufacturers were to succeed, he still anticipates a global shortage for coronavirus vaccines over the next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covishield-vaccine-to-be-sold-to-govt-at-a-special-price-says-adar-poonawalla/story-CQG4XsGWhNFu8VEWpoeNOM.html
04-01-2021||World||Covid-19: India approves first 2 vaccines, UK to begin another immunisation drive||The global tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has topped 85 million with more than 1.8 million deaths, the Johns Hopkins University tracker shows, even as vaccination drives are underway in several countries. On Sunday, India approved its first two Covid-19 vaccines and immunisation drive, likely to be the world’s largest, is expected to begin soon.Here are some latest updates on the Covid-19 vaccine front:1. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday announced it had given approval for use in emergency cases of the respective vaccines of Oxford University-AstraZeneca, and Bharat Biotech International Limited. Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, will be manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), while Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is the country’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. A third vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D of Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, was given the nod for phase 3 trials.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage2. The United Kingdom will on Monday start giving shots of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, which was approved by the country’s health regulators last week. Covishield will be the second Covid-19 vaccine to be used in the UK, which last month became the first country to start a vaccination drive, administering shots of the Pfizer Inc-BioNTech SE vaccine.3. An association of private health clinics in Brazil confirmed on Sunday it was in talks to procure from India’s Bharat Biotech, five million doses of its Covaxin. The Brazilian Association of Vaccine Clinics (ABCVAC) confirmed on its website it had signed an MoU for Covaxin, which received authorisation in India on Sunday. Brazil is yet to get a Covid-19 vaccine and any deal will have to be approved by the South American country’s health regulator, Anvisa. Brazil is the third worst-hit country in the world, after the United States and India, respectively.4. Jordan’s prime minister Bisher al-Khasawneh on Sunday announced his government had agreed to purchase vaccines from Pfizer-BioNTech SE, as well as the World Health Organization (WHO). While 1 million doses will be purchased from Pfizer-BioNTech SE, 2 million will be procured from the WHO, under its COVAX programme. However, it was not specified when these vaccines would be received.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-india-approves-first-2-vaccines-uk-to-begin-another-immunisation-drive/story-wTYyBIOlan7h9VxoAlaZAM.html
04-01-2021||World||7th body found in Norway mudslide, 3 still missing||Rescue workers have uncovered a seventh body from a landslide that buried homes in a village near Norway’s capital, police said Sunday, with a two-year-old girl and her father among the dead.The tragedy occurred early on Wednesday when houses were destroyed and shifted hundreds of metres under a torrent of mud in the village of Ask, 25 kilometres (15 miles) northeast of Oslo.Police spokesman Bjorn Christian Willersrud told journalists they hoped to find more survivors in the landslide zone. “It is still a rescue operation until we decide otherwise,” he said.Earlier Sunday, the head of the rescue operation, Goran Syversen, told reporters: “We are working hard in the depression created by the landslide. “We have five teams working at the same time. They are doing very difficult work which is not without risk. Nevertheless, we are making good progress.”Police said the latest body was found near where two others had been recovered, but gave no further details. The teams, backed up by sniffer dogs, helicopters and drones, have now found three bodies on Sunday, one on Saturday and three on Friday.Local residents left candles near the site of the tragedy.Five of the recovered victims have been identified, including a woman in her fifties and her 29-year-old son, and a 40-year-old man and his two-year-old daughter.The first victim to be recovered, on January 1, was a 31-year-old man.Earlier police published the names of all 10 people, including the two-year-old and a 13-year-old, who went missing on Wednesday.Ten people were also injured in the landslide, including one seriously who was transferred to Oslo for treatment.About 1,000 people of the town’s population of 5,000 have been evacuated, because of fears for the safety of their homes as the land continues to move.“It is a completely surreal and terrible situation,” one of the evacuees, Olav Gjerdingen, told AFP.Royal visit The rescuers received a visit Sunday from King Harald, his wife Sonja and Crown Prince Haakon, who lit candles for the victims in a local church.“I’m having trouble finding something to say, because it’s absolutely horrible,” the king said after the visit.“This terrible event impacts us all. I sympathise with you who are beginning the new year with sadness and uncertainty,” he said in a televised statement.The authorities have banned all aircraft from the disaster area until 3 pm Monday as they conduct aerial searches.The teams, who are also seeking to rescue family pets, were digging channels in the ground to evacuate casualties.The Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) said the disaster was a “quick clay slide” of approximately 300 by 800 metres (yards).Quick clay is a sort of clay found in Norway and Sweden that can collapse and turn to fluid when overstressed.On the recommendations of the NVE, the authorities decided to narrow the evacuation, allowing some local people to return to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/7th-body-found-in-norway-mudslide-three-still-missing/story-Tz3SvopN9k0WiprQ0VTFPO.html
04-01-2021||World||Pakistan cancels 200,000 fake citizen ID cards held by Afghan refugees||Pakistan has cancelled about 200,000 computerised national identity cards (CNICs) fraudulently held by Afghanistan refugees. Speaking to reporters in his home town Rawalpindi on Saturday, Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said: “We have data of 1.5 million Afghan refugees having legal status and about 800,000 Afghans living in the country illegally.” He said corruption in the issuance of visas was being tackled and the government was providing online visa facility to citizens of 192 countries. “To eliminate the chances of corruption, we have launched online visa service as there are chances of corruption in manual processing of visas,” he said, adding that over 200,000 visa applications were received for online visas in a single day. Meanwhile, Rashid said persons targeting the armed forces were doing so at the behest of foreign countries and action would be taken “within 72 hours” against those making “anti-army” remarks. “We would defeat such disinformation against our country and state institutions,” he said. The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) - an alliance of 11 Opposition parties - has been formed against the Pakistan Army’s interference in politics and installing “puppet” Prime Minister Imran Khan through a manipulated election. Already, a case was being registered against Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam Fazl leader Mufti Kifayatullah over his remarks on the army, he said. Rashid, who took charge as interior minister last month, said unnecessary checkposts were being abolished in the capital and a new police force, Eagle Squad, equipped with latest technology would be raised soon to provide security in Islamabad. He also said five police officials involved in the killing of a 22-year-old student this week in Islamabad were arrested. The killing shocked the people as the youth was targeted when he failed to stop the car when signaled by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-cancels-200-000-fake-citizen-id-cards-held-by-afghan-refugees/story-PzYqXebTWUWrgyc9gSwEPN.html
04-01-2021||World||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to hear UK judge’s ruling on extradition to US||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange will learn on Monday whether a British judge has approved his extradition to the United States to face charges including espionage over the release of secret US military documents.US authorities accuse Australian-born Assange, 49, of 18 counts of conspiring to hack government computers and of breaching a secrecy law by releasing vast troves of confidential military records and diplomatic cables over a decade ago.If extradited and then found guilty of espionage, Assange could go to prison for 30 to 40 years, his lawyers say, though prosecutors say he would face no more than 63 months in jail.Whoever loses Monday’s ruling is likely to appeal to London’s High Court and the case could go the United Kingdom’s Supreme Court, further delaying the final outcome.US prosecutors and Western security officials see Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, as a reckless and dangerous enemy of the state whose actions put at risk the lives of agents whose names were in the material.Supporters regard him as an anti-establishment hero who has been victimised because he exposed US wrongdoing in wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and say his prosecution is an assault on journalism and free speech.Assange’s legal team said in its closing written submission to Judge Vanessa Baraitser that the prosecution had been politically motivated “during a unique period of US history under the (US President Donald) Trump administration.”The legal team representing the United States has challenged that assertion, saying US federal prosecutors are forbidden to consider political opinion in making their decisions.DIPLOMATIC CABLESWikiLeaks published a US military video in 2010 showing a 2007 attack by Apache helicopters in Baghdad that killed a dozen people, including two Reuters news staff. It then released thousands of secret classified files and diplomatic cables.The legal saga began soon afterwards when Sweden sought Assange’s extradition from Britain over allegations of sex crimes. When he lost that case in 2012, he fled to the Ecuadorean embassy in London, where he spent seven years, during which he fathered two children.When he was finally dragged out in April 2019, he was jailed for breaching British bail conditions although the Swedish case against him had been dropped. Last June, the US Justice Department formally asked Britain to extradite him.Assange’s legal team say the charges are politically motivated, his mental health is at risk, conditions in US prisons breach Britain’s human rights laws, and he and his lawyers were spied on while he was in the Ecuadorean embassy.The US legal team has said many of Assange’s defence arguments are issues that should be addressed in a trial and have no bearing on extradition.There is also a possibility that Joe Biden might reverse the decision to prosecute Assange after Biden succeeds Trump as president later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wikileaks-founder-julian-assange-to-hear-uk-judge-s-ruling-on-extradition-to-us/story-Uy2ELB9CYaDBsool5tpPSL.html
04-01-2021||World||‘Be careful’: Iran’s foreign minister urges Trump to avoid Israel ‘trap’ to provoke war||Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif urged US President Donald Trump on Saturday not to be “trapped” by an alleged Israeli plan to provoke a war through attacks on US forces in Iraq.He issued the warning on the anniversary of the US killing of top Iranian general Qassem Soleimani by a drone strike in Iraq. There was no immediate comment by Israel.Washington blames Iran-backed militia for regular rocket attacks on US facilities in Iraq, including near the US embassy. No known Iran-backed groups have claimed responsibility.Also Read: Trump aims to fabricate ‘pretext for war’: Iran’s Foreign Minister“New intelligence from Iraq indicate(s) that Israeli agent-provocateurs are plotting attacks against Americans — putting an outgoing Trump in a bind with a fake casus belli (act justifying war),” Zarif said in a tweet. “Be careful of a trap, @realDonaldTrump. Any fireworks will backfire badly,” Zarif wrote.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s office and the Israeli Foreign Ministry declined to comment on Zarif’s remarks.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Zarif’s message.Esmail Ghaani, who succeeded Soleimani as head the elite Quds force, said on Friday Iran was still ready to respond.The US military flew two nuclear-capable B-52 bombers to the Middle East in a message of deterrence to Iran on Wednesday, but the bombers have since left the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/be-careful-iran-s-foreign-minister-urges-trump-to-avoid-israel-trap-to-provoke-war/story-lyExCIiiENqn85Kngad9jI.html
04-01-2021||World||Congress opens new session as coronavirus, Joe Biden’s win dominate||Congress convened Sunday for the start of a new session, swearing in lawmakers during a tumultuous period as a growing number of Republicans work to overturn Joe Biden’s victory over President Donald Trump and the coronavirus surges.Democrat Nancy Pelosi was reelected as House speaker by her party, which retains the majority in the House but with the slimmest margin in 20 years after a surprisingly strong GOP performance in the November election.Opening the Senate could be among Mitch McConnell’s final acts as majority leader. Republican control is in question until Tuesday’s runoff elections for two Senate seats in Georgia. The outcome will determine which party holds the chamber.The House and Senate were required to convene Sunday, by law, and imposed strict COVID protocols. Elbow bumps replaced handshakes as senators took the oath of office. Fewer family members than usual joined lawmakers at the Capitol. A special enclosed seating section was designed for lawmakers in COVID quarantine.But by day’s end, House lawmakers were hugging and congratulating one another after taking the oath of office in the crowded chamber, an alarming scene during the pandemic.“To say the new Congress convenes at a challenging time would be an understatement,” McConnell said as the chamber opened.Still, McConnell said with the start of a new year there are reasons for optimism, “let’s make the American people proud.”Pelosi said the top priority is defeating the coronvirus. And “defeat it we will,” she said to applause.It’s often said that divided government can be a time for legislative compromises, but lawmakers are charging into the 117th Congress with the nation more torn than ever, disputing even basic facts including that Biden won the presidential election.Fraud did not spoil the 2020 presidential election, a fact confirmed by election officials across the country. Before stepping down last month, Attorney General William Barr, a Republican appointed by Trump, said there was no evidence of fraud that affected the election’s outcome. Arizona’s and Georgia’s Republican governors, whose states were crucial to Biden’s victory, have also stated that their election results were accurate.Nevertheless, a dozen Republicans bound for the new Senate, led by Sens. Josh Hawley and Ted Cruz, and even more in the House have pledged to become a resistance force to Biden’s White House, starting with efforts to subvert the will of American voters. These GOP lawmakers plan to object to the election results when Congress meets on Wednesday to tally his 306-232 Electoral College victory over Trump.Vice President Mike Pence, who as president of the Senate, presides over the session and declares the winner, is facing growing pressure from Trump’s allies over that ceremonial role.Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, said in a statement Saturday that Pence “welcomes the efforts of members of the House and Senate to use the authority they have under the law to raise objections.”Democrats, meanwhile, are pushing ahead, eager to partner with Biden on shared priorities, starting with efforts to stem the pandemic and economic crisis. They plan to revisit the failed effort to boost pandemic aid to $2,000 for most people.“This has been a moment of great challenge in the United States of America filled with trials and tribulations, but help is on the way,” Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., the chairman of the House Democratic caucus, said in an interview.“America is a resilient nation, filled with resilient people,” he said. “We will continue to rise to the occasion, emerge from this pandemic and continue to march toward our more perfect union.”Among the House Republican newcomers are Trump-aligned Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia, who has given nod to conspiracy Q-Anon theories, and gun rights advocate Lauren Boebert of Colorado, who circulated a letter of support to retain the right of lawmakers to carry firearms in the Capitol.Greene was among a group of House Republicans led by Rep. Mo Brooks of Alabama who visited with Trump at the White House during the holiday season about their effort to undo the election.The “Jan. 6 challenge is on,” Taylor Greene said in a tweet pinned to the top of her social media account. Boebert also tweeted support for those challenging Biden’s victory.House Republicans boosted their ranks in the November election, electing a handful of women and minorities, more than ever. Some of the new GOP lawmakers are being called the “Freedom Force,” and a counter to the “squad” — Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and other liberal Democratic women who swept to office in the last session.In a statement Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., the minority leader, said the new Republican members “are a strong representation of who America is and where we come from.”Progressive Democrats bolstered their ranks with newcomers aligned with more liberal priorities.The Capitol itself is a changed place under coronavirus restrictions. Lawmakers are arriving in Washington from all parts of the country potentially exposed to the virus during their travel.Several lawmakers have been sickened by the virus and some will be absent Sunday. Also, a memorial was held Saturday for newly elected Republican lawmaker Luke Letlow, 41, of Louisiana, who died of complications from Covid-19 days before the swearing in.The Office of the Attending Physician has issued several lengthy memos warning lawmakers off meeting in groups or holding traditional receptions to prevent the spread of the virus. Masks have been ordered worn at all times and Pelosi has required them to be used in the House chamber. Members are required to have coronavirus tests and have access to vaccines.“Do not engage any in-person social events, receptions, celebrations, or appointments, outside your family unit, and always wear a face covering outside your home,” the physician’s office warned in one memo. “You should strictly avoid any type of office-based reception or celebration during the days ahead.”Even the traditional swearing in ceremonies will be limited in the House. No more big family portraits with new lawmakers taking the oath of office. Instead, each representative-elect can bring one guest in line with social distancing protocols.The vice president typically swears in the senators and Pence elbow-bumped senators as he did.Pelosi, who is returning as speaker, the first woman to hold the job, faced a tight race, with the House split 222-211, with one race still undecided and one vacancy after Letlow’s death.The California Democrat won a majority of those present and voting to retain the speaker’s gavel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/congress-opens-new-session-as-coronavirus-joe-biden-s-win-dominate/story-eVTvtdEjXLbWEIwfSrCfAN.html
04-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi re-elected as US House speaker amid political uncertainty||Nancy Pelosi was narrowly re-elected speaker of the US House of Representatives on Sunday, as a new Congress took office amid political uncertainty, with Senate control undecided and a Republican fight looming over presidential election results.The House voted 216-209 to reinstate Pelosi, after Democrats lost 11 seats in the November elections to command a narrower 222-212 majority. Five Democrats chose not to support her - two voted for Democratic lawmakers who were not running, while three others simply voted “present.”“As we are sworn in today, we accept a responsibility as daunting and demanding as any that previous generations of leadership have faced. We begin the new Congress during a time of extraordinary difficulty,” Pelosi said in a floor speech that noted the deaths of more than 350,000 Americans from the Covid-19 pandemic.“Now is a time for our nation to heal. Our most urgent priority will continue to be defeating the coronavirus. And defeat it, we will,” she added, pledging that further aid would follow the latest $892 billion package that Congress passed in December.The Senate remains Republican run ahead of twin elections in Georgia on Tuesday, giving its members a platform to again air President Donald Trump’s baseless claims that his loss to Democratic President-elect Joe Biden was the result of fraud.Multiple state and federal reviews have found no evidence of the sort of widespread fraud Trump claims, but Republican senators and House members plan to challenge the election result when Congress certifies it on Wednesday.A Republican push led by Senator Ted Cruz for an emergency 10-day audit of election results in contested battleground states drew criticism on Sunday from Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, a staunch Trump ally.“It appears to be more of a political dodge than an effective remedy,” Graham said in a statement. “I will listen closely. But they have a high bar to clear.”The narrower balance of power in both chambers this year could also encourage moderates from each party to flex their political muscles, especially after Trump leaves the White House on Jan. 20 and Biden, who ran as a centrist, takes office.But leaders in both the House and Senate tried to sound optimistic despite mounting challenges. “From political division to a deadly pandemic to adversaries around the world, the hurdles before us are many and they are serious,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on the Senate floor. “But there is also plenty of reason for hope,” the Kentucky Republican added, citing the ongoing rollout of coronavirus vaccine. “I’d say 2021 looks bright already.” House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, the chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, also said in a statement he hoped the new Congress would “turn the page” on partisan division “and begin a new chapter of cooperation among Democrats and Republicans.”But the smaller Democratic majority and the still-raging coronavirus pandemic made re-election as speaker trickier for Pelosi, the only woman ever to hold the job.“It’s not personal. It’s not malicious. It just represents a feeling in my district,” Democratic Representative Elissa Slotkin of Michigan told reporters before voting “present.” “We need a different crop (of leaders) that represents a broader swath of the country,” Slotkin said. The smaller caucus meant less room for dissident Democrats to vote against Pelosi without risking a possible win for Republican leader Kevin McCarthy, who opposed her.“We are just (an) extremely slim amount of votes away from risking the speakership to the Republican Party,” said Democratic Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a progressive who wants new leadership but still backed Pelosi. “It’s bigger than any one of us. And that is consequential,” she added. In the Senate, Vice President Mike Pence swore in 32 senators on Sunday, administering the oath of office in pairs due to Covid-19 restrictions. A Republican win of one or both Georgia Senate seats up for election on Tuesday would cement the Republican majority led by McConnell.Twin Democratic wins in Georgia would produce a 50-50 Senate, where Democratic Vice President-elect Kamala Harris would hold the tie-breaking vote once she is sworn in on Jan. 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-re-elected-as-us-house-speaker-amid-political-uncertainty/story-uBb6PKwwAQiLVgs548fB7L.html
04-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi narrowly reelected speaker, faces difficult 2021||Nancy Pelosi was narrowly reelected Sunday as speaker, giving her the reins of Democrats’ slender House majority as President-elect Joe Biden sets a challenging course of producing legislation to tackle the pandemic, revive the economy and address other party priorities.The California Democrat, who has led her party in the House since 2003 and is the only woman to be speaker, had been widely expected to retain her post. Pelosi received 216 votes to 209 for Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., who again will be the chamber’s minority leader.To gain her victory, Pelosi had to overcome some Democratic grumbling about her longevity, a slim 222-211 edge over Republicans after November’s elections, and a handful of absences because of the coronavirus. There were two vacancies in the 435-member House, and whatever happens Democrats will have the smallest House majority in two decades.The new Congress convened Sunday, just two days after lawmakers ended their contentious previous session and with Covid-19 guidelines requiring testing and face coverings for House members. There was widespread mask-wearing and far fewer lawmakers and guests in the chamber than usual, an unimaginable tableau when the last Congress commenced two years ago, before the pandemic struck.Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., formally nominated Pelosi for the job, calling her “a notorious negotiator and a legendary legislator for such a time as this.”Jeffries, a member of House leadership who’s expected to contend for the speakership whenever Pelosi steps aside, said that as Pelosi prepares to work with Democratic President-elect Joe Biden, “Brighter days are ahead in the United States of America. This is the day of great renewal in the House of Representatives.”To be reelected, Pelosi needed a majority of votes cast for specific candidates and could afford to lose only a handful of Democratic votes. House rules give her a bit of wiggle room because lawmakers who are absent or who vote “present” are not counted in the total number of those voting.Sunday’s vote was expected to last perhaps three hours as lawmakers voted in groups of around 72 each to minimize exposure to the virus.With every vote at a premium, workers had constructed an enclosure in a balcony overlooking the House chamber so lawmakers exposed to or testing positive for the coronavirus could more safely vote. Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, voted from there.Two Democrats who tested positive for the virus last month and say they have recovered voted for Pelosi from the House floor: Wisconsin Rep. Gwen Moore and Washington state Rep. Rick Larsen.In a positive sign for Pelosi, newly elected progressive Rep. Jamaal Bowman, D-N.Y., voted for her. “Our country needs stability right now, and it’s really important for the Democratic Party to come together,” Bowman told a reporter.Pelosi won plaudits from many Democrats for two years of leading their opposition to President Donald Trump, largely keeping her party’s moderates and progressives united on their joint goal of defeating him and raising mountains of campaign funds. No Democrat has stepped forward to challenge her, underscoring the perception that she would be all but impossible to topple.But Pelosi is 80 years old, and ambitious younger members continue chafing at the longtime hold she and other older top leaders have had on their jobs. Democrats were also angry and divided after an Election Day that many expected would to mean added House seats for the party but instead saw a dozen incumbents lose, without defeating a single GOP representative.Pelosi recently suggested anew that these would be her final two years as speaker, referencing a statement she made two years ago in which she said she would step aside after this period.The speaker’s election was coming 17 days before Biden is inaugurated. Yet rather than a fresh start for him and Pelosi, there were issues and undercurrents that will be carrying over from Trump’s tempestuous administration.Though Congress enacted — and Trump finally signed — a $900 billion Covid-19 relief package late last month, Biden and many Democrats say they consider that measure a down payment. They say more aid is needed to bolster efforts to vaccinate the public, curb the virus and restore jobs and businesses lost to the pandemic.Many Democrats, with the unlikely support of Trump, wanted to boost that bill’s $600 per person direct payments to $2,000 but were blocked by Republicans. Democrats want additional money to help state and local governments struggling to maintain services and avoid layoffs.Biden’s priorities also include efforts on health care and the environment.Guiding such legislation through the House will be a challenge for Pelosi because her party’s narrow majority means just a handful of defectors could be fatal.In addition, cooperation with Republicans could be made more difficult as many in the GOP are continuing to demonstrate fealty to the divisive Trump, backing his unfounded claims that his reelection loss was tainted by fraud. Congress will meet Wednesday to officially affirm Biden’s clear Electoral College victory over Trump. Many House and Senate Republicans say they will contest the validity of some of those votes, but their efforts that are certain to fail.There was no widespread fraud in the election, which a range of election officials across the country, as well as Trump’s former attorney general, William Barr, have confirmed. Republican governors in Arizona and Georgia, key battleground states crucial to Biden’s victory, have also vouched for the integrity of the elections in their states. Nearly all the legal challenges from Trump and his allies have been dismissed by judges, including two tossed by the Supreme Court, which includes three Trump-nominated justices.Meanwhile, it’s not clear which party will control the Senate, which Republicans will hold unless Democrats win both Senate runoff elections in Georgia on Tuesday.In the House, one race in New York is still being decided and there is a vacancy in Louisiana after GOP Rep.-elect Luke Letlow, 41, died after contracting Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-narrowly-reelected-speaker-faces-difficult-2021/story-Uki4t4Lxx65sRLEZCTe70H.html
04-01-2021||World||Trump, on tape, presses Georgia official to ‘find’ votes||President Donald Trump badgered and pleaded with Georgia’s election chief to overturn Joe Biden’s win in the state, suggesting in a telephone call that the official “find” enough votes to hand Trump the victory.The conversation Saturday was the latest step in an unprecedented effort by a sitting president to pressure a state official to reverse the outcome of a free and fair election that he lost. The renewed intervention and the persistent and unfounded claims of fraud by the first president to lose reelection in almost 30 years come nearly two weeks before Trump leaves office and two days before twin runoffs in Georgia that will determine control of the Senate.Trump confirmed in a tweet Sunday that he had spoken with Georgia’s secretary of state, Republican Brad Raffensperger, a day earlier.Audio snippets of the conversation were posted online by The Washington Post. A recording of the call was later obtained by The Associated Press from a person who was on the call.The president, who has refused to accept his loss to the Democratic president-elect, is heard telling Raffensperger at one point: “All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have. Because we won the state.”Georgia certified election results showing that Biden won the state’s Nov. 3 election by 11,779 votes.The White House referred questions to Trump’s reelection campaign, which did not respond Sunday to an emailed request for comment. Raffensperger’s office did not respond to a text message seeking comment.Trump has repeatedly attacked how Raffensperger ran Georgia’s elections, claiming without evidence that the state’s 16 electoral votes were wrongly given to Biden.“He has no clue!” Trump tweeted of Raffensperger, saying the state official “was unwilling, or unable” to answer questions about a series of claims about ballot handling and voters that have been debunked or shot down by judges and election authorities.Raffensperger’s Twitter response: “Respectfully, President Trump: What you’re saying is not true. The truth will come out.”There was no widespread fraud in the election, which a range of election officials across the country, as well as Trump’s former attorney general, William Barr, have confirmed. Republican governors in Arizona and Georgia, key battleground states crucial to Biden’s victory, have also vouched for the integrity of the elections in their states. Nearly all the legal challenges from Trump and his allies have been dismissed by judges, including two tossed by the Supreme Court, which includes three Trump-nominated justices.The Senate runoffs pit Sen. Kelly Loeffler against Democrat Raphael Warnock and Sen. David Perdue against Democrat Jon Ossoff. With the Senate up for grabs, the candidates and outside groups supporting them have spent hundreds of millions of dollars in the contests, deluging Georgia with television ads, mail, phone calls and door-knocking efforts.Loeffler said she had not decided whether to join Republican colleagues in challenging the legitimacy of Biden’s victory over Trump. The Democratic candidates whose wins Tuesday would help clear roadblocks for the new administration’s agenda awaited a campaign visit from Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.Trump has persisted in attacking top Georgia Republicans over his election loss in the state, raising fears that his words could cause some Republicans to stay away from the polls.“I believe that we will win on Tuesday because of the grassroots momentum, the unprecedented movement energy in Georgia right now,” Ossoff told CNN’s “State of the Union.” He said “it feels in Georgia like we are on the cusp of a historic victory.”Loeffler, when asked about siding with the growing group of Senate Republicans seeking to contest the Electoral College count, said she was “looking very closely at it, and I’ve been one of the first to say, everything’s on the table.” She told “Fox News Sunday” that ”I’m fighting for this president because he’s fought for us. He’s our president and we’re going to keep making sure that this is a fair election.”Warnock, the senior pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta who has continued to preach as he campaigns for office, seemed to allude to the runoff in a message delivered Sunday. He told viewers watching remotely due to the pandemic that they are “on the verge of victory” in their lives if they accept that God has already equipped them with the ability to overcome their adversaries.“When God is with you, you can defeat giants,” said Warnock, who ended the early morning service by encouraging Georgians to vote on Tuesday. “It’s so very important that your voice be heard in this defining moment in our country,” he said. “I would not be so presumptuous as to tell you who to vote for.”Loeffler was appointed to fill a vacancy when Republican Johnny Isakson resigned his seat, and she will be in the Senate, win or lose this coming week, until the election is certified. Perdue’s seat will temporarily be vacant after his term expires Sunday at the end of six years.Harris was scheduled to be in Savannah on Sunday afternoon. Trump and Biden plan last-minute, in-person efforts Monday to mobilize voters after more than 3 million people cast ballots early.The president continues to create turbulence for Loeffler and Perdue by questioning Biden’s narrow victory in Georgia and the reliability of the state’s election systems.Trump also tweeted that Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp and Lt. Gov. Geoff Duncan, also Republicans, “have done less than nothing. They are a disgrace to the great people of Georgia!”The president last week called on Kemp to resign; the governor dismissed it as a “distraction.”Despite the attacks, Loeffler said she believed voters would heed Trump’s expected plea during his upcoming visit that they should turn out.“He’s going to tell voters the same thing: You have to get out and vote Georgia, because this is too important,” Loeffler said.Perdue, who is in quarantine after being exposed to a staff member with the coronavirus and won’t appear with Trump at Monday’s rally, said he would have joined the electoral challenge in the Senate if he had been in Washington. “I’m encouraging my colleagues to object. This is something that the American people demand right now,” he told Fox News Channel’s “Sunday Morning Futures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-on-tape-presses-georgia-official-to-find-votes/story-exQF5YAQV0JMNVYEwhH4aN.html
04-01-2021||World||From ‘impotency’ to ‘microchip’: Dangerous conspiracy theories surrounding Covid-19, vaccines||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has claimed over 1.83 million lives worldwide so far, according to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, overwhelming health facilities around the globe. While the governments and health authorities have been working to contain the virus and slow down its transmission, they have also been struggling to put a lid on wild and baseless conspiracy theories. Several social media platforms scrambled to add labels, warnings and links to trusted news sources to bust the rumours. Here are some of the baseless conspiracy theories around Covid-19:‘Impotency’Samajwadi Party leader Ashutosh Sinha said that his party does not believe in the machinery of the government, suggesting that the vaccine may be used for population control by making people impotent. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani on Sunday rubbished the latest conspiracy theory surrounding Covid-19 vaccine.“The vaccines are 100 per cent safe. Some side effects like mild fever, pain and allergy are common for every vaccine. It is absolute rubbish that people may become impotent,” Somani was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.5G causes Covid-19During the initial days of the coronavirus outbreak, an incomprehensible theory about 5G - the next-generation wireless network technology - causing the health crisis made its way to social media platforms. The conspiracy theorists pointed to the installation of 5G towers in Wuhan, China, before the virus outbreak. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States had to release a statement to quell the rumour. “A worldwide online conspiracy theory has attempted to link 5G cell phone technology as being one of the causes of the coronavirus. Many cell towers outside of the US have been set on fire as a result. 5G technology does NOT cause coronavirus,” the statement read.Also Read | ‘Disgraceful’: Health minister Vardhan slams Akhilesh Yadav, Tharoor over Covid-19 vaccine ‘doubts’‘Plandemic’A 26-minute video titled ‘Plandemic’ was uploaded on YouTube which claimed the pandemic was a planned health crisis. In the video, a discredited medical researcher, Judy Mikovits, asserted that face masks “activates your own virus” and vaccines are “a money-making enterprise that causes medical harm”. The video also suggested that powerful elites were complicit in the virus outbreak and stand to profit from it.The video garnered millions of views within hours before it was taken taken down by YouTube and other social media platforms for making false claims. Since then, several medical professionals have also come forward to rubbish the claim and a host of fact-check videos have been uploaded on YouTube to minimise the damage from such baseless theories.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has repeatedly said that wearing masks is a key measure to suppress virus transmission and save lives. According to the UN health agency, masks can be used for either protection of healthy persons or to prevent onward transmission. It has advised that masks should be used as part of a comprehensive approach.Bill Gates and microchipA Yahoo News/YouGov survey found that 28 per cent of US adults believed a conspiracy theory that suggested Bill Gates, the principal founder of Microsoft Corporation, had planned to use a potential Covid-19 vaccine to implant microchips to monitor the movement of billions of people. During a CNN Town Hall interview, Gates called it a “bad combination of pandemic and social media”, adding that people are looking for a very simple explanation. In another TV interview, Gates said that the truth needs to be out there and the conspiracy theories will die down as people get the facts.Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has donated millions of dollars for Covid-19 vaccine and treatment research programmes. In February, the foundation pledged to donate $100 million to coronavirus vaccine research and treatment efforts and months later, it pledged an additional $1.6 billion to the Gavi vaccine alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-impotency-to-microchip-dangerous-conspiracy-theories-surrounding-covid-19/story-U4zBncQw1erTXmblPskXIM.html
04-01-2021||India||2020 was eighth warmest year on record for India: IMD||New Delhi: Last year was the eighth warmest since India started keeping records in 1901, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s Statement on Climate of India in 2020. During the year, the annual average temperature in the country was 0.29 degree Celsius (°C) above normal ( 29-year average from 1981-2010), said the report which looks at temperature and rainfall trends annually. Such temperature trends were reported despite the cooling effect of La Nina, a global weather pattern that prevailed in 2020 and is linked to substantially below normal temperatures in winter.  In 2016, India recorded the warmest year when the mean land surface temperature was 0.71°C above normal. WHICH YEAR? The temperature during the pre-monsoon season was below normal by 0.03°C. But both monsoon and post-monsoon seasons were 0.43°C and 0.53°C above normal, respectively, and that contributed to warming. The mean temperature during winter was 0.14°C above normal. India’s warming was, however, significantly lower than the global average. The global mean temperature rise during 2020 (January to October, as per the World Meteorological Organisation’s State of the Global Climate) was 1.2°C above pre-industrial levels. The annual rainfall over the country was 109% of the Long Period Average (LPA) calculated for the period of 1961-2010. The IMD statement said 12 out of the 15 warmest years were reported between 2006 and 2020, and that the past decade (2011-2020) was the warmest decade on record. Last year, the mean monthly temperatures were warmer than the normal during all months except March and June. Average annual mean temperature during 1901-2020 showed an increasing trend of 0.62°C in that century, with an increasing trend in maximum temperature (0.99°C in 100 years) and a relatively lower increasing trend (0.24°C in100 years) in minimum temperature. “2020 was one of the warmest years despite having a La Niña with cool waters in the east Pacific. La Niñas typically has a cooling effect on global temperatures, but this is now offset by global warming due to greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, La Niña years now are warmer than years with El Niño events of the past. As for India, data shows that the increasing trend in temperatures is the largest during the post-monsoon season and this is reflected in the 2020 post-monsoon temperatures over India, despite a full-fledged La Nina,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune. El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean. It has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. The IMD statement also said India experienced some extreme weather events such as heavy rainfall, floods, landslide, thunderstorm, lightning, and cold waves that killed hundreds of people IN 2020. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were the most affected states during the year with over 350 deaths from each state due to thunderstorm, lightning and cold wave. Heavy rainfall and floods claimed over 600 lives from different parts of the country during pre-monsoon, monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. Thunderstorms and lightning also claimed over 815 lives in different parts of the country. Last year five cyclones formed over the North Indian Ocean. Super cyclonic storm Amphan formed in the pre-monsoon season and crossed the West Bengal coast over Sunderbans on May 20. It claimed 90 lives and about 4,000 livestock mainly in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-was-eighth-warmest-year-on-record-for-india-imd/story-QsKv3x2dRal04LCrQz7G1M.html
04-01-2021||India||India starts UN Security Council term vowing to speak against terror||India began its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council on Monday with the stated objective of raising its voice against terrorism, speaking for the developing world and bringing “human-centric inclusive solutions” to matters of global peace and security.India joined the Security Council technically on January 1, which was a public holiday. The term got underway on Monday with a flag installation ceremony, accompanied by the four other countries joining as non-permanent members: Norway, Ireland, Kenya and Mexico.“We will use our tenure to bring human-centric and inclusive solutions to matters of international peace and security. India will be a voice for the developing world,” said TS Tirumurti, the Indian permanent representative to the UN, after brief ceremony.“We will not shy away from raising our voice against the common enemies of humanity like terrorism,” he added.The permanent representative also reiterated India’s “very strong commitment to reformed multilateralism”, which in the context of the United Nations chiefly includes an expanded Security Council — with a permanent membership for itself — to make the body more representative of the current world.“India comes into the Security Council as the largest democracy representing 1/6th of humanity and with a strong commitment to reformed multilateralism, rule of law, a fair and equitable international system and to peace, security and development,” Tirumurti said. “From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, we stand united as one, bound by our ethos of democracy, pluralism and commitment to fundamental rights.”India will also use the term to focus on peacekeeping, peace building, maritime security, women and youth, especially in conflict situations, and technology with a human face, will receive our attention while on the Council, he added.India, Norway, Kenya, Ireland and Mexico will join Vietnam, Niger, Estonia, Tunisia and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, as the five non-permanent members already there, and the five permanent members — the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia and China.India won the eighth term in an election last June securing 184 of the 192 votes cast. It was last on the council in a two-year term ending 2012. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-starts-un-security-council-term-vowing-to-speak-against-terror/story-p4mBE9oPo8cIWVO0ceFeyL.html
04-01-2021||India||Supreme Court to pronounce judgment on Central Vista project on Tuesday||The Supreme Court on Tuesday will pronounce its decision on the validity of the Central Vista project on a slew of petitions that questioned the lack of transparency and objectivity in awarding clearances to the project by the Government and the Central Vista Committee. A three-judge bench, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar and comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, will pronounce its decision on various aspects of the project relating to grant of environmental clearance, violation of statutory and municipal laws, conservation of heritage, change of land use under the Delhi Development Act, and manner of inviting public hearing and objections involved with the Central Vista Redevelopment plan.Exactly a month ago, on November 5, the Supreme Court had reserved orders on the fate of the Central Vista project including the construction of a new Parliament building and Central Secretariat after finishing arguments in 10 separate petitions that were heard for over five months.Senior advocates Shyam Divan, Sanjay Hegde and Shikhil Suri had extensively argued for the petitioners in the 10 writ petitions. The Centre was defended by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta while the project consultant HCP Design, Planning and Management was represented by senior advocate Harish Salve.Also read: Farmers adamant on repeal of farm laws demand: Agri min on why talks failedOn December 7, the apex court had allowed the government to proceed with the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Central Vista project on December 10. The Court, however, made it clear that there will be a stop on all construction activity of any nature on the concerned site(s). This included demolition of any structure or trans-location of trees. A statement made to this effect by the Solicitor General was recorded by the Court in its order.It had been the stand of the Centre throughout that it followed all the procedure and obtained clearances from the relevant authorities for the project. The petitioner, however, submitted that before the award of tender for the Central Vista project to HCP Designs on September 2, 2019, no document was available in public domain. For HCP, Salve appeared and said that decision to award tender was a policy decision of the government and that the courts should not venture into in the name of participative democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-pronounce-judgment-on-central-vista-project-on-tuesday/story-QXMZ2Wab6ryx0ES6JAlGlM.html
04-01-2021||India||115 people, over 17000 livestock killed in cyclones in 2020: IMD||Cyclones killed 115 people and more than 17,000 livestock in the country in 2020, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Five cyclones formed over the north Indian Ocean -- Amphan (super cyclonic storm), Nivar and Gati (very severe cyclonic storms), Nisarga (severe cyclonic storm), and Burevi (cyclonic storm) -- in 2020. While Nisarga and Gati formed over the Arabian Sea, the remaining three were over the Bay of Bengal. Amphan was the most devastating of these cyclones. It formed in the pre-monsoon season and crossed West Bengal coast over the Sundarbans on May 20. “It claimed 90 lives and about 4,000 livestock, mainly in West Bengal,” the IMD said in its State of Climate of India during 2020. The Severe Cyclonic Storm Nisarga was formed in the monsoon season and crossed Maharashtra coast on June 3. It claimed four lives and 2,000 livestock in Maharashtra. The remaining three cyclones -- Nivar, Burevi and Gati -- formed during the post-monsoon season. Nivar crossed Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts and claimed 12 lives and 10,836 livestock in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Burevi claimed nine lives and 200 livestock in Tamil Nadu. The Very Severe Cyclonic Storm Gati made landfall over the Somalia coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/115-people-over-17000-livestock-killed-in-cyclones-in-2020-imd/story-o8motJQ4iLBCpTNEoAf0QI.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Can’t deny child’s custody to mother living with another person sans divorce’: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad High Court has held that the fact that a woman entered into a new relationship without securing divorce would not deprive her of off custody of her minor child.Disposing of a petition filed by one Ram Kumar Gupta in the name of his son Anmol Shivhare, Justice JJ Munir observed, “The fact that the mother has walked away from her husband’s home without securing a divorce and entered into a new relationship with another person, which she ostensibly believes to be a second marriage, may be something that the law and the society frown upon, but, in itself, is something not so depraved or immoral as to deprive the mother of her special place in the minor’s life.”The court further observed that “depriving the minor of his mother’s company might have an adverse impact on his overall development.”Also read: ‘From Andhra to Assam’ - How states are gearing up for Covid-19 vaccinationPetitioner Gupta said that Sanyogita’s marriage to another person is nullity because it is a second marriage in the lifetime of her husband and due to this she has lost her right to Anmol’s custody. Further, the minor’s custody with Sanyogita, in the home of a stranger, has been dubbed as unlawful. According to him, the minor’s life in the stranger’s home is at risk. The minor has a bleak future, he said.It is the minor’s welfare that he may be placed in his father’s custody, who is his natural guardian, in preference to the mother, who has walked out on her lawfully wedded husband without a divorce, and is staying in a live-in relationship with a stranger, said the petition.During the court proceedings, mother Sanyogita indicated that Gupta is an unkind father. Further, she said she was treated with cruelty by him and that is why she walked out on him.On this, the court said that this is the court’s concern to determine whether the minor would be safe and his welfare ensured in his mother’s new home.After interacting with Sanyogita and her minor son, the court said, “The way the minor’s mother has detailed her circumstances in new home, this court feels that the minor, for the present, is well adapted into his mother’s new family”.“So far as dominant and substantial part of the minor’s custody and care are concerned, this court is of opinion that these would be better secured in the mother’s hands, in comparison to the father,” remarked the court.However, the court ensured the visitation rights of the father, saying that the rights of the minor to his father’s company have to be ensured at all costs. The court directed that wife Sanyogita would be obliged to take the minor to his father’s home at Kanpur once in two months, on any Sunday of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-deny-child-s-custody-to-mother-living-with-another-person-sans-divorce-allahabad-hc/story-YPeT3drbMbPOhXQtMOwTEK.html
04-01-2021||India||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal slams Centre for ‘misusing’ Punjab Governor’s office||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday accused the Centre of misusing the office of the Punjab Governor by summoning the state’s top officers for explanations. Badal also asked the Governor not to become a “mouthpiece” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Saturday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh too had taken a strong exception to the Governor summoning the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police instead of seeking a report directly from him, as home minister, on the law and order situation. Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore had on December 30 decided to summon the CS and the DGP while taking a serious note of vandalism of over 1,600 mobile towers during the ongoing protests of farmers against the Centre’s new agri laws. The SAD chief on Monday said the office of the Governor was being “misused” in the same manner as was happening in West Bengal. Badal was addressing a gathering at a gurdwara here where an ‘Akhand Path’ (continuous recitation of religious texts) was conducted to pay homage to Sant Ram Singh Singhri Wale and several farmers who died during the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, according to a party release. Badal claimed that the SAD had approached the Governor with numerous memorandums on public issues like the hooch tragedy, liquor and wrongdoings of sand mafia and criminalization of politics during the last few years “but he did not act on a single issue”. “Now when the interest of BJP workers is at stake, the Governor has taken prompt action and summoned the senior-most officers for a dressing down,” he alleged. Targeting Amarinder Singh, Badal said instead of objecting to the Governor’s action in the media, the chief minister should have stopped his officers from going to the Raj Bhavan. “This and several other actions of the chief minister prove that he is playing a double game and is essentially with the central government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and not with the farmers,” Badal alleged. Badal said the current situation had arisen due to the “arrogance” of the prime minister. “The longer the PM delays repealing of the agri laws, the stronger the agitation will become,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-slams-centre-for-misusing-punjab-governor-s-office/story-YSZQecga9wxgaDc0vD5C4I.html
04-01-2021||India||Why Mira found Lucknow Suitable!||Padma Bhushan and Indian-American filmmaker Mira Nair’s latest work ‘A Suitable Boy’ based on Vikram Seth’s bestseller book, showcased the treasures of Awadh which she says is an integral part of the period drama. “Colonial, churches, bungalows, heritage, race-course (in Lucknow), Kakori, Malihabad and Mahmudabad — the city has so much to offer,” said the ‘The Namesake’ and ‘Salaam Bombay’ director on why she chose to shoot ‘A Suitable Boy’ here. She was recently in conversation with ‘Citizens for Lucknow’ group members. Edited excerpts: “I have been coming to Lucknow since I was eight-years-old. I knew that Vikram has written a large part of his book in Lucknow at Mahmudabad House — the ‘quila’ (fort) outside Lucknow and the Qaiserbagh house. Looking at the economics, Lucknow gave us so much for the many different parts of the story, and we actually couldn’t afford to move such a large unit (600 persons), besides a second unit in Kanpur which was directed by Shimit Amin (Chak De! India director).” The Kolkata part was also shot in Kanpur and Lucknow. Partially, the series was shot in Maheshwar as well. She revealed that Adity Chakravarti’s book ‘Reha’ish’ led her to Dr Khalid Hameed’s bungalow where she shot extensively. Besides, she mentioned the Talwar family’s bungalow, Oel House, Noor-MA Khan’s bungalow, Moin’s house (Nakkhas) and the availability of vintage cars. King George’s Medical University turned into Brahmpur University.She always wanted to film it. “I loved Vikram’s novel ever since it came out and loved the era (early 50s) it was set in. That was an idealistic time when we were creating free-India. In 1993, the book was too big for me to make into a film and there were no questions of TV series in those days. So, inspired by it, I created a microcosmic version of my own which turned out to be ‘Monsoon Wedding’ — my little film that became too big.”It was three years back when BBC decided to make this series with the adaptation by Andrew Davies when Nair stepped in. She mentioned the local talent. “I would like to talk about actors in Lucknow. Many of them don’t know they can act but they are extraordinary actors. Around 60 locals acted in it.” She will be coming back for another project. “In a few years, I will be back to shoot ‘Jungle Prince of Delhi’ (based on an article published in The New York Times) which probably will be partly shot in Lucknow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/why-mira-found-lucknow-suitable/story-f1VAMdw6k94lGqeEz6MQWM.html
04-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh gears up for Covid vaccine dry run on January 5||As India gears up for a Covid-19 vaccination drive, the government is conducting dry runs to assess the preparedness for administering shots to millions of people. One such dry run will be conducted in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday (January 5).“This drive will be carried out in six sites in every district - three of them urban and three rural,” Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said on Monday, according to a tweet posted by Government of UP. यह अभियान प्रत्येक जनपद के 06 स्थानों पर, जिनमें 03 शहरी क्षेत्र तथा 03 ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों में चलाया जाएगा: ACS, चिकित्सा एवं स्वास्थ्य, श्री अमित मोहन प्रसाद जीThe Uttar Pradesh government has released detailed guidelines for the statewide dry run which will start at 10 am.The guidelines have been issued by Prasad which have directions for divisional commissioners and district magistrates. They have been asked to make syringes, vaccine, AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization) kit and other logistics available at dry run sites.Also Read: UP chalks statewide plan for Covid-19 vaccine dry runThe setup at the dry run centres includes a waiting and observation area. The district authorities have been asked to ensure proper sitting arrangements in these areas. The district authorities have to ensure that the vaccination team reaches the site 45 minutes in advance, according to the guidelines.Prasad also said that sector officers will be appointed to ensure that the dry run sessions take place on time.The Centre has already successfully conducted a two-day pilot Covid-19 vaccination drive in eight districts in four states on December 28-29. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab.Around 1,50,000 vaccinators have been trained so far, covering over 700 districts across the country.The focus of the dry run being conducted in coordination with the Centre will be on management of any possible AEFI. In addition, the states will also emphasise adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site, to prevent disease transmission.India’s drugs regulator had on Sunday approved AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute (SII), and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-gears-up-for-covid-vaccine-dry-run-on-january-5/story-ux5Bt0c7fPKfFwN0IwxmrK.html
04-01-2021||India||Delhi’s Environment Committee summons MCD Commissioners over air pollution||Expressing serious concerns over the rising levels of dust and air pollution due to manual sweeping across the city, the Environment Committee of the Delhi Legislative Assembly on Monday summoned the Commissioners of the three MCDs and sought an explanation as to why mechanical sweeping was not being done.According to a press statement, Kalkaji MLA Atishi who heads the House Panel said that it was “very shocking” that the MCD commissioners of Delhi have no clue regarding the length of roads under their jurisdiction.She said that there is no mechanism for fines or penalties in case the contractor running the machine does not clean the prescribed area.MLA Ajay Dutt, who is a member of the panel, said that all the 3 MCDs have been asked to submit an action plan for reducing dust pollution. “The DPCC has been asked to take strict action against individual officers responsible for rising dust levels in Delhi.”In the meeting that was held in view of the rising air pollution highlighted that road dust has been a major component of air pollution in Delhi. It was found that officials were not fully aware of NGT orders. According to the NGT orders, all MCDs were directed to use MRS machines to decrease the SPM caused by manual sweeping. “However, it was found that the machines were being under-utilised by the MCDs as highlighted by the TERI report. When questioned about the total area/length of road swept, criteria for employing the total number of machines and basis of contract, the officials from MCDs seemed unaware. In this regards the committee has requested the Corporations to submit a detailed plan in 7 days.”The MCDs were directed to submit to the committee a detailed report within seven days, highlighting the Length of roads under Mechanised sweeping, running shifts, measures for checks and balances and penal provisions on part of the contractors for no compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-environment-committee-summons-mcd-commissioners-over-air-pollution/story-EXlm5P4Y2bAiQCKBDy0PoL.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Farmers were adamant on demand for repeal of farm laws,’ says Union minister Narendra Tomar on what happened in talks||The government said on Monday that the seventh round of talks with the farmers remained inconclusive because the protesters were adamant over withdrawal of the three farm laws. Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar said that he is “hopeful” that a conclusion will be found in the next round of talks which will be held on January 8.“We wanted farmer unions to discuss three laws clause-wise. We could not reach any solution as farmer unions remained adamant on the repeal of the laws,” the minister told reporters after the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi.“Looking at today’s discussion, I hope that we will have a meaningful discussion during our next meeting and we will come to a conclusion,” he added. The minister also asserted that efforts need to be made from both sides for a solution to be reached. “Taali dono haathon se bajti hai (both hands are needed to clap).”Meanwhile, farmers said that they will not back down until the government withdraws the three laws and gives them a legal guarantee over the MSP (minimum support price) system for procurement of their crops. “Discussion took place on our demands - repeal of the three laws and MSP... kanoon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapasi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” news agency ANI quoted Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, as saying.Also Read | Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8Farmers have been protesting at the gates of Delhi since November 26 last year against the newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Now, the next round of talks will take place on January 8 at 2 pm. The leaders of the farm unions will have their own meeting on Tuesday to decide their next course of action.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points of Delhi demanding the repeal of the three laws passed in September. They have stayed put despite heavy rains and water-logging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital.Last month, the government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions, suggesting some amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-were-adamant-on-demand-for-repeal-of-farm-laws-union-minister-narendra-tomar-on-why-talks-failed/story-QufbKmwkPuYhzQgehOCEHJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Bengal politics made bipolar by TMC, BJP; issues ignored: Sitaram Yechury||The main objective of the Left-Congress alliance is to stop the Bharatiya Janata Party from coming to power in the upcoming West Bengal assembly election but it won’t ally with the ruling Trinamool Congress because of strong anti-incumbency factor, Communist Party of India (Marxists) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said on MondayYechury was in Kolkata to attend the first physical meeting of the CPI (M)’s West Bengal state committee since March 2019. After the two-day meeting ended on Monday afternoon, Yechury said some preliminary discussion on seat sharing for the upcoming assembly election has taken place with the Congress. The Left Front allies have also met. “A bipolarity has been created in Bengal (politics) by the BJP and TMC. This bipolarity suits both the parties. And it is also ably aided and abetted by the media,” said Yechury. He drew a comparison between discontent against policies of the Centre and the anti-incumbency factor in Bengal. “The basic issues involving people’s livelihood have been raised at the ongoing farmers’ rally in Delhi in the midst of the most severe cold wave. Nothing has affected the resolution of the agitators. This is remarkable,” said the veteran Left leader. “The discontent building up against the Centre’s policies is there in Bengal as well. For example, farmers in Bengal are getting Rs 1,250 (per quintal) for selling paddy while the minimum purchase price in India is Rs 1,880,” he added. “We will rupture the bipolarity by taking up the issues of people’s livelihood and focus on job, health and education. We have appealed to all parties, including the Congress, to join the demonstrations. The anti-incumbency against the TMC government is so deep and large that it will favour the BJP. Our primary objective is to not let the BJP benefit from the anti-incumbency,” Yechury said. Asked about CPI-ML (Liberation) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya’s statement last month that in Bengal the focus should be more on defeating the BJP and not the TMC, Yechury said, “Politics does not run on assumptions. We work on reality. There is public anger against the TMC. If anyone takes a soft stance the entire advantage will go to the BJP.” Asked about the role Asaduddin Owaisi, leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) may play in the coming polls, Yechury said, “It is not clear what mission the AIMIM has. We want to know where it stands when it comes to defeating the BJP. If its activities help the BJP then who is the ultimate beneficiary?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-politics-made-bipolar-by-tmc-bjp-issues-ignored-sitaram-yechury/story-q4UMabj8BztPc17RGMze0I.html
04-01-2021||India||Bird flu confirmed in dead migratory birds in Himachal; outbreak reported in four states now||Himachal Pradesh on Monday became the fourth state to report cases of bird flu after Rajasthan, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, with officials confirming that migratory birds found dead at Pong Dam Lake in Kangra district have tested positive for the dreaded avian influenza. In Rajasthan, deaths of more than 170 new birds were reported from some districts on Monday, taking the total fatalities in recent days to over 425. “Bird flu has been confirmed only in Jhalawar (district). Report of other deaths is yet to come,” according to the state animal husbandry department. As some parts of Kerala too reported the influenza outbreak, authorities have ordered culling of ducks, hens and other domestic birds within one km radius of the affected areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts. Officials said some 40,000 birds will have to be culled to check the spread of the H5N8 virus. A farm in Kerala’s Kottayam has recently seen deaths of around 1,500 ducks due to bird flu recently. Bird flu is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the H5N1 influenza virus, which can occasionally infect humans as well. In Himachal Pradesh, around 1,800 migratory birds, most of them bar-headed geese, have been found dead in the Pong Dam Lake sanctuary. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Archana Sharma said the laboratory at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly detected avian influenza in the samples of dead birds, while citing the information conveyed by the Centre. At the same time, she said that her department was awaiting confirmation by the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, as it was the nodal body for testing this disease. Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar has also suspected avian influenza in the bird samples, she added. Kangra District Magistrate Rakesh Prajapati has prohibited slaughtering, sale, purchase and export of any poultry, birds, fish of any breed and their related products, including eggs, meat, chicken, etc, in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora subdivisions of the district. Exercising his powers under Sections 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the official said that shops selling these products would also remain closed in these four subdivisions. Prajapati also banned the movement of locals and tourists within a kilometre radius of Pong Dam.  In Himachal’s Pong Dam Lake wildlife sanctuary, wildlife staff first reported the sudden death of four bar-headed geese and one common teal in the Fatehpur area last Monday. The next day, over four hundred migratory waterfowl were found dead in Majhar, Bathari, Sihal, Jagnoli, Chatta, Dhameta and Kuthera areas in the wildlife ranges of Dhameta and Nagrota. Subsequently, hundreds of more birds were found dead each day, totalling 1,773 till Sunday, she said. She said that more than 90 per cent of the dead birds were bar-headed geese, the most common migratory species at the lake who arrive here from Central Asia, Russia, Mongolia and other regions in winters after crossing the Himalayan ranges. There are eight-nine other bird species whose members have been found dead. Last year, more than one lakh migratory birds had camped at the lake by late January and this year, over 50,000 have arrived so far. The dead birds are being disposed off as per bird-flu protocol, officials said, adding that no such deaths have been reported so far from other water bodies in the state. Wildlife, veterinary and animal husbandry staff across the state have been put on alert and asked to immediately report the death of any bird or animal. The Gopalpur zoo in Kangra which is situated near the Pong Lake has been put on high alert. Recently, a bird flu alert has been sounded in Rajasthan after crows were found dead in half a dozen districts. Bird flu cases were also confirmed in dead crows in Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Bird flu virus was detected in around 50 crows whose carcasses were found in Indore in Madhya Pradesh last week, prompting authorities to issue an alert. In Rajasthan, 80 bird deaths were reported in Bikaner on Sunday, 42 in Sawai Madhopur, 12 in Kota, 12 in Baran, eight each in Pali and Jaipur, six in Dausa, five in Jodhpur and two in Jhalawar, according to the state animal husbandry department. The deaths have been reported in 15 districts of the state. Kerala, which saw the last major case of bird flu in 2016, has sounded high alert in the affected districts considering the potential of the virus to infect humans, even though officials said that the situation was under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-confirmed-in-dead-migratory-birds-in-himachal-outbreak-reported-in-four-states-now/story-QgQnEZd90WwjjaB2kJbUlM.html
04-01-2021||India||Railways conduct first trial run of double-stack container train in Western Dedicated Freight Corridor||Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal on Monday said that Railways successfully conducted the first trial run of double-stack container train operation in the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor.“Another record by Indian Railways as it successfully conducts the first trial run of double-stack container train operation in Western Dedicated Freight Corridor,” Goyal tweeted.“Railways under PM NarendraModi ji’s inspiring leadership is transforming the way India transports goods,” he added sharing a video of the double stack container train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-conduct-first-trial-run-of-double-stack-container-train-in-western-dedicated-freight-corridor/story-8H7s7alvPbz1MwQDtgAUzI.html
04-01-2021||India||Theatres in Kerala to reopen from January 5, permission granted for temple and art festivals too||The cinema theatres in Kerala will reopen on Tuesday, after remaining shut for over nine months. They were shut in March due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic; Kerala had reported the country’s first Covid-19 case in January.“The theatres have been completely shut since nearly a year due to which thousands of people are facing severe crises. Taking this into account, the government has decided to reopen the theatres with restrictions,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters on New Year’s day.However, Covid protocols will be in place and theatre owners have been asked to strictly follow them. Theatres will be allowed to admit only half of the capacity and Covid-19 protocol like maintenance of social distancing, wearing face masks and hand hygiene will be followed.Stringent action would be taken against theatre owners if they flout the guidelines, according to the chief minister’s office.Similarly, temple festivals and other art festivals will also be allowed from January 5 but participants’ numbers will be restricted to 200 for outdoor events and 100 for indoor events.Vijayan had said this will alleviate the suffering of artists. Many drama, orchestra, DJ and dance artists were wallowing in penury due to Covid-19 restrictions.In January, a 20-year-old Kerala student had tested positive for the dreaded disease upon her return from Wuhan, the capital of China’s Hubei province from where the contagion first emerged.Two other students from the Chinese city also subsequently tested positive but all three had later recovered.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theatres-in-kerala-to-reopen-from-january-5-permission-granted-for-temple-and-art-festivals-too/story-ON7tqLng0ANH2YJoL8CMSP.html
04-01-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear on Jan 7 pleas against HC order on 6 BSP Rajasthan MLAs joining Congress||The Supreme Court Monday said it would hear on January 7 the appeals of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and BJP MLA Madan Dilawar against the Rajasthan High Court order asking the Assembly Speaker to decide within three months a disqualification petition against all the six BSP MLAs ‘merging’ with the ruling Congress party. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and K M Joseph listed the appeals for further hearing on Thursday. On August 24, the high court had asked the Rajasthan Assembly Speaker to decide within three months the disqualification petition filed by Dilawar against the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress.   Allowing Dilawar’s plea partially, the high court had set aside the July 22 order of the Speaker rejecting the disqualification petition filed by him in March last year. It had dismissed a writ petition filed by the BSP in the matter, while giving the party liberty to file a disqualification petition with the Speaker. Dilawar had filed the petition in the high court challenging the merger of six MLAs - Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha - with the Congress and demanded a stay on the execution of the order passed by the Speaker. The top court had on the same day disposed of as “infructuous” Dilawar’s plea seeking stay on the Rajasthan Speaker’s decision, which allowed the six BSP MLAs to merge with the Congress after the high court had passed its order on the same issue.   The six MLAs had contested and won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets but later defected to the Congress party in September 2019.The MLAs had submitted an application for the merger on September 16, 2019 and the Speaker issued an order on September 18, 2019.    Dilawar has said that the six BSP MLAs have been wrongly allowed by the Speaker to merge with the ruling Congress party. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led state government as the tally of the Congress increased to over 100 in the house of 200 MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-on-jan-7-pleas-against-hc-order-on-6-bsp-rajasthan-mlas-joining-congress/story-o0cTO0d9xufxlQoIVdMY6N.html
04-01-2021||India||Atal Pension Yojana gets over 52 lakh new subscribers in FY21 so far||Over 52 lakh new subscribers have joined Atal Pension Yojana (APY) during 2020-21 so far, taking the total enrolment under the government’s social security scheme to 2.75 crore at end-December, an official release said. APY is a guaranteed pension scheme of the government which offers triple benefits to subscribers on attaining 60 years of age. It offers minimum guaranteed pension to subscribers, same guaranteed pension to the spouse after the demise of a subscriber and return of the accumulated pension wealth to the nominee.Despite the unprecedented challenges poised due to pandemic, addition of more than 52 lakh new subscribers in the financial year 2020-21 so far has been remarkable and result of untiring efforts of banks, the Pension Regulatory Fund and Development Authority of India (PFRDA) said in the release. State Bank of India alone enrolled more than 15 lakh new APY subscribers. PFRDA said it is committed to continue its endeavour to popularise the scheme through various campaigns at national and state levels, constant engagement with bankers, participation in State-Level Banker’s Committee (SLBC) meetings, publicity through media and introducing digital on-boarding of APY subscribers. PFRDA is the statutory authority established by an enactment of the Parliament to regulate, promote and ensure orderly growth of the National Pension System (NPS) and pension schemes to which this Act applies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-pension-yojana-gets-over-52-lakh-new-subscribers-in-fy21-so-far/story-Fm0QchpoJKM5GmGELJGwWI.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Landmark day’: PM Modi to inaugurate Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline to the nation on Tuesday via video conferencing.“Tomorrow, 5th January is a landmark day in India’s quest for #UrjaAatmanirbharta! At 11 AM, the Kochi - Mangaluru Natural Gas Pipeline would be dedicated to the nation. This is a futuristic project that will positively impact many people,” the Prime Minister tweeted from his handle. Tomorrow, 5th January is a landmark day in India’s quest for #UrjaAatmanirbharta! At 11 AM, the Kochi - Mangaluru Natural Gas Pipeline would be dedicated to the nation. This is a futuristic project that will positively impact many people. https://t.co/T1NsFeAKWp pic.twitter.com/fmwlSw7f5ZA statement accompanying the tweet said that the event marks an important milestone towards the creation of “One Nation One Gas Grid”.Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, along with their Karnataka counterparts and Union minister for petroleum and natural gas, will also be present on the occasion.The 450-km-long pipeline has been built by Gail (India) Ltd.With a capacity of 12 million metric standard cubic metres per day, the pipeline will carry natural gas from the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) regasification terminal at Kochi in Kerala, to Mangaluru in Karnataka’s Dakshina Kannada district.The total cost of the project is about Rs 3,000 crore and its construction created over 12 lakh man-days of employment.“The pipeline will supply environment friendly and affordable fuel in the form of Piped Natural Gas (PNG) to households and Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) to the transportation sector,” the statement said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-day-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline-on-tuesday/story-EyYNGasTGBmBLE0PN4PAcK.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times:Mamata Banerjee to convene special Assembly session for passing resolution against farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will make arrangement to convene Assembly session to pass resolution against farm laws’: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that her government will soon convene a session of the state assembly to pass a resolution against the three farm laws passed by Parliament. Read More‘Give me one week’s time’: Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covid-19 efficacyAmid concerns regarding the efficacy data of Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the company’s managing director Krishna Ella said that its vaccine is safe and the company is conducting trials in more than 12 countries apart from India. Read More‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealedShortly after the seventh round of talks between the farmers and the government ended without a breakthrough, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters won’t go home. Read More‘It’s not social media, it’s Trump Media’: 5 key points from Donald Trump’s phone callUS President Donald Trump on Sunday was recorded on call by Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, a fellow Republican, putting pressure on the state secretary and his legal counsel to overturn Joe Biden’s victory in the state. Read MoreFan asks Akhtar to pick between Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar, Shoaib doesn’t hesitate to make his choiceFormer Pakistan fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar is known for his blunt remarks and to the point answers. So there was no surprise when he had no hesitation when asked to pick between Indian batting legends Rahul Dravid and Sachin Tendulkar. Read MoreAnushka Sharma goes for indoor jog in last stretch of pregnancy, does cardio workout on treadmillEven the cold and rainy weather could not deter mommy-to-be Anushka Sharma’s fitness routine as the diva turned to indoor jog on a treadmill. Read MoreKangana Ranaut mocks Diljit Dosanjh for holidaying abroad after ‘instigating’ farmers protest: ‘This is a true local revolution’Actor Kangana Ranaut has lobbed another attack at actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh, with whom she’s been involved in a Twitter feud that has extended into the new year. Read MoreWoman recreates famous artworks with her dog. They are ‘woofderful’When thinking of artistic classics such as The Starry Night by Vincent van Gogh or the American Gothic by Grant Wood, words such as “stunning” or “captivating” may come to one’s mind. Read More‘Ayurveda gave world first surgeon’: UP CM Yogi on doctors opposing new normsUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath criticised doctors opposed to the Central government’s move to allow Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mamata-banerjee-to-convene-special-assembly-session-for-passing-resolution-against-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NW8TFzrABbpiR1tYeBpShM.html
04-01-2021||India||4 killed, BJP MLA among 4 injured in separate road accidents in Bihar||A BJP lawmaker was injured after his car collided head-on with a truck in Munger district on Sunday night, said police on Monday.Police said Niki Membram, MLA from Katoria in Banka district was referred to Patna after getting first-aid treatment in Bhagalpur. Police suspect that the truck driver was driving under the influence of alcohol as he was driving rashly. The first-time MLA’s two bodyguards and driver were also injured and the SUV was also damaged. The three men are stated to be stable and would be discharged from the hospital in a few days.In another incident in Gaya, two men heading to the railway station on a motorcycle were crushed to death after a truck loaded with rice bags toppled on their bike at Chakand station bazaar on Patna-Gaya road on Monday afternoon.Gaya’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Aditya Kumar said cranes had to be used to remove the truck.“The errant driver fled the spot. The circumstances of the mishap are still being probed,” teh SSP said.Irate over the incident, a group of people set the truck on fire. They also blocked vehicular traffic for more than three hours. The situation was brought under control in around two hours, officials said, adding that those involved in the vandalism and arson will be identified with the help of CCTV footage and booked.In another incident, two people were killed at Sati-Pokhra village in Saran after an auto-rickshaw collided with a truck.Police said the incident occurred when the speeding truck rammed into the autorickshaw killing two unidentified passengers. Police said prima facie it looks like the truck driver lost control and hit the autorickshaw. The police are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-killed-bjp-mla-among-4-injured-in-separate-road-accidents-in-bihar/story-4dr2pFcPxPXy69bLeOBHMO.html
04-01-2021||India||‘From Andhra Pradesh to Assam’: How states are gearing up for Covid-19 vaccination||State governments across the country are waiting for instructions from the Centre on when to start the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Close to 300 million frontline workers are expected to get the vaccine dose in the first phase.State government health officials said that in the second phase those above 50 and with co-morbidities would be given vaccine. To prepare for the vaccination, the state government officials said the data of frontline workers have been updated on the Central government portal. The officials said that various task forces have been set to implement the Centre’s guidelines on vaccination.Here’s a quick look at the level of preparedness ahead of the vaccination drive across states: MaharashtraMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state administration is waiting for a communication from the Centre on the availability of the Covid-19 vaccine and has done pre-runs for administering it. “The approval for Serum Institute of India’s vaccine is only for emergency use and is subject to the consent of the patient, which means no one else would be held responsible for any health complications, if any, post-vaccination,” he said.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee said the state has started preparing list of 7,58,000 Covid warriors, who will receive the vaccination in the first phase. “A detailed district-wise list of health care providers have been provided to the Centre on its Co-WIN app,” he said, adding that state will additionally provide vaccine to 30 million people.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state vaccination task force, said, the Centre is expected to procure the vaccine and distribute to states. “By when will this process start, we don’t know,” he said.Also read: Farm laws won’t be repealed, govt tells farmers; next round of talks on Jan 8RajasthanHealth minister Raghu Sharma said the state is fully prepared to execute vaccination from developing centres and ambulance service will be available at all the centres in case of any adverse reaction. “We have conducted dry-run at 19 places including Jaipur and even at private hospitals,” he said. Sharma said that the Centre is yet to communicate on the number of vaccines, its cost, and the procurement procedure.AssamHealth officials in Assam said around 1.5 lakh healthcare workers and frontline staff registered with the government would be administered the vaccine in the first phase which will begin most likely in February. “We have not received any confirmation from the Centre on the number of vaccine doses that Assam would get,” said S Lakshmanan, director, National Health Mission, Assam. He said the state governments cannot directly purchase the medicines.KarnatakaDr K Sudhakar, medical education minister, Karnataka, said all corona warriors will be administered the vaccine in the first phase free of cost. “We will also use the existing infrastructure and the Centre will augment the additional infrastructure as required,” he said. The minister said that the vaccine is expected to be available in January itself. “We are awaiting directions from the Centre on next steps,” he said.PunjabAccording to Punjab’s Covid nodal officer, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, as of now, there is no information when will the vaccine be administered. “State has also not received any tentative plan either,” he said, adding the state has already submitted data of 1.6 lakh frontline workers to the Centre. Health secretary Hussan Lal said the vaccine will be given to about 70 lakh people in a phased manner.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh is waiting for Centre’s nod to start the vaccination drive. Health minister TS Singhdeo said the state will receive vaccines from the Central government and the exact date has not been decided. “In the first phase, the vaccine would be given to 2.54 lakh registered health functionaries in the state,” he said.Also read: ‘Give me one week’s time’ - Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covaxin efficacyUttarakhandKuldeep Singh Martoliya, state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination said that the Uttarakhand government is expecting to receive vaccines from the Central government soon. “We have been assured that vaccines will be provided to us by early 2021. Uttarakhand government has shared the data of over 94,000 health care workers with Centre,” he said, adding that in the second phase, they will share data of citizens above the age of 50 and with co-morbidities.Madhya PradeshAbout 4.5 lakh health workers will be administered vaccines at primary health centres, community health centres and district hospitals, said the nodal officer for vaccination Dr Santosh Shukla. He said more than 2,000 ice-lined refrigerators have been provided for storage of vaccines. “Whenever we receive the vaccines we will start the inoculation process within the next two days,” he said, adding that all dry runs have been successful and vaccination will be done by maintaining social distancing norms. HaryanaThe Haryana health department will conduct a dry run across the state on January 7 as a precursor to the Covid-19 vaccine roll out to test preparedness. The department has already identified 19,000 vaccination session sites and about 5,145 vaccinators have been mapped for the process of administering the vaccine.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said, “The number of vaccines available and priority groups would depend on the Central government. We will expeditiously roll out the vaccine as soon as it is made available,” he said. Data of 1.9 lakh health care workers have been uploaded on the ‘CoWIN’ portal.” He added the vaccination drive will continue for over a year.BiharAround 4.39 lakh healthcare workers will be vaccinated in Bihar and 14,724 vaccinators have been identified so far, said health minister Mangal Pandey, adding the state is in the process of giving last-minute training to its vaccinators and immunisation officers. “The picture will be clear later this week,” said a Bihar government officer requesting anonymity. Around 20 million people of the state’s 120 million are expected to get the vaccine in the first phase.JharkhandClose to 2.5 lakh health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. State health official said that every district would have a vaccine distribution centre from where the vaccines would be sent in refrigerated vans to block community health centres for vaccination.Also read: Andhra administration likely to operate from Visakhapatnam from April 13, hints ministerTamil NaduHealth secretary J Radhakrishnan said that six lakh health workers will get the vaccine once the Centre informs them about when the vaccination drive would start. “The Centre has instructed to hold dry runs in the states, which is being done in five districts,” he said. Over 2,000 personnel and 100 people for vaccination are participating in the dry run, he said. The secretary also said that the over 5,000 refrigerated facilities have been created for storing the vaccine.Andhra PradeshHealth commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said there is no information from the Centre on when the vaccination for Covid-19 should start and how much doses would be made available to the state. Another official of the health department, who refused to be quoted said, the state was likely to get 1.70 lakh vaccine vials in the first phase and efforts were being made for cold-chain management, which was the most crucial part of storage and distribution. TelanganaHealth minister Eatala Rajender said the Centre might supply five lakh doses in the first phase, which would be ramped up in the subsequent phases. An official familiar with the development said the registration process for the vaccine is expected to start in the second week of January. The government is setting up 10,000 vaccination centres all over the state. The vaccination for healthcare and frontline warriors is expected to be completed within three days. Uttar PradeshAdditional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said, nine lakh health care workers have been enrolled in the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Chief minister Yogi Aditynath on Sunday said the Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available in Uttar Pradesh around Makar Sankranti - January 14. Officials said the district magistrates have been asked to constitute district task force, tehsil task force and block task force to review the vaccination drive in the respective areas. The Uttar Pradesh government is creating 2,03,938 litre space for cold chain maintenance at temperatures between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius for the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccines, said a state health department officer.KeralaHealth minister KK Shailaja said there was no official information from the union government when the vaccine vials will be made available to the state but it said the state was fully geared up to carry out the massive drive. “Our strategy was to delay the peak and restrict casualties and we succeeded in both. Since the state’s density of population is quite high and so is the prevalence of high incidences of lifestyle disease, we need to get more vaccines in the first stage itself. We have informed the Union health ministry about this,” said Shailaja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-andhra-pradesh-to-assam-here-s-how-states-are-gearing-up-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-Kskr8ACbk8Cjx0eE5TLzTI.html
04-01-2021||India||Centre taking up Covid-19 vaccination in a big way: Harsh Vardhan||Union health and family welfare minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday said the Centre has initiated a series of actions to prevent the spread of coronavirus and that it is now taking up the vaccination drive in a big way. Vardhan’s remarks came a day after India’s drug regulator approved the restricted use of Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech in the country. In his address at the 32nd Convocation of city-based Sri Ramachandra rpt Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER) held virtually, he said the pandemic showcased the contribution of the government sector towards adequate healthcare - both Intensive Care and otherwise.He also called for a powerful societal commitment to overcome the barriers imposed by the pandemic. “The Centre has initiated a series of actions to prevent the spread (of coronavirus). Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) himself interacted with the Chief Ministers of all states and union territories and all stakeholders to regularly understand issues and collaborate with them for effective COVID management,” Vardhan said.Acknowledging that Covid-19 has turned the clock back by many years, if not decades, he said the deadly virus has derailed painstaking efforts of many decades and diverted scientific attention, adding, the lockdowns raised insurmountable barriers, interrupted supply chains, diversion of manufacturing capacity and imposed many roadblocks. This year, the Centre has already made a substantial increase in the healthcare spend and the Finance Commission has projected a massive increase in the health outlay in the next five years. “The recent pandemic has showcased the contribution of the Government sector towards adequate healthcare.... both intensive care and otherwise.The Central Government is taking up the vaccination drive in a big way,” Vardhan said. This period needed strategised thinking, thought leadership and disruptive social entrepreneurship besides mass mobilisation, aggressive campaigns, powerful partners and deep commitments. “And most of all, it needs a powerful societal commitment.Doctors are the backbone of any society.If our doctors are committed, then many things will automatically fall into place,” he said. Listing out the government initiatives, the minister said telemedicine has been promoted in a big way to ensure accessibility of quality treatment for both Covid and non-Covid health issues in far-flung areas. He said eSanjeevani, a web-based comprehensive telemedicine solution, is being utilised in 23 states with over 11 lakh teleconsultations held on this platform till date. To improve the nations health, the worlds largest health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat was launched to create 1.50 lakh health and wellness centres by upgrading sub health centres and rural and urban primary health centres. Around 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families have been identified for a health cover of Rs five lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation, the minister said. The present doctor-patient ratio of 1:1700 needed to be improved to 1:1000 as per WHO norms. Similarly, the number of hospital beds available is 9 per 10,000 population and this needs to be immediately increased to 40 per 10,000. The number of people covered under Health insurance has to drastically increase from the present 8-10 percent,he added. “There is a lot of scope for medical professionals to innovate and improvise to facilitate the PMs dream of Atma Nirbhar India and Make in India concepts through Research and Development Initiatives,” Vardhan said and saluted the frontline health workers and all those who supported patient- care during the pandemic risking their own lives. He complimented SRIHER for providing a separate block for Covid patients and for conducting ICMR vaccine trials and serving as a testing centre since April 2020. Chancellor V R Venkataachalam conferred the degrees and along with Pro Chancellor R V Sengutuvan and Vice Chancellor P V Vijayaraghavan presented 94 gold medals to meritorious students and distributed certificates to 1,266 students including in Ph.D., super specialities, post graduate and under graduate disciplines. Earlier in his report, the Vice Chancellor said “our hospital has been undertaking clinical trials for Covid- 19 vaccines with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech International besides BCG vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-taking-up-covid-19-vaccination-in-a-big-way-harsh-vardhan/story-sgJN9aw7vXK1bmLgOZafDM.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Reliance’s affidavit in Punjab & Haryana HC full of false claims’: Farmers’ body||Hours after Reliance approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the damage to its cellular infrastructure and forcible closure of its stores, a pan-India farmers’ body said the affidavit filed by the firm in the court is full of “false” claims.The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), representing 250 farmers’ organisations in the country, said the affidavit given by Reliance Industries in the court is simply a “ploy to serve its business interests”. “The Reliance industry’s affidavit is full of false claims of it not entering the crop market and taking over farm land. In Raigarh, Maharashtra, and other places, large tracts of land have been taken over by Reliance and it must return all those before making any false claim,” The AIKSCC said in a statement. Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s firm’s subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking “the urgent intervention of government authorities to bring a complete stop to the illegal acts of vandalism (of telecom towers) by miscreants.” Reliance said it “has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them”. The company said it does not do “corporate or contract farming” and has not bought “any agricultural land, directly or indirectly, in Punjab/Haryana or anywhere else in India, for the purpose of ‘corporate’ or ‘contract’ farming.” Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited in the petition before the court sought action against miscreants for causing damage to its network infrastructure and forcible closure of its stores in Punjab.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi borders for over a month against the Centre’s three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reliance-s-affidavit-in-punjab-haryana-hc-full-of-false-claims-farmers-body/story-JsETgkZbT9ZfJPa21AgVgN.html
04-01-2021||India||India strongly condemns terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger||India on Monday strongly condemned the terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger that left over 70 civilians dead and many injured.The ministry of external affairs (MEA) said India has always opposed and rejected terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and urged concerted global action against the menace, including cross-border terrorism.Over 70 people were killed and many injured in terror attacks on two villages in southwestern Niger on Saturday. In a statement, the MEA said India stands in solidarity with the government and people of Niger in the fight against terrorism.“India strongly condemns the terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger on January 2, where more than 70 civilians have been killed and many injured. We extend our deepest condolences to the families of the victims and to the people and government of Niger,” it said.“India stands in solidarity with the Government and people of Niger in the fight against terrorism. India has always opposed and rejected terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and has urged concerted action by the international community against terrorism, including cross-border terrorism,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-strongly-condemns-terrorist-attacks-in-southwestern-niger/story-UeS52ocPnxV4n2reKkAL6O.html
04-01-2021||India||JD (U) banks on Nitish Kumar’s goodwill, eyes 32 assembly seats in Assam||Despite the recent setback in Arunachal Pradesh where six of its seven MLAs joined the ruling BJP, the JD (U) has set its eye on northeastern states and has identified 32 out of 126 seats where the party may field candidates in Assembly polls due in April this year.The party had contested our seats in the 2016 Assembly polls in Assam but drew a blank.In 2020, the JD (U) became a recognised state party in Arunachal Pradesh where it won seven seats in the Assembly election. In Tripura, where Assembly elections are due in 2023, the JD (U) has started strengthening its organizational set-up.“We want to capitalise on the sentiments prevailing against the All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) of Badruddin Ajmal. The BJP is a strong force in the state but it hardly fields candidates against Ajmal’s party,” said JD (U) national secretary and in-charge for the northeast, Sanjay Verma.“What has added to our belief of a better performance in these two states is that people have great respect and trust on Nitish Kumar. The development works done by Kumar, especially in Assam’s Nagaon district, during his tenure as Union railway minister when rail lines were laid for over 120 km, is still remembered by people. This rail line became the lifeline for many and they profusely thank him for this,” Verma said, and added that people believe in the party’s secular credential, which will certainly pay rich dividends in the polls.Verma also claimed that the JD (U) plans to cash in on “sentiments against the AIUDF”.“The party has identified at least 32 seats in districts such as Nagaon, Tinsukia and Barpeta and to encash sentiments against the AIUDF. The Congress’s presence in Assam is virtually negligible and the AIUDF has also lost the people’s trust. A final decision will be taken by the senior party leaders,” he said.Verma said many young Muslims have been inducted recently into the party in Assam. “They will have an added advantage of the party’s secular image under Nitish Kumar’s leadership,” he said.The JD (U) general secretary said the party has also stepped up its activity in Tripura where it aims to fill up the political space vacated by the CPI (M) and is planning to take on the BJP. “We have started strengthening the organizational set-up in the state,” said Verma.At its recent national executive meeting, JD(U) had announced its plan to contest the West Bengal assembly election as well.The JD (U) suffered a setback recently when six of the seven MLAs in Arunachal Pradesh defected to BJP. The party had won seven seats in the 60-member assembly in the state, next only to the ruling BJP which bagged 41 seats and secured a majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-banks-of-nitish-kumar-s-goodwill-eyes-32-assembly-seats-in-assam/story-AzqBptxJdbniU76NX4I20J.html
04-01-2021||India||Snow envelopes J-K, strands over 3000 vehicles on Jammu-Srinagar highway||Traffic on the 270-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained suspended for the second straight day on Monday due to heavy snowfall around Jawahar Tunnel and in Banihal of Ramban district. Though the road was cleared of landslides at Magerkot, Battery Chashma, Mom Passi, Marog and Panthial in Ramban distict, heavy accumulation of snow on the north portal of Jawahar Tunnel in Lower Munda has been hampering vehicular movement. Hundreds of trucks from avalanche prone area in Lower Munda were cleared and allowed to pass through the Jawahar tunnel towards Banihal. Traffic Police have pressed into service their mobile teams making announcements on loudspeakers telling the people that no vehicle will be allowed to Srinagar because of landslides and snowfall in Ramban and rains in Udhampur area. “Around 2,500 vehicles including trucks have been stranded between Udhampur and Ramban since Saturday evening,” said a traffic police officer. Similarly, 170 Srinagar-bound light motor vehicles (LMVs) and 150 heavy vehicles besides 20 Jammu-bound LMVs were stranded between Ramsu and Jawahar Tunnel. Around 80 Srinagar-bound LMVs have been stranded in Ramban and 50 HMVs in Chanderkot while 190 Srinagar- bound tankers have been stranded in Batote area. The Mughal Road, an alternate road that connects the Kashmir valley to Jammu region through Shopian-Rajouri axis, also remains closed in the winter due to heavy snowfall. National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has pressed into service their men and machineries to clear snow and debris from the affected stretches of the Jammu-Srinagar highway. Meanwhile, the Met office has forecast widespread moderate to heavy snowfall with isolated very heavy snowfall from Monday evening to January 6 forenoon with peak activity during Monday night to Tuesday afternoon in both Jammu and Kashmir regions. The weather is predicted to improve significantly from January 6 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snow-envelopes-j-k-strands-over-3000-vehicles-on-jammu-srinagar-highway/story-OUpybcKAU6MQf66RniNlbI.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Will make arrangement to convene Assembly session to pass resolution against farm laws’: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that her government will soon convene a session of the state assembly to pass a resolution against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. “We will make arrangements to convene assembly session soon to pass resolution against three new farm laws,” Banerjee said at a press conference, according to news agency PTI.“I’m in favour of farmers and want withdrawal of these three bills for the sake of the country and farmers. Before the bills came in, they had godowns made. Their political intention is clear and that’s why they are not taking it back,” she further said while attacking the Centre.Five state assemblies have so far passed resolution against Centre’s farm laws, Kerala being the latest one.The Kerala assembly passed the resolution on Thursday which was supported by all 140 members of the House, including the lone Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member.O Rajagopal, 91, who was minister of state for railways in the Atal Bihari Vajapyee government, opposed the resolution initially, but when it was put to voice vote, he did not walk out and supported it, much to the surprise of both the treasury and opposition benches.Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan are other states which have passed similar resolutions. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently triggered a controversy by tearing copies of the farm laws in the Assembly.DMK president and Tamil Nadu leader MK Stalin has also asked chief minister E Palaniswami to convene a special session of the state Assembly to pass a resolution against farm laws.The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system. They have been protesting near Delhi demanding the repeal of these laws.The farmers and government have held seven rounds of talks so far, but no solution has been found. In the latest round of talks on Monday, the government made it clear that the laws won’t be repealed and the farmers reiterated that they will not end their protest till that happens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-arrangement-to-convene-assembly-session-to-pass-resolution-against-farm-laws-mamata-banerjee/story-yFqtfBd8H7GxzBnU4r8t4O.html
04-01-2021||India||‘No ghar wapasi’: Farmer leader vows to keep protesting till farm laws are repealed||Shortly after the seventh round of talks between the farmers and the government ended without a breakthrough, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that until the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn, the protesters won’t go home.“Discussion took place on our demands -- repeal of the three laws and MSP... Kanoon wapasi nahi, to ghar wapasi nahi (We will not go home until the laws are withdrawn),” he said as quoted by news agency ANI.Tikait’s statement comes after the Centre ruled out any possibility of repealing the laws at the talks, adding that it can look into any clause the farmers had issues with. The Centre was represented by Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ghar-wapasi-farmer-leader-vows-to-keep-protesting-till-farm-laws-are-repealed/story-SytXMGCGKDhl15XQPV5efL.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Moderate’ air in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida after 37 days; Gurugram records ‘satisfactory’ AQI||After a spell of rain, the average air quality improved from “very poor” to “moderate” levels in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad, while it reached “satisfactory” category in Gurgaon, according to a 24-hour data issued by a government agency on Monday. Gurgaon and Faridabad last had a ‘moderate’ air day on December 15, Noida on December 14, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad on November 27, official figures from corresponding dates showed. Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 although remained prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Monday was 168 in Ghaziabad, 134 in Greater Noida, 152 in Noida, 179 in Faridabad and 65 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB’s ‘Sameer’ application. On Sunday, it was 384 in Ghaziabad, 348 in Greater Noida, 364 in Noida, 358 in Faridabad and 260 in Gurgaon. On Saturday, it was 462 in Ghaziabad, 450 in Greater Noida, 448 in Noida, 415 in Faridabad and 336 in Gurgaon. The CPCB states that an AQI in the “satisfactory” category may cause minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people, while “moderate” may lead to breathing discomfort to those with lungs, asthma and heat diseases. The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations, while Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderate-air-in-ghaziabad-greater-noida-after-37-days-gurugram-records-satisfactory-aqi/story-cFGONXFlYMZoCR5Q3hvXoM.html
04-01-2021||India||Families of 2 men killed in Srinagar encounter protest, cops insist they were OGWs||The families of the two of the three young men who were killed in an encounter by security forces on December 30 protested in Srinagar on Monday demanding their bodies that have been buried in Ganderbal and impartial investigation into the encounter.While the army and police have insisted that they were militants, the youths’ families continued to claim that they were innocent.The police also released purported videos of the cordoned house where the trio – Zubair Ahmad from Turkawangam Shopian, Ajaz Maqbool and Athar Mushtaq(16-17 years) from Putrigam Pulwama - was killed in Hokersar-Lawaypora Srinagar claiming that they were repeatedly asked to surrender on the night of December 29 and in the morning of December 30.The family members of Athar Mushtaq and Zubair Ahmad converged at Press Colony in Srinagar carrying banners which read “Stop innocents killings” and “We want complete investigation”. Amid wails, the protestors including elderly and women were shouting slogans demanding justice. The protest lasted about an hour with a few dozen people participating in it.“He had bullets in his chest. The mothers and sisters of soldiers then congratulate them saying that you have shot terrorists on the front. But he was just a 16-year-old child,” a wailing Mushtaq Ahmad, father of Athar said.“Are the soldiers happy now snatching a piece of my heart? You killed my son to feed your children. Shame on you,” he said.While the police and army have said that the trio was killed in exchange of fire at Hokersar-Lawaypora in Srinagar, their families have rebutted the claim and said that they were civilians. Athar was a class 11 student, Aijaz was pursuing graduation while Zubair was a skilled worker, according to their families.Mushtaq said that he wanted justice. “I don’t want money. I just want the body of my son,” he said.“He lies buried there in the snow (in Ganderbal). Whom should I tell? Aren’t people of India listening? I want to tell people of the world that I want justice. I want my son, he is just 16. I am already dead. Either give me my son or bury me there,” he said.As part of the protocol, the authorities have been burying the bodies of militants far away from their homes only allowing a few family members to be part of the burial arranged by police. The trio killed on December 30 was taken to Ganderbal, some 110 km from Pulwama, for burial. The police have rejected the claims of the families but promised to probe the case from all possible angles.On Monday, the police released two videos of the surrounded house purportedly showing forces asking those inside to surrender. “On 29/12/20 evening after the cordon at Hokersar, troops are repeatedly appealing to the trapped terrorists to come out and surrender with assurances that they will not be harmed,” Kashmir police said in a tweet.“At Hokersar on 30/12/2020 in the morning hours, troops are once again appealing the trapped terrorists to come out in the ground and surrender before them,” it said in another tweet with a video.Almost all the mainstream political parties in Kashmir have raised questions over the encounter after the claims of the families.National conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Monday asked lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to facilitate the handing over of the bodies. “The LG has promised a fair & speedy probe in to this encounter when JKNC Lok sabha member Hansain Masoodi spoke to him about it recently. In the interim we hope the LG will order the handing over of the bodies to the families,” he said in a tweet.“It is very important that the probe in to this encounter be concluded at the earliest. Only a fair & transparent probe, already promised by @manojsinha, will satisfy the families who have lost their loved ones who they insist were innocent,” he said.However, police have said that their checks have revealed that the Aijaz and Athar were over ground workers of militants.“Background checks also revealed that Aijaz and Ather Mushtaq, both OGWs (over ground workers of militants) variously provided logistic support to terrorists. Antecedents and verifications too shows that both were radically inclined and had aided terrorists of LeT (now so-called TRF) outfit,” the police said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-of-2-men-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-protest-cops-insist-they-were-ogws/story-cVclJz2Rdbo7tmK6JoAd6N.html
04-01-2021||India||Indigenous Covid-19 vaccine demonstrates benefits of Atmanirbhar Bharat, says Vice President Venkaiah Naidu||A day after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its nod for the emergency use approval for two indigenous vaccines against Covid-19 on Sunday, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday termed it as India’s leap of science and manifestation of the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Naidu, as quoted in a release from Vice President’s Secretariat, stressed that this development can benefit not only Indians but the larger humanity. He also appealed the people to express same spirit in taking the vaccine as they did while persevering through the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. “India is in the forefront of shielding the humanity from the deadly disease by demonstrating its ability to mass produce the much-needed vaccine and offer its own version as well. India’s indigenous vaccine (Covaxin) has certain unique features based on the whole virus approach. This is a commendable achievement and all concerned deserve kudos for foresight perseverance and fruition of spirited efforts,” the release read. Referring to the devastating effects of Covid-19 in preceding year, Naidu hailed the spirited scientific efforts to come out with vaccines.He further said, “While the celebrations can wait till every needy person gets the vaccine shot, it’s not out of context to say cheers to this optimistic moment.” He noted that India’s spirited efforts towards making vaccines available offers hope to people across the globe conferring on India the leadership role in the collective fight against the most dreaded health challenge of the last 100 years since the outbreak of Spanish Flu.Noting that development and administering of vaccine is guided by a stringent regime of protocols and strict monitoring of attendant data without any compromise, the Vice President referred to the regulator’s assurance to the nation of due diligence before giving nod to the two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin yesterday.“India’s leap of science with the vaccine announcement is a clear manifestation of the spirit of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. It demonstrates what a self-reliant India means not only to its people but also to the rest of the world. India standing tall at this critical moment is one of great reckoning. It vindicates our ethos of sharing with and caring for all. The soon to start vaccine roll out is a certain beginning towards leaving the miseries and anxieties of the last year behind,” the release stated. Naidu observed that the country rose in unison in 2020 in handling the Covid situation with the national leadership both in the Centre and in the States/Union Territories (UTs) working together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-covid-19-vaccine-demonstrates-benefits-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-says-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu/story-1kRlS6OW2Eb4wViTEseo5N.html
04-01-2021||India||Covid vaccination in Delhi: Over 500 centres in phase-1, facility being set up for 2-8 degrees C storage||Work is underway in full swing to set up centres for Covid-19 vaccination in the national capital with 500 such units to come up in the first phase, even as the storage facility is getting equipped with freezers to hold vaccines in a temperature range of 2-8 degrees Celsius. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday had welcomed the approval given for emergency use of two Covid-19 vaccines, and asserted that the city government was all set for the vaccination drive as soon as any vaccine arrives. A total of 1,000 vaccination centres will be set up. And, 500-600 centres will be set up in the first phase, for which work is underway in full swing, officials said. India’s drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. “We are all ready with our preparations, from storage to logistics, and on Saturday, a dry run was conducted at three sites to assess the preparedness for the vaccination roll-out. Vaccination can begin as soon as the vaccine arrives in Delhi, which we expect in a few days,” Jain said on Sunday. As part of the first phase, about three lakh healthcare workers and nearly six lakh frontline workers will get the vaccine. The city government has announced that the vaccine will be provided to people in Delhi for free-of-cost. While the Covid-19 situation seems significantly under control, several people arriving here from the UK and being detected with the new strain of the coronavirus, has caused a bit of concern, but authorities said they were totally alert. Delhi recorded 424 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in over seven months, and 14 new fatalities on Sunday, even as the positivity rate slipped to 0.62 per cent. The infection tally in the city stood at over 6.26 lakh and death toll rose to 10,585. The minister has said the Delhi government has so far made preparations to vaccinate one lakh people in a day. Social distancing will be maintained, and people will be admitted to the centres in batches of 10, he added. The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, the minister had earlier said. These include healthcare workers, who will be thr first to receive, followed by frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities, he added. Vaccination centres will either be hospitals or facilities linked to hospitals.Emergency rooms will be set up at the centres, and those getting the vaccine dose will be kept there under observation for half an hour, to see if there is any side effect. “A monitoring station has been created at a vaccination centre and any side effects, like headache, body pain will be immediately looked into, and hospital linkage anyway is there,” Jain said. On the storage facility preparations at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), sources said, 90 freezers have arrived and nearly half of those have been installed, adding cold chain equipment have also been set up. “The facility being set up at RGSSH can store vaccine in a temperature range of 2-8 degree Celsius.... But, as of now, we have not received any information, as to which vaccine will be sent here,” a source told PTI. RGSSH, recently made a partially Covid-19 facility, has 650 beds and played a significant role in the combat against the pandemic in 2020. There will be two cold chain equipment for storage. The ground and first floors of the utility block, measuring about 4,700 sq ft, will be used for the storage facility on the hospital premises. “Officials of Delhi State Health Mission are monitoring the setting up of the storage facility on a daily basis,” the source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-in-delhi-over-500-centres-in-phase-1-facility-being-set-up-for-2-8-degrees-c-storage/story-AX053L8OiNITuF3oUoN8WO.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Give me one week’s time’: Bharat Biotech chief on questions about Covaxin efficacy||Amid concerns over the relatively less amount of data on the efficacy and safety of Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the company’s managing director Krishna Ella said on Monday that the company’s vaccine is safe and the company is conducting trials in more than 12 countries apart from India. “We are not a company without experience in vaccines. We have tremendous experience in vaccines,” ANI quoted Ella as saying.“We are touching 123 countries. We are the only company that has got such extensive experience & extensive publication in review journals,” he also said.“We are not just conducting clinical trials in India. We have done clinical trials more than 12 countries including the UK. We are doing clinical trials in Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh & other countries. We are not just an Indian company, we are truly a global company,” Ella also said.Asked if the vaccine will be effective on new strain of the virus, Ella said, “Give me one week’s time, I will give you confirmed data.”The government recently approved emergency authorisation use of Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield. The government has also cleared Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally-developed vaccine for “restricted use in emergency situation” triggering a debate among experts over the approval despite the shorter duration of human trials and relatively less data.Meanwhile, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr Balram Bhargava had said on Sunday that Covaxin is based on an inactivated whole virus, having potential to target mutated coronavirus strains including the UK variant, and it was a major reason for giving it a conditional nod.Speaking on the controversy around the vaccine, Ella said, “Now that vaccine is being politicised, I want to state very clearly that none of my family members are associated with any political party.”“Approval of Covaxin for emergency use is a giant leap for innovation and novel product development in India. It is a proud moment for the nation and a great milestone in India’s scientific capability, a kickstart to the innovation ecosystem in India,” Ella also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-tremendous-experience-in-vaccines-says-bharat-biotech-md-amid-debate-over-efficacy-data/story-aky4n5WwBtIisnBRBbhE6I.html
04-01-2021||India||#MeToo: Priya Ramani called me predator without any basis, MJ Akbar tells court||Former union minister MJ Akbar on Monday told a court here that journalist Priya Ramani called him ‘media’s biggest sexual predator’ without any investigation or basis.Akbar made the submission through senior advocate Geeta Luthra during the final hearing in a criminal defamation complaint filed by him against Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct 20 years back.Ramani had made allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018.Luthra referred to Ramani’s tweet which accued Akbar of being media’s biggest sexual predator.“If we look at what has been said, a conclusion is drawn that this is a predator. On what basis? All these averments (in the article) are based without any investigation or basis,” she submitted before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar.She further read Ramani’s “premature tweet” on Akbar’s resignation.   “This had further tweets. In my (Akbar) cross examination I asked if this was not correct. He resigned later is wholly immaterial. This shows malafide, maliciousness.“This is trial outside the court. Due process is in a court of law. One cannot become law onto oneself. This (the tweet) was incorrect,” she said.The senior advocate further accused Ramani of not telling the truth before the court.“I asked did you issue any corrigendum. She said yes. I said show. She said I would show on the next date. This was not necessary. She knew she had not issued any corrigendum.“She says her defense is truth but she knows it is not the truth. Only in cross examination she says it was not the truth. It shows her credibility as a witness,” Luthra said.She further said, “Can people repeat something incorrect? Repeating of lies by 10 persons doesn’t become the truth. Being a journalist, she could have independently verified. This is how responsible journalism works.” “A blatantly false, incorrect statement was made to court and a blatantly false defense was taken,” she said.The court will further resume the hearing on January 7.Akbar had filed the criminal defamation complaint against Ramani in October 15, 2018.He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018.Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by calling him with adjectives such as ‘media’s biggest predator’ that harmed his reputation.He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him.Over 20 women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by Akbar while they were working as journalists under him.He termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metoo-priya-ramani-called-me-predator-without-any-basis-mj-akbar-tells-court/story-N4hZLLFJjGZNSVHWtlgjSM.html
04-01-2021||India||Duo moves Bombay HC to plug loopholes in POSH Act, protect ICC members||A former corporate executive and an activist lawyer have moved the Bombay high court seeking service protection for members of internal complaints committees (ICC) set up to deal with complaints of sexual harassment in private companies on grounds that they are susceptible to victimization.The petitioners - Janaki Chaudhary, a former corporate executive who was allegedly targeted and unfairly dealt with by her employer due to the decisions she took as presiding officer of the internal complaints committee at her former workplace, and activist lawyer Abha Singh, have also sought a direction to set up a commission to review the deficiencies in the Protection of Women from Sexual Harassment (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) (POSH) Act, 2013, and to frame guidelines to extend protection to ICC members.Their public interest litigation stated that the POSH Act provides for mandatory constitution of ICC by companies having 10 or more employees to deal with complaints of sexual harassment at workplace but does not provide safeguards for the members.“These committees are bestowed with the power of civil courts, and are under obligation to conduct a free and fair inquiry into the alleged incident and give an impartial recommendation to the employer,” states their PIL. “However, the Members of such committees, akin to judges, have not been provided with any safeguards, which will enable them to act without fear and favour,” it adds.“Thus, an anomalous situation has arisen where ICC members have been conferred quasi-judicial powers without the requisite independence and safeguards,” it states, adding, “This creates a highly unjust and iniquitous situation for ICC members as well as the parties to the case. This acts as a barrier to holistically address the issue of sexual harassment.”Thus, they have complained, the present law as it stands today “leaves room for arm twisting of ICC members by the senior management of the company in the form of arbitrary transfers, termination, victimisation in unrelated areas of work etc.”They contended that the risk of this form of retribution is more likely in cases where the person accused of sexual harassment is a senior official with considerable influence in the company. “This conflict of interest, where the ICC members are on the payroll of the company and may have to take decisions against their seniors, creates a precarious situation for ICC members as well as for women members at the workplace. It further defeats the objective of the Act - which is to provide protection against sexual harassment of women at workplace and for the prevention and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment.”In this backdrop, the petitioners have sought service protection for ICC members, at par with public servants, as they are tasked with the statutory duty of adjudicating sexual harassment complaints while being on the payroll of the company and can be terminated with just three months pay, as there is no legal obligation on the private sector to follow the principles of natural justice. “This creates a serious conflict of interest and constrains ICC members from taking free, fair and impartial decisions.According to then, the POSH Act intended the ICC to function as an adjudicatory body and under section 19 of the Indian Penal Code, ICC members can be considered as judges, especially because section 11 of the POSH Act confers upon them the powers to make an inquiry into a complaint of sexual harassment. Section 18 of the Act provides for an appeal against the decision of the ICC.“Thus, the POSH Act empowers ICC members to pass definitive judgements, which can be appealed against, thereby treating them as judges,” states the PIL, asserting that “therefore, in order to reflect the true spirit of the Vishaka guidelines (laid down by the Supreme Court) and India’s international obligations under the CEDAW (Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women), ICC members must be provided robust safeguards similar to those of judicial officers.”The PIL will come up for hearing before a bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni but a date is yet is yet to be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/duo-moves-bombay-hc-to-plug-loopholes-in-posh-act-protect-icc-members/story-UvbBpm001kC6nMX1ym3i0H.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Varsha Raut appears before ED in PMC Bank scam case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Varsha Raut appears before ED in PMC Bank scam case Varsha Raut, the wife of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, reached Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Mumbai on Monday, news agency ANI reported. She was summoned by the ED to appear before it in connection with PMC Bank scam case. Read moreBird flu: Jharkhand zoos on high alert after reports of bird deaths in different statesThe wildlife wing of Jharkhand forest department has sounded a high alert for zoos and bird sanctuary in wake of death reports of a large number of birds, including migratory birds, in different states of the country, officials said on Monday. Read moreMadan Kaushik ran away from debate: Manish Sisodia on Uttarakhand minister’s no-showA day after Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik wrote a four-page open letter to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Delhi deputy chief minister (CM) Manish Sisodia calling him a “tourist politician”, Sisodia on Monday alleged that Kaushik “ran away from the debate as he had nothing to talk about on development in Uttarakhand.” Read moreExplained: Why are Georgia Senate runoffs extremely crucial for Joe Biden?US President-elect Joe Biden won the southern state of Georgia with a slim margin but another important election went undecided - the race to Senate. In November, no candidate for two Senate seats from Georgia received a minimum of 50 per cent votes required to win the race, according to the state rules, which meant the top two candidates go through another election, a so-called runoff, on January 5. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘It’s a big gimmick to take pressure off Australia and try to get under skin of Indians’, says Pragyan OjhaFormer Indian spinner Pragyan Ojha has condemned a section of Australian media, stating that they are trying to get under the skin of Indian cricket team. Read moreBigg Boss 14 promo: Rubina Dilaik and husband Abhinav Shukla get into massive fight, he accuses her of doing ‘drama’ In a new promo of Bigg Boss 14, Rubina Dilaik and Abhinav Shukla got into a massive argument as he reiterated what host Salman Khan told her during the Weekend Ka Vaar episode. Read moreSamsung Galaxy S21 Ultra: Here’s everything we know about this iPhone 13 rivalSamsung has just announced the launch date of its Galaxy S21 smartphone series, which will also be its flagship series of the year 2021. The firm is said to launch three devices in the series and the most powerful of them all is said to be the Galaxy S21 Ultra. Read moreNissan Magnite gets 32,800 bookings in 1 month, most introductory prices to stayNissan Magnite has had a rousing one month since being launched in the Indian car market as the most affordable sub-compact SUV on December 2, receiving 38,200 bookings. The car maker has confirmed that introductory prices of all variants of Magnite, except the base variant priced at ₹5.49 lakh (ex showroom), will continue to remain valid. Read moreHina Khan flaunts washboard abs in new post, says fit girls are the best girlsDuring the lockdown, Hina Khan shared a lot of workout posts with her fans on Instagram in an attempt to urge them to stop being lazy and get fit. During that time, the actor revealed how she was exercising at home with a few gym equipments and gave tips to her followers too. She is still trying to inspire her fans to stop being lazy and work out. Read moreStay in your ‘orbit’: Mumbai Police shares advisory post inspired by our solar systemMumbai Police is renowned for sharing super innovative advisory posts. Its latest share is a testament to its original thinking and excellent creativity skills. Seeing the post, inspired by our solar system, may make you believe the same. Read moreWatch: ‘Will not get vaccinated first’: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan explains reasonMadhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that he will not be among the first ones to get vaccinated as her wants priority groups to be vaccinated first. ‘I have decided that I will not get vaccinated for now. First it should be administered to others. My turn should come afterwards. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-varsha-raut-appears-before-ed-in-pmc-bank-scam-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eElUu85IG1uBzwIE5y1U0I.html
04-01-2021||India||I-T dept visits Robert Vadra’s premises in connection with benami assets case||The Income Tax department on Monday visited the premises of Robert Vadra, son-in-law of Congress President Sonia Gandhi, to record his statement in connection with its probe against him under the benami assets law, official sources said.They said Vadra was asked to join the investigation at the tax authority’s office but as he cited Covid-19 restrictions, a team of officials visited his premises in Delhi’s Sukhdev Vihar area.A department team has gone to record Vadra’s statement under the provisions of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, they said.The department has been probing Vadra, the husband of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on charges of alleged possession of some undisclosed assets in the UK.The Enforcement Directorate too is investigating these charges, under the anti-money laundering law, against the businessman.Vadra had denied any wrongdoing in the past even as the Congress party had called the action political vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-dept-visits-robert-vadra-s-premises-in-connection-with-benami-assets-case/story-PDAsIcyBSa8QInZuzsocyN.html
04-01-2021||India||Health ministry says 38 people in India test positive for new Covid-19 strain||A total of 38 people have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday.These include the 29 cases which were announced till Friday.All these people have been kept in single room isolation in designated healthcare facilities by respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine, the ministry said.Of the 38, the mutated UK strain was detected in eight samples at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, 11 in the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, one in the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani (near Kolkata), five in the National Institute of Virology in Pune, three in Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and 10 were sequenced at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS), Bengaluru.  The NCBS, InSTEM in Bengaluru, CDFD in Hyderabad, ILS in Bhubaneswar and NCCS in Pune have so far found no UK mutant virus, the ministry said.“A total of 38 samples have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome,” the ministry said.It said comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, it added.“The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs,” the ministry stated.The positive Covid-19 samples are being tested at 10 INSACOG labs (NIBMG Kolkata, ILS Bhubaneswar, NIV Pune, NCCS Pune, CCMB Hyderabad, CDFD Hyderabad, InSTEM Bengaluru, NIMHANS Bengaluru, IGIB Delhi and NCDC Delhi) for genome sequencing.The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.The government of India took cognizance of the reports of virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, it said.This strategy includes temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till January 7 and mandatory testing of all UK-returned air passengers through RT-PCR test.  The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs - INSACOG.  Further, all the international passengers who have arrived in India between December 9 to 22, if symptomatic and tested positive for Covid-19, will be subjected to genome sequencing as part of the Centre’s strategy to detect the mutated UK variant in them.Others will be followed up by the respective state and district surveillance officers and will be tested as per ICMR guidelines (even if asymptomatic) between fifth and tenth day, according to the Union Health Ministry’s guidance document on genomic sequencing.Further, epidemiological surveillance of the passengers, who have arrived in India since November 23 will be conducted in the community through active follow up.      Besides, standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-strain-total-38-people-in-india-test-positive/story-7BeZ2dktp9eI1hdOA5hjfJ.html
04-01-2021||India||SC accepts petition sent to CJI seeking inquiry against Haryana Police for using water cannons on farmers||The Supreme Court accepted a letter petition sent to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde by a group of students from Punjab seeking an inquiry against Haryana Police for using water cannons, tear gases shells on farmers to stop them from proceeding to Delhi to protest against the Centre’s newly-enacted farm laws.The students wrote an open letter to the CJI and urged that Haryana and Delhi police withdraw all the cases against farmers which were registered under alleged political vendetta.The letter, written by former and current human rights students of the Centre for Human Rights and Duties, Punjab University, also asked that the cases of illegal detention of protesters be looked into.The letter signed by Gurmohan Preet Singh and 34 other students requested that the governments at both Central and State level ensure the safety of all protesters, and provide basic amenities for all, especially women, children and elderly. It also asked for mobile toilet vans to be provided at protest places.“Issue appropriate guidelines, as the court may deem fit, regarding hygienic conditions at protest sites in the backdrop of Covid-19. Take an action to curb fake news and against media channels, engaged in misrepresentation, polarisation and sensationalisation of the whole issue,” it stated.They sought top court’s immediate intervention to protect “gross neglect of human rights”.“We, being students of human rights are very much disturbed and disheartened by witnessing the execrable way in which the government of India is dealing with its own farmers, who are protesting much peacefully as per their constitutional rights,” the letter said.Farmers’ protest at several Delhi borders has been going on for over a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-accepts-petition-sent-to-cji-seeking-inquiry-against-haryana-police-for-using-water-cannons-on-farmers/story-Sc06Lza85rkKbYvuStktqI.html
04-01-2021||India||Asian Development Bank to provide USD 100 million loan to upgrade power distribution in Bengaluru||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) will provide a USD 100 million (around Rs 730 crore) loan to modernise and upgrade the power distribution system in Bengaluru city, a finance ministry statement said. Beside the USD 100 million sovereign loan, ADB will provide a USD 90 million loan without sovereign guarantee for the project to Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd (BESCOM), one of the five state-owned distribution utilities in Karnataka. “The ADB and the Government of India on December 31, 2020 signed a USD 100 million loan to modernise and upgrade the power distribution system to enhance the quality and reliability of electricity supply in Bengaluru city in the state of Karnataka,” the statement said. In parallel to underground distribution cables, over 2,800 km of fibre optical cables will be installed to strengthen communication network. Moving about 7,200 km of distribution lines underground will help reduce technical and commercial losses by about 30 per cent, it said. The fibre optical cables will be used for smart metering systems, distribution automation system (DAS) in the distribution grid, and other communication networks. The project will install 1,700 automated ring main units adapted with a DAS to monitor and control the distribution line switchgears from the control centre, it added. The statement further said the loan will strengthen the capacity of BESCOM in operation and maintenance of underground cabling, environment and social safeguards, financial management and commercial financing. Improved financial management capability will help BESCOM access domestic and international commercial financing market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asian-development-bank-to-provide-usd-100-million-loan-to-upgrade-power-distribution-in-bengaluru/story-wTylMcYgNKbiUL9uH1wEaM.html
04-01-2021||India||PMC Bank scam: Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha appears before ED||Varsha Raut, the wife of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, reached Enforcement Directorate (ED) office in Mumbai on Monday, news agency ANI reported. She was summoned by the ED to appear before it in connection with PMC Bank scam case.The agency had said on Friday (January 1) last week said that it attached assets worth Rs 72 crore of a Maharashtra-based man whose wife allegedly transferred money in the account of Raut’s wife.The ED claimed that the arrested man, Pravin Raut, had “siphoned off” Rs 95 crore worth of funds from the scam-hit bank in the garb of loan, out of which he paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife, Madhuri Raut, who subsequently transferred Rs 50 lakh in two tranches to Varsha Raut, wife of Sanjay Raut, as an “interest-free loan”.Also Read | PMC Bank: ED attaches Rs 72-cr assets of man whose wife transferred funds to Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s spouseThe ED has summoned Varsha Raut for questioning with regard to this transaction. She has skipped the agency’s notice thrice.The issue led to a political blame game between the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Bharatya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre.Sanjay Raut said that the BJP wants to pull down the Maharashtra government and thus by issuing the notice to his wife, it was trying to put pressure on the Sena.“We have been getting messages from BJP leaders here [in the state] that they have prepared a list of 22 leaders from the three ruling parties to book them in various financial cases. Our MLA (Member of Legislative Assembly) Pratap Sarnaik [who, along with his relatives, has also been questioned by ED in another case] is one of them. A few state BJP leaders regularly visit the ED office and obtain important documents related to leaders from the ruling parties in Maharashtra. The BJP is playing a dirty game in political rivalry by involving wives and family members of the leaders who speak out against them,” Raut had claimed during a press conference on December 28.He also said that details regarding the Rs 50 lakh transaction have already been submitted to the ED during the correspondence.The ED had filed a criminal case of money laundering to probe the alleged loan fraud in the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank in October last year against Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, his son Sarang Wadhawan, its former chairman Waryam Singh and ex-managing director Joy Thomas.It took cognisance of a Mumbai Police economic offences wing FIR against them that charged them for causing “wrongful loss, prima facie to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank, and corresponding gains to themselves”.The ED has attached assets of Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Wadhawan family trust and others worth Rs 293 crore and had seized jewellery worth Rs 63 crore.A chargesheet had also been filed by it in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-bank-scam-sanjay-raut-s-wife-varsha-appears-before-ed/story-Ud8MwW3koLx6QtV7YquApK.html
04-01-2021||India||Youth urge Asaduddin Owaisi to launch party in Kerala, Muslim League cautious||The Muslim League is wary and on its toes with several youth bodies urging Asaduddin Owaisi to launch his party in Kerala, which has 26 per cent Muslim population. The AIMIM has recently tasted success in the Bihar assembly elections, winning five seats. The party is also involved in intense negotiations with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.Though League leaders say Owaisi’s brand of politics won’t sell in Kerala, they are cautious about his possible entry at a time when another minority, Christians, appeared to have moved to the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) camp against the Muslim consolidation. The recent local body election hints towards it.League leaders said the ruling CPI(M) played a “dirty communal card” to shore up the support of Christians, who constitute 18 per cent of the population, and a section of the majority community to tilt the balance in its favour. An article written by a League leader in party mouthpiece ‘Chandrika’ lauding the takeover of Hagia Sophia, a 1500-old Orthodox Christian cathedral in Turkey, and ‘love jihad’ bogey were used extensively to influence them, they said.In Kerala, the League has been enjoying the support of the community for more than four decades and political observers often attribute its presence to peaceful communal co-existence in the state. But there is a strong feeling in the community recently that League MPs had shown little regard in reflecting Muslim sentiment in Parliament during discussion on vital issues like Ram temple, Citizenship (Amendment) Act(CAA), triple talaq, among others.Many organisations which nurse extreme views have started a campaign against the League citing these issues. Cut-outs of Owaisi had appeared at many places in north Kerala after Parliament debates on temple and CAA. But League leaders dubbed it “a futile whisper campaign” and felt fascination for Owaisi was only an emotional reaction from a miniscule section of youth.“The Muslim League has a strong presence in Kerala for many decades and nobody can weaken its base. Earlier also many outfits with extreme views tried to hijack our plank but failed. Owaisi’s brand of politics is not suitable for Kerala,” said League senior leader PK Kunhalikutty MP, who is planning to return to state politics after a brief sojourn in Delhi. The party had announced its decision to field the Malappuram MP in assembly elections due in four months.He said the situation of the community in north and south India was totally different. “In Kerala there is no ghettoisation and people from community enjoy an equal footing and status in all spheres. Their rights and privileges are protected strongly. People are educated and informed which acts as a bulwark against hatred or extremist views here,” he said.Since coalition politics was experimented in Kerala by the late Congress leader K Karunakaran in the late 1970s, the League has been in the Congress camp. Unlike its northern counterpart, in Kerala the League is known for its moderate face. Its late leader E Ahamed was twice the minister of state for external affairs in former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s cabinet. Many young leaders now want the League to take a strong position in the light of campaign carried out by Sangh Parivar and Communists and ensure a pan-India presence. Though the party has units in many states, it is mainly confined to Kerala and other southern states, they feel.“Owaisi can’t make any impact in other southern states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu where the community is more focused and socially developed. In the last two-three decades, the community gave much importance to education so unlike north India, its members can’t be swayed easily on emotional issues,” said Ashraf Kadakkal, an Islamic historian and author.However, even as IUML was apprehensive of MIM’s possible foray, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led party said it had no plans to enter the southern state. While Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi could not be reached, a party leader who did not want to be identified said the MIM had no plans to contest elections in Kerala.“Right from the beginning, Owaisi saab has been making it clear that the party won’t foray into at least three states - Kerala, Assam and Kashmir. We have been standing by it. Our party doesn’t have any base in Kerala and so there’s no chance of us contesting the elections,” the MIM leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-urge-asaduddin-owaisi-to-launch-party-in-kerala-muslim-league-cautious/story-uCK18m0hInAfgDY3NzfbvM.html
04-01-2021||India||Indian products must win customer confidence: PM Modi at National Metrology Conclave||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is not looking to fill the world with Indian products but ensure customer satisfaction across the globe.Speaking at the National Metrology Conclave, Modi said “Make in India” products should not only meet the global demand but also be globally accepted for their quality.On Monday, while dedicating the national atomic timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya Pranali (Certified Indian Reference Material programme) to the nation and laying the foundation stone for National Environmental Standards Laboratory, the prime minister said India is on the verge of starting the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination programme.Also Read: PM Modi should take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, says Bihar Congress leader“Indian scientists have successfully made two Covid-19 vaccines in India in this new year and the world’s largest Covid vaccination programme is about to start here,” he said in Hindi.Speaking on the certified Indian reference materials programme of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Modi remarked the programme will help the industry make good quality products in sectors like heavy metals, pesticides, pharmaceuticals and textiles by drafting a reference material system.“Industry is moving towards a consumer-oriented approach instead of the regulation centric-approach. With these new standards, there is a campaign to bring global identity to local products in districts across the country, which will be of particular benefit to our MSME sector.”This will also help the large foreign manufacturing companies coming to India to find a local supply chain.Certified reference materials (CRM) are used for the calibration of measuring apparatus, for the evaluation of measurement procedures and for the internal or external quality control of measurements and laboratories. CSIR-NPL has initiated CRM production under “Make in India” according to a statement issued by CSIR on Monday.With the atomic time scale, the Indian Standard Time achieve an accuracy level of 2.9 nanoseconds.Precise time with nanosecond accuracy is maintained the world over using atomic clocks at various national measurement institutes (NMIs) in more than 70 countries including India. CSIR-NPL maintains Indian Standard Time here.CSIR-NPL is now working on synchronising all the clocks in the nation to IST for securing digital infrastructure and reducing cybercrime. It is providing IST traceability to ISRO timing centres in Bengaluru and Lucknow for the NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) programme.“Now Indian Standard Time is matching the International Standard Time with the accuracy range of less than 3 nanoseconds. This will benefit organisations like Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), banking, railways, defence, health, telecom, weather forecast, disaster management and similar sectors…” the prime minister said.Modi also laid the foundation stone for the National Environmental Standards Laboratory under CSIR. According to a note by CSIR, most air pollution measuring instruments being used in India are imported with product certifications from international agencies.“These certificates are issued based on the environmental conditions of the certificate-issuing country which are very different from the environmental conditions prevalent in India. This affects the quality of measurements by the instrument operating for a long time in Indian conditions,” it said.The estimated global market value of air pollution monitoring equipment and network is US$3,997.8 million which is projected to grow to US$71,187 million by the end of 2025. India and other developing countries are markets where such equipment will get installed.“India is moving towards a leading position in the field of environment. Still, for technology and tools for measuring air quality and emission, India is dependent on others. This achievement will lead to self-reliance in the field and will lead to creation of more effective and cheaper tools for pollution control. This will also enhance India’s share in the global market for technologies related to air quality and emission technology,” Modi said.“The national atomic timescale synchronisation will make our navigation system more accurate. It may help India’s Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (Navic) programme. It will also help our civil and military aviation systems and take us closer to global standards,” said Ajay Lele, Senior Fellow working with space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-products-must-win-customer-confidence-pm-modi-at-national-metrology-conclave/story-CZOsbnKdcTylQqX8kPTEhP.html
04-01-2021||India||Alappuzha, Kottayam in Kerala on high alert after bird flu cases detected||Two districts in Kerala, Alappuzha and Kottayam, have been put on high alert after bird flu cases have been confirmed in ducks, said state animal husbandry minister K Raju. He said at least 50,000 ducks will be culled to check the spread of the virus and the government will compensate farmers.Fresh cases were detected after ducks started dying in large numbers, said Alappuzha district veterinary officer K Lekha. Later tests at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal confirmed the presence of the virus in dead birds. The minister has called a meeting tomorrow to coordinate steps to contain the outbreak.In 2016, bird flu was reported in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts and at least 2 lakh chicken and ducks were culled to control the outbreak. Highly contagious vet experts said all rearing birds in the vicinity will have to be culled to contain the disease. In the two districts, chicken prices have plummeted after the news surfaced.Bird flu, also known as avian flu, is a variety of influenza caused by a virus in birds. It can spread to humans and can trigger a person to person transmission, experts say. There are many varieties of viruses and H7N9 is considered dangerous among them, they say. According to the World Health Organization, there are many subtypes of avian influenza virus and only some of them will be dangerous to humans. Winged guests are reported to be the main carriers of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alappuzha-kottayam-in-kerala-on-high-alert-after-bird-flu-cases-detected/story-IjQjE8Rq3P45GsM4M4oIeO.html
04-01-2021||India||UP: Dalit family claims beaten up by village strongmen for using hand pump, leaves home||A Dalit family has left their home in a village here after they were allegedly beaten up and threatened with dire consequences by local strongmen for using a government hand pump, a family member claimed on Monday.The police have booked three people in connection with the incident. However, they did not comment on the family’s claim of leaving their house.A member of the Dalit family from Tendura village under Bisanda police station told PTI that on December 25, he along with his father had gone to get water from the hand pump. Some strongmen living in their neighbourhood beat him and his 80-year-old father with sticks for using the hand pump.He claimed the strongmen also threatened to burn him and his father alive in their home.The family member said they left their home because of the fear of the strongmen and are now living in a hut in a farm.In an application to the superintendent of police, the family alleged that though the local police has registered a case, there is no mention of injuries sustained by the octogenarian father.SHO of Bisanda police station Narendra Pratap Singh told PTI that it is a case of beating that is being investigated by the Baberu circle officer. On the basis of the complaint lodged by the family, a case has been registered against three people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-dalit-family-claims-beaten-up-by-village-strongmen-for-using-hand-pump-leaves-home/story-CMG9nrsvVvZJl68e8i0IyI.html
04-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu minister takes potshot at DMK’s Stalin citing Alagiri’s remark||Tamil Nadu Minister S P Velumani on Monday took a dig at DMK president M K Stalin by saying that the latter’s elder brother and expelled DMK leader M K Alagiri himself has said Stalin can never become the Chief Minister of the state.This remark from the Municipal Administration Minister comes at a time when Stalin has been saying that the DMK would capture power after the Assembly elections scheduled in April-May.Talking to reporters on the sidelines of distributing Pongal gifts, Velumani said Alagiri had made the statement while addressing his supporters in Madurai on Sunday.Earlier, the Minister said despite a group wanting to prevent distribution of money for Pongal festival, the state government would ensure that the cash reached the beneficiaries without any problem.He said a little over 10.11 lakh cardholders would get the festival gift and Rs 269.83 crore has been allocated to Coimbatore district.The gift scheme was started by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-minister-takes-potshot-at-dmk-s-stalin-citing-alagiri-s-remark/story-mwNCu5sWhWqJ3csZHY2PnO.html
04-01-2021||India||Jaishankar to fly to Sri Lanka tomorrow, sked includes meeting with Prez, PM||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will travel to Sri Lanka on Tuesday on a visit to cement India’s relationship with the island nation. The external affairs minister is expected to take up the release of Indian fishermen apprehended last month during the visit that is designed to review the developments in bilateral relations between the two neighbours from a strategic and long-term perspective.Jaishankar had rushed to Colombo within a day of Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa taking charge in November 2019, setting the foundation for both countries to reset ties. Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had travelled to New Delhi soon after on his maiden foreign visit. The effort to deepen ties continued in September last when Prime Minister Narendra Modi held the first virtual bilateral summit with Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, their first after he began a fresh term as prime minister a month earlier after the Sri Lanka People’s Front party secured a two-thirds majority in parliamentary polls.Jaishankar is scheduled to hold discussions with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena.Officials said Jaishankar’s visit would look at smoothing the rough edges in the relationship between the two countries that has turned complicated over the last decade, mostly on account of China’s efforts to expand its influence in the Indian Ocean region including Sri Lanka.Colombo has, over the past year, signalled on multiple occasions that India is a priority for his government, that Sri Lanka’s strategic security policy will have an “India first” approach though it is open to dealing with other key players for economic development.Jaishankar’s visit is the second high-profile visit to Colombo in two months. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval had flown to Sri Lanka in November for the trilateral discussion on maritime cooperation and security with Colombo and Male.The arrest of 36 Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu and seizure of their vessels allegedly on charges of poaching was discussed at the December 30 virtual meeting of the joint working group on fisheries but there has been no breakthrough yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-fly-to-sri-lanka-tomorrow-sked-includes-meeting-with-prez-pm/story-Sg4RoqRSIpC9ZmEyDeTajJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Govt, farmers’ talks over agri laws underway, both sides hope for positive solution||The seventh round of talks between farmers’ representatives and the central leadership to end the impasse over agricultural laws, enacted in September last year, began at the Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi on Monday. Both the parties observed two-minute silence as a mark of tribute to the 50 protesting farmers who died during the agitation.Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash along with government officials are in a meeting with farmers represented by a team of 41 leaders. Before the meet, Tomar said. “I am hopeful that we will find a positive solution today. We will discuss all issues in the meeting.” Follow latest updates on farmers protest here Speaking to news agency ANI, a farm union leader too said, “We hope there is a breakthrough in this meeting in the new year.” Hannan Mollah,general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha said, “It is up to the government whether it wants to solve the farmers’ problems or conspire against the farmers to fizzle out their struggle. We hope government will take a human approach towards the farmers.”During the sixth round of negotiations, some common ground was reached on concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning. The Centre had agreed to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.However, the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP).Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain partially closedAhead of the meeting Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, “Many issues are to be discussed today. The government must understand, the farmer has taken this movement to his heart and won’t consider less than the repeal of these laws. The government should implement Swaminathan’s report and make law on MSP.”Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders to demand a complete rollback of three contentious agri laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020— for over a month. They have threatened to carry out a tractor rally in the national capital on January 26 if the their demands are not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-farmers-observe-2-min-silence-for-50-peasants-who-died-during-agitation/story-vFv5bZw3dxcZHK7xD2KRSL.html
04-01-2021||India||Schools, colleges reopen in Bihar after over 9 months, attendance thin as parents concerned||Schools, colleges and other educational institutions in Bihar welcomed students as they reopened after a gap of more than nine months. These institutes were closed on March 14 last year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Physical classes were held for students of Classes 9-12 in schools and final year students in colleges.“I am happy that schools have reopened as students were getting badly affected. Most of the children studying in government schools do not have laptops to carry out online studies. Our syllabus is lagging and we will work hard to cover it,” a class 9 student of Patna’s Miller High School told news agency PTI.Teachers too seemed happy to be able to take physical classes again.“It is good that we are getting an opportunity to teach students in physical classrooms. All these months we used to come to schools but did not have teaching work,” said a teacher at the Miller High School.Also Read | Schools, colleges reopen in Bihar today. Read guidelines here Students have to bring consent letters from their guardians to be able to attend the classes, another teacher said.Attendance, however, remained thin as many parents were apprehensive of sending their wards to the educational institutions till they are inoculated.“We will not send our children to schools till they are vaccinated for Covid-19. We cannot take risks despite the precautionary measures being taken by the state government,” Rajiv Singh, a resident of Jethiyan village in Gaya district said.Students, teachers and other non-teaching staff have been asked to take all Covid-19 precautions and adhere to the guidelines issued by the government while attending school.Also Read | Bihar govt to distribute 73 lakh face masks among students as schools set to reopenSchools that provide pick and drop services to students have been asked to ensure that the service providers always have their masks on. A minimum distance of 1 to 2 feet should be there between the students and they have been told not to talk to each other during the drive.Morning assembly sessions and games periods have been removed from the schedule to avoid the spread of the infection. To prevent a large gathering of students, their lunchtime has also been changed to scattered timings.Authorities of the educational institutions will keep a tab on students to check whether they have any Covid symptoms and medical examination of pupils will be conducted in government schools on a random basis, Education Department Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar.He also said that the students will be allowed to enter the school premises wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-reopen-in-bihar-after-over-9-months-attendance-thin-as-parents-concerned/story-z9KtZX4E7jtfLCBbMDNRPJ.html
04-01-2021||India||PM Modi should take first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, says Bihar Congress leader||Bihar Congress leader Ajit Sharma on Monday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take the first shot of COVID-19 vaccine to assure the people of the country.“We are delighted to have got two vaccines in the new year but there is also doubt among people about this. In order to remove this doubt, head of state in Russia and America have taken the first shot of the vaccine, I believe that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the senior-most Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader should win the trust of the people by taking the first vaccine shot,” said the Congress leader.Sharma claimed that BJP is trying to take credit for the two vaccines but both the companies Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, which have prepared the coronavirus vaccine, were established during the Congress tenure so the people should also congratulate and give credit to Congress party.Another, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said that the emergency approval to COVID-19 vaccine--Covaxin is premature and could be dangerous as it is still under phase 3 trial. He urged Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to wait till full trials of the vaccine are completed.COVID-19 vaccines of Serum Institue of India and Bharat Biotech have been granted permission for restricted use in an emergency situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-should-take-first-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-says-bihar-congress-leader/story-rDdQ3rwrYVYatlcOOBL78N.html
04-01-2021||India||Active caseload falling due to decline in daily cases: Health ministry||The decline in India’s daily Covid-19 cases has ensured a consistent fall in the active caseload, which constitutes 2.36% of the total infections, while higher testing has led to the positivity rate further going down to 5.89%, the Union health ministry said on Monday.India’s cumulative tests have gone past 17.5 crore (17,56,35,761), with 7,35,978 samples being tested the previous day, it said.“One crore tests were conducted in the last 11 days. Higher testing has led to a further decline in the cumulative positivity rate at 5.89%,” the ministry said.India’s testing infrastructure has received a boost with 2,299 labs across the country, it said.A net decline of 3,267 cases was recorded in the total active cases the previous day, the ministry said.As on date, India’s active caseload stands at 2,43,953.India’s Covid-19 recoveries are inching closer to one crore. The total number of recovered cases has surged to 99,46,867, which translates to a recovery rate of 96.19%.A total of 19,557 people recovered the previous day, the ministry said.Of the new recoveries, 76.76% were observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories (UTs) -- Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Karnataka.Kerala reported the highest number of single-day recoveries at 4,668, followed by 2,064 in Maharashtra and 1,432 in West Bengal.Of the new cases, 83.90% were concentrated in 10 states and UTs --Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan.Kerala reported the highest number of new cases at 4,600. Maharashtra reported 3,282 new cases while West Bengal reported 896.Another 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu -- accounted for 77.57% of the 214 deaths reported the previous day.Maharashtra reported 35 deaths, followed by 26 in West Bengal and 25 in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-caseload-declining-due-to-decline-in-daily-cases-health-ministry/story-OoZdJ1Ud0xJWoI0z85Q73H.html
04-01-2021||India||Enough stockpile of vaccines for priority groups in first phase: VK Paul||India has enough stockpile of the Covid-19 vaccine for inoculation of priority groups, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, in the first phase, Niti Aayog member VK Paul said on Monday.Paul, who is also the Chairman of National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) further said the government will soon announce its plans for purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine.“Our first phase (of vaccination) comprises priority groups with high risk of mortality and our healthcare and frontline workers. For them, we believe, we have enough (Covid-19 vaccine) stockpile,” he told PTI in an interview.India’s drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.Also Read: ‘Will not get Covid-19 vaccine right away,’ says Shivraj Singh Chouhan, explains whyPaul noted that “three to four months from now, there will be other vaccines and the stockpile will be even bigger. “And more acceleration can be brought about in the vaccination programme,” Paul added.Asked when the government will announce its plans for purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine, he said, “this will follow. Now the essential has taken place, all these steps will be taken.” Asked what would be the single biggest challenge in mass vaccination for Covid-19, Paul noted that the biggest challenge encompasses the huge mobilisation that is required for such an effort.“Well, the single most important challenge for mass vaccination on such a scale is mobilising beneficiaries on the appointed day and to conduct sessions in smooth, systemic protocols, ensuring Covid-19 appropriate precautions, I think is the single biggest challenge,” he observed.According to Paul, the purpose of vaccination is a staggered ambition and can be seen as hierarchical.“Ultimately, we would like vaccination to stop, stall and extinguish the pandemic, that is the ultimate purpose,” he said adding that for that to be achieved, a herd immunity of about 70% has to be created either through vaccination or by adding those people who have undergone natural infection.Also Read: Hyderabad, Dubai airports sign MoU for seamless vaccine movementPaul pointed out that for normal life to go on, there should be enough vaccinated people, so that the country’s industry, schools, transportation, judicial system and Parliamentary activity go on.“Even though the virus may be there, the pandemic may not have finished but enough of economic and social life could go on,” he emphasised.Replying to a question that India does not have experience in adult vaccination, the Niti Aayog member noted that countries face new challenges and then they respond on the basis of their intrinsic capability.“We have tremendous experience of running immunisation programs. We have experience of running affairs like national elections which happen over a short period of time across the country,” he said.“So those experiences and those SOP will come handy and build on that India’s ingenuity, India’s innovation and India’s experience will make it possible for us to mount a successful vaccination programme, even though it is unprecedented,” he added.Referring to the health ministry’s recently issued ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines’, Paul said, “God forbid, if you have any comorbidity, then you will get a vaccine in the first phase of the vaccination programme. Otherwise, you will get after these high priority groups have been covered.” Also Read: India will soon start world’s largest vaccination drive, says PM ModiIndia’s drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.The approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).“After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr VG Somani had said.This paves the way for the rollout of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days.The Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield.Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also, the authority granted Cadila Healthcare the permission to conduct the Phase III clinical trial of its vaccine candidate in India, Somani had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enough-stockpile-of-vaccines-for-priority-groups-in-first-phase-vk-paul/story-SkSfFKszSYJ6pSVe6wzY5O.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Will not get Covid-19 vaccine right away,’ says Shivraj Singh Chouhan, explains why||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday he will not get the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) administered, saying those who fall under the priority groups should get the preference. “I have decided that I will not get vaccinated for now. First it should be administered to others. My turn should come afterwards. We have to work to ensure that priority groups are administered with the vaccine,” Chouhan said, according to news agency ANI.The comment by the senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came a day after Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani gave approval for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. Soon after the approval of the two vaccines, Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, on Sunday raised concerns over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine for restricted use, saying it is “premature” and can prove dangerous.The leaders then drew flak from Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and senior BJP leader JP Nadda who said the opposition led by the Congress is filled with anger, ridicule and disdain. In a tweet, Puri said, “Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization.”Jairam Ramesh retorted, “So says the in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert Speer.” Both Goebbels and Speer were close allies of German dictator Hitler.Tharoor, a Congress MP and former Union minister, also countered Puri, saying he had never questioned the valour of our soldiers. “I would be happy and proud if more Indian vaccines are approved — but only after a full 3-phase trial confirms they are safe & effective. Short-circuiting the process is unprecedented, inadvisable & risks lives||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-get-covid-19-vaccine-shivraj-singh-chouhan-says-explains-why/story-UuC1Gec3RViG6MxRtgG9qN.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Malegaon blast case accused Pragya Thakur appears before special NIA court and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Malegaon blast case accused Pragya Thakur appears before Special NIA CourtBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Pragya Singh Thakur, accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, appeared before the Special NIA Court in Mumbai. Read morePunjab’s Harike Pattan wetland on alert after bird deaths at Pong Dam in HimachalThe state forest and wildlife authorities are on alert at Harike Pattan wetland after scores of migratory birds were found dead under mysterious circumstances in Pong Dam sanctuary in Himachal Pradesh. Read moreFirst hilltop Buddhist monastery found in Bihar’s LakhisaraiThe first hilltop Buddhist monastery of the Gangetic Valley has been found at Lal Pahari in Lakhisarai district of the state, said its excavation team director Anil Kumar. Read moreIndo-Canadian MP quits key post after violating Covid travel curbsAmid hysteria in Canada within political circles over non-essential international travel as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic surges in the country, an Indo-Canadian MP has resigned as parliamentary secretary after attending a memorial service for her uncle in the US. Read more‘Have you ever had any dealings with the BCCI?’: Andrew Symonds comments on reports of India’s Brisbane quarantine demandsTeam India courted controversy recently after some of its players were seen eating at a restaurant in Melbourne. There were reports that five Indian players -- Rohit Sharma, Prithvi Shaw, Rishabh Pant, Shubman Gill, and Navdeep Saini - had breached the bio-bubble as they allegedly met an Indian fan at the restaurant. Then reports surfaced that the Indian cricket team is reluctant to travel to Brisbane due to strict quarantine rules. Read moreRhea Chakraborty arrives at NCB office with brother Showik to mark attendance, talks to paparazzi. Watch videoRhea Chakraborty, the girlfriend of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and her brother Showik Chakraborty marked their attendance at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in Mumbai on Monday. As per the conditions of her bail, she must report before the agency on the first Monday of every month, for six months. Read moreAlaya F flaunts luxurious silhouette in Rs 89k chiffon-organza draped ruffle saree and we are smittenJust one movie old, Jawaani Jaaneman star Alaya F is already grabbing headlines for her sartorial elegance and for pushing the corridors of conventional looks. Recently, the diva dressed up in a saree for an endorsement shoot along with actor Neena Gupta and Sayani Gupta and the fashion police was on immediate alert. Read more‘Cupid’ cockatoo helps man propose to girlfriend at zoo in Australia. WatchWe all love a good proposal story. But do you know what is even better? A proposal story involving an animal. Just like this one where a man proposed to his girlfriend with the help of a cockatoo. Did hearing that piqued your interest? Wait till you see this video of the proposal which is not just sweet but super entertaining too. Read moreWatch: Passenger falls while boarding moving train at Mumbai stationA passenger escaped death by whisker at Mumbai’s Dahisar railway station. The passenger fell while boarding a moving train at Mumbai station. Another man pulled the passenger away from the moving train to safety. The incident took place on 2 January 2021 and was captured on CCTV. Watch the full video for more details. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-malegaon-blast-case-accused-pragya-thakur-appears-before-special-nia-court-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4fS1BIHbDEKTRaQm36Df1L.html
04-01-2021||India||Malegaon blast case: Special NIA court adjourns hearing for tomorrow||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Pragya Singh Thakur, one of the seven accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, on Monday appeared before the special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Mumbai. The court, however, adjourned the hearing for December 5 and asked the Thakur to be present in court whenever asked after she sought exemption from daily appearance in court on health and security grounds, according to ANI.Thakur’s lawyer, advocate JP Mishra, had confirmed that she will be appearing in the NIA court on Monday. Mishra had said on December 19 last year that probe agency was delaying the trial in the 2008 Malegaon blast case and not them. The special court had asked all the accused to remain present before it on that day. However, only Lt Col Prasad Purohit, Ramesh Upadhyay, Sameer Kulkarni, Ajay Rahikar and Sudhakar Dwiwedi appeared before the court. The remaining accused — Pragya Singh Thakur, Ramesh Upadhayay, Sudhakar Diwedi and Sudhakar Chaturvedi — could not appear before the court. Six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped to a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon, a town in north Maharashtra, on September 29, 2008. The court had framed terror charges against Purohit, Thakur and five other accused in October 2018. They have been charged under Sections 16 (committing terrorist act) and 18 (conspiring to commit terrorist act) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).They have also been charged under sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 153 (a) (promoting enmity between two religious groups), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant provisions of the Explosive Substances Act.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pragya-thakur-appears-before-special-nia-court-in-connection-with-malegaon-blast-case/story-VqsXzWLmLO8DbBCs7h98EO.html
04-01-2021||India||First hilltop Buddhist monastery found in Bihar’s Lakhisarai||The first hilltop Buddhist monastery of the Gangetic Valley has been found at Lal Pahari in Lakhisarai district of the state, said its excavation team director Anil Kumar.Excavated during a joint collaboration of the Bihar Heritage Development Society, a part of the department of art, culture and youth affairs and the Visva-Bharati University, Santiniketan, West Bengal, this finding is believed to be a great centre of Mahayana Buddhism.“Monasteries have been discovered at many locations in this area. But this is the first set up located at the top of a hill. Seems the Mahayani Buddhists set up the monastery far from the hustle and bustle of the human population to practise Mahayana rituals in isolation,” said Dr Anil Kumar from Visva Bharati University.It was a Vihara, named as Srimaddharmaviharik aryabhiksusanghasya. This can be translated as ‘this is the sealing of the council of monks of Srimaddharma Vihara’. Two burnt clay seals carrying the name of the monastery have also been discovered at the site,” he said.The Visva-Bharati University teacher said the discovery of the monastery has proved what the Chinese traveller Hieun Tsang had written in his travel account. He had mentioned that the area had numbers of monasteries and caves and that even Lord Buddha used to stay here.“This area was known as Krimila. This name is mentioned in Buddhist literature also,” Kumar said. During the Pala period this area turned into a great trade point and was the administrative centre of the Pala rulers, he added.“Importantly the great archaeologist Alexander Cunningham too had discovered many monasteries and temples in the area and had discussed it in his book. But excavation was not conducted here,” he said.The state government has made elaborate conservation plans to preserve the monastic structure.To stop Natural decay of the excavated structures because of exposure to extreme weather conditions and weathering, the state archaeology has planned to erect a shed over the remains of the monastery. While a pathway will be created to reach to the hilltop, the area around the monastic remains will be barricaded to stop unwanted movement at the excavated site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-hilltop-buddhist-monastery-found-in-bihar-s-lakhisarai/story-mbgH6ZPvDvDV76H27Ho6rI.html
04-01-2021||India||Snowfall leads to closure of Jammu-Srinagar national highway||Kashmir was cut off from rest of the country on Monday as the arterial Jammu-Srinagar national highway and Mughal road were closed due to snowfall across the valley, leaving nearly 4500 vehicles stranded.“The Jammu-Srinagar National Highway is closed due to accumulation of snow at many places, especially around Jawahar Tunnel,” an official of the traffic control department said.He said snow clearance operations were in full swing and efforts were on to restore movement of stranded vehicles along the 260 kilometre road. The official said nearly 4500 vehicles, mostly trucks carrying essentials to the valley, are stranded along the highway at various places.Mughal Road, which connects the valley to Jammu division through Shopian-Rajouri axis, has been closed for several days due to heavy snowfall in the region. The officials said south Kashmir’s Kulgam district received highest snowfall with two to three feet of snow accumulated at some places. Anantnag district has also received heavy snowfall between one foot and two feet,  they said. The flight operations to and from Srinagar remained suspended for second consecutive day due to poor visibility, the officials said.The minimum temperature improved in most places in the valley due to the snowfall but still stayed below the freezing point, the officials said.Srinagar city -- the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir -- recorded a low of minus 0.9 degrees Celsius -- up from the previous night’s minus 1.5 degrees Celsius, they said.The minimum temperature in Gulmarg tourist resort remained unchanged at minus 5 degrees Celsius on Sunday night compared to a night earlier.Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 6.7 degrees Celsius – plunging from minus 1.45 degrees Celsius on the previous night, the officials said.Qazigund recorded a minimum of minus 0.3 degrees Celsius, Kupwara, in the north, minus 0.3 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, minus 1.4 degrees Celsius.The MET Office said moderate to heavy snowfall, with isolated very heavy snowfall, was most likely to take place, especially in south Kashmir, Gulmarg, Banihal-Ramban, Poonch, Rajouri, Kistawar and Zanskar, Drass as well as on the higher reaches of Ladakh UT, over two days from Monday. “Overall, the snowfall will continue from Sunday to Tuesday forenoon with the occasional break. This may lead to the disruption of surface and air transportation, water-logging in plains of Jammu and Srinagar cities,” the MET Office said.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-leads-to-closure-of-jammu-srinagar-national-highway/story-K4SXAkAqTaheXONyatHRcN.html
04-01-2021||India||FSSAI reduces trans fat levels in food from 5% to 3%||The long-pending demand of experts to reduce the level of trans fats in food items has been met, with India’s top food regulator Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) reducing it to 3%. The current permissible limit is 5%.“India is committed to the elimination of industrial trans fats in fats/oils, and in foods containing fats/oils in a phased manner. The trans fat content in fats and oils has already been limited to 5%, and the notification to further reduce it to 3% by 2021, and to 2% by 2022 is under process. The regulation is also being extended to food products having fats or oils,” said the FSSAI draft notification that has been in the works for a couple of years. The regulator, on December 29, brought out a gazette notification that the level of trans fats in oils and fats will not be more than 3% from January 1, 2021 onwards. The level shall be further reduced to 2% by January 1, 2022 onwards.Also Read: Swiggy to onboard nearly 30,000 street food vendors under PM SVANidhi schemeIndustrial trans fats are toxic compounds that can lead to several non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases. These are formed during the hydrogenation of vegetable oils (adding hydrogen to liquid vegetable oils to make them more solid) to increase the shelf life of foods, and other processes such as heating of oil at high temperature.Industrial trans fats are largely present in partially hydrogenated fats such as margarine, and bakery shortenings used in preparation of bakery products, and in vanaspati that is used to prepare sweets and deep fried items.In October last year, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had launched the “Trans Fat Free” logo during the 8th International Chefs Conference in the national Capital.The logo is meant to be used by restaurants and food manufacturers, on voluntary basis, that use trans-fat free fats or oils, which do not have industrial trans fats more than 0.2g/100g of the food.An estimated 540,000 people die each year globally of cardiovascular diseases, and consumption of food laced with industrial trans fats is a contributing factor. In India, the number of deaths is around 60,000, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fssai-reduces-trans-fat-levels-in-food-from-5-to-3/story-UIFEutSysq2wMDr6p6HmeN.html
04-01-2021||India||UP ropes in ‘progressive’ farmers from state to help raise farm incomes||The Uttar Pradesh government will rope in what it calls “progressive” farmers to help increase income of other farmers by guiding them to use advanced agri methods, said the state government in a statement.These farmers will share their success stories and techniques with others at farmers’ fairs and seminars to be held at the local level.“From every district, the agriculture department will select 100 progressive farmers as role models for local farmers. They will also be given a platform to present their views in the ‘Farmers Welfare Mission’ programmes, which will be held in 350 blocks from January 6,” said the statement.Farmers producers’ organisation (FPO) functionaries constituted at the block level will also be invited to the event. Along with giving certificates, the approved farm machinery bank and seeding equipment will also be distributed to the farmers.The campaign will be monitored by the government and the agriculture department will create a microsite of Kisan Kalyan. All information will be posted on the web portal of the department and the information department will ensure publicity of this event on every platform. District-wise information will also be collected about how many farmer interactions took place during the campaign. Mobile and WhatsApp numbers of the farmers concerned will also be collected and a database will be maintained, the statement said.A committee will be constituted at the government level under the chairmanship of the agricultural production commissioner (APC) to conduct the campaign.Considering the scant exposure of women in the agricultural sector, adequate participation of women will also be ensured in ‘Mission Farmers Welfare’, said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-ropes-in-progressive-farmers-from-state-to-help-raise-farm-incomes/story-uhJbci7YW4cTRx7MXWeh7K.html
04-01-2021||India||Farm law protests: Its towers vandalised in Punjab, Reliance says will move high court today||Business tycoon Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), whose Jio Infocomm towers have been allegedly targeted by a section of farmers in Punjab protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws, on Monday said it will file a petition in Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking “immediate intervention” in this regard. RIL further accused “vested interests” of instigating and aiding the vandals.“Reliance Industries Limited, through its subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, in a petition mentioned to be filed in Punjab and Haryana High Court today, has sought urgent intervention of govt authorities to bring a complete stop to illegal acts of vandalism by miscreants,” news agency ANI quoted RIL as saying. “These acts of violence have endangered the lives of thousands of employees and caused damage and disruption to the vital communications infrastructure. The miscreants indulging in vandalism have been instigated and aided by vested interests and our business rivals,” RIL added.The Ambani-owned conglomerate also stressed it has no plans of entering a contract or corporate farming, adding that it has not purchased any land in India for the purpose. “We shall insist on our suppliers to strictly abide by the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism. We have immense gratitude and the greatest respect for India’s kisans, who are the ‘ANNA DATA’ of 1.3 billion Indians,” RIL said.Farmers protesting against the three laws have, in particular, directed their ire at Reliance, as well as businessman Gautam Adani, believing that they shall be the beneficiaries of the laws. While anti-farm law protests have largely been peaceful, more than 1,500 towers have been vandalised in Punjab. Jio has more than 9,000 towers in the state.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Protestors damage over 1,500 telecom towers in PunjabAfter his appeal to the farmers to not vandalise the towers went unheard, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had last week directed the police to take action against the vandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-its-towers-vandalised-in-punjab-reliance-says-will-move-high-court-today/story-sPdZtvf3326NqGk596sj2O.html
04-01-2021||India||Landslide in Kinnaur leaves hundreds of people stranded||Hundreds of people have been left stranded after a landslide at Malling Nullah near Naco in Kinnaur district blocked the Kinnaur-Kaza national highway on Monday, a district official said.  The road link of Kaza subdivision in Lahaul-Spiti district and several villages of Kinnaur district have been cut off from the other parts due to the landslide that followed snowfall.  The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is trying to remove the debris to clear the Kinnaur-Kaza road.  Hundreds of vehicles have been stranded on both sides of the road due to the landslide, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-in-kinnaur-leaves-hundreds-of-people-stranded/story-i12f6mo6slNLM4isvFryyL.html
04-01-2021||India||India will soon start world’s largest vaccination drive, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday India is on the threshold of starting the largest vaccination programme in the world, a day after the country formally approved the emergency use of two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “The entire country is indebted to all scientists and technicians,” PM Modi said while addressing at the National Metrology Conclave via video conferencing.PM Modi also dedicated the National Atomic Timescale, and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya to the nation, and laid the foundation stone of the National Environmental Standards Laboratory. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan was also present on the occasion.Pitching the Make In India programme, PM Modi said, “We do not want to fill the world with Indian products, but we must win the hearts of every customer of Indian products in every corner of the world. We’ve to make sure that ‘Made In India’ needs to have global demand as well as acceptance.”PM Modi also asked scientists of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to discuss and converse with students of educational institutes in the country and share their experiences. “CSIR scientists should interact with more and more students of the country, share their experiences of the coronavirus period and the work done in this research field with the new generation,” PM Modi said.This will help them in preparing a new generation of young scientists in the coming tomorrow, he added.The Prime Minister lauded India’s position among the top 50 countries in the world in the Global Innovation Rankings and said basic research is also being emphasised in the country today. “In any progressive society, research is key and effective. Its effects are commercial, social and help widen our approach and thinking. Past teaches us that the more a country concentrates on science, the most it’s technology gets strengthened. This technology in turn helps new industries and promotes research. This cycle takes the country ahead,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-on-threshold-of-starting-the-largest-vaccination-programme-in-world-says-pm-modi/story-msfUgw0oDb2XuFfSN2RzeL.html
04-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh chalks statewide plan for Covid vaccine dry run on January 5||With Covid vaccination likely to be announced soon, a micro plan is being made in Uttar Pradesh to vaccinate about 51,000 healthcare workers first. This will be followed by frontline workers and then elderly and people with comorbidities. In a review meeting, chief medical officer Sanjay Bhatnagar informed district and senior police officials about the plan. “In all, 40 cold chain points and 510 vaccination sites are being made for Covid vaccination,” the CMO told officials on Sunday. Cops will ensure smooth and safe transport of the vaccine from cold chain points to vaccination sites during Covid inoculation drill on January 5 and also when the actual vaccination takes place. One vaccination team would vaccinate 100 beneficiaries. There would be up to 180 vaccination sessions run by about 350 vaccination teams, said a press statement. The review meeting was conducted for Covid vaccination dry run slated on Tuesday. Lucknow will have the dry run at 12 places which includes six places that have already had the dry run on January 2 – King George’s Medical University, PGI, community health centres Mal and Malihabad, Lohia institute and Sahara hospital. The other six places are Medanta hospital, Lok Bandhu hospital, RSM Hospital, Era Medical College and community health centres Indira Nagar and Kakori. Home guards, policemen and anganwadi workers will be deployed during the dry run. “We have had a dry run on January 2 and a second dry run in Lucknow on January 5 will ensure all issues are sorted out. This will pave the way for smooth vaccination when it is announced,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. It was decided that for the dry run scheduled to begin at 10 am, vaccinators should reach at 9 am along with the beneficiaries to be vaccinated in the drill. In the first dry run, beneficiaries could not reach on time due to some technical issue. Cops deployed for smooth transport of the vaccine will submit their mobile and vehicles numbers to the nodal officers to avoid any confusion. The police vehicle drivers will also keep their GPS locators on while transportation of vaccine takes place from cold chain points to the vaccination sites, on January 5 and also on actual vaccination day. Each vaccination site will have a nodal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-chalks-statewide-plan-for-covid-vaccine-dry-run-on-january-5/story-Qe35n3lRLuhVMcbRm7eCrO.html
04-01-2021||India||77% Indian adults lost income due to Covid-19 pandemic: Survey||2020 has been a challenging year that no one could have predicted would turn out in the manner in which it did. The outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic sent economic shockwaves globally, and its impact extended beyond an international health crisis.The economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, in India, led to the reduction in economic activities, subsequently forcing businesses to scale or shut down their operations. It resulted in many families being affected due to the sharp increase in unemployment.In November 2020, Lotto247.com conducted a survey to understand the financial impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on its Indian market. Over 1,700 adults participated in the survey.The survey found that 77% of economically active adults in India had lost income due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the findings, the most affected age group were adults in their 40’s. Over 80% of adults in the 40’s lost income as a result of the pandemic. Adults in their 50’s, compared to those in their 40’s, were less affected. However, 73% of them still lost income. Those aged 70 and older were the least affected age group. Only 30% of them lost income due to the pandemic.Men were impacted more than women, according to the survey results. Just under 78% of men reported having lost income, while 67% of women lost income.The survey also revealed adults who were divorced were greatly affected, with 87.5% of them losing income. While those in a relationship, but not married, were less affected as only 59% of them lost income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/77-indian-adults-lost-income-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-survey/story-QjCVwkt4xNmJwcHw4I5wMP.html
04-01-2021||India||Nyay scheme to be hit? Centre limits rice procurement from Chhattisgarh||The Centre on Sunday allowed the Chhattisgarh government to deliver 24 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of rice to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) under central pool during Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21. However, sources from the state government say that is down from the 60 lakh MT that they were assured. The state government fears that the central government will ask the state to discontinue Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. “The state government hopes that the remaining rice will also be taken later. But the worrying thing is that the central government has made a condition that the state government will not give any kind of bonus with the purchase of crops right now or in future. Actually, the Centre has objections with the state government’s ‘Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana’. The BJP leaders of the state have complained to the Centre that the Congress government is giving bonus to the farmers. Whereas the truth is that after the central government’s condition of not giving bonus, the state started the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana and announced to give it per acre instead of crop,” said a senior official in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Another source from the government said that “we are apprehensive that the central government will ask to discontinue the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana in the future….Actually the central government is not okay with cash going in the pockets of farmers. They want the farmer to keep going through Modi ji’s 500 rupees per month plan”.The BJP state unit pointed out that the directive about not giving bonus have been issued to the Madhya Pradesh government as well. “There is federal structure and every state has to follow it because we follow constitution. The central government has issued such directions to Madhya Pradesh also which is BJP ruled state. The Chhattisgarh government is doing politics by saying that state BJP unit has complained about Nyay Yojana or bonus,” said Sacchinand Upasane, senior BJP leader and spokesperson.Meanwhile, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel thanked the Centre and also hoped that the permission for more procurement would be granted further in the central pool. CM Baghel had recently spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone and requested to ensure issuance of final order from the Centre to lift rice after custom milling from the state for the central pool. The Centre had earlier given in principle approval to take 60 lakh MT rice from the state in the central pool. As per a letter issued by the Government of India on Sunday, “The Government of India has decided to allow 24 lakh MT of rice to be delivered to FCI under central pool during KMS 2020-21 which is equivalent to the quantity as allowed in previous years to Chhattisgarh.” The Centre had categorically stated that it could not purchase excess paddy procured by the states by giving bonus and incentives in direct or indirect form citing the clauses of procurement scheme agreement. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between Government of India, State Government and Food Corporation of India in both DCP (decentralized procurement scheme) and non-DCP States for procurement of paddy from farmers under central pool, the letter stated. As per Clause No.3 of MoU of DCP State, “In the situation of state giving any bonus/ financial incentive in direct or indirect form, over and above minimum support price (MSP), if the overall procurement of the state is in excess of the total allocation of the state made by the Government of India under TPDS (Targeted Public Distribution System)/ OWS (Other Welfare Schemes), such excess quantity shall be treated to be outside the Central Pool.” The Chhattisgarh government had also published an advertisement/press release on December 17, 2020 detailing the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana that they would procure paddy from the farmers at Rs 2,500 per quintal during KMS 2020-21 by paying Rs 10,000 per acre which is a form of indirect incentive over and above the MSP which is as good as bonus on procurement of paddy, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nyay-scheme-to-be-hit-centre-limits-rice-procurement-from-chhattisgarh/story-kY9emfrfrv2RecABYzKhPL.html
04-01-2021||India||India logs 16,504 new Covid-19 cases, 214 deaths in 24 hours||India logged 16,504 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 214 related deaths between Sunday and Monday morning, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, which have taken the country’s tally to 10,340,469. There were 16,432 cases of the coronavirus disease on December 29 last year. The number of active cases of Covid-19 remained below the 250,000 mark for the second day on a row at 243,953.According to the health ministry, 9,946,867 people have recovered so far with 19,557 patients of Covid-19 cured or discharged across the country in the last 24 hours. The national recovery rate has gone up to 96.19%. The daily new recoveries have been more than the daily cases registered since the last 38 days, the health ministry’s data shows. The gap between recovered and active cases has widened further and now stands at 9,702,914. Also read | After Covishield and Covaxin, these are other Covid-19 vaccine candidatesDrugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani on Sunday approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use, clearing way for the government’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease in about 10 days. However, the emergency use approval to the Serum Institute of India (SII) vaccine against Covid-19 developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, and the “restricted use in emergency situation” consent to Bharat Biotech’s locally developed vaccine has triggered a debate among experts.Also read | Covid-19: India approves first 2 vaccines, UK to begin another immunisation driveMeanwhile, SII’s Adar Poonawalla has told Associated Press that the government will not allow the export of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine for several months. Poonawall said his company also has been barred from selling the vaccine on the private market. “We can only give (the vaccines) to the government of India at the moment,” Poonawalla told AP, adding the decision was also made to prevent hoarding.The Pune-based company’s chief executive also said the first 100 million doses of the vaccine were being sold to the government at a “special price” of Rs 200 per dose, after which prices would be higher. The vaccine will be sold on the private market at Rs 1,000, he said. He said vaccines could be delivered to states where they were needed within seven to 10 days of the company finalising a deal with the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-16-504-new-covid-19-cases-214-deaths-in-24-hours/story-Hp71r86n5nLnKKcH9XddVK.html
04-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Heavy rain with thunderstorm, lightning likely over northwest India till Tuesday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9 am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rain and thunderstorms likely over N-W India till TuesdaySeveral parts of northwest India continue to receive widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning.Moderately intense rain is likely occur over Alwar, Tizara, Kotputli, Deeg, Bharatpur in Rajasthan; Aligarh, Jattari, Iglas, Khair, Sahaswan, Hathras, Barsana, Khurja, Anupshahar, Gabbana, Chandausi, Bhajoi, Sambhal in UP; Palwal, Hodal, Aurangabad, Nuh in Haryana during the next two hours according to India Meteorological Department.Read more. Farmer-govt talks today; 2 key demands on tableThe Centre and farm unions protesting against a set of laws aimed at opening up agricultural markets will hold their seventh round of negotiations on Monday that could shape the outcome of the long-drawn-out dialogue process. Two of the biggest demands of farmers will be on the agenda on Monday.Read more.‘Can deliver vaccines 7-10 days after purchase order’: Adar PoonawallaAdar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India (SII), the local manufacturer of the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine, spoke to Rhythma Kaul about the future course of action after emergency use authorisation by India’s drugs regulator for the vaccine.Read more. After Covishield and Covaxin, these are other Covid-19 vaccine candidates in IndiaIndia has formally approved the emergency use of two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as it prepares for one of the world’s biggest drives and plans to inoculate some 300 million people on a priority list this year. Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani gave the green light for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called it “a decisive turning point”.Read more. Nancy Pelosi re-elected as US House speaker amid political uncertaintyNancy Pelosi was narrowly re-elected speaker of the US House of Representatives on Sunday, as a new Congress took office amid political uncertainty, with Senate control undecided and a Republican fight looming over presidential election results.Read more. EXCLUSIVE | Congratulations to Rahane, India deserve a pat on the back for MCG turnaround: Chris GayleThe 2020 edition of the Indian Premier League presented a series of firsts for many. The tournament was hosted outside of India and matches were played in front of empty stadiums. The world saw MS Dhoni return to the field after over a year, a timeframe during which the former India captain announced his retirement from international cricket. There was no Suresh Raina, or Harbhajan Singh, and for the first time in the history of the tournament, Chennai Super Kings did not make it to the Playoffs.Read more. Hrithik Roshan’s on-set look will make you skip a heartbeat, fans wonder what his next project isHrithik Roshan has finally resumed work after several months of staying at home due to the coronavirus pandemic. The actor shared a new selfie from a set on Instagram and needless to say, his good looks created a storm on social media, with over one million likes within a few hours.Read more.Samsung Galaxy S21 launch date officially announcedIt’s official. Samsung Galaxy S21 series will launch on January 14. The company has also released an official invitation to a new Galaxy Unpacked event with a tagline: “Welcome to the Everyday Epic.” The virtual event is scheduled to start at 10 AM ET (8:30 PM IST).Read more.American man and son grab netizens’ attention again with peppy dance on O Beta Ji. WatchIf you are someone who was thoroughly entertained by the dhamakedar dance video of this dad and daughter duo from Washington, then you’ll be glad to know that he is back with yet another happy dance number. Ricky Pond shared the dance video with his son this time, but the result is equally fun to watch.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-heavy-rain-with-thunderstorm-lightning-likely-over-northwest-india-till-tuesday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IJnBi0hQveB9r6koDuY45K.html
04-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh deputy CM Keshav Maurya tours Bengal, next up Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, on his second visit in two weeks’ time to West Bengal, engaged with Matuas, a Dalit refugee group with origins in Bangladesh and whose influence is spread over 50 assembly seats in the state. Maurya, an OBC leader, not only connected with Matuas, but also spoke of the alleged neglect of Bangladeshi Hindu community, who he claimed were denied citizenship rights due to vote bank concerns, said BJP men accompanying Maurya on his Bengal campaign. “As soon as we form our government in West Bengal, we will restore the dignity of Bangladeshi Hindus and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) could well help to ensure that they get their due. The BJP under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership has been doing a series of things for the poor but the benefits aren’t reaching Bengal,” Maurya said while addressing a meeting of intellectuals in Uluberia assembly segment. Maurya played up the Hindu factor with a reason. “In the 2018 Lok Sabha bypolls in Uluberia, the BJP had put up a Hindu candidate while TMC, Left and Congress had fielded Muslims. It stood second in the bypolls after TMC, pushing the Left behind and relegating the Congress to the fourth position,” BJP leaders said. Engaging with such key vote banks as indeed playing the Hindu card is part of BJP’s plan in West Bengal for which a host of senior party leaders from UP are being drafted and with a reason. In the 2017 UP polls, the BJP had targeted OBCs and Dalits in a big way to come to power in the most populous state after 14 years. Ever since, the BJP has continued to connect with OBCs and backwards to retain its political dominance. A series of meetings featuring chief minister Yogi Adityanath too are being drafted. “The BJP has drafted battle hardened leaders from UP to Bengal who have started mixing patriotism, Bengali culture and Hindu pride to create a potent mix, which they believe would help them form their first ever government in Bengal,” said Maluka Khanna, a political science professor from Lucknow University. “There is great demand for Yogi Adityanath’s rallies in WB,” a senior BJP leader said. Various cadres from UP, committed to the party and its ideology, including those who know Bengali language and culture would be regularly sent to Bengal to establish connection with the electorate there through road corner meetings, party leaders said. “Even bigger leaders would be holding local meets, some of them even making door-to-door visits,” a BJP leader said, adding that close to the elections, a massive blitzkrieg would be unleashed. Khanna said that the party’s growing vote share in Bengal has made the BJP more confident about Mission Bengal than it ever was. “Since 2016 the BJP has been playing up the issue of incidents like clashes in Dhulagarh where it charged the TMC government of remaining quiet on the issue of atrocities on Hindus who it claimed were at the receiving end of clashes. In the 2016 assembly elections, the BJP improved its vote share to 10.3 per cent against 4.1 per cent votes it got in the 2011 polls. In the 2014 LS polls, the BJP got 17 per cent votes and won two seats too. In the 2019 LS polls the BJP won 40.3 per cent vote. So the party’s graph has been growing,” said Maluka Khanna, a professor of political science from Lucknow University (LU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-deputy-cm-keshav-maurya-tours-bengal-next-up-yogi-adiyanath/story-rXfuwPSSQDCCZj6ag7yWOK.html
04-01-2021||India||Muradnagar roof collapse: 3 arrested, 2-member probe committee formed||Three people, including a junior engineer, have been arrested after at least two dozen people were killed when the roof of a crematorium collapsed in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar town, news agency ANI reported on Monday. A two-member probe committee has also been formed to investigate Sunday’s roof collapse, ANI added.“24 people have died, 17-18 injured in Muradnagar roof collapse incident. Three peeople have been arrested on the basis of initial investigation. A two-member probe committee constituted to invetsigate the matter,” ANI quoted SP Rural, Ghaziabad, as saying. Earlier in the day, police personnel were deployed as family members of the victims held a protest. 24 people have died, 17-18 injured in Muradnagar roof collapse incident. Three peeople have been arrested on the basis of initial investigation. A two-member probe committee constituted to invetsigate the matter: SP Rural, Ghaziabad https://t.co/jyYy3Wsqcc pic.twitter.com/v19SqaAcbPA junior engineer is among the three persons arrested by the police.The incident took place around 11.30am at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground when around 50 to 60 people were attending the cremation rituals of Jai Ram, who had died on Saturday night, the police said. Many of the families and the injured said they were rescued after hectic efforts that lasted till 6pm on Sunday.“The priest at the cremation ground was speaking to us about the rituals to be performed after the cremation when the entire roof came crashing down and all of us got buried. I was standing on the outer edge so half of my body was under the debris,” Krishan Pal, the son-in-law of a 65-year-old man whose last rites were being performed when the roof of a Muradnagar cremation ground collapsed, said.Ghaziabad Police have registered a first information report or FIR under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (causing damages) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant etc).A host of national leaders, including President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, conveyed their condolences to the families of the victims. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also instructed officials to provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the dependents of the deceased. He has also instructed the divisional commissioner of Meerut and additional director general of police (ADGP) of the zone to submit a report regarding the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/junior-engineer-2-others-arrested-in-connection-with-muradnagar-roof-collapse/story-TlCBCcf0Y98tZuR7vu9bRK.html
04-01-2021||India||37-year-old man found stabbed to death in south Delhi apartment||A 37-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death in his apartment in south Delhi and his wife was lying unconscious, the police informed.The police received a PCR call from the landlord that his tenants were not opening their door. At the same time, the police also found a post on Facebook in which a woman had shared information about her husband’s murder.Acting on the complaint, the Delhi Police reached Chattarpur Extension on Saturday, where the deceased, Chirag, was found in stabbed condition on the floor and his wife Renuka was lying unconscious on the bed.The deceased Chirag Sharma was declared dead by the doctors, while Renuka is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital. The couple did not have any child. From the initial inquiry, it was found that there were differences between them. A case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered.The police said that on inquiry it was revealed that the couple had been living at the apartment since 2013 and worked at an insurance company.Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/37-year-old-man-found-stabbed-to-death-in-south-delhi-apartment/story-CKJR6oIsFFquhHzsG6ciJI.html
04-01-2021||India||After Covishield and Covaxin, these are other Covid-19 vaccine candidates in India||India has formally approved the emergency use of two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as it prepares for one of the world’s biggest drives and plans to inoculate some 300 million people on a priority list this year. Drugs Controller General of India VG Somani gave the green light for the emergency-use of two coronavirus vaccines, one developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and the other by local company Bharat Biotech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called it “a decisive turning point”.Serum Institute of India (SII) is producing the vaccine Covishield developed by Oxford University and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. It has got permission for restricted use in an emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions. The ongoing clinical trial within the country by the firm will continue.Also read | Centre draws plan for vaccine roll-outBharat Biotech has developed a whole virion inactivated Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (Pune). “The Subject Expert Committee has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended for grant of permission for restricted use in an emergency situation in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” Somani said on Sunday.Here are some of the other vaccines candidates in the country:1. ZyCoV-D: Zydus Cadila’s vaccine is being made on the DNA platform and is named ZyCoV-D. Cadila has collaborated with the Department of Biotechnology for this. DCGI has given its approval to the Ahmedabad-based drug firm to initiate Phase III clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D.2. Sputnik V: This is a vaccine developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is conducting phases 2 and 3 clinical trials of Russian vaccine Sputnik V, while Biological E is conducting phase 1 trial of its indigenously developed vaccine candidate. Russia said on November 24 last year that its Sputnik V vaccine was 91.4% effective based on interim late-stage trial results. It started vaccinations in August and has inoculated more than 100,000 people so far. India plans to make 300 million doses of Sputnik V this year.Also read | Cong, BJP trade barbs over Indian vaccine’s DCGI nod3. NVX-Cov 2373: NVX-COV-2373 is being developed by Serum Institute of India in collaboration with American company NovaVax. Phase 3 trial under consideration.4. Biological E Limited vaccine: Biological E Ltd plans to start large late-stage trials of its potential Covid-19 vaccine candidate in April this year. The Hyderabad-based privately held company had said in November it had started early-stage and mid-stage human trials of its vaccine candidate, being developed in collaboration with Baylor College of Medicine in Houston and US-based Dynavax Technologies Corp, and expects results by February.5. HGCO19: The novel mRNA vaccine candidate, HGCO19, has been developed by Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, and supported with a seed grant under the Ind-CEPI mission of the department of biotechnology of the Union ministry of science and technology. Gennova has worked in collaboration with US’ HDT Biotech Corporation to develop the mRNA vaccine candidate. Gennova will start the phase 1 clinical trial of its indigenous vaccine candidate with the enrolment of 120 participants starting from early January, Mint reported in December last year.Also read | ‘2 vaccines a result proactive approach,’ says DG-ICMR6. Bharat Biotech’s second vaccine: Another vaccine is being developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd in collaboration with Thomas Jefferson University, US, which is at the pre-clinical stages. 7. Aurobindo Pharma vaccine: Aurobindo Pharma Ltd has announced its own Covid-19 vaccine development programme through its US subsidiary Auro Vaccines. That vaccine, which uses recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (RVSV) vector platform, is being developed by Profectus BioSciences. This vaccine is still in the pre-clinical phase. Aurobindo Pharma has said it would also make and sell US-based COVAXX’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate for supply in India and to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) under a licensing deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covishield-and-covaxin-these-are-other-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-in-india/story-Yf6xFHNiSbWCP4eJgvVNEK.html
04-01-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over N-W India till Tuesday||Several parts of northwest India continue to receive widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning.Moderately intense rain is likely to occur over Alwar, Tizara, Kotputli, Deeg, Bharatpur in Rajasthan; Aligarh, Jattari, Iglas, Khair, Sahaswan, Hathras, Barsana, Khurja, Anupshahar, Gabbana, Chandausi, Bhajoi, Sambhal in UP; Palwal, Hodal, Aurangabad, Nuh in Haryana during the next two hours according to India Meteorological Department.Delhi recorded 39.9mm rain between 8.30am on Saturday and 2.30pm on Sunday — far higher than the 21.7mm average rain quota for all of January.Also Read: 40mm rain in 36 hrs throws Delhi out of gear, more likely today: IMDMore rain, as well as hailstorm and thunderstorms are expected till Tuesday, according to IMD scientists.An active western disturbance is lying as a middle and upper level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan. A north-south zone of wind confluence is also observed from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with a strong interaction between southwesterly winds and lower level moist southeasterlies.All these favourable meteorological features for rain are likely to persist till January 5 and continue to cause moderate to intense rain with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places in northwest India till the night of January 5 with peak activity on January 3 and 4 over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan ) and on January 4 and 5 over the western Himalayan region (Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand).Northerly-northwesterly winds likely to set in over northwest India causing “cold” wave to “severe cold” wave conditions at isolated places over Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan from January 7.“When there is an induced cyclonic circulation in association with a western disturbance, the system is very intense. Moisture is feeding in from the Arabian Sea, so we are seeing widespread snowfall in the hills and intense thundershowers in the plains. We are expecting hailstorm in some parts of the city on Monday and thundershowers on Tuesday. Once the western disturbance moves away, minimum temperatures are likely to fall again to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius but they may not fall as low as 1 or 2 degrees Celsius,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-and-thunderstorms-likely-over-n-w-india-till-tuesday/story-6P5REIFmWg54aAhMEF4BpM.html
04-01-2021||India||PM Modi to deliver inaugural address at National Metrology Conclave today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually deliver the inaugural address at National Metrology Conclave on Monday. The theme of the conclave is ‘Metrology for the Inclusive Growth of the Nation’. The conclave, being organised by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Physical Laboratory (CSIR-NPL), New Delhi, has completed 74 years after its inception..On Sunday, the PM made the announcement on Twitter. “At 11 AM, 4th January, the National Metrology Conclave would be inaugurated. The National Atomic Timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya would be dedicated to the nation. Foundation stone for the National Environmental Standards Lab would also be laid,” he tweeted. At 11 AM, 4th January, the National Metrology Conclave would be inaugurated. The National Atomic Timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya would be dedicated to the nation. Foundation stone for the National Environmental Standards Lab would also be laid. https://t.co/nSsqgi9eNR pic.twitter.com/KfaktUkSjDThe National Atomic Timescale generates Indian Standard Time with an accuracy of 2.8 nanoseconds, news agency PTI reported. Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya is supporting testing and calibration of laboratories for quality assurance. The National Environmental Standards Laboratory will aid self-reliance in the certification of ambient air and industrial emission monitoring equipment, according to PTI.A release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Sunday said that Union minister for science and technology, earth sciences, Dr Harsh Vardhan, will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-inaugural-address-at-national-metrology-conclave-today/story-bBmTHDwSokaNWm2UqrL4lJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Police orders inquiry after video of cop beating man inside Atal tunnel goes viral||A probe has been ordered after officials of the Himachal Pradesh police were seen thrashing a man inside the Atal tunnel in a video that has been widely circulated on social media. “One person was from border road organization and one cop from Himachal Pradesh police, we have initiated inquiry into the matter,” said Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh.In the video, seen by HT, the officer on duty can been seen kicking the man, who is seen squatting, inside the tunnel as the traffic moved slowly. The incident is said to have taken place on Saturday. Officials said several incidents of hooliganism have been reported from the tunnel since it was inaugurated. “Numerous incidents of tourist dancing with loud music inside the tunnel have been reported to the police. Tourists don’t keep a check on the speed limits inside the tunnel,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-orders-inquiry-after-video-of-cop-beating-man-inside-atal-tunnel-goes-viral/story-6M3Zjui35ztllCY9UOJ5LK.html
04-01-2021||India||Centre draws plan for vaccine roll-out||From retired doctors and nurses to home guards and civil defence personnel and even volunteers from the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathans, the Centre and state governments will tap every human resource that is available for the smooth implementation of the world’s largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Each vaccination site, according to official guidelines, would consist of at least three rooms and require a number of personnel to perform specific duties. Vaccination Officer 1 would be from the police, home guards, civil defence, the National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS) or the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan. His or her job would be to “check the registration status of a vaccine recipient and to ensure” that entry into the vaccination centre is regulated. India’s vaccination campaign against Covid-19 is targeting offering protection against the viral disease to 300 million people by July, including health-care workers, front-line workers and the people most at risk of infection. They would be inoculated at both large public and private health facilities with a minimum of 100 vaccine recipients covered in each session.Read more| Healthcare, frontline workers to be vaccinated in first phase in Delhi: Satyendar Jain as Centre approves 2 vaccines“For health facilities with less than 100 beneficiaries, its frontline health workers would be sent to another vaccination site,” an official aware of the plan said on condition of anonymity. . The duty of Vaccination Officer 2 would be to verify the identification documents of the recipients.Vaccination Officers 3 and 4 will be support staff who will be responsible for crowd management and ensure every recipient spends 30 minutes at the site after receiving a shot to see if there is an adverse reaction. The support staff would also provide information, education and communication (IEC) messages and support to the vaccinator as well as the vaccination team. While the document verification and identification of the beneficiaries would be done in the first room, the second room would be used exclusively for administering the vaccine. In this room, the vaccinator officers--doctors, nurses, pharmacists, auxiliary nurse midwifes, lady health visitors anyone else authorized to administer the vaccine -- would inject the intramuscular vaccine by an auto-disabled syringe. Indian drug authorities have last week approved Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for emergency use for the intended list of recipients. Officials have identified Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc., as the main vaccine for India’s immunization drive against Covid-19 while Covaxin would be a supplementary measure. Read more| Oxford, Bharat Biotech vaccines cleared for useOfficials added that the Covid-19 vaccination may not take place daily but on select days in a week. “We also have to ensure that the ongoing universal immunization programme is not hampered. Each state has specific days allotted for the UIP. The Covid vaccination programme is likely to take place on the other days,” said a senior official involved in the planning. The Centre’s guidelines sent to the states says: “Essential health services including existing routine immunization sessions should not be impacted or interrupted.” While the vaccine maker would be responsible for safely transporting the vaccine to the designated consignee points in state capitals and big cities, the state authorities have to maintain vaccine safety during storage, transportation and delivery of the vaccine to the inoculation sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-draws-plan-for-vaccine-roll-out/story-8etCcg99dqlqnX6ysTVjOJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Congress plans massive push to win back women voters||The Congress, after its setback in the recent Bihar assembly elections, is planning a massive outreach to win back women voters in upcoming state polls, party functionaries familiar with the plan said. The party is planning to appoint five women workers for every polling booth, at least across Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry, to secure the support of female voters. Elections are to be held in the states and Puducherry, a Union territory, before May. “Five booth level workers will be appointed who will be responsible for translating the party’s larger narrative for women empowerment at the ground level,” Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev told Hindustan Times. The push comes two days after the Mahila Congress’s national executive met to discuss and brainstorm ideas to win the support of women voters. The meeting was attended by general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal. A report will be submitted on Friday to senior party leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, capturing the salient points of the discussion and the Congress’s outreach plan. “All state party presidents have been asked to offer their suggestions,” a party functionary said on condition of anonymity. “Just like schedule castes and schedule tribes are treated as a separate vote-bank, so should women be.” The need to recognise women as a separate electoral force was also noted at the meeting of the Mahila Congress’s national executive. Issues such as domestic violence against women and the difficulties they were experiencing during the pandemic were discussed. Under the Congress’s Garima campaign, 2.5 million sanitary napkins have distributed during the pandemic. A state Congress chief said on condition of anonymity that the party was in the process of gathering suggestions. “There are three focus areas for us, women, social media and block level outreach,” the state president said. “We have already appointed 280 observers at the block-level who are in the process of identifying women who are active in politics to play a key role in the outreach.”The state party chief added that the party would especially want to focus on housewives, semi-urban and rural women. “The percentage of working women is relatively low. We want more women from the other demographics to actively take part in politics.”The party performed poorly in the October-November Bihar assembly elections, in which it won only 19 of the 70 seats it contested. Hindustan Times on 11 November reported how women voters influenced party-wise performance, by contrasting the number of electors and voter turnout figures, both of which are available by gender.The data showed a massive lead of 19 percentage points in the National Democratic Alliance’s strike rate (seats won as a proportion of those contested) in assembly constituencies where the number of women who voted exceeded male voters. In fact, the higher the share of women voters in a constituency, the better was the NDA’s performance. The NDA won 62% of the seats where women voters were more compared to just 24% seats where they were fewer.The first party functionary cited above, however, said that an analysis showed that more women than men had voted for the Congress party. “Congress may not have received the greater share of votes, but an overall analysis shows that more women than men voted for the party. This makes them integral to our outreach.” The functionary added that a national narrative that flowed from the top to reclaim its legacy of women empowerment was the need of the hour for the party. “Look at {Prime Minister} Narendra Modi. After they won Bihar, he said he had received the silent vote. He addressed the women directly. Congress’s problem is that its top leaders aren’t talking to women directly.”The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rakesh Sinha said the Congress had lost its ideological glamour as well as organizational calibre. “Therefore, whatever it claims or whichever resolution it passes becomes ritualistic and a non-starter,” Sinha said. “Both rural and urban women experienced the worst of the Congress regime. It is the Modi government which empowered them and showed genuine concerns for them. Therefore, Congress would continue to miss women support.”Experts too are sceptical of how much success the party’s outreach to women will yield. Sanjay Kumar, director of the Centre for Study of Developing Societies, said the outreach can only help the party in states where it is viewed as a serious contender. “In states like West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, the Congress is not a player, so the outreach is unlikely to make an impact,” Kumar said. “In Assam, the faultlines are different, such as the linguistic divide or Hindu-Muslim polarisation. The narrative is different. The one state where it may make an impact is Kerala.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-massive-push-to-win-back-women-voters/story-mZqLgP4SE7GHqECJcGcLuK.html
04-01-2021||India||Cong, BJP trade barbs over Indian vaccine’s DCGI nod||The Congress on Sunday called the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine for restricted use “premature”, saying it can prove dangerous. Party leaders like Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor asked the Union health minister to explain why mandatory protocols and verification of data “had been dispensed with” while approving the indigenous vaccine.Sharma, who heads the Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs, said the matter of granting authorisation for vaccine use needs to be taken up carefully as no country has dispensed with the mandatory phase 3 trials and verification of data.India’s drugs regulator DCGI on Sunday approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use. As per submissions made before the expert panel, phase 3 trials have not been completed and therefore, the data on safety and efficacy has not been reviewed, which is a mandatory requirement, Sharma said referring to Covaxin.“The health ministry needs to give cogent reasons for dispensing with the mandatory protocols and requirements in this case, since it involves the health and safety of those frontline workers who will be vaccinated under the restricted category,” Sharma told PTI.Senior party leader Shashi Tharoor said the approval is premature and Covaxin’s use should be avoided as it could be dangerous. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase 3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous. Dr Harsh Vardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime,” he tweeted.Another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh asked the government to clarify why internationally-accepted protocols on phase 3 trials “are being modified”. “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should clarify,” he said on Twitter.The party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, however, lauded scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech for the indigenous vaccine. “Kudos to our scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech on approval of the indigenously developed Corona vaccine and Serum Institute and its scientists too. India has always led the way in path-breaking innovations in the past and will continue to do the same. Great start for New Year,” Surjewala tweeted.The remarks from the leaders prompted sharp reactions from several Bharatiya Janata Party leaders. BJP chief JP Nadda hit out at the Congress, alleging that the opposition party was trying to “cause panic”. “Time and again we have seen whenever India achieves something commendable - that will further public good - the Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccines,” Nadda said.“To further their own failed politics and nefarious agendas, Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people’s precious lives and hard earned livelihoods,” he said.Union minister Hardeep Puri said the Congress leaders were behaving “true to their form” and were on a “quest for permanent political marginalisation”. “Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization,” Puri tweeted. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan hit back at the Congress saying that “belittling the nation’s accomplishments is an all-time hobby of INC India and its band of rent-a-cause leaders.”“Their pattern of reckless ranting, this time on the COVID vaccine is so obvious that it again goes on to expose their nefarious agendas,” said Pradhan in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-bjp-trade-barbs-over-indian-vaccine-s-dcgi-nod/story-WZtS5IucLygO4iw0M7xQCM.html
04-01-2021||India||‘Can deliver vaccines 7-10 days after purchase order’: Adar Poonawalla||Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India (SII), the local manufacturer of the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine, spoke to Rhythma Kaul about the future course of action after emergency use authorisation by India’s drugs regulator for the vaccine. SII has already produced millions of doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. How sure were you of the gamble paying off?We weren’t very sure at the beginning in March-April but we had committed 100%, financially and technically. We had a lot riding on it, and are happy that it worked. It’s not just financial; if it didn’t work, then we would have lost six months doing something else, and then people would have had the vaccine that much later. So, it’s a great victory that the drugs controller approved it.Do you think it took longer than expected for the approval to come?I am very happy and grateful about the way it has gone because we didn’t want to rush anyone into doing something. We wanted the drugs controller and the ministry of health to really go through all the data, examine everything, to double check what we have done, what Oxford has done that is safe and effective. What happens after receiving regulatory approvals?They (Indian government) have to still sign a purchase order with us, and tell us where to send the vaccine, and 7 to 10 days after that, we can deliver the vaccine. We have already offered to them in writing a very special price of ₹200, only for the government, for the first 100 million doses and then the price will be higher or different. In the private market, we have said it’s going to be a ₹1,000 per dose as an MRP, and we will probably sell it for ₹600-700. In exports also, it will be between $3-5, depending on the different countries we are signing with, but that is going to come in probably March-April because the government has said no exports right now. We cannot give it to the private market. Does the export restriction also mean you cannot supply to the Covax facility?I can only give it to Covax after they ease these restrictions, which I am sure they will in two months as this is not forever. This is just for a little while till the government has enough doses to take care of the most vulnerable people.How many quality tested doses do you have ready for the government?50 million. How difficult does rumour-mongering make things?Anyone has the right to question science or facts but the more we read up on what data is done; where it’s been tested, you talk and listen to some of the experts, then it builds the confidence over time that these vaccines are very safe and effective. Nobody is ever going to force anyone to take the vaccine.Is it correct that you said only three vaccines in the world have proven efficacy?Only three in the world have proven efficacy (Pfizer, Moderna and Oxofrd-AstraZeneca)... Nobody else in India, in Russia, in Europe or anywhere else has completed efficacy studies. They have all done safety and immunogenicity studies, which is what we have also done in India for other candidates; and some other companies in India, who I won’t name, have also done but without any efficacy studies we don’t know if any vaccine works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-deliver-vaccines-7-10-days-after-purchase-order-adar-poonawalla/story-0j2ez3faEYr1j3rPRbm6MN.html
04-01-2021||India||‘2 vaccines a result proactive approach,’ says DG-ICMR||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s director general Dr Balram Bhargava, secretary of the department of health research, talks about Covaxin, Bharat Biotech International Limited’s vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that has been developed in collaboration with ICMR, receiving approval from India’s drug regulator for restricted use in an emergency situation. Edited excerpts from an interview:Ques: Two vaccines against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) got approval for emergency use in India in a span of 24 hours; were such quick approvals expected?Ans: The first joint monitoring committee meeting on Covid-19 vaccines happened on January 8, 2020, and in less than a year we have two vaccines in the pipeline that are ready to be used and granted regulatory approvals, which is indeed an extraordinary achievement. It has been a result of a pre-emptive, proactive and scientific approach by the members of the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) who deliberated for over eight hours looking in great deal at all the evidence at hand before recommending that these vaccines be granted emergency use approval.Ques: Has there been sufficient data for grant of approval, especially in the case of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech that has received criticism for having inadequate trial data?Ans: These kinds of approvals are purely data-driven, and in both these vaccines Phase 2 immunogenicity has been well established. The question of approving a vaccine without adequate data does not arise as the expert panel minutely scans the national as well international data presented to them before granting an approval. This is one of the best days for humanity as not just one but two of the vaccines have been approved. And this is good news not just for India but also for many low- and middle-income countries.Ques: What does permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest mean that has been said for Covaxin?Ans: The experts have looked at and taken into account the new UK strain (of Sars-Cov-2) before granting approval to Covaxin as they have kept in mind that Covaxin is a whole-viron inactivated vaccine (the whole virus vaccine) with more potential to target all parts of the virus rather than some parts. This also makes it a more effective tool against the new virus strain found in the United Kingdom. The virus is known to have undergone mutations also in the spike protein, and even Pfizer Inc. recently said that it needs about four to six weeks to make tweaks to their vaccine to adjust to the new mutations having been detected in the virus.Ques: The data will be updated as the clinical trials progress; is that likely to change the status of approval?Ans: Clinical trials will obviously continue and rolling review will also continue. It is not a one-off sort of a thing as we will be monitoring everyone who is vaccinated, and the data also gets updated accordingly. But having the option of two vaccines means their stockpile will be large, and the country is comfortably placed in terms of vaccination options. Ques: How soon is the immunisation likely to start now that the regulatory approvals are in place?Ans: This is for the Union ministry of health and family welfare to decide||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-possibility-of-whole-viron-inactivated-covaxin-working-against-the-new-uk-variant-of-sars-cov-2-says-dg-icmr/story-ya0nv7KdR4JCFTcljg1MJM.html
04-01-2021||India||22-year-old tourist from Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur found dead in Uttarakhand||A 22-year-old youth from Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur was found dead in the popular hill station of Auli, 300 km away from Dehradun on Sunday afternoon. The deceased had gone to visit the place along with four friends with whom he used to study in Noida. According to the police, the deceased identified as Udyot Sharma, was missing since Saturday evening. His body was found during a search operation by a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). Praveen Alok, SDRF spokesperson said, “Sharma and four of his friends had come to Joshimath town of Chamoli district from where they trekked to Auli on Saturday. The five however, went ahead to another spot beyond Auli.” “By Saturday evening, four of them returned barring Sharma. His friends waited for him but in vain. They then approached the police which then informed the nearest SDRF team that rushed to the spot to look for him,” said Alok. The team, however, failed to find him because of the bad weather. “The SDRF team then returned and resumed the search operation on Sunday morning during which Sharma’s body was found four km away from Auli. His body was then brought down in a body bag and handed over to local police,” said Alok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-year-old-tourist-from-jammu-and-kashmir-s-udhampur-found-dead-in-uttarakhand/story-edCPlZTg5l7EE87PLb0ZOI.html
04-01-2021||India||MNREGA payments went to Bangladeshis; Bengal TMC panchayat leader under scanner||The administration in Bengal’s Murshidabad district has investigated a unique case of misappropriation of government funds in which at least Rs 7 lakh was collected for beneficiaries of rural employment schemes under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act 2005 (MNREGA) and part of the money was sent to people in Bangladesh, officials said. Fake job cards were created to make the withdrawals. The main allegation is against the upa-pradhan (deputy head) of the Trinamool Congress-run Gurapashla gram panchayat in the Nabagram police station area. It has been alleged that Samsul Arfin, the upa-pradhan, made the fake job cards for his relatives, as many as 13 of whom are Bangladeshi nationals, officials said. Jobs were allegedly created in various areas by changing the names of the same beneficiaries and the money was withdrawn from banks and post offices. ATM cards were also used to make withdrawals. Officials said that the former community block development officer (BDO) of Nabagram completed an internal probe on the basis of a written complaint. The internal probe concluded that Arfin and some staff members of the gram panchayat were involved in the alleged fraud. The former BDO lodged a police complaint against which a first information report (FIR) was registered in December 2019. However, there has been no progress in the police probe although a year has passed. HT has also seen the copy of the FIR as well as the list of the Bangladeshi nationals who received the money. Officials said that after the FIR was registered, Arfin moved the Calcutta high court for anticipatory bail. The court rejected the petition but the accused was not arrested, a senior district official said on condition of anonymity. Arfin could not be contacted despite several attempts. Pankaj Das, the present BDO of Nabagram, said, “After joining duty, I got to know that the former BDO completed the internal probe and lodged an FIR against the accused at Nabagram PS under Sections 486,406,409,420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.” “It is for the police to complete the probe and take legal action. I cannot say why the police did not make any arrest,” Das added. Muslims comprise 66.28 % of Murshidabad’s population, making it the highest among all districts in Bengal. The district shares its eastern border with Bangladesh. District TMC spokesperson Apurba Sarkar said, “If the upa-pradhan is involved in the alleged embezzlement of government funds the administration has the right to take legal action against him. We are not going to shield him.” Nabagram block Congress president Mir Badam Ali said, “Arfin embezzled government funds with help from some staff members. Some of the beneficiaries are even minors. The TMC leader helped Bangladeshi nationals make money out of a Central government project.” No senior officer of the district police was ready to comment on the issue. An officer said on condition of anonymity that Arfin is on the run and will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mnrega-payments-went-to-bangladeshis-bengal-tmc-panchayat-leader-under-scanner/story-WVcxxOxCxELc6FF4itrLtK.html
04-01-2021||India||Maximum temp dips in Mumbai and suburbs, minimum to remain low for next 3-4 days||In some respite from rising temperatures, Mumbai and suburbs recorded a dip in maximum temperatures on Sunday. Temperatures are likely to remain low for the next three to four days, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The Colaba station of IMD recorded a maximum temperature of 27.4 degrees Celsius, which was 3.1 degrees below normal. This was a marginal drop from Saturday’s 28.8 degrees. Santacruz recorded a maximum temperature of 28.9 degrees Celsius, which was 2.1 degrees below normal and a drop from 30.1 degrees recorded on Saturday. Minimum temperature at Colaba was 21.2 degrees Celsius, 1.9 degrees above normal. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature was 19.7 degrees Celsius, which was 2.6 above normal. “Maharashtra is experiencing a mini winter where the minimum temperatures are likely to drop significantly over the next three to four days. Minimum temperature at Mumbai and Thane can drop to 16-18 degrees Celsius,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD. The IMD has also predicted mild rainfall in some parts of the state. The drop in temperature has been attributed to an active western disturbance owing to cyclonic circulation over Central Pakistan and neighbouring areas. Meanwhile air quality continued to remain poor. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator—of 276 (poor) was recorded. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 stations at which the air quality was measured, Navi Mumbai had the worst quality of air as an AQI of 327 (very poor) was measured. This was followed by Mazagaon where an AQI of 322 was recorded.“Lower variation in temperature along with inflow of polluted continental air will lead to poor AQI in next two days,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maximum-temp-dips-in-mumbai-and-suburbs-minimum-to-remain-low-for-next-3-4-days/story-6nGCVfWeBdnLvoxOKbDoDO.html
04-01-2021||India||Odisha law minister, 12 others booked for murder of BJP leader and his associate||Hours after a 75-year-old BJP leader and his associate were murdered in Salepur area of Cuttack district in Odisha, the Odisha police booked state law minister Pratap Jena and a dozen others as the BJP alleged that the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) had started retributive politics like the Trinamool Congress in neighbouring West Bengal. The BJP leader was murdered along with his 80-year-old associate by six men over past enmity.On Saturday evening, Kulamani Baral, 75, in-charge of Salepur mandal of BJP and former chairman of Mahanga Panchayat Samiti was hacked to death along with his 80-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral near Jankoti village while returning home on a motorcycle. The duo received grievous injuries on their face and chest. While Kulamani succumbed to his injuries on the spot, Dibyasingh died while undergoing treatment at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack on Sunday morning.Soon after the murder, police in Cuttack registered a case against 13 people, including state law minister Pratap Jena for their alleged involvement in the double murder of BJP leader Baral and his associate and relative Dibyasingh on Saturday evening. The law minister and others have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 120-B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), 25 and 27 of the Arms Act.Angry over the twin murders, the BJP said that the ruling BJD had started eliminating rivals in a cold-blooded manner like the Trinamool Congress was doing in Bengal.“Anyone who raises their voice against Mamata is being killed in Bengal. Likewise, BJD leaders in Odisha are doing the same to their political rivals. As a senior BJP leader, Baral was raising his voice against corruption in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Nrutanga gram panchayat for quite some time. After he alleged that the well-to-do BJD leaders in the panchayat were appropriating the PMAY houses meant for poor people, the local administration had lodged cases against the ineligible beneficiaries. Those BJD leaders harboured a grudge against him for a long time. Now that the law minister has been accused in the case he should be sacked immediately,” alleged Golak Mohapatra, BJP’s state spokesperson.Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan also condemned the alleged murder of Baral and his associate and urged the administration to take exemplary action against the culprits. Expressing deep anguish over the incident, BJP national vice president Baijayant Panda said that stringent action should be taken against those involved in the incident after a probe. Odisha Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said, “Kulamani was a strong leader. His death shows that political killings have now begun in the state. I request the government to take stringent action against the accused.”Kulamani’s son Ramakant, who lodged an FIR against 13 people, said his father was raising his voice against corruption in several government schemes such as PMAY. “My father had already informed the police about the threat to his life. Yet no action was taken,” said Ramakant Baral. The husband of a local sarpanch and a former chairman of the Mahanga Panchayat Samiti have been named in the FIR.He also alleged that several people against whom he lodged an FIR were behind the murder of Bikash Jena, a local BJP leader in Jankoti village in December 2018. “Had the police taken action against those accused, then my father would not have been killed. These accused are protected by the law minister and Mahanga MLA Pratap Jena,” said Ramakant.However, law minister Pratap Jena denied the charges saying he would see to it that those who killed the BJP leader get punished. “There is no place for violence in politics,” he said.Cuttack rural SP Jugal Kishore Banoth said 6 teams have been formed to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-law-minister-12-others-booked-for-murder-of-bjp-leader-and-his-associate/story-oAfGhhjfUhr1WcPUSgl6JP.html
04-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand reports lowest Covid-19 infection rate this week in 5 months, deaths dip||In the past one week, Uttarakhand has reported the lowest Covid-19 infection rate in the last five months according to official records. In the week between December 27-January 2, the state reported an infection rate of 2.48%. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities that has been analyzing the Covid-19 data in the hill state said, “In the past one week, the state has reported the lowest weekly infection rate of 2.48% since the past five and half months. This week the state also witnessed 981 more recoveries than cases and there was a reduction in weekly deaths also.” “The only concern is that 15,000 lesser tests were conducted this week compared to last week,” he added. Uttarakhand on Sunday reported 267 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally of total cases to 91,811. Five more Covid-19 patients also died in the state, taking the death toll to 1527. Out of 91,811 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 84,705 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 92.26%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.05% and death rate at 1.66%. On Sunday, 244 Covid-19 positive people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state with a maximum of 149 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin issued on Sunday, a maximum of 123 cases were reported from Dehradun district. Almora, Bageshwar, Chamoli and Champawat districts reported one case each on Sunday. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 27,593 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (13,462), Nainital (11,530) and US Nagar (11,161). The state health department has so far tested 18.17 lakh people of which results of over 7000 are pending. Uttarakhand at present has a total of 22 containment zones with maximum eight such zones in Nainital district. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and scientists in the country for developing an indigenous vaccine for Covid-19. Rawat said, “The long wait for an indigenous vaccine to fight the coronavirus epidemic under the guidance of Prime Minister Modi is over. It is a matter of pride for the entire country that both the vaccines approved for use are made in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-reports-lowest-covid-19-infection-rate-this-week-in-5-months-deaths-dip/story-8UyJBqxaKlXvk9LdCOmdyI.html
04-01-2021||India||Launch Covid-19 vaccination drive only after concrete arrangements: Akhilesh Yadav to BJP||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the Covid-19 vaccination programme was a “sensitive process” and the government should not treat it as a “cosmetic” event as it concerned people’s lives. His fresh comment came the day after he announced that he would not get vaccinated for now, calling it a “BJP vaccine”.Saturday’s comment triggered sharp reactions not only from ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, but also from the National Conference’s vice-president Omar Abdullah.The fresh remarks by the SP chief come even as India’s drugs regulator approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India here, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.Yadav tweeted in Hindi: “The BJP government should not consider coronavirus vaccination as a sajaawati-dikhaawati (decorative-cosmetic) event and launch it only after concrete arrangements are made. This is a matter of the lives of people, so the risk of improvement at a later stage cannot be taken. A specific date for vaccinating the poor people should be declared.”On Saturday, he had said, “I will not get vaccinated. It’s the BJP’s vaccine. The BJP can’t be trusted.”Following an attack by BJP leaders, the SP chief had tweeted later on Saturday evening: “We have full faith in scientists’ abilities, but we do not have faith in the BJP’s unscientific thinking of the clanging of plates, clapping and the medical set-up for the vaccine. The medical set-up stayed paralysed during Covid-19 times. We will not get the BJP’s political vaccine administered. The SP government (when it comes to power) will do free vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/launch-covid-19-vaccination-drive-only-after-concrete-arrangements-akhilesh-yadav-to-bjp/story-UUdN2Q82gLOdpSNoATuNqJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Oxford, Bharat Biotech vaccines cleared for use||India could roll out the world’s largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in about 10 days after the national drug controller approved two vaccines for restricted emergency use in India on Sunday, officials with knowledge of the development said.Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani on Sunday announced that he had approved both the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Plc. vaccine being manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine candidate.He said that he had accepted recommendations made by the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Friday and Saturday to grant restricted emergency approval to both the vaccines. A top official with knowledge of the matter said the vaccination drive could begin as early as in 10 days. “It will take about a minimum of 10 days from now for the vaccine to be rolled out,” the official said on condition of anonymity.Soon after the approval was announced, Prime Minister Narendra Modi put out three tweets congratulating the country, scientists and innovators. Read more| AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine: What’s been said about dosage, efficacy“A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! DCGI granting approval to vaccines of @SerumInstIndia and @BharatBiotech accelerates the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation. Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators,” his first tweet said.The Subject Expert Committee consists of domain experts from the fields of pulmonology, immunology, microbiology, pharmacology, paediatrics, internal medicine and so on . On SII’s Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Somani said: “After detailed deliberations Subject Expert Committee has recommended for the grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue.” Pune-based SII, which is manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and testing it in India, presented a recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector vaccine (Covishield) encoding the Sars-CoV-2 Spike (S) glycoprotein with technology transfer from AstraZeneca/Oxford University. The firm submitted safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants aged 18 years or older from overseas clinical studies. “The overall vaccine efficacy was found to be 70.42%. Further, M/s Serum was granted permission to conduct Phase-II/III clinical trial on 1,600 participants within the country. The firm also submitted the interim safety and immunogenicity data generated from this trial and the data was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies,” Somani said. Bharat Biotech has developed a whole virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine (Covaxin) in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (Pune), from where it received the virus seed strains. The vaccine is developed on a vero cell platform, which has a well established track record of safety and efficacy in the country and globally. The firm has generated safety and immunogenicity data in various animal species such as mice, rats, rabbits, Syrian hamster, and also conducted challenge studies on non-human primates (Rhesus macaques) and hamsters. Read more| Amplifying reach, fake science biggest challenges to vaccinationThe company had shared the data with CDSCO, and also put out phase 1 and 2 trial results for publication in December. Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials were conducted in approximately 800 subjects, and the results have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and provides a robust immune response. The Phase 3 efficacy trial was initiated in India in 25,800 volunteers and to date, 22,500 participants have been vaccinated across the country and the vaccine has been found to be safe as per the data available currently, according to the drugs controller. “The Subject Expert Committee has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended for grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” said Somani.Both the vaccines have to be intramuscularly administered in two doses.On the sidelines of a media briefing, Somani said that people of India must rest assured that all safety concerns have been met before the vaccines were approved.“Even if there is smallest of doubt regarding safety of the vaccine, it won’t be approved. Of course, the ones approved are safe; I would say 110%. There are some side-effects but those are minor ones that are commonly seen in vaccines such as pain at the injection site, slight temperature, minor allergies, etc. Don’t believe in rumours as all scientific processes have been strictly adhered to,” he added.Clinical trial mode condition means that the company will closely monitor and take full responsibility for any side-effects to any participants.While there has been criticism from a large section of experts about the way approvals were given without adequate efficacy data, some experts say there is a provision for such approvals in the Indian regulatory system during emergency situations such as a pandemic.“There is a provision in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act for grant of approval even without the efficacy data but the terminology used is somewhat different from emergency use authorisation. The approval can be granted on the basis of phase 1 and 2 clinical trials’ safety and immunogenicity data. The data gradually has to be updated. I don’t see the fuss created around it by people, many of whom aren’t even domain experts,” said a senior public health expert, who requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxford-bharat-biotech-vaccines-cleared-for-use/story-8sZ0RPc7JwtjB6fnpcUPvJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Justice Mohd Rafiq takes oath as chief justice of Madhya Pradesh high court||Justice Mohammad Rafiq was administered oath as chief justice of the Madhya Pradesh high court by Governor Anandiben Patel at Raj Bhavan on Sunday, as per an official communiqué. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh, several ministerial colleagues of Chouhan, protem speaker of the state assembly Rameshwar Sharma and several bureaucrats were present on the occasion. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains conducted the oath taking ceremony stated the communiqué. As per the Madhya Pradesh high court website, born on May 25, 1960 at Sujangarh in Churu district of Rajasthan, Justice Mohammad Rafiq was earlier the chief justice of the Orissa high court transferred from Meghalaya high court on April 27, 2020. He became chief justice of the Meghalaya high court on November 13, 2019. He was appointed as judge of the Rajasthan high court on May 15, 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-mohd-rafiq-takes-oath-as-chief-justice-of-madhya-pradesh-high-court/story-6Do81J322BNdmjLXlrH9GM.html
04-01-2021||India||‘My supporters won’t let you become CM’: Alagiri warns sibling and DMK chief Stalin||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin who is campaigning to become chief minister in the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu faced an open rebellion from his estranged elder brother and expelled DMK leader MK Alagiri on Sunday.“There are posters hailing you as the future chief minister but you can never become chief minister. My associates and supporters will never let you become one,” Alagiri said addressing a meeting with his supporters in Madurai district on Sunday. Alagiri held the meeting to mull his political entry into the assembly polls which is likely to be held in April or May. One of Alagiri’s loyalists who attended the meeting on condition of anonymity said that they were expecting the DMK to induct him back into the party. “If they don’t take annan (brother Alagiri) back, we won’t let Stalin become chief minister,” the Alagiri loyalist who attended the meeting said. Alagiri escalated a prolonged sibling rivalry even as he said that he didn’t wish to become chief minister. He accused Stalin of betraying him and said that their father and DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi was planning to take him back into the party before he fell ill.Alagiri also said that he would soon announce his decision on starting a party. “Whether it is good or bad, you (supporters) must accept it.” Thousands of people from Madurai, Theni and Nellai had gathered in the streets of Madurai and waited inside a jam-packed hall to welcome Alagiri who arrived in a campaign vehicle. His supporters egged him on to start a new political party. Posters and banners were lined up with photos of Alagiri and Karunanidhi. Alagiri, a former Union minister, was once the party’s organising secretary of Tamil Nadu’s southern districts and Madurai was his bastion. In 2014, Karunanidhi expelled him for violating party discipline. Alagiri has maintained a low profile since then except for when he took out a rally in Chennai to Karunanidhi’s mausoleum following his death in 2018. Alagiri said that some people had forced Karunanidhi to expel him.Alagiri also added that following the Thirumangalam assembly by-election in 2009, he supported Stalin to become the party’s “everything” and “chief minister” after their father. “I told Stalin that we will work for his victory,” Alagiri said. “His (Stalin) conscious knows this but I don’t know why he betrayed me.” He said that he accepted Stalin’s elevation as deputy chief minister and treasurer of the party when Karunanidhi had sought his permission. Through his speech he lamented that he worked hard for DMK’s victory in several places and made a mark in Madurai without wishing for a party post. “Did I betray the party?” Alagiri said. “What mistake did I make?”In December, Alagiri had said that the upcoming polls will see his participation either by way of floating a party or lending his support or simply voting. Though the DMK leadership is closely following the developments, they have remained silent. A day earlier, a senior DMK leader on condition of anonymity said that even if Alagiri starts a party it won’t impact them. “He has supporters and friends but not cadre,” the leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-supporters-won-t-let-you-become-cm-alagiri-warns-sibling-and-dmk-chief-stalin/story-i14Qa7zWPbqoDAgYjykp1M.html
04-01-2021||India||46 farmers have died during protests so far, four in last 24 hours||At least four farmers, of the thousands camped at Delhi’s borders to demand a repeal of three contentious farm laws passed by the Parliament in September last year, have died in the last 24 hours, police said.Police records showed that a total of nine people, including Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh, have died at the Kundli-Singhu border, while 10 have died at Tikri border so far. Farmer leaders, on the other hand, claimed that 46 farmers had sacrificed their lives across all border points of the city.As per records, 18-year-old Jashanpreet Singh of Punjab died of heart attack and Jagbir Singh, 65, of Jind died due to biting cold on Saturday night at Tikri border. At Kundli-Singhu border, Kulbir Singh, 52, a resident of Gangana village in Sonepat was found dead on Sunday in a tent and Shamsher Singh, 45, a resident of Sangrur also died at Civil hospital in Sonepat, after his health deteriorated.PGIMS spokesman, Dr Gajender Singh said Jashanpreet was referred to PGIMS from Bahadurgarh civil hospital on Saturday night, after he suffered a heart attack.“After reaching here, he passed away. Another farmer, Jagbir Singh, who suffered a cold stroke, died here on Saturday night. We have conducted their post-mortem examinations and handed over their bodies to their family members,” he added.Read more| We are used to harsh weather: Farmers unfazedShamsher Singh, investigating officer of Kundli police station, said the protesting farmers had spotted the body of Kulbir Singh at a tent near the protesting here on Sunday morning.“The farmers said he had complained of body pain and had gone to bed on Saturday night after eating langar. After receiving news of his demise, his co-villager Yudhishthira suffered heart attack and was rushed to civil hospital in Sonepat, from where he was referred to a private hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. Another farmer, Shamsher Singh from Sangrur in Punjab, also suffered a heart attack and died during treatment at Civil hospital here. He had joined the stir five days ago, according to farmers. We have handed over the bodies to their family members after conducting autopsies,” he added.Singh said a total of nine people, including Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh have died at Kundli-Singhu border so far and most of them died due to heart attack or cold conditions.Inderjit Singh, vice-president of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan sabha said as many as 46 farmers had given their sacrifice in the ongoing agitation.“ These people are those who died either on borders or on their way to join the stir,” he added.Addressing a press conference in Sonepat, former Haryana chief minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the government should take the matter up seriously and resolve the issue.“Four farmers have sacrificed their lives in the past 24 hours and over 45 people have died in the agitation. I am surprised why the government is neglecting the farmers and their demands,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/46-farmers-have-died-during-protests-so-far-four-in-last-24-hours/story-6OmK8CvjaueLngDxuZJ5rL.html
04-01-2021||India||We are used to harsh weather: Farmers unfazed||Muddy roads, waterlogged tents, wet mattress and blankets ---farmers protesting at Delhi borders braced it all amid heavy rainfall and the cold on Sunday. Despite continuous spells of showers, the spirit of the ongoing protest at different sites did not get dampened with many farmers saying that “rain is a sign of prosperity” for them. Sitting outside her waterlogged tent at the Singhu border, Kawalpreet Kaur, 75, a farmer from Gurdaspur district in Punjab, said she woke up to thunder and lightning on Sunday morning. “At around 6 am, water started coming into our tent and within minutes all the mattresses were soaked. The water did not come from the top since we have a waterproof tent. It entered after tent after the road got waterlogged. I was shifted to a trolley by a group of youngsters… The rain has caused some inconvenience but we are farmers and we are used to living in harsh weather conditions.”Water also entered into the trolleys of many protesters where protesters had kept their clothes and mattresses. Tonnes of wood, which is being used for cooking and bonfire at the protest sites also got soaked due to rain. “Around eight quintals(800 kg) of our firewood got wet. It will take days to dry it and make it usable. We are using LPG cylinders for cooking today. Some of the farmers who don’t have LPG are sharing the cooking space with us. We are all brothers here and will help each other in every possible way,” said Gurjeet Singh, 58, a farmer from Bhatinda. Harmeet Singh Kadian, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian), said the farmers’ union arranged more waterproof tents on Sunday. “We are also trying to arrange more blankets and mattresses for the protesters particularly for the elderly,” he said. Read more| Free bus service for farmers who want to join protests at Ghazipur-UP borderDespite the chaos caused by the rains, the protesting sites remained lively throughout the day on Sunday with farmers seen gathering around the stage, shouting slogans against the three new farm laws and singing songs of resistance. The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered its 39th day on Sunday. Harpreet Kaur, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) women’s wing, who is protesting at the Tikri border, said rains and harsh weather could not affect their determination. “Maybe many of us will catch cold and infections and fall sick. Some people might succumb to the chilly weather. But if these three farm laws are implemented by the government, we all will die eventually,” she said. At the Ghazipur border, protesters, especially women, said they fear that their kids might fall sick. “All our mattresses and blankets are wet. We do not know how we will sleep or make our kids sleep. But, we know that we are not stepping back. We are ready to brace for even harsher weather conditions. After all, we are farmers and rain is a sign of prosperity for us,” said Ranveer Kaur, a farmer from Uttarakhand. KABADDI AT SINGHU Earlier in the day, as many as eight kabaddi teams from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab arrived at the Singhu border and played a match to uplift the spirits of the protesters. The players placed mats and also tied ropes to make a makeshift kabaddi ring. Amarjeet Sindhu, an organiser, said, “Our farmer brethren have been sitting here for over a month now. We decided to organise a tournament here for their entertainment. We also wanted these young players to have a first-hand experience of this ongoing historic protest.” Meanwhile, later in the evening, farmer union leaders held a press conference at the Singhu border and announced to celebrate Lohri at the protest site by burning the copies of three new farm laws. “We will celebrate Lohri here on January 13th and burn the copies of the three black laws,” said farmer leader Manjeet Singh Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-fails-to-dampen-spirit-of-protest/story-SqchaP5AX1EBXL0OINJ2bL.html
04-01-2021||India||1 farmer hurt after clashes with police||Police lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannon to stop hundreds of farmers who allegedly broke police barricades at Masani village near Dharuhera on Delhi-Jaipur highway on Sunday, in an attempt to move towards Gurugram and Delhi. At least one farmer has been injured, according to the initial reports from the spot. Haryana Police said more than 20 tractors and hundreds of farmers tried to force their way across the Rajasthan-Haryana border but they stopped later as police held back their counterparts. The protesters also stopped due to ongoing rain. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said farmers broke police barricades and tried to move towards Delhi. “Police had to use tear gas and water cannons to stop the protesters. They shouted slogans and forcefully tried to cross the barricades and we had to take the steps to stop them,” he said. Farmers alleged that the police fired shells indiscriminately and it could have triggered a blast in the LPG cylinders they were carrying for cooking. Last month, over a thousand farmers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana reached Jaisinghpur Khera and joined the agitation. The protesting farmers had earlier announced that they would start moving towards Delhi on Monday. Satnarayan Nehra, president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said due to rains the volume of protesters was low on Sunday. “Our plan to move to Delhi failed but we will try late Sunday night as farmers from nearby areas are gathering at Kheda border,” he said. On Sunday around 4pm, 20 tractors and hundreds of farmers crossed the Kheda border and reached Sangwari Chowk which is 20 kilometres ahead of the protest site. “Rajasthan Police allowed us to cross but Haryana Police is not cooperating. Many farmers have been camping since December 12 and are not well but they are not willing to return home,” said Rashid Ahmed, a protester from Nuh. The community leaders have requested the police to let them cross the stretch peacefully and have tried to pacify the protesters. Last Thursday, farmers had entered Shahjahanpur and reached Rewari on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, crossing the Shahjahanpur interstate border in Rajasthan, as the police were not letting them enter Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-farmer-hurt-after-clashes-with-police/story-0XyR6etf1OltixtGHLczGL.html
04-01-2021||India||Experts flag concern over ‘limited data’ for Covaxin||The emergency use approval in India to the Serum Institute of India (SII) vaccine against Covid-19 developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, and the “restricted use in emergency situation” consent to Bharat Biotech International Limited’s locally developed vaccine has triggered a debate among experts -- particularly over the decision to clear the Bharat Biotech vaccine despite the shorter duration of human trials and relatively less data.India’s nationwide vaccination drive is scheduled to begin in January with the AstraZeneca-Oxford shot. Bharat Biotech’s vaccine, according to experts aware of the matter, is a back-up in clinical trial conditions if a spike in cases triggers the need of doses.AstraZeneca-Oxford got the Drug Control General of India nod based on the safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants from overseas studies, as well as interim data from Phase 2/3 trials on 1,600 people in India. What boosted its case was that it was granted approval last week by the Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory Authority in the UK.Bharat Biotech’s vaccine was approved for “restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical mode, especially in the context of infection by mutant strains” based on safety and immunogenicity data from tests done mice, rats, rabbits, Syrian hamsters; and so-called challenge studies on Rhesus macaques and hamsters, and Phase I and Phase II clinical trials on around 800 participants, according to the drug regulator. Read more| ‘Congratulations India’: PM Modi tweets after nod to Covid-19 vaccinesEarly-stage trials found the vaccine to be safe and able to invoke a robust immune response, but Phase 2 data is under peer review and has not been published. Phase 3 trials were announced on November 16, and around 22,500 of 25,800 volunteers have enrolled of which around half have received two doses. “The terminology is very different for the two vaccines, so it does acknowledge that the stages of research for the two vaccines is different. The government will begin vaccinating with the Serum vaccine in the first few weeks, and keep the Bharat Biotech vaccine as a backup till the data becomes robust by the end of this month or the beginning of next month,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. “Emergency use authorisation is standard, which Serum has got. The emergency situation nod for Bharat Biotech means that if there is a surge in the number of cases or if there are issues with vaccine efficacy as far as the first one is concerned, then the vaccine may be used in a clinical trial situation, which will be closely monitored because the data is not sufficient. It is a backup plan for a possible surge in cases, like in the UK, where they have changed the vaccinations schedule from four weeks to 12 weeks because they want to vaccinate as many as people possible. If we are in a similar situation, we will not be able to do it with one vaccine. This (the approval) is just to tell them, okay, go ahead, your current data is good,” he added. Some other experts, however, argued that even in emergency situations, approval must be granted only after safety and efficacy is irrefutably established.Read more| ‘Disgraceful’: Health minister Vardhan slams Akhilesh Yadav, Tharoor over Covid-19 vaccine ‘doubts’“It’s absolutely shocking that the regulator has approved the Bharat Biotech vaccine, which has limited data for safety and immunogenicity and no data for efficacy. The Phase 3 trials are still completing enrolment and it is too early for data to meet the criterion for an interim analysis. The only human data available on safety and immunogenicity is on 755 participants in Phase 1 and 2 trials. This amounts to rolling out an untested and unproven vaccine,” said Malini Aisola, co-convenor of All India Drug Action Network (AIDAN), which is a network of non-profit organisation working to increase access to and rational use of medicines. The vaccines use two different and established delivery platforms. While SII has a recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector vaccine (Covishield), Bharat Biotech has developed a whole virion inactivated coronavirus vaccine (Covaxin). “Covaxin is a whole-viron inactivated vaccine with more potential to target all parts of the virus rather than specific parts. This makes it a more effective tool against the new virus strain found in the UK... even Pfizer recently said that it needs about four to six weeks to make tweaks to their vaccine to adjust to the new mutations in the virus,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research, in an interview to HT. ICMR has also partnered in developing the vaccine.Read more| Covishield vs Covaxin against Covid-19: All you need to knowBut other experts were not so sure.“I’m not aware of any data that demonstrates that Covaxin has any efficacy against any strain of the new coronavirus, let alone special efficacy against the (UK) variant strain,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, clinician scientist, and professor of gastrointestinal sciences at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Both vaccines will be administered under government supervision and will not be available to the general public till the data is complete and all trial results are out. “Restricted emergency use authorisation means only the government will procure the vaccines and decide who will get it under supervision. Under restricted emergency use, these vaccines will not be available commercially, they will not be available to the public on demand. As far as we know as of yesterday, there are no safety issues. The government will give free vaccination to people where protection delayed can be protection denied,” said Dr T Jacob John, senior virologist anda former professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-flag-concern-over-limited-data-for-covaxin/story-2i9U0JJ3fo7C3rKp3Q4cYJ.html
04-01-2021||India||Farmers’ lives lost due to govt’s harsh attitude: Sonia Gandhi||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Narendra Modi government for not heeding the demands of farmers to repeal three laws aimed at opening up trade in agriculture that they say will harm the interests of cultivators and hurt their livelihoods. “In this biting cold and rain, our farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi for 39 days now. Their plight is a concern for all the citizens and I,” Gandhi said. “More than 50 farmers have lost their lives because of the government’s harsh attitude towards the protests. Some have even committed suicide. Neither has their decision moved the Modi government or any of its ministers, nor have they uttered a word of consolation. I offer my tribute to those who have passed away and prayers and strength to their families.”Gandhi’s statement came a day after a farmer on the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border allegedly committed suicide because the government did not heed farmers’ demands. The farmers have demanded a repeal of the three controversial farm laws.In the latest round of talks held on December 30, the government has offered to set up a panel to examine the laws, but it has stayed firm on its decision to not repeal them.The three farm laws passed in September essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations.Farmers say the reforms will enable large corporations to dictate prices and exploit them.Gandhi said that the government’s inaction was tantamount to arrogance and it must recognize that the true meaning of democracy is to protect the rights and interests of the farmers and workers. “Ever since independence, this is the first arrogant government to have come to power that doesn’t care for the farmers who feed, let alone the citizens,” Gandhi said. “It is evident that the government is practising a policy of “tire them and drive them away,” But our farmers will not bend before them. The government must let go of its ego and repeal the three farm laws and bring an end to the protests. The true meaning of democracy is protecting the interests of the farmers and workers, the Modi government should learn that.”Attacking the Centre, senior party leader Rahul Gandhi also tweeted: “The country is facing a situation like Champaran once again. Back then, it was the British that were in cahoots with the company, now it is the Modi government. But every agitating farmer-worker is a satyagrahi, who will secure his rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-lives-lost-due-to-govt-s-harsh-attitude-sonia/story-2CloY5Xpx2gHWBXEeNK2PP.html
04-01-2021||India||Farmer-govt talks today; 2 key demands on table||The Centre and farm unions protesting against a set of laws aimed at opening up agricultural markets will hold their seventh round of negotiations on Monday that could shape the outcome of the long-drawn-out dialogue process. Two of the biggest demands of farmers will be on the agenda on Monday. Monday’s talks are set to take up the farmers’ demand to repeal the three farm laws they say will hurt their livelihoods and a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for farm produce. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of farm unions, has hardened its stand, saying on Saturday that thousands of farmers will drive into the Capital on their tractors to hold their own Republic Day parade if their demands are not met by January 26.Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash will lead the government side, while 40 leaders of farm union will represent farmers at the talks.The widely anticipated sixth round of talks on December 30 made some headway in the standoff between the Union government and protesting farm unions, with the Centre agreeing to spare farmers of heavy fines for crop-residue burning, as provided for in an anti-pollution ordinance, and to continue the current mechanism of giving subsidised power for agricultural use.Read more| Farmers in Rewari break barricades; police use tear gas to stop themThe two principal demands of a repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support prices were deferred until January 4. In the December 30 talks, the government offered to form a five-member panel to examine the farm laws and had asked farm leaders to suggest alternatives to a repeal of the laws, both of which were rejected by the farmers. The farm unions have been steadfast on their demand that the government scrap the three new agricultural laws approved by Parliament in September, and to being a new legislation guaranteeing that all farm produce be bought at federally fixed assured rates. Farm unions have launched one of the largest strikes in decades to demand that the Centre revoke the three contentious laws. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.Read more| Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talksThese laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. “The success of tomorrow’s talks depend entirely on the repeal of these three Farm Acts,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a major platform of protesting farmers.Saha said there had been much speculation about procedures for repeal of the Acts. “AIKSCC clarifies that it can be done by an Ordinance followed by a Parliamentary repeal and the Constitution provides for the government and Parliament to make as well as repeal laws. They are neither time-consuming, nor complicated.”A government official, requesting anonymity said, the Centre would “take up each and every objection and apprehension of the farmers”. “I don’t want to speculate on anything now,” he said. Analysts say they don’t expect every issue to be concluded during Monday’s talks. “Both demands are complicated. It is unlikely that both can be settled in one round. The government may present a formula to ensure assured prices for farmers based purely on the possibilities,” said Ramesh Kavi, a former faculty member at Dharwad Agricultural University. Read more| Free bus service for farmers who want to join protests at Ghazipur-UP borderCongress chief Sonia Gandhi on Sunday hit out at the Narendra Modi government for not heeding the demands of farmers to repeal the three laws “In this biting cold and rain, our farmers have been protesting on the borders of Delhi for 39 days now. Their plight is a concern for all the citizens and I,” Gandhi said in a statement. “More than 50 farmers have lost their lives because of the government’s harsh attitude towards the protests. Some have even committed suicide. Neither has their decision moved the Modi government or any of its ministers, nor have they uttered a word of consolation. I offer my tribute to those who have passed away and prayers and strength to their families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-govt-talks-today-2-key-demands-on-table/story-gG00Og6dLc5aV7miaq26BK.html
04-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech vaccine more likely to work against newer strains like UK variant: Vardhan||With some Congress leaders raising concerns over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine, health minister Harsh Vardhan asserted on Sunday that Covaxin is more likely to work against newer variants of the virus, including the UK variant, and asked politicians not to “discredit well laid out science-backed protocols” followed for approving the jab. Some Congress leaders, including Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, on Sunday raised serious concerns over the grant of approval to Covaxin for restricted use, saying it is “premature” and can prove dangerous. Responding to them, Vardhan said it is “disgraceful for anyone to politicise such a critical issue.” Tagging Tharoor, Ramesh and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yavad, the health minister said in a tweet, “...don’t try to discredit well laid out science-backed protocols followed for approving #COVID19vaccines. Wake up & realise you are only discrediting yourselves!” Vardhan said, “COVAXIN is more likely to work against newer variants like N501Y Variant (UK variant) & any other that may arise due to antigenic drift as it contains immunogens (epitopes) from other genes in addition to those from Spike protein.” SP president Yadav said the Covid-19 vaccination programme is a “sensitive process” and the government should not treat it as a “cosmetic” event as it is a matter of lives.Read more| Drug regulator gives final approval for Covid-19 vaccines of SII, Bharat Biotech Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava also said Covaxin is based on an inactivated whole virus, having potential to target mutated coronavirus strains including the UK variant, which was a major ground for giving it a conditional nod. He, however, said no clear data regarding the efficacy of the vaccine is available so far. The data generated so far demonstrates a strong immune response  (both antibody as well as T cell) and in-vitro viral neutralisation. The ongoing clinical trial is the largest trial on 25,800 subjects, in which already 23,000 volunteers have been enrolled including subjects with comorbid conditions, and the vaccine has demonstrated safety till date, Bhargava said. Further allaying apprehensions surrounding the Bharat Biotech vaccine, Vardhan said there were no seroconversions in those who were provided vaccines in Phase II as well as Phase I of Covaxin clinical trials. Seroconversion is the transition from the point of viral infection to when antibodies of the virus become present in the blood. “Our experience with inactivated vaccines not having serious adverse events was also observed in Phase II done among 380 study participants in BBV152 trial in 21280 Person days follow up. No serious adverse events seen. Only 7 per cent persons receiving 6 microgram dose had mild symptoms,” Vardhan said in another tweet. “The data from COVAXIN Phase I & II clinical trials reveals that it not only produces neutralizing antibodies in all participants but also sensitises  CD4 T lymphocytes that imparts durable immune response,” Vardhan tweeted. He said vaccines approved globally based on gene encoding spike proteins have protective efficacy of over 90 per cent. “However, COVAXIN based on whole inactivated virus has other antigenic epitopes in addition to spike protein. So,it’s likely to have similar protective efficacy reported for others,” he said. India’s drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-vaccine-more-likely-to-work-against-newer-strains-like-uk-variant-vardhan/story-GkSibMkbIirGVKxSAZo1HK.html
04-01-2021||India||Day ahead of talks with farmers, Narendra Singh Tomar meets Rajnath Singh to discuss strategy to end deadlock||A day before the crucial seventh round of talks between the Centre and protesting farmer unions, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday and discussed the government strategy to resolve the current crisis at the earliest, sources said. Tomar discussed with Singh “all possible options” to find a “middle path” to resolve the crisis, sources added. Singh, who served as agriculture minister in the erstwhile Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet, has emerged as a key troubleshooter and is working mostly behind the scenes on this issue. Protesting farmers who have been camping at Delhi borders for the last 39 days braving bone-chilling cold and now rains have threatened to intensify their protest if their two major demands -- repeal of the three new farm laws and legal backing for the minimum support price (MSP) -- are not accepted by the government in the January 4 meeting. Rains since Saturday night led to waterlogging at the agitation venues, but the unions asserted that “we will not move from here until our demands are met”.Read more| Gehlot, Pilot to lead protests against farm laws in Jaipur After five rounds of inconclusive talks, the government and 40 farmer unions reached some common ground during the sixth round of negotiations on December 30 to resolve protesting farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. On January 1, Tomar had told PTI that the government is hopeful of a “positive outcome” at its next meeting with farmers’ unions on January 4 but refrained from predicting whether the seventh round of talks will be the last one. Asked whether he expects the January 4 meeting to be the last one, the minister said, “I cannot say for sure now. I am not an astrologer. I am hopeful that whatever decision would be arrived at (in the meeting) will be in the interest of the country and of the farmers.” Last week, protesting farmer unions issued an “ultimatum” that they will march into Delhi with a “tractor parade” on the Republic Day if their demands are not met in the next round of talks. “The farmers’ movement delivered an ultimatum to the Government of India and announced that farmers will march into Delhi on January 26,” Sankyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting unions, had said in a statement. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month demanding repeal of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.Read more| Won’t go back till laws are repealed, say farmers before 7th round of talks Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers’ income, but protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out repealing the laws. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met agriculture minister Tomar over the last few weeks to extend their support for the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-ahead-of-talks-with-farmers-narendra-singh-tomar-meets-rajnath-singh-to-discuss-strategy-to-end-deadlock/story-qsxUBlnhbHnohzgbluzyoI.html
04-01-2021||India||GST authority in Delhi nabs one for Rs 831 crore tax evasion||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) authority has unearthed evasion of Rs 831.72 crore tax in Delhi after raiding a manufacturing unit that was indulging in clandestine supply of gutkha, pan masala and other tobacco products without paying tax, the finance ministry said on Sunday.The Central GST Delhi West Commissionerate searched the premise and found illegal manufacturing of gutkha, pan masala and tobacco, it said.“Around 65 labourers were found working at the illegal factory. The finished product of gutkha is being supplied to various states in India. The searches resulted in the seizure of finished gutkha and raw materials such as chuna, sada kattha, tobacco leaves, etc. valued at Rs. 4.14 crore approximately,” it said. Also read: 15 dead as roof of shelter at cremation ground in UP’s Muradnagar collapsesBased on the evidence gathered, stocks seized and confessional statements recorded the total duty evasion as estimated to be approximately Rs 831.72 crore, it said, adding that the investigation is in progress. One person has been arrested in the matter on the based on his involvement in the manufacture and supply of goods without issue of any invoice to evade tax, as well as in transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing, supplying, or purchasing any goods in violation of various laws, which are cognizable and non-bailable offence, it said.The accused person has been arrested and produced before the Metropolitan Magistrate (MM), Patiala House Court on January 2. He is sent to 14 days judicial custody by the magistrate, it said. “Further investigation is underway to identify the key conspirators of the case and to recover the tax dues involved,” it added. Delhi Zone has been making sustained efforts to check evasion of GST, leading to detection of Rs 4,327 crore in the current financial year and 15 persons have been arrested in these matters, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-arrested-in-delhi-by-gst-authority-for-rs-831-crore-tax-evasion/story-aF52YhnounjUodlmJVbOFP.html
04-01-2021||India||Probe agencies carrying out ‘audit’ of my father’s grave, says Mehbooba Mufti||“Let them prove a single case, I am ready to face the consequences,” said PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti about the cases being probed by various investigating agencies, including the NIA which has arrested a senior leader of her party on terror funding charges.The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also said it is mortifying that the probe agencies are running an “audit” on the mausoleum of her father Mufti Mohammed Sayeed.In her first reaction after her party’s youth wing leader Waheed Parra was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Mehbooba said the probe agencies have been burrowing through government files and her bank accounts for the last two years and found nothing.In an interview with PTI, she said, “It’s mortifying and disgusting that they are now running an audit on the mausoleum of my late father. How much lower will they stoop?” Sayeed died in 2016 and was laid to rest in his ancestral graveyard at Bijbehara in south Kashmir.Read more| Mehbooba Mufti is pro-separatist, shouldn’t talk about rights abuse: BJP leaderThere was no reaction either from the NIA or the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to the PDP chief’s claims.Referring to the alleged bunglings in Jammu and Kashmir Bank during her tenure as the chief minister, Mehbooba said, “What bungling? Let them prove a single case where I or anyone close to me has indulged in any kind of financial misappropriation. I am ready to face the consequences.” On the arrest of Parra by the NIA, she said, after having “failed to prove any corruption charge against me, they are resorting to other ways of maligning me by linking me to terror funding”.“Waheed is a great advocate of democracy, reconciliation and dialogue. He has motivated thousands of youths to join the mainstream. All these charges are figments of their imagination to force me to change track and parrot their narrative,” she said. Parra was arrested by the NIA in November for allegedly getting in touch with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists seeking support for Mehbooba during her Parliamentary elections.The NIA alleges that Parra had paid money through suspended Deputy SP of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh, who has already been arrested for ferrying terrorists from Srinagar to Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-agencies-carrying-out-audit-of-my-father-s-grave-says-mehbooba-mufti/story-UaxcGeR5B5C6N86mm5zo0N.html
04-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest Highlights: Every farmer part of movement a ‘satyagrahi’, says Rahul Gandhi||Farmer unions said on Saturday that the protesting farmers- who have been camping at border points near Delhi and neighbouring states- would enter the national capital on Republic Day (January 26) and hold a tractor march if their demands for a repeal of the farm laws and ensuring a legal guarantee of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) are not accepted. Futhermore, representatives of the unions said that a two-week long nationwide campaign named “Desh Jagriti Abhiyan” will be held across the country from January 6 to January 20. Also Read| Morning rains compound problems of protesting farmers at Delhi’s bordersThe seventh round of talks between the farmer unions and the central government will take place on Monday. Earlier, Union minister of state (MoS) for agriculture Kailash Choudhary said he was confident that this meeting would bring out a solution and also conclude the ongoing stir. He pointed out that the laws were in favour of the farmers adding that there should be no confusion on MSP. “The prime minister himself said many times that the provision of selling crops at MSP will continue,” the minister said. So far six rounds of talks have been held between the farmer unions and the Centre. The first five meetings remained inconclusive. However, during the sixth round of meeting which was held on December 30, the Centre addressed only two of the four issues raised by farmers and the main demand of repeal of the farm laws- introduced by the parliament in September- remained unanswered. Also Read| Farmer dies at protest site at Delhi-UP border, suicide suspected: PoliceMeanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi hit out at the Centre once again by saying that it was not listening to the farmers’ legitimate demands which has been going for over a month. Citing media reports,she wrote on Twitter, “The reports of death of farmers sitting on Delhi borders in this chilly weather are disturbing. According to several media reports, nearly 57 farmers have lost their lives and hundreds have fallen sick. The Central Government is acting insensitively by not listening to the farmers’ legitimate demands which has been going on for more than a month.”Follow live updates on the ongoing farmers’ protest here:Rains take down tents but not farmers’ spirit Protesting farmers at the Noida-Delhi border withstood rains and cold weather conditions as their demonstration against the Centre’s recent farm laws continues.We won’t go back till laws are taken back: Onkar Singh, Farmers’ LeaderToday is 37th day, govt should leave its stubbornness. We won’t go back till laws are taken back. It’s disappointing that farmers are losing their lives. So many farmers are braving the cold yet the govt is not taking it seriously: Onkar Singh, Farmers’ Leader at Singhu borderRajasthan CM and Cong leader Sachin Pilot join protest against farm lawsRajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Congress leader Sachin Pilot today joined the protest organised by state Congress against Farm Laws at Shaheed Smarak.Every farmer part of movement a ‘satyagrahi’, says Rahul GandhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday compared the ongoing agitation with the Champaran agitation during the British Raj and said that every farmer who was a part of the protests at present is a ‘satyagrahi’. “The country is going to face a Champaran-like tragedy. British were ‘company Bahadur’ back then and now Modi-friends are ‘company Bahadur’,” Gandhi’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.Chilla, Ghazipur borders remain closed, Police urges commuters to take alternative routesThe Delhi Traffic Police said on Sunday that Chilla, Ghazipur borders continued to be closed for vehicular movement as the ongoing protests against the farm laws entered day 37. “Traffic Alert The Chilla & Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders,” Delhi Traffic Police wrote on Twitter.Farmers continue sit-in protests amid harsh weather conditionsFarmers camping at border points near Delhi continued to hold the sit protests against the Centre’s farm laws amid freezing temperatures and rainfall in the national capital. Delhi: Farmers continue to hold sit-in protest at Ghazipur (Delhi-UP border) for 37th day amid rain & cold.A protester says, "We're staying on streets in such harsh weather conditions away from our family. We're hopeful that the govt will accept our demands tomorrow." #FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/XHNPCST5nmRajasthan Congress leaders to protest against farm lawsSeveral leaders from Rajasthan Congress including chief minister Ashok Gehlot, party’s state unit president Govind Singh Dotasara and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will stage a protest at the Shaheed Smarak in capital city of Jaipur demanding the removal of the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-3-2020/story-CqiCqdIqLFSv7ZrG4PYCfO.html
04-01-2021||India||Centre plans AI-backed database to solve similar crimes faster, prevent them||The Centre is developing an Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP)-based database of modus operandi various criminal gangs or individuals use to commit crimes to help police solve such cases faster as well as help them learn about the new methods adopted by criminals. The Modus Operandi Bureau (MOB), the database, will have over 100 modus operandi or trademark of criminals/accused persons involved in crimes till date. It will be updated from time to time depending on new crimes, people familiar with the matter said. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) is developing the database under the Union home ministry’s supervision. It will be accessible to all 16,000 odd police stations across the country through Crime and Criminals Tracking Network Systems (CCTNS). “The criminals keep innovating on regular basis and adopt newer modus operandi. The list of modus operandi can never be exhaustive, but continues to become bigger and perhaps unwieldy. The police investigations will have technological solutions now where with the help of AI and NLP, they will be able to read the text in the FIRs [first information reports] of a large number of cases stored in the CCTNS system and categorize cases as per keywords related to modus operandi,” said a ministry official, requesting anonymity. Read more| Pvt firms, PSUs set to get access to crime databaseNCRB is also working on voice analysis to identify the criminals issuing threats/ransom calls over the phone. A database of voice samples of arrested criminals is being created in the CCTNS for that, said a second official.The second official added the MOB takes care of who the criminal may be and who committed a particular crime. “But another aspect deals with the psychology of criminals and why the offender committed the crime and did what he did.”The second official referred to the November 2019 rape and murder of a Hyderabad woman and added why did the accused burn her body and that too in a particular way. “And whether they would repeat the crime, had they not been shot dead? This relates to research with the help of psychologists based on interviews, family profile, socio-economic factors and so on for which the Bureau of Police Research and Development is currently engaged.”Police across states can read modus operandi and avert incidents, for instance, if there is a serial killer on the loose.The first official said the modus operandi module will produce quality results only if police stations are careful and regular in feeding the FIRs and criminal data into the CCTNS. Read more| Cyber crime cases went up during lockdown, shows Delhi police dataAn Indian Police Service officer, who did not want to be named, said traditionally, when computers were not in much use, details of each criminal used to be kept on cards, which were stored modus operandi wise. “Searching those cards for finding involvement of a possible criminal used to be manual and the investigating officers would visit local modus operandi bureau at the state level for relevant research. These MOBs were normally kept at district or state levels. With national digital MOB, an officer can check everything on his desktop or laptop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-ai-backed-database-to-solve-similar-crimes-faster-prevent-them/story-uOtsuDTF3HpTsxHUFZvwzH.html
04-01-2021||Editorials||New virus variant a threat to the young||A new variant of the coronavirus that has taken hold in some parts of the United Kingdom (UK) has scientists scrambling to uncover its implications on the pandemic. Early signs indicate it may be capable of spreading faster by being better at how it infects people. A large epidemiological analysis by Imperial College London and others showed there was a significantly larger share of infections of the new strain among those found with the virus in people under the age of 20. While this is still an early assessment, and more studies are underway, it could potentially prolong Covid-19’s impact on children, who have not been the face of the crisis but have suffered in equal measure as among some of the worst-hit groups. The virus has arrested their educational as well as socio-emotional development as they are forced indoors to avoid a virus that can debilitate older member of their families, even if it doesn’t impact them directly.According to Unicef, over 460 million children have been unable to access remote learning tools last year. The harms extend to their health too. Disruptions in health services in lower- and middle-income countries could contribute an additional two million under-five deaths.These costs are rarely the most visible talking points. But these must be kept in mind as the new variant forces countries such as the UK to once again close schools. India must do everything it can to not be forced to take a similar step when it plans to finally reopen schools. We must make the best use of vaccines and containment efforts not just to save lives, but also stop the mounting costs to our younger generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/new-virus-variant-a-threat-to-the-young/story-Gqq6g1vfhkoTjntMFckgNK.html
04-01-2021||Editorials||Vaccines bring greater hope||India formally approved the coronavirus vaccines developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca (and made by Serum Institute of India in India) and Bharat Biotech for emergency roll-out on Sunday. The decision comes at a time of growing urgency as a mutant new strain threatens to make the pandemic harder to control. While the two doses will in no doubt improve India’s vaccination drive, the approvals by the Drugs Controller General of India leave several unanswered questions. It has chosen to green-light Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, albeit with some riders, despite the fact that the candidate has not yet demonstrated how effective it is in preventing disease, and more importantly, its safety performance — according to latest company disclosures — has only been judged in limited numbers, that too over a short duration. The candidate uses a tried-and-tested technique for making vaccines. The premise is simple: an inactivated Sars-Cov-2 virion is used to teach the recipient’s immune system how to combat a live pathogen. Early stage trials showed the vaccine did not cause any serious side effects and, as most inactivated virus vaccines today are, was safe. It also triggered “a robust immune response”. While this is encouraging, there are important caveats: this data, released on December 23, is yet to undergo peer review, relates only to findings in 190 people, and did not include anyone above the age of 65. The finding that it led to volunteers developing antibodies also does not automatically translate into protection from disease. That test is in determining the efficacy rate, which is indeed why the world had to wait for so long for its first successful candidates. Vaccine makers give thousands of volunteers in phase III trials the dose or a placebo and wait to see who develops infections. If, for instance, infections are lower by 50% in the vaccinated group, the efficacy rate comes to 50% -- the globally accepted benchmark for success. Oxford-AstraZeneca took nearly six months to determine this; Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna almost four months. In contrast, Covaxin’s late-stage trials began only one-and-a-half month ago, its efficacy rate is unknown, and the period may be too short to map all possible side-effects. Authorities indicated that Covaxin will be used only if there is a shortage and if the new mutation takes hold. But Bharat Biotech and the regulators must now speed up the disclosures around the vaccine – people who receive it have the right to know how effective and safe it is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/vaccines-bring-greater-hope/story-wTNvMPBWYu4kZW1XwX4CRN.html
