09-01-2021||Other||Parking lot employees at civil hospital overcharge cops, booked for extortion||A parking contractor and his two employees are facing an extortion case after police caught them fleecing visitors during a sting operation at the civil hospital’s parking lot on Saturday.One of the employees, identified as Ashwani Bhagania, was arrested from the spot, while the contractor, Mickey Sahani, and his employee, Gopi, managed to escape. The raid was conducted following orders of additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Deepak Pareek in the wake of overcharging complaints by visitors to the hospital. The complainants had also alleged that the parking staff assaulted them when they objected to exorbitant parking fees.Therefore, the ADCP sent police personnel to the hospital in civil clothes. After they parked a scooter in the parking lot, the staff demanded ₹20 as parking fee instead of the approved ₹5. When the cops objected to overcharging, the employees hurled abuses at them. This led to the arrest of one of the employees. He along, with a co-worker and their contractor, were booked under Section 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code at the Division Number 2 police station.Gurmel Singh, a visitor, said the staff had two types of parking slips, which did not carry the fee rate to pull wool over the visitors’ eyes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-sting-finds-parking-staff-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital-fleecing-visitors-3-booked-for-extortion-101610216844299.html
09-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Convict booked for misleading court, police with false identity||A drug peddling convict has been booked for misleading the court and police, and solemnising two marriages by using a fake identity.The accused, Jobanjit Singh of Dera Baba Nanakhad, was booked on a complaint by one Kulwant Singh of Sawaddi Kalan. After he came to know that the accused was using two different identities, Kulwant filed a complaint with the senior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana Rural) on March 26, 2019. The SSP had then marked an inquiry to deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Dakha) Gurbans Singh Bains.Kulwant claimed that Jobanjit was also going by the name of Gagandeep Singh, and used different identities to get married twice. During investigation, sub-inspector Lakhbir Singh said, it came to fore that Jobanjit was arrested for drug peddling in October 7, 2017 and had falsely identified himself as Gagandeep Singh before the court and police, which was punishable by law. He was convicted in the drug peddling case.Jobanjit had been booked under Sections 177 (furnishing false information), 196 (using evidence known to be false), 200 (using as true such declaration knowing it to be false) and 205 (false personation for purpose of act or proceeding in suit or prosecution) of the Indian Penal Code and raids were being conducted for his arrest, the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianaconvict-booked-for-misleading-court-police-with-false-identity-101610216784202.html
09-01-2021||Other||Farmers’ protest: Free buses from Uttarakhand, digital chaupal among newly added facilities at UP Gate||Ghaziabad: Farmers protesting at the UP Gate on Saturday introduced various facilities for protesters and also initiated a free-of-cost bus service from the site to Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand. As the eighth round of talks with the government over the rollback of the three farm laws ended in a stalemate on Friday, protesting farmers said they are in it for the long haul and won’t budge till their demands are met.The UP Gate protest site has been turned into a “city of tents”, occupied by an estimated 9,000-10,000 people who have come from different parts of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab. The farmers, through their own contributions, have roped in two 52-seater buses, to ferry them to and from UP Gate, which is about 250km from Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand.“Private buses have been roped in by different associations from Udham Singh Nagar and they are footing the bill for fuel, etc. For protesters, it is a free of cost journey to UP Gate and back. The buses are making it easier for women to join the protest. Otherwise, they had to travel in tractor-trolleys. It is also useful as protesters can now go back home and then return easily with the help of these buses,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and a member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee. Volunteers are also seizing the long stay opportunity and have come up with “Sanjhi Sath” – a form of “digital chaupal” which is attracting a number of farmers.“At the Sanjhi Sath, we have a collection of about 100 titles of books in Hindi, English and Gurmukhi. Farmers can come and read these books free of cost. Besides, we have made arrangements for newspapers to be delivered daily. Further, we have a projector through which we play historical and patriotic films. We have added the concept of “Ek Pradesh” in which different cultural, social and other aspects of one state per day is discussed in a forum,” said Ravneet Kaur, a volunteer from Udham Singh Nagar who is also spearheading and coordinating activities of the women-only camp at UP Gate. She says that the UP Gate site has a large number of youths. “So, we intend to channelise their energies and time properly and they get new things to learn from being at the protest site. We are telling them about the Constitution, different government schemes and even showing them documentaries on the lives of Mahatma Gandhi, Dr BR Ambedkar and Sardar Bhagat Singh, among other eminent personalities,” she added.Twenty-two-year-old Shah Nawaz has also arrived at UP Gate from Udham Singh Nagar, where he operates a barber shop. “With the help of NGOs I collected a mirror and other items, besides which some farmers provided me a chair. With these, I have opened up a saloon for free and offer cutting and shaving services here. Every farmer should look neat and tidy. So, I have come here and will stay with them and provide free services till they stay here,” he said, while adding that his shop in his home town is being run by one of his assistants while he is away. Likewise, another group of farmers who have come to UP Gate are providing free-of-cost shoes shine service to farmers. “We are doing it free of cost, be it shoe or liquid polish, for our farmers. We have a sufficient quantity with us and will continue to offer our services till the protest goes on,” said Harjinder Singh, a farmer who has come from Shahjahanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-free-buses-from-uttarakhand-digital-chaupal-among-newly-added-facilities-at-up-gate-101610216725484.html
09-01-2021||Other||Suspect who robbed rice trader in December of ₹13 lakh arrested after encounter||Greater Noida: Police on Friday night arrested a 25-year-old man wanted in the case of a robbery of ₹13 lakh from a rice trader on December 30 in Bisada village, Greater Noida. The suspect was identified as Pankaj alias Badshah, a resident of Loni in Ghaziabad. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that on December 30, 2020, rice trader Rakesh Aggarwal was robbed of ₹13 lakh by four unidentified persons, who waylaid his car . “Agarwal was on his way to Ghaziabad when four men on two motorcycles waylaid his Maruti Swift car. Two suspects on one motorcycle blocked his car from the front, while the other two remained at the back,” Singh said.The suspects then forcefully took the cash bag and fled the spot. The victim informed the police who conducted a search but the suspects had managed to escape. The Dadri police later registered a case of robbery under Section 392 of IPC and launched an investigation. Singh said that the police team processed information and identified the two suspects. “On Friday night, the police received information about movement of the two suspects in Dadri. The police team was stationed to stop them at Roopwas village roundabout,” he said. Police said the suspects opened fire and tried to escape when police team signalled them to stop. The police also opened fire in which Pankaj was injured in his right leg and was arrested. “The police team recovered ₹6.5 lakh of the stolen money, one motorcycle and one countrymade gun from his possession. His accomplice managed to escape,” the DCP said. Police said that Pankaj has allegedly admitted his involvement in the robbery.The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Police teams are combing the neighbouring area to arrest the absconding suspect, officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspect-who-robbed-rice-trader-in-december-of-13-lakh-arrested-after-encounter-101610216724674.html
09-01-2021||Other||Noida authority to modify over 20 U-Turns in city||Noida: The Noida authority has planned to modify over 20 U-turns on three roads in the city, said officials. The move comes after the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) conducted a study and found some technical faults in the U-turns, which have been leading to traffic jams and accidents. SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority said that the CRRI was assigned to conduct a study of MP – 1 road, which connects the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway to Sector 61, a road from Sector 62 to Sector 71, and a road on the Noida Sector 37-Capt Shashikant Sharma marg. “The CRRI has found that most of the U-turns are very small and narrow, which creates problems for vehicles in navigating. We have planned to modify these U-turns,” he said.Sometimes, vehicles taking the U-turn and those coming straight on to the road left of the U-turn navigate closely, which creates high risk for accidents. Mishra said that the Authority will issue tenders and hire contractors to make necessary changes. “The entire process will take about six months,” he said. Experts believe that U-turns in the city are not scientifically planned. Anurag Kulshrestha, president of TRAX, an NGO working towards road safety, said: “Sometimes a pedestrian crossing is developed into a U-turn, and in absence of any other means pedestrians also end up using the U-turn, which leads to accidents. There should also be a proper signboard 20-30 metres before the U-turn to guide motorists. Sometimes, motorists wanting to go straight run into the U-turn only to realise that it’s not an additional lane, which leads to confusion,” he said.Kulshreshta said that these U-turns should also be of good height, so that vehicles do not run over it. “The U-turns should be as per the guidelines of the Indian Roads Congress, the apex body of highway engineers of the country,” he said. Meanwhile, Noida Traffic police and the authority have planned to install warning boards at 35 ‘black spots’ on roads that have witnessed frequent fatal accidents in Gautam Budh Nagar. Of the 35 black spots, 18 are identified on internal roads, 11 on Noida-Greater Noida Expressway and Yamuna Expressway, and six on National Highway 91 and 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-authority-to-modify-over-20-u-turns-in-city-101610216725046.html
09-01-2021||Other||Noida: 22-year-old man stabbed to death for objecting to sister being harassed||Noida: A 22-year-old man was stabbed to death for saving his younger sister allegedly from two inebriated men in Noida Sector 8 Friday night. The victim was rushed to the Noida district hospital and then referred to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi, where doctors declared him brought dead. The Sector 20 police have registered a case and arrested one of the two suspects. Police, however, said this was a case of murder and not harassment.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that the victim was a resident of Kondli in Delhi. He and his 20-year-old sister worked at a sports factory in Noida Sector 8.“On Friday 8.40 pm, the brother-sister duo completed their work and was walking to catch public transport from the local bus stand. Two inebriated men were roaming on the road, near a power-sub-station. One of them allegedly fell over the woman, in an inebriated condition. Primary investigation shows that the woman slapped the suspect, and told him to mind his way,” Singh said. Police said that the two suspects then lost their cool, took out a sharp knife, and tried to attack the woman, after which the woman’s brother confronted the suspects and rescued his sister. However, the suspects stabbed the victim in his thigh multiple times and left him critically wounded. RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station, said that locals and the woman informed police. A team reached the spot and rushed the victim to the district hospital. “The victim was later referred to Safdarjung hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. He had suffered critical injuries in the main artery which caused blood loss, leading to his death,” he said. A police team conducted a search and arrested one suspect, identified as Sarvesh Kumar, 24, who works as a sanitation worker at a private developer’s site in Sector 16. Police also recovered the knife used in the crime. His accomplice – Shani – managed to flee from the spot. The additional DCP, meanwhile, said that this was a case of murder and not of harassment. Sector 20 Police have registered a case against the two suspects under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. “Sarvesh was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-22-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-for-objecting-to-sister-being-harassed-101610216724239.html
09-01-2021||Other||Greater Noida: 24-year-old acquitted of charges under POCSO Act as victim counters FIR claims||GREATER NOIDA: District court has acquitted a man of charges levied under the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code as the victim claimed that her father had got the FIR lodged under influence by some villagers, since the man had a physical altercation with some villagers. As per prosecution’s version on November 19, 2018 at Dankaur police station, an FIR under IPC sections 354A, 342, 506 and POCSO Act had been filed against Rishu. It was alleged in the FIR that the 16-year-old daughter of the complainant had gone to school on November 17, 2018 and on the way, Rishu at gunpoint, took her inside his room and attempted sexual assault. After she raised an alarm, neighbours rushed and rescued her. Rishu had claimed he was innocent and implicated in a false case.The victim’s father told the court that he was not at home when the purported incident took place. Neighbours and his daughter had informed him and he had lodged FIR. He confirmed his signature in the complaint and gave similar statements in cross examination before the court during trial, but the court observed that the complainant was not an eyewitness.The victim confirmed that she had given a statement to the police and also gave statements before the magistrate. In her two statements, she said that on November 17, 2018 there was some clash between villagers. Her father, upon being influenced by some villagers’, had lodged the FIR. She stated that she knew the accused and further stated that the neither the accused nor any other person sexually assaulted her.“Additional district judge Vineet Chaudhary has acquitted the accused of charges under IPC section 354A, 342, 506 and POCSO act. As the accused was on bail, his bail bonds were cancelled. Further, the accused has been directed to file a personal bond of Rs.25, 000 stating he will appear before appellate court if the victim files appeal against the order,” JP Bhati, senior special public prosecution officer, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-24-year-old-acquitted-of-charges-under-pocso-act-as-victim-counters-fir-claims-101610216666859.html
09-01-2021||Other||Homebuyers protest against delayed possession Greater Noida west project||Noida: A group of home buyers on Saturday protested outside the Mahagun Group’s head office in Noida Sector 63 over alleged delayed possession of flats in a project in Greater Noida west. Around 50 home buyers said that they had invested in Mahagun Mywoods’ Phase 3 project, which is coming up in Greater Noida West, but the developer has allegedly delayed the possession. Rajiv Ranjan, a homebuyer, said that the developer had advertised the phase 3 project in 2013. “They had planned to develop seven towers, each 28 stories high, each floor having eight apartments. There was a plan to develop around 1,500 apartments in the project, named Wing 8 and Wing 9. Wing 8 has four towers and Wing 9 has three towers. The developer had earlier promised possession to homebuyers in 2017 and 2018. However, for the last two years, we are seeing a very slow pace of development. There are few workers at the project and we feel the project will be further delayed. We have gathered to protest and demand swift delivery of the apartments as most of the home buyers have already paid 80-90% of the project money,” he said. Ranjit Singh, another homebuyer, said that homebuyers are living on rent and while also paying monthly instalments for the loans they had taken for the flats. “I had booked a 2BHK apartment in 2016 and the delivery was planned in 2018. We have been holding meetings with the developer and the deadline is always extended by a few months. We demand assurance as to when the project would be delivered,” he said. The buyers wore black clothes and black bands on their heads, as a mark of protest. They also waved banners and raised slogans against the developer. Amit Jain, Mahagun director, said that the project has been developed in phases. “The construction workers are completing the shaft, fire fighting equipment, lifts, etc. in the project. We assure each buyer will get their apartment. We will complete the Wing 8 project by June 2021 and Wing 9 project by December 2022. We are always ready for the meeting and a discussion with the homebuyers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/homebuyers-protest-against-delayed-possession-greater-noida-west-project-101610216666317.html
09-01-2021||Other||Noida Sec74, 76 residents complain of dust pollution from ‘irresponsible’ construction activities||NoidaDust pollution from construction activities without adequate precautions continues to choke Noida — one of the most polluted cities in Delhi-NCR — despite the graded action plan (Grap) continuing to be in force across the city. Residents of sector 74 and 76 complained that irresponsible construction activity continued to take place in their area by one government agency and one private builder. Grap norms are supposed to be in place in Noida till February 15, which compels the builders to take adequate emission controlling measures. On Saturday, the city air quality turned ‘very-poor’ after remaining under ‘poor’ category for past two days. Noida was also the second most polluted city (after Ghaziabad), at the beginning of the year 2021.According to Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board , both the builders had been handed out a penalty of ₹5 lakh each in December. The agency said that it will take more strict action now if the builders were found continuing to flout norms. Residents of the highrises who live in the vicinity of the construction sites complain that the improper construction activities was not just leading to excessive road dust, but also leading to discomfort in terms of breathing. “The construction work is being held at the sector 76 main road and the one connecting sector 74 and 75. The issue had been going on since last few months and no adequate dust control measures have been taken. The construction from the site leads to dust emission. The movement of open trucks carrying building materials makes it difficult for us to even stroll out,” said Amit Gupta, city-based activist and resident of sector 77. He added that the resident had earlier raised complaint with the pollution board and the district administration through the respective online portals. Another resident, who lives next to the construction site, said that during the daytime strong winds often carry soil and larger dust particles from the construction site to their houses. “During the day time, it is almost impossible for us to open the windows because of the dust. We have complained a number of times but the issue persists,” said Puneet Sharma, resident of Aditya Celebrity Homes, sector 76. “The heavy trucks bring a lot of mud from the construction sites and during rains the stretch is covered in slush and mud, making it impossible to walk on,” said Sachin Goyal, a resident of JM Orchid, sector 76, adding that the tires of the trucks are never washed as Grap rules suggests. Meanwhile the officials of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that the violators had been slapped with a penalty earlier and they are now working on taking more action. “The violators are repeat offenders and it seems that they have not learnt their lessons. We are working on taking legal action by prosecuting them The process will be initiated under the legal framework and the matter under the Air Pollution act will be taken up at the environment court in Lucknow,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida. He added that given the scale of construction in the city and the violations, it is important for the concerned authorities to give a mandatory training on environment norms to any agency or builder before they start working on ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-sec74-76-residents-complain-of-dust-pollution-from-irresponsible-construction-activities-101610216664628.html
09-01-2021||Other||Noida, Ghaziabad to conduct comprehensive vaccination dry-run on January 11||Different districts in Uttar Pradesh — including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar — will conduct a comprehensive “dry run” at all the proposed Covid-vaccination centres in order to ensure that procedures and infrastructure is synchronised and the vaccine roll out poses no issues to the recipients. During the previous dry-run on January 5, both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar had conducted the process at six centres —three each in rural and urban centres. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India would take a landmark step forward in fighting the coronavirus pandemic on January 16 when the government begins the drive to vaccinate nearly 30 million health care and front line workers. The UP government has already rolled out vaccination-related guidelines on December 21 last year and said that health care workers (HCWs), which include staff of government and private health care facilities, will get the vaccine in the first phase. The second phase is scheduled for front line workers such as police personnel, home guards, jail staff and employees of Nagar Palikas, among others, while the third category includes people aged over 50 years and also those aged below 50 but suffering from comorbidities like diabetes, cancer, and high blood pressure. “The full dry run will be conducted in the district on January 11 and it will cover all the proposed vaccination-centres. This will be the second dry run, with the first one being limited to six centres. At that time, the online portal was working a bit slow and we hope that it will be better this time. We think that the real challenge will be when actual vaccine arrives,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. “For the actual vaccination drive, the police already have a security plan in place to cover storage and transit of vaccines as well as to protect the vaccination-centres,” he, added. The district has come up with 13 cold storage points for storing of vaccine besides the main vaccine depot. The officials have also identified 73 centres where the vaccination will take place and a list of about 21, 543 doctors and medical staff has been identified for vaccination under the first phase. The dry run is intended to test the efficacy of infrastructure as well as other resources so that the actual vaccination process can be carried out without any hitches. The Ghaziabad district has also identified a list of 44 locations, including 30 private health care facilities, where actual vaccination will take place. The district has identified about 21,800 health care workers who will take up vaccination under the first phase. “During the dry-run on January 11, we will have 15 beneficiaries who will be assigned to one team. During the previous dry-run on January 5, we had assigned 25 beneficiaries to one team. For our 44 locations we have 70 teams. So, we are drawing up plans and preparing for a comprehensive dry run. With this dry run, we hope to get all our resources and infrastructure in place before the actual vaccination,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. During the previous dry run, the health department had identified certain minor issues which they said will be taken care of before January 11.NO NEW COVID DEATHS IN NOIDA, GHAZIABADAt least 28 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded in the Gautam Budh Nagar district in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases in the district since March to 25,169, on Saturday.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, the district has 271 active cases, after considering cross-notifications to other districts. No new deaths were recorded in the district due to Covid, with the death toll remaining at 91, as per the bulletin. The recovery and case mortality rates were 98.56% and 0.36%, respectively.In Ghaziabad, too, no new death due to Covid was recorded in the district in the past 24 hours, with the death toll remaining at 102. The fresh cases were 23, considering cross-notification, taking the total count to 26,317 cases since March. There were 302 active cases in the district and the recovery and case mortality rates stood at 98.46% and 0.39%, respectively. Overall, the state has so far recorded a total of 592,475 cases since March and 8,481 deaths due to Covid so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-ghaziabad-to-conduct-comprehensive-vaccination-dry-run-on-january-11-101610216664177.html
09-01-2021||Other||Muradnagar roof collapse: Civic body had no full time junior engineer for over a year||Ghaziabad: For the past one-and-a-half years, the Muradnagar Nagar Palika has had no full time junior engineer (JE – civil), despite one post officially allotted to the local body. It is learnt that one of the arrested suspects, junior engineer CP Singh, who was arrested by the police after the roof collapse in Muradnagar, was in fact posted with the Modinagar Nagar Palika and was holding an additional charge of JE-civil at Muradnagar.On January 3, a roof collapse at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground led to 24 deaths and about a dozen people being injured. An initial report in connection with the incident had found “sub-standard” construction-material and “design issues” had allegedly led to the roof collapse. It has been learnt from sources that the structure which collapsed was probably erected in the last quarter of 2020, while the junior engineer who had the additional charge at Muradnagar retired on September 30, 2020.Thereafter, no engineer was posted to look after the ongoing work.“The JE retired in September/October. He was on an additional charge at Muradnagar. We have one post of JE sanctioned. The previous full time JE had been transferred about one-and-a-half years ago. After the current JE with additional charge retired, we have had no JE with the Palika till date. The shelter was being constructed as part of beautification work and the JE was solely responsible to look after the quality checks. The work was under construction,” said Vikas Teotia, the chairperson of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika, adding that the JE or the contractor should have barricaded the construction area. “The inspections are done by officers of Uttar Pradesh Public Works Department (UP PWD) and a technical audit committee (TAC) as well. On the basis of overall reports by engineers, the executive-officer of the Palika gives a go ahead for payments,” he added. The officials of the UP PWD, however, said that their work was only limited to ascertaining whether the structures were present at the site or not. “The JE attached to Muradnagar retired on September 30, 2020 and thereafter no engineer has been posted with the Palika. The work of the PWD engineer is only limited to verify whether the structures are present at the ground level or not. One of our assistant engineers inspected the site in March and July, and the structure which collapsed was not present at the site then,” said Manish Verma, executive engineer of the UP PWD, adding that the JE (civil) of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika was entrusted with the responsibility to ensure that standards, specifications and quality is maintained.He said that a district-level technical audit committee (TAC), formed by the district magistrate, comprising engineers from PWD and the rural engineering department, had also visited the cremation ground site for inspection of structures on August 17. “As part of the TAC, we inspected the boundary wall, platform, tiles, store, toilets, etc., and saw that construction works were there at the site. But the structure which collapsed was not present at the site till August 17. The TAC inspects whether the structure is present at site or not and goes for inspections when local bodies call them for the same,” Verma added. The investigation of the roof collapse incident has now been entrusted to a special investigation team (SIT) which arrived at Ghaziabad on Friday and will also be probing angles of bribery, as alleged by contractor Ajay Tyagi. Sources said that the structure was about 25 metres in length and 5.5 metres in width, and the investigators should probe if its measurements were included in the original estimate of work allotted to the contractor or not. “This means that it is to be probed whether the structure was part of the work assigned or was it getting constructed additionally,” the source added. It is also learnt that there were attempts by the district administration officials to give additional charge of Muradnagar to the JE of Khoda Nagar Palika, but it did not materialise, sources from Khoda Nagar Pallika confirmed. Like Muradnagar, Khoda Palika also has one post which is duly allotted to a full time JE. The Modinagar and Loni Palikas have two sanctioned posts for JE (civil). When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said: “The incident is taken up for investigation by an SIT. It is up to them to take up any required investigation.” Aditya Prajapati, the sub divisional magistrate of Modinagar, who the district magistrate said is looking after the work of the executive-officer of Muradnagar Nagar Palika, did not respond to repeated calls for his comments over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muradnagar-roof-collapse-civic-body-had-no-full-time-junior-engineer-for-over-a-year-101610216604252.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||NHAI contractor booked for death of a two-wheeler rider||The police booked a National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) contractor for negligence after a 31-year-old two-wheeler rider died on Gururgam-Delhi Expressway near Ambience Mall on Friday, due to an accident caused by potholes, said the police. According to the police, they received a complaint on Friday from a Delhi resident that his younger brother, who worked with a construction contractor in Sector 46, died after falling into a 25-foot deep pothole. Satbir Singh, inspector, Udyog Vihar police station, said that Sanjeev Seth, the victim, was headed for his home in Delhi on January 4, when his motorbike fell into a pothole near Ambience Mall. “Repair work was being carried out on the expressway and his motorbike fell into the pothole. He was severely injured. He was taken to a private hospital and, on January 8, he died while undergoing treatment,” he said. Manoj Kumar, brother of the deceased, said that the contractor had not placed any fencing or sign of ‘work in progress’ due to which his brother could not see the pothole and fell into it. “The accident took place around 7.30pm and we received the information around 9pm from the hospital. He died due to excessive bleeding and severe injuries on Friday. The NHAI contractor should be held accountable for my brother’s death,” he said. Kumar said, when they visited the spot on the following day of accident, they found the motorbike lying in the pothole but the contractor had filled it with mud. The police registered a case under sections 283 (Danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Udyog Vihar police station on Friday after conducting a preliminary investigation, said the police. The deceased is survived by his wife and a two-year-old daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-contractor-booked-for-death-of-a-two-wheeler-rider-101610216544672.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||HSVP revises fees for transfer of property after a decade||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran has revised the fees for transfer of properties after almost a decade.Officials said that these rates had not been revised for almost a decade and the same was changed during a meeting of the HSVP committee in Chandigarh. As per the new rates, the fee for plots up to 8 marlas (a unit of measurement) has been reduced but the rates for larger plots have been increased. As per the rates fixed earlier, the plot owners had to pay a transfer fee of ₹5,000 for a six-marla plot, and that of ₹10,000 for a plot of 8 marlas. Under the new rates, the owners have to pay ₹2,500 for 2 marlas, ₹ 3,500 for 3 marlas, ₹6,400 for 4 marlas, ₹10,500 for 8 and 10 marlas. Similarly, rates have been fixed for commercial properties. As per the HSVP officials, the state has been divided into six zones namely hyper zone, high-1, high-2, medium, low-1, low-2 depending upon the property rates and the circle rates prevailing in the area. The highest fees for property transactions has to be paid in hyper zone, in which Gurugram falls, while the lowest rates have been fixed for low-2 zone, which includes areas such as Hansi, Assandh, Naraingarh, etc.Vivek Kalia, estate officer-2 said that the rates have been revised after almost a decade and this will help in generating additional revenue for the authority. “The rates have been revised for different categories after a decision was taken in this regard by the committee in Chandigarh. The new rates are based on slabs and for small plot owners these have also been rationalised,” said Kalia. An HSVP official said that revision in rates will particularly help owners of small plots as the rates have been reduced. “Presently, the market is very down and savings for a small house or plot owner are welcome,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-revises-fees-for-transfer-of-property-after-a-decade-101610216545281.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Five members of gang involved in multiple criminal cases arrested from KMP Expressway||The police on Friday night arrested five members of a gang — who were allegedly involved in multiple cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, kidnapping, robbery, assault and smuggling of illegal firearms — from different parts of Haryana and Delhi. One revolver, three cartridges and a Scorpio car were recovered from their possession, the police said. One of them, identified as Ankit alias Kali, was involved in extortion of jewellers, property dealers, businessmen in Ambala, Jind, Gurugram and Delhi. The police had announced a reward of ₹25,000 for information leading to his arrest. On Friday night, the police received information that members of the Ashu gang would be arriving on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal(KMP) Expressway from the Jhajjar side, allegedly to confront their rivals, said the police. Joginder Singh, inspector, crime unit investigation of Palam Vihar, led a team to KMP Expressway and spotted their Scorpio. They allegedly intercepted the vehicle and caught hold of the five suspects. During questioning, the suspects allegedly revealed that they were absconding since November 15 after a firing incident and were changing their locations to evade arrest. The suspects have been identified as Ajit alias Jeetu of Hisar, Mohit of Sonipat, Monu of Rewari, Ankit alias Kali, and Amarjeet of Jind. “The gang used to work for Akash Yadav alias Ashu, who is a wanted criminal and is on the run. His associates would allegedly fire at shops and make extortion demands on their owners. The gang has carried out more than a dozen firings and extortion attempts at different places in Gurugram. On November 15, they attacked a resident’s household and injured three members of the family over a parking issue. More than 30 fire rounds were shot,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). The police said that six suspects were already arrested, including Yadav’s family members, but he is still at large. Sangwan said the incident of November 15 was recorded by a local on his mobile and was also picked up by four CCTV cameras in the vicinity. “Yadav, along with 30 goons, had shot around 30 rounds, out of which three hit two of the victims. They were discharged after a week from the hospital,” he said. One of the victims, Manoj Yadav (21), suffered a bullet injury, while Shamsher Singh, the former sarpanch, and his family members, namely Sanesh Yadav, Parveen Yadav, and Sumit, suffered head injuries, said the police. The suspects used to allegedly live in Yadav’s house in Bhamrauli village and worked for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-members-of-gang-involved-in-multiple-criminal-cases-arrested-from-kmp-expressway-101610216485514.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Over 36,000 health care workers to be covered within three days of Covid-19 vaccination drive||With the Covid-19 vaccination all set to roll-out in the state from January 16 onwards, state health department officials said on Saturday that a total of 36,150 healthcare workers from both public and private health care facilities of Gurugram will get the jab within the first three days.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, said, “Covid-19 vaccination will start from January 16 in Haryana, as per the directions of the Central government. Decisions are yet to be taken on procurement and distribution, which will start from next week onwards.” In Gurugram, almost 87% of the private healthcare workers will get the shot at 116 session sites to be established across 21 private hospitals. In five big private hospitals, nearly 12 vaccination sites per hospital will be set up, according to senior health officials. On Saturday, in a meeting held with the representatives of five private hospitals, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, discussed the planning of the session sites in detail. “Private hospitals will prepare a plan on setting up multiple session sites within their hospital premises for the maximum coverage of the health staff and others from nearby clinics, nursing homes and health facilities. They will be sharing the details on Monday.” Representatives from other 16 hospitals, where session sites will be comparatively fewer, will also be meeting the medical officer on Monday. According to Yadav, on the first day of the vaccination, at least 161 vaccination sites will be set up. It includes 116 in 21 private health care facilities and 43 in public institutions like schools or primary healthcare centres. “On the second and the third day, the vaccine jab will be given at 116 sites as all public health care workers can be covered in a day,” said Yadav. Under the public health set up, there are at least 4,623 health care workers working in primary health centres, urban primary health centres, civil hospitals, polyclinics and dispensaries.Following the Covid-19 guidelines and the experience gained through dry run held on January 7, hospitals have been asked to demarcate certain number of rooms or big halls for conducting the vaccination procedure. It includes a waiting area, vaccination room and an observation room. In certain places, separate AEFI (adverse events following vaccination) rooms will also have to be set up. “For vaccination in hospitals, we have asked hospitals to keep two spare beds in case anyone shows any reaction to the vaccine. In schools and health care centres too, such rooms will be set up to treat people before referring them to any hospital in case they report of any adverse effects due to vaccine,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.He said, “Once the overall plan is confirmed on Monday, we will map everything on the Co-WIN app, based on which messages will be delivered to the beneficiaries.” The details of healthcare workers are already uploaded on Co-WIN — a digital platform for real-time information on tracing beneficiaries, storage and temperature of vaccine stock. Based on number of vaccination sites, the beneficiaries have been grouped into 100 each considering their proximity to the site. Before the vaccination, message will be sent out to the beneficiaries mentioning the details about the date, time and place of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-36-000-health-care-workers-to-be-covered-within-three-days-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101610216484645.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram air quality deteriorates due to slow winds, poor ventilation||The city’s air quality entered the “poor” zone on Saturday with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin recording the air quality index (AQI) at 230 — a significant rise from Friday’s AQI reading of 163 in the “moderate” category. Gurugram, however, was the least polluted city in the National Capital Region (NCR) with the AQI in Delhi, Noida, Faridabad and Ghaziabad staying in the “very poor”category on Saturday. Experts attributed the deterioration in air quality to poor ventilation conditions due to which pollutants couldn’t be dispersed. “Due to slow winds and moisture in the atmosphere, the ventilation conditions were not favourable for the dispersal of pollutants. Better ventilation conditions are likely to prevail on Sunday,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist. He said that an improvement in air quality could be expected on Monday and Tuesday since strong surface winds are expected. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality on Sunday is likely to improve but remain in the “poor” category. Strong winds and better ventilation conditions are likely on January 10 and 11. The air quality is likely to remain in the “poor” to “moderate” category on Monday, followed by similar conditions over the next five days.While the IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record either minimum or maximum temperature on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department’s AWS, in Palam in Delhi, recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 11.4 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature at 19.2 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the Palam AWS had recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2 degrees and a maximum of 15.4 degrees Celsius. As per IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 10 and 17 degrees Celsius respectively on Sunday. IMD officials said that the temperature would dip gradually in the coming days. “Shallow fog will prevail in the morning hours on Sunday and temperature will fall by a few degrees in the coming week. The minimum temperature is expected to be around 9 degrees on Monday,” said an official. As per the IMD’s bulletin for the day, due to the prevalence of dry north/northwesterly winds over most parts of northwest India, the minimum temperature very likely to fall gradually by 3-5°Celsius during next 3-4 days causing cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan between January 11 and 13. The IMD has also predicted strong surface winds for January 11 and 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-air-quality-deteriorates-due-to-slow-winds-poor-ventilation-101610216485042.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||NHAI to remove three toll gates at Sirhaul, expedite underpass work||The National Highways Authority of India(NHAI) has got the nod for shifting three toll collection gates on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, which have become a hindrance to the completion of the Sirhaul underpass project. After a delay of several months, the NHAI got the approval from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to shift the three toll plaza gates, which till now were being operated by the Delhi civic body. The flyover at Shankar Chowk, which is a part of this project, has already been completed.NHAI officials said that once these gates are removed, they would be able to complete the underpass as only 20 to 25 percent of the work remains to be completed. NHAI officials said that they would get an approval from the headquarters in this matter within a couple of days and the work to remove these gates would be completed in the next 15 days. “We have received a work estimate of ₹46 lakh from the SDMC to complete this work. The delay in removal of gates was hampering the completion of the underpass. The flyover at Shankar Chowk, which is also part of this project, has already been completed,” said Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, Gurugram. The underpass at Sirhaul toll plaza will help commuters travelling from Gurugram and Udyog Vihar towards Ambience Mall as they would not have to enter Delhi to take a U-turn at Rajokri that amounts to a detour of around 4 kilometres. The demand for an underpass at this location has been repeatedly made by city residents. NHAI said that functioning of three lanes of the toll plaza would be affected during the construction of the box type structure of the underpass. As such, it needed to shift these toll gates. They also said that almost 80 per work on the project is complete and, once the toll gates are shifted, they would be able to complete the project soon. The work on building the underpass and flyover commenced in March 2019. While the flyover has been made operational by NHAI, the underpass is still stuck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-to-remove-three-toll-gates-at-sirhaul-expedite-underpass-work-101610216484162.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Two booked for assaulting driver in Sector 38||The police on Friday night booked two men for allegedly assaulting a man following an argument over allowing the passage of their vehicle on the service lane of Sector 38. The police said the suspects abused and assaulted the victim and later threw bricks on his car, as a result of which one of its window glasses got shattered. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that the victim, Parvin Kumar Dhankhar, is a resident of Panipat, who runs a paying guest accommodation in Sector 38 for the last two years. “On Friday, around 8.40pm, Dhankhar, along with one of his friends in his XUV 500, were going for a meeting. When they were on the Sector 38 service lane, two men in another SUV started honking from behind,” he said. Dhankhar said that the lane was congested and a vehicle carrying construction material had got stuck. As a result, he could not give passage to the SUV. “The driver kept honking and after a few minutes, they started banging my car from behind. I got down to speak to them. They caught hold of me and started assaulting me,” he said. The police said the complainant later boarded his car and drove towards Sector 38 police station. However, the suspects intercepted his car and threw bricks on it. “The glass window got damaged and my friend and I got injured. My laptop kept on the rear side was also damaged by the bricks. I drove straight to the Sadar police station to complaint against the suspects,” said Dhankhar. The police said the suspects have been identified but are yet to be arrested. They are residents of Islampur village in Sector 38. Yadav said that the suspects knew the victim from before as they used to go to the same gym earlier. “We are verifying if there is any personal enmity between them,” he said. A case under sections 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) and 427 (causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Sadar police station on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-booked-for-assaulting-driver-in-sector-38-101610216424273.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University dental college: Final-year UG students likely to report from Jan 15||Final-year undergraduate students of Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital are likely to be asked to join the institute from January 15.The matter was discussed during a meeting of the heads of departments (HODs) of the dental college that was held recently. With an aim to reopen the college in a phased manner, faculty members were asked to report from January 5 and postgraduate students from January 6.The development comes after the Union ministry of health and family welfare had recently asked state governments and UT administrations across the country to take steps to reopen dental colleges by January 4 following a suggestion by the Dental Council of India (DCI).Students have to bring a report of their RT-PCR test when they return to campus. The final decision to call the remaining students back will be taken after reviewing the situation on January 25. The timing of the institute is from 9am to 3pm.During the meeting, it was decided that each department head can depute 50% of the faculty for clinical work and 50% for academic purposes.However, students will not be provided hostel facility on campus. Till now, PU has only allowed research scholars who have completed two years of enrolment to avail the hostel facility. Capping of patient registrationsDuring the meeting, officials agreed that patients registrations should be capped at 50 per day. A faculty member of the college, pleading anonymity, said, “The institute is not prepared yet and will take time to get fully functional.”Guidelines issued by DCIAccording to the guidelines issued by DCI, college authorities may reopen campuses in a phased manner, ensuring safety, health and well-being of students, faculty and staff. They should also be equipped to handle any untoward incident due to Covid-19.The guidelines mandate physical distancing of six feet and use of face masks. Faculty members, students, paramedical staff and other supporting staff have to be trained in methods to control the transmission of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-dental-college-final-year-ug-students-likely-to-report-from-jan-15-101610216185025.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid traces found in wounds of positive patients: PGIMER study||No Covid traces have been found in the wounds of positive patients during a single-centre observational study conducted at Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). The study was conducted by the department of plastic surgery in collaboration with department of virology and has appeared in the Indian Journal of Plastic Surgery . Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the official name for the virus causing coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In this study, samples from Covid patients were collected to study the possible transmission of SARS CoV-2 from open wounds.However, the sample size was low, suggesting for need for more research to confirm the absence of the virus in wounds.As many as 11 samples were studied from eight patients. All were male and the mean age was 39. Most of the patients were mildly symptomatic and some asymptomatic. The samples were tested in an in-house virology laboratory with RT-PCR and none tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-traces-found-in-wounds-of-positive-patients-pgimer-study-101610216076653.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||11 arrested for defacing Aurangzeb Lane signboard||Eleven people were arrested for allegedly defacing an Aurangzeb Lane signboard in central Delhi’s Tughlak Road area on Saturday morning, the police said.All 11 were booked under the charges of defacing and damaging public property and an FIR was registered at the Tughlak Road police station. All of them were granted bail later in the day, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said the police station received a call at 5.40am, that a group had gathered at Aurangzeb Lane, after which a patrol at the spot found that 11 people had defaced an Aurangzeb Lane signboard, which is the property of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC). The suspects had pasted a poster of Guru Teg Bahadur Lane on another signboard, Singhal said.“All 11 people were detained and brought to the police station. We registered a case and arrested them. They were later released on bail,” added DCP Singhal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-arrested-for-defacing-aurangzeb-lane-signboard-101610215705126.html
09-01-2021||Other||Kejriwal urges Centre to give Covid vaccine for free to all||New Delhi Describing the Covid-19 pandemic as the “biggest epidemic of the century”, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged the Central government to provide vaccines for free to all citizens of the country.“The coronavirus pandemic is the biggest epidemic of the century. It is very important to protect our people from this. I request the Central Government that the vaccine should be provided free of cost to all countrymen. The expenditure on this will be helpful in saving the lives of many Indians,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Senior officials in the chief minister’s office said Kejriwal is likely to reiterate the free vaccination demand during the scheduled interaction of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. This will be his first meeting of the PM with CMs of all states after the recent approval of the two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, for restricted emergency use by the country’s drugs regulator.Delhi, like all other states, will also start the Covid vaccination drive from January 16.Earlier, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said that Covid vaccine doses will be provided free of cost to all Delhi residents and asserted that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government had made all preparations for the vaccination drive.“The Delhi government had so far made preparations to vaccinate 100,000 people in a day,” Jain added. Chief minister Kejriwal had said on December 24 last year that a total of 5.1 million people, under the Centre’s primary category, would be administered Covid-19 vaccine doses in the first phase. He further segregated the primary category into health care and front line workers, senior citizens and those with co-morbidities. Kejriwal also said that each person would be given two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-urges-centre-to-give-covid-vaccine-for-free-to-all-101610215704651.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||AQI dips to very poor; mercury hovers four degrees above normal||Delhi’s air quality on Saturday deteriorated to the “very poor” category of the air quality index (AQI), a turn that the India Meteorological Department (IMD) attributed to the light rain in some parts of Delhi-NCR on Friday.IMD officials said wind speed had started picking up from Saturday and will remain high over the next few days, which would keep the pollution under control.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s air quality index for Delhi on Saturday was 301, in the ”very poor” zone. On Friday, the AQI of Delhi was 234, in the ”poor” category. On the AQI scale of 0 to 500, a reading between 200 and 300 is considered “poor”, while a reading between 300 and 400 is considered “very poor”.IMD scientists said by Saturday afternoon, wind speeds in Delhi had improved to around 12 kmph. However, the pollution spike seen was an impact of the accumulation of pollutants over the past 24 hours, because of the light rain in parts of Delhi and NCR, which led to increased moisture content in the air.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said from Sunday, wind speed will improve drastically, which will also result in the dispersion of pollutants.“For the next two or three days, the wind speed will be high. The main reason behind this is the passing of two western disturbances back to back. Usually, once a western disturbance has passed over a region, the wind speed picks up,” Srivastava said.He also said the dense fog over the city will lift owing to the strong wind.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also said the AQI is expected to remain in the “poor” category on Sunday but will improve to the ”moderate” category by Monday.“The improved ventilation condition is likely to influence the AQI positively for the next few days. The AQI is likely to improve to “moderate” category on January 11 and January 12. No sudden deterioration in AQI is expected in the next few days,” the Safar forecast said.Meanwhile, the temperature on Saturday remained higher than the season’s normal. The minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 10.8 degrees Celsius, four degrees above the season’s normal. The maximum temperature was 19.7 degrees Celsius.Srivastava said from Monday, the temperatures will dip slightly but will remain around 8-9 degrees Celsius. “There will be a dip, but it will not be a drastic one,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aqi-dips-to-very-poor-mercury-hovers-four-degrees-above-normal-101610215524124.html
09-01-2021||Other||Crow found dead in Ambala, sample to be tested for bird flu||A day after samples from poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt tested positive for bird flu, a crow was found dead in Ambala’s Mullana village on Saturday. A sample was taken by the Ambala animal husbandry department and sent to the Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory. However, assistant poultry development officer Dr Devender Dhull said that as per initial findings, the cold weather conditions could be the reason for the death. “We’re not taking any chances, so we collected the sample. It seems that the crow died due to the cold, as birds might face some respiratory issues during the winters. We also inspected poultries but everything is fine,” he said. The department had collected 40 samples from poultry and wild birds on Friday that were sent for testing. The Barwala and Raipur Rani belts of Panchkula are just 30 kilometres away from of Naraingarh sub-division of Ambala, due to which around 26 teams of the department have been formed to track any unusual activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crow-found-dead-in-ambala-sample-to-be-tested-for-bird-flu-101610215405186.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Burglar who loved luxury cars and gave to charity arrested in Delhi||A 30-year-old man, who bought expensive cars using money he looted and earned the moniker of Robinhood in his Bihar village for donating to charity, has been arrested from west Delhi, Delhi Police said on Saturday.The arrest of Mohd Irfan alias Robinhood Ujaale led to the recovery of two cars -- a Jaguar XJ L and a Nissan Teana -- and also led to the arrest of his three associates from Punjab for burglaries committed there, said Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch).Irfan and his gang allegedly targeted houses in Delhi, Punjab, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.Police said, the Jaguar, which was sold by a prominent lawyer to a dealer of used cars, was purchased by Irfan for ₹18 lakh and the Nissan was bought by him for ₹10 lakh.Irfan allegedly also purchased a used Mahindra Scorpio recently using money he looted from houses.The latest crime he was arrested for was a burglary at a house in Jalandhar, Punjab, in August when he and his gang members allegedly stole ₹26 lakh cash and gold and diamond jewellery.Back home in Sitamarhi in Bihar, Irfan was popular for his charities. According to the DCP, he earned a lot of local goodwill by organising health and food camps for the poor.“He was popular back home. Encouraged by local youth, he was all set to contest the Zila Parishad elections in Sitamarhi in March this year,” the DCP said.This is not the first time Irfan has been arrested by the Delhi Police. After his arrest in 2017, investigators had said that his charity included donating ₹5 lakh to a poor family for their daughter’s wedding.“He had gang members spread across states. They would visit houses on the pretext of collecting donations and repeatedly knock on doors to gauge whether the house was occupied or not. If residents were not around, Irfan and his men would strike and steal valuables,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/burglar-who-loved-luxury-cars-and-gave-to-charity-arrested-in-delhi-101610215044138.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||AAP holds mohalla sabhas to ‘expose corruption in MCDs’||As part of its ongoing campaign against the municipal leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday held Mohalla Sabhas (public meetings) at 267 locations in 60 assembly constituencies of Delhi.AAP MLA Rakhi Birla alleged the BJP-led MCDs is “anti-Dalit” as it has not paid salaries to sanitation workers, most of who belong to the community.“Despite working consecutively for 4 months, sanitation workers have not received their salary. The MCDs have around Rs. 200 crore to be recovered from the Income Tax department and Rs. 1200 crore from the Delhi Development Authority (DDA). But, it is not even recovering money from anywhere to make payments to the sanitation workers,” she said.On January 7, the AAP has started a series of mohalla sabhas to highlight the alleged rampant corruption within the three BJP-ruled MCDs. The public meetings will go on till January 15.“About 20,000 people participated in the Mohalla meetings held on Friday, while about 27,000 people attended the Mohalla meetings held today (Saturday). The growing participation of local people in Mohalla sabhas shows that the people of Delhi are willing to talk about the corruption being done by the BJP in the MCDs and the public tax money it is looting,” said AAP MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the Kejriwal government is responsible for the strike of municipal workers and other employees.“It would be better if instead of shedding crocodile tears for the sanitation workers, the AAP pressurises their CM Kejriwal to immediately release the funds due to the MCDs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-holds-mohalla-sabhas-to-expose-corruption-in-mcds-101610213964071.html
09-01-2021||Other||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||PGI doctors turn poets to spread the word on Covid safety norms Instructions need not be boring. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, is promoting Covid-19 appropriate behaviour through, hold your breath, shayari, poetry and songs. Faculty members, resident doctors, students and staff of the institute have been asked to participate in this competition being held to promote the Centre’s Jan Andolan (mass drive) through the department of community medicine and school of public health. The theme of the competition is to increase awareness about wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and handwashing. The entries can be sent online up to January 18. Congress councillors rake up farmers’ protest, BJP hits back Having boycotted the election of the Chandigarh senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, Congress held a press conference and criticised BJP councillors for not standing up in the House as a mark of respect to farmers who died during the ongoing agitation on the Delhi-Haryana border. The lone Akali councillor, Hardeep Singh, who boycotted the mayoral election in support of the farmers’ protest against the BJP-led Centre, asked all councillors to stand up for the farmers. Of the 19 BJP councillors present, only one stood up. “This is disrespect to the farmers. This exposes the BJP’s anti-farmer mentality,” a Congress leader said. When asked to comment on this, a BJP councillor said, “Congress should have walked out of the House before the election if it was so keen on taking a stand on the farmers’ protest. They hoped for cross-voting so that their mayoral candidate could win. But after he lost, they started making such baseless comments.” Exotic veggies get desi makeover Move over curry patta (leaf), here comes salad patta. Exotic vegetables such as lettuce are sold as salad patta by Chandigarh’s roadside vegetable vendors. So if you hear them asking you to buy the salad patta don’t mistake it for a new vegetable variety. All they’re offering is lettuce that cannot only be consumed as salad but also in soups and making wraps. Sector 16, where only VIPs have the right of way Residents living in and around Sector 16, Chandigarh, are facing a different kind of traffic problem. They allege that cars parked outside government houses in the sector besides Shanti Kunj and Rose Garden lead to traffic congestion, especially in the morning. Mahinder Grover, a resident of Sector 23 who uses the road daily, says, “The who’s who of the city stay here, including top police and administration officials. In the morning, their security personnel put up barricades around the houses, causing traffic jams. The common man trying to reach office is at their mercy.” Residents say police should be posted here in the morning and wrongly parked vehicles should be towed away. Now that’s a tall order, indeed. Panjab University misses its date with calendar for 2021 Ten days into the New Year and Panjab University is yet to come out with its calendar for 2021. After low-key celebrations to usher in the New Year amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the university authorities seem to have overlooked printing the calendar. Teachers and non-teaching staff are surprised by the delay with some claiming that it could be an austerity measure. Inputs by Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-101610213785315.html
09-01-2021||Other||SAD releases first list of 28 candidates for Mohali MC elections||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday released a list of 28 candidates for the municipal corporation elections in Mohali, which are scheduled next month. The list of remaining 22 candidates will be announced soon, said Prem Singh Chandumajra, chairman of the committee formed by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for the Mohali MC elections. All former SAD councillors have got the ticket in the first list. They are Preetinderjit Kaur (from Ward No. 1), Harmanpreet Singh Prince (2), Satnam Kaur Sohan (3), Kuldeep Kaur Kang (5), Inderpreet Kaur Prince (6), Arjan Singh Shergill (8), Parmjit Singh Kahlon (10), Suresh Kumari (13), Manjit Singh Lubana (16), Harwinder Kaur (17), Tanmeet Kaur Sahiwal (18), Birdevinder Singh (20), Amar Kaur Tasimbli (25), Ravinder Singh Bindra (26), Ramandeep Kaur (28), Kuldeep Kaur Dhanoa (29), Jasvir Kaur Atli (30), Sarbjit Kaur Sidhu (31), Surinder Singh Road (32), Harjinder Kaur Sohana (33), Sukhdev Singh Patwari (34), Rajinder Kaur Kumbhra (35), Ramesh Prakash Kamboj (36), Kamaljit Kaur (40), Rajinder Kaur (43),Taranjot Singh Pahwa (44), Manjit Kaur (45) and Iqbalpreet Singh Prince (48).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-releases-first-list-of-28-candidates-for-mohali-mc-elections-101610213665834.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Two succumb, 134 test Covid +ve in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity on Saturday reported 134 Covid-19 cases while two people succumbed to it. Mohali reported 61 cases, followed by 50 in Chandigarh and 23 in Panchkula. An 85-year-old patient from Sector 49 died, taking Chandigarh’s toll to 327. As many as 20,251 have tested positive in the UT so far, of whom 19,696 have recovered, including 59 discharged on Saturday, and 228 are still undergoing treatment. The toll in Mohali district reached 351 with one more death. The infection tally stands at 18,656, with 921 cases still active. Meanwhile, 101 patients were discharged, taking the total to 17,384. Panchkula district has reported 10,199 cases, of which 9,836 have been cured, 144 have died and 219 are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-succumb-134-test-covid-ve-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101610213604679.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Three nabbed for conning elderly into selling their jewellery at inflated prices||Two women were arrested along with a 59-year-old auto-rickshaw driver for allegedly duping elderly women of their jewellery and other belongings after scaring them about recent crimes in the city or luring them by offering to buy their jewellery double or triple the actual prime, police said on Saturday.Apart from a gold chain and pendant that the two sisters had stolen from an elderly woman in south Delhi last month, three mobile phones and an auto-rickshaw used in the crime were also recovered from them. A total of five such cases registered in Delhi have been solved with the arrest of the trio, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.Police identified the three as Aarti Rathore,30, her sister Kiran Rathore,25, and Madan (single name), the auto driver. Aarti sold used clothes while Kiran is a beautician by profession. They were last arrested in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun in a similar cheating case, the DCP said.On December 25, DCP Thakur said, a 60-year-old woman filed a complaint and alleged that three women duped her of her jewellery and some money in a park in Lado Sarai near Mehrauli. The elderly woman alleged that she was going to get her spectacles repaired when a woman asked her the directions to reach Dhaula Kuan.“The elderly woman was telling her the route when two more women arrived and lured her to sit in an auto by telling her that they would drop her to her destination. The women took her to a park in Lado Sarai and tricked her into removing her jewellery by telling her that it was not safe to be out wearing so much jewellery,” the DCP added.The women gave her a handkerchief and asked her to keep the jewellery in it. As the elderly kept the jewellery, the women replaced the handkerchief with a similar one and kept it in her bag before they all left the park. The woman found the jewellery and cash missing when she returned home and opened the bag, said the police.A case of cheating was registered and the police scanned the CCTV cameras of the routes that the woman and the suspects had taken. The police first identified the auto and nabbed its driver, Madan. His interrogation led to the arrest of the two sisters, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-nabbed-for-conning-elderly-into-selling-their-jewellery-at-inflated-prices-101610213604109.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Former driver, his 4 aides held for robbing Chandigarh bizman||A former employee and his four accomplices have been arrested for robbing a businessman of ₹8,000 at knifepoint in Chandigarh’s Khuda Ali Sher area, police said on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Amit Kumar, 27, of Nayagaon and his aides Jasbir Singh, 22, Sanjay, 24 , Varun, 25, and Multan Khan, 21 , all from Mohali. Tarun Mahajan, 49, a resident of Sector 27 and owner of a tent house, was returning home from his farm house in his Land Rover when a Nissan Datsun intercepted him on Thursday evening. Four men entered his SUV and snatched his wallet containing ₹8,000 and important documents. They then asked Mahajan to step out of the vehicle, but he raised the alarm and the men fled. Investigations revealed that Mahajan’s former driver Amit had hatched the robbery plan. Police traced the vehicle to a car rental service in Mohali, from where they reached Jasbir, who had rented it for 10 days.Besides arresting all men, police also recovered the knife and vehicle used in the crime. The accused were produced in court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody. They face charges under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint) and 392 (robbery) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-driver-his-4-aides-held-for-robbing-chandigarh-bizman-101610213549878.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine: Chandigarh admn prepared for drive from Jan 16||The Chandigarh health department is fully prepared for the launch of Covid-19 vaccination programme at eight sites from January 16 as per guidelines issued by the Government of India, an official spokesperson said on Saturday.The dry runs and mock drills have been conducted at all the sites where vaccination is to be carried out in the city.Principal secretary, health, Arun Gupta along with deputy commissioner Mandeep Brar and municipal commissioner KK Yadav visited Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, to review operational preparedness. The director health services apprised Gupta of the vaccination teams, CoWIN digital portal, cold chain points and micro plans for the launch of the programme.Ahead of the rollout, Chandigarh is going to receive 21,000 doses of Covid vaccine. A list of around 8,350 health workers has been prepared and updated on the CoWIN portal who will receive the vaccine in the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-chandigarh-admn-prepared-for-drive-from-jan-16-101610213124938.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Poultry rates fall by 50% in Chandigarh||A day after bird flu was confirmed at poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt, meat sellers in Chandigarh reported dip in their sales on Saturday. “My sales have gone down by 40% already. The supply has become erratic and wholesale prices have dropped as well,” said Naginder Thakur, owner of Kasauli Broilers in Sector 22.Thakur said wholesale prices of broiler chicken have dropped by 50% from ₹160-170 to ₹80 per kg. “While we were selling it (in retail) at ₹200 per kg in the past week, on Saturday the rate dropped to ₹120,” he said. Poultry shops across the city reported a similar trend. Deepak, owner of Chawla’s Chicken in Sector 46, said: “In the past two days, our sales have dropped by over 50%. Even egg sales have been hit. The price of a tray of 100 eggs has fallen by around ₹150, but we still have a few takers.”Deepak, a Jagatpura resident who supplies chicken to around eight shops in the city, said: “The price of a live chicken has fallen from ₹120 to ₹60. In about a month, once the flu is under control, the shortage may increase the prices by up to threefold.”Demand for mutton, fish goes upWhile the demand for chicken has gone down, people are turning to mutton and fish, according to Ashish Kumar, president, Meat Market Association, Sector 21. “There is about 20% rise in sale of fish and mutton products. Their prices have also started rising.”Ashok Nagpal, another shopkeeper in Sector 21, said the price of fish with bone has gone up from ₹330 to ₹350 per kg, while that of mutton has risen from ₹570 to ₹600 per kg in the past two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poultry-rates-fall-by-50-in-chandigarh-101610212884710.html
09-01-2021||Dehradun||Saints pitch in for inclusion of 'Kinnars' as 14th addition to Akhada Parishad||Despite Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad making it clear that no other seer organisation or body will be recognised as a new Akhada, many a saints are pitching in for the inclusion of Kinnar Akhada comprising transgender seers as the 14th official Akhada.There are thirteen Akhadas under the umbrella of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad. But off late, Kinnar Akhada, Pari Akhada and Vishwa Akhada have been pressing for their inclusion as the 14th addition, thereby getting direct privilege and benefits, particularly during the Kumbh fair.Kinnar Akhada's Mahamandaleswhar Kaushalya Nand Giri alias Tina Maa said that the transgender community has been given due recognition and equal rights by the Constitution of India and they expect the same from the Akhada Parishad."We are not fake or self-styled god people but have deep religious affinity and adhere to Sanatan Dharma. Why are we being denied due recognition by Akhada Parishad? We press forth for due official status as 14th Akhada from the apex Akhada Parishad. We have been doing religious rituals, meditation and propagating Sanatan Dharma which should be duly considered. We thank Shri Panch Dash Nam Juna Akhada for allowing Kinnar seers to take part in royal dip (Shah Snaan) during the upcoming Mahakumbh 2021 in Haridwar," said Mahamandaleshwar Tina Maa.Also read: English language course for government school teachers at US embassySupporting Kinnar Akhada's demand, spiritual guru Jagadugru Udasin Ashram Swami Suteekshan Maharaj said that transgender seers too have same right to be regarded as official Akhada and should be given due status.Citing the incident of the seers from Kinnar Akhada taking religious dip in Prayagraj Kumbh two years back, Mahant Dinesh Das Shastri, pontiff of Shri Ram Nivas Ashram, said that Akhada Parishad should call a meeting and hear Kinnar Akhada's viewpoint.Siding with Kinnar Akhada, general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj said that as part of Shri Panch Dusnam Juna Akhada, Kinnar seers will be taking part in Shahi Snaan on all the four auspicious days during Mahakumbh 2021.Mahant Narendra Giri Maharaj, however, clarified that the 13 Akhada system of the Parishad will be not be expanded. He pointed out that it is not apt to meddle with Akhada customs and age-old traditions.Whether it is Kinnar, Pari or Vishwa Adhyatm Akhada, they don't have any Kumbh lineage, historic, religious, spiritual and mass acceptance. These are fake bodies and Akhada Parishad opposes any specific privilege, recognition or facilities to them by state government or Mela administration during Haridwar Kumbh, he said."No question of 14th Akhada or any other religious body getting affiliated as part of Akhada Parishad. Though individually, Kinnar Akhada seers, as part of Juna Akhada, can take sacred Ganga dip on the pious occasion of Shahi Snaan in Mahakumbh, we have no issue in that but they won't be recognised as an Akhada Parishad entity," reiterated Mahant Narendra Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/saints-pitch-in-for-inclusion-of-kinnars-as-14th-addition-to-akhada-parishad-101610211905583.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM working as 'agent' of BJP, alleges AAP leader Raghav Chadha||The newly appointed Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab co-in charge and Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha on Saturday accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of working as an "agent" of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)."Captain Amrinder Singh is working as an agent of BJP and trying to finish this agitation and trying to save his family from ED, In 2019 Captain Amrinder Singh gave his consent on these three laws and captain is asking time from President to withdraw these black laws, not his friend Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Raghav Chadha told reporters here."Captain is not left his fort to stand with the farmers, earlier he met with Amit Shah but he never met with Congress president or farmers," he added.This comes after Punjab Chief Minister on Friday had rejected the allegations by the opposition parties, saying that there was no question of deputing police officers to negotiate with farmers protesting at the Delhi border.Amarinder Singh had said that the Punjab government has no role to play in the negotiations with farmers and refuted the charges being made by Akali Dal and AAP leaders."Anyone who believes that a couple of police officers can negotiate with the farmers or persuade the Kisan leaders to accept the Centre's suggestions on amendments to the farm laws is really naive," the Chief Minister remarked.The eighth round of negotiations between the protesting farmer unions and the Centre held on Friday remained inconclusive, and the next round of meeting will be held on January 15.Farmers have been protesting at different borders here since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-working-as-agent-of-bjp-alleges-aap-leader-raghav-chadha-101610211733974.html
09-01-2021||Patna||4.62 lakh healthcare professionals registered on CoWIN portal in Bihar: official||The Bihar health department is fully geared up to carry out the vaccination drive for Covid- 19 in the state, for which 4.62 lakh healthcare professionals have registered on CoWIN portal, a senior official said here on Saturday. CoWIN portal is an online platform for monitoring the delivery of Covid-19 vaccine.The coronavirus inoculation drive will be launched in the country on January 16 and priority will be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers, the Centre said earlier in the day.Altogether 4,62,026 healthcare professionals belonging to government and private hospitals have so far registered themselves on the CoWIN portal to be vaccinated in the first phase of the drive, State Health Society (SHS) Assistant Director Piyush Chandan said.Chandan said that colour-coded bags will be kept at each vaccination centre for management of biowaste materials that will be generated after vaccination.The bags will be brought from vaccination centres to cold chain points and from there, they will be taken to biowaste management treatment centre for disposal, he said.Cold chain points are being strengthened in all the districts of the state to avoid problems in the upkeep and management of vaccines during the inoculation exercise, the official said in a statement.Vaccines will be transported from the state-level vaccine store located at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital in Patna to regional stores of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/462-lakh-healthcare-professionals-registered-on-cowin-portal-in-bihar-official-101610209524474.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||11 detained for defacing Aurangzeb Lane signboards in Delhi||Eleven people were detained for allegedly defacing two Aurangzeb Lane signboards in Lutyens' Delhi on Saturday, police said.They said they received information at 5.40 am that a few people have gathered at Aurangzeb Lane, Tughlaq Road.After reaching the spot, police personnel found that 11 people led by Anuradha Bhargav (30), a resident of Karnal and an advocate by profession, had defaced an Aurangzeb Lane signboard and pasted a poster reading 'Guru Teg Bahadur Lane' on another signage, a senior police official said.All of them were detained and taken to Tughlaq Road police station, the official said, adding that a probe in the matter is underway.A senior North Delhi Municipal Council official said, "The defaced signages were restored after the matter came to light in the morning.""The matter has been reported to the police. We have been asked to submit a damage assessment report so the expenses can be recovered from the accused persons," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/11-detained-for-defacing-aurangzeb-lane-signboards-in-delhi-101610209422118.html
09-01-2021||Other||English language course for government school teachers at US embassy||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, in association with the US Embassy, on Saturday launched a certificate training programme for English language teachers in government schools, to enhance their skills.In a statement issued Saturday, the Delhi government said a batch of 50 teachers will undergo the training initially. “It is important for teachers to keep enhancing their skills. We want our teachers to do the things they already know differently. This course will bring in more creativity to classrooms,” Sisodia said. “English has become an essential language these days. Our teachers know how to teach English to students, but it is important for teachers to teach it to students in a creative manner. We will provide all kinds of support to the teachers for learning new ways of teaching,” he said.Regional English language officer, US Embassy, Ruth Goode was also present during the launch. “We really value our relationship with the Delhi government. We have trained around 800 teachers in the past and will continue to support more in the future,” she said. “The Regional English language office of the US Embassy has trained around 800 teachers from Delhi government schools since 2017. They have worked on creating a pool of master trainers who have subsequently trained primary and secondary school teachers on innovative English teaching in classrooms,” the government statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/english-language-course-for-government-school-teachers-at-us-embassy-101610209163736.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Body of woman found in Chilla drain, police launch probe to establish identity||The body of an unidentified woman was found near Chilla Regulator drain in east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar on Friday afternoon, police said on Saturday.Police officers said that the woman’s body has been preserved in the mortuary of Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital, while they are checking the list of people, who have been reported missing in Delhi-NCR in the last one month. She could not be identified till late Saturday, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said that around 2.30 pm, the police received a call regarding a woman’s body lying near the Chilla drain. A police team reached there and found a highly decomposed woman’s body in the garbage lying along the drain.“The woman is aged between 25 and 30 years. Her body was decomposed beyond identification. No visible injuries were found on her body. We have initiated an inquest inquiry under 174 of CrPC. Further action would be taken as per the autopsy report,” said DCP Yadav.The police said that the drain was cleaned some days ago and are speaking to the workers, who cleaned the drain, in their efforts to identify the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-of-woman-found-in-chilla-drain-police-launch-probe-to-establish-identity-101610208803847.html
09-01-2021||Noida||Noida youth stabbed to death for objecting to sister’s harassment||A 22-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death for saving his younger sister from two drunk men in Uttar Pradesh's Noida Sector 8 on Friday night. The victim, Rambabu, was rushed to Noida district hospital and then referred to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi where doctors declared him brought dead.Sector 20 police registered a case and arrested one of the two suspects. Police, however, termed it as a case of murder and not harassment.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional DCP, Noida Zone 1, said that the victim was a resident of Kondli in Delhi. Rambabu and his 20-year-old sister Rubi worked in a sports factory in Noida Sector 8.“On Friday 8.40 pm, the brother-sister duo had completed their work and were walking to the local bus stand. Two drunk men were roaming about near a power-sub-station. One of them allegedly fell over the women in an inebriated condition. Primary investigation shows the woman slapped the suspect, and asked to mind his way,” Singh said.Police said that the two suspects lost cool and took out a sharp knife and tried to attack the woman. Rambabu confronted the suspects and rescued his sister. However, the suspects stabbed the victim in his thigh multiple times and left him critically wounded.Also read: MP anti-conversion law comes into effect - All you need to knowRK Singh, station house officer (SHO) Sector 20 police station, said that the locals and the woman informed police and a team reached the spot and rushed the victim to the district hospital. “The victim was later referred to Safdarjung hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. He had suffered critical injuries in the main artery which caused blood loss leading to his death,” he said.A police team conducted a search and arrested one of the suspects identified as Sarvesh Kumar, 24, who works as a sanitation worker at a private developer’s site in Sector 16. Police also found the knife used in the crime from his possession. His accomplice – Shani – managed to escape from the spot.Additional DCP said that this was a case of murder and not of harassment. Sector 20 police have registered a case against the two accused under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. “Kumar was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-youth-stabbed-to-death-for-objecting-to-sister-s-harassment-101610207844674.html
09-01-2021||Bhopal||MP anti-conversion law comes into effect: All you need to know||Madhya Pradesh on Saturday notified the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020, bringing the law into effect in the state. The state's home department notified the ordinance which prohibits and provides for punishment for conversion in the state Gazette. It was earlier approved by state Governor Anandiben Patel.“An ordinance to provide freedom of religion by prohibiting conversion from one religion to another by misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat or force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or any fraudulent means and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto,” the ordinance reads, according to news agency ANI.After the Madhya Pradesh assembly's winter session, which was scheduled to be held between December 28-30 was cancelled due to several MLAs and lawmakers testing positive for Covid-19, the Shivraj Chouhan government on December 29 brought the ordinance.Here’s everything you need to know about the MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020:1. The aim of the law according to the government is to stop forced religious conversions on the pretext of marriage, and the use of force, misrepresentation, or other fraudulent means for conversion.2. Under the new law, a person who wants to undergo a religious conversion of their own free will, and the priest who carries out the religious conversion, will have to give notice to the district officer at least 60 days before the intended date of conversion.Read more: Bird flu spreads in MP, Kadaknath chicken sale in Malwa region causes concern3. Anyone carrying out religious conversions in violation of the procedure set out in the law will face imprisonment of 1-5 years and a minimum penalty of ₹25,000. If the priest who is carrying out the conversion fails to inform the district official, they stand to be put in jail for 3-5 years and pay a penalty of ₹50,000.4. In cases where those being converted are minor, women, or members of a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, the minimum punishment is a jail term of 2 years, which can go up to 10 years, along with a minimum penalty of ₹50,000.5. Those who use misrepresentation and then indulge in conversion will face a jail term of 3-10 years along with a minimum penalty of ₹50,000.6. For mass conversions a jail term of 5-10 years, with a minimum penalty of ₹1 lakh will be applicable.7. Repeat offenders, who resort to unlawful means for religious conversion, will face a jail term of 5-10 years.Read more: Madhya Pradesh: FIR against farmer leader for threatening to blow up RSS HQ, Mohan Bhagwat8. A police officer can’t take suo moto action in the case of conversion. The person who has been converted, their parents and siblings, can report the alleged crime at the nearest police station. The law also empowers the guardian to approach the court with their complaint and get an order for an offence to be registered with the police.9. The offence is cognizable and non-bailable and will be investigated by a police officer of a rank not lower than sub-inspector at the local police station.10. The registration of organisations that conduct conversions will be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-anti-conversion-law-comes-into-effect-all-you-need-to-know-101610206525388.html
09-01-2021||City||AIADMK's highest decision-making body passes resolutions for assembly polls||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)’s general council, the party’s highest decision-making body, on Saturday passed 16 resolutions. One of the resolutions called for the Centre to not allow dissolving of the provincial councils in Sri Lanka which ensure devolution of powers to Lankan Tamils.The 13th Amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka, an outcome of the Indo-Lanka Accord of July 1987 between former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi and then Lankan president JR Jayawardene during the civil war, provides for devolution of powers to the island nation’s minority Tamil community by creating provincial councils. This issue resurfaced after the Rajapaksas came to power in 2019, bringing a Sinhalese-Buddhist nationalism to the fore. Last week, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, who was in Colombo, pressed for the legislation to be implemented fully.Amongst its other resolutions, the AIADMK also formalised that chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami will be the incumbent candidate for the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu due in April or May. The party has empowered Palaniswami (AIADMK’s co-coordinator) and deputy chief minister and coordinator O Paneerselvam to decide on the electoral alliances and seat-sharing. The party thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for including Tamil Nadu among the six states under the central lighthouse project.Also read: 300 casualties in Balakot airstrike by India, admits former Pak diplomatAt the meeting, party deputy coordinator KP Munusamy said that the polls were a direct contest between the AIADMK and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and that national parties don't matter in the state. The AIADMK has been in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The BJP has said that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will announce the chief minister candidate, much likely during party president JP Nadda’s visit to the state on January 14.In a veiled reference to the party's former interim general secretary VK Sasikala who will be released later this month from Bengaluru prison, Munusamy said it will not impact the party.More than 4,500 members were invited to the party meeting today which was held in Chennai’s suburbs. Participants had to submit a Covid-19 negative certificate to attend the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiadmks-highest-decision-making-body-passes-resolutions-for-assembly-polls-101610205691667.html
09-01-2021||Jaipur||RLP to contest bypolls on 3 assembly seats, local bodies||After performing well in the recently conducted local body elections, Rashtriya Loktantric Party (RLP) chief Hanuman Beniwal on Saturday announced that the party will contest by-polls on three assembly seats and 90 local body seats in Rajasthan.“Our party will contest all the upcoming civic elections to be held in the state for 90 local body seats and all three by-elections to be held in Rajasthan assembly. We will contest the elections of civic bodies on the issues of development of non-developed slums in urban areas and freeing urban areas from corruption,” said Beniwal, while addressing the press at his residence.The bypolls on three seats are necessitated after the demise of legislators - MLA from Sahara, Kailash Trivedi; Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal, MLA from Sujangarh; and Kiran Maheshwari from Rajsamand.In December last year, RLP fielded candidates in 50 by-elections across 12 districts and was able to get four lakh votes.Also read: 300 casualties in Balakot airstrike by India, admits former Pakistan diplomatBeniwal said that the RLP is continuing to extend it’s support to the farmers movement on the Shahjahapur border and that the party stands with them in this movement.He added that a big agitation will be organised against increasing crime, deteriorating law and order situation, unemployment, free electricity and toll-free Rajasthan, among other pressing issues.The Nagur member of parliament had walked out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) last month in support of the farmers agitating on Delhi-Haryana borders saying that nothing is above the pride of farmers in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rlp-to-contest-bypolls-on-3-assembly-seats-local-bodies-101610204953693.html
09-01-2021||Noida||Air quality 'poor' in Gurgaon, 'very poor' in Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad||The average air quality was recorded in the "very poor" category in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad, while it was "poor" in Gurgaon, according to data for a 24-hour period issued by a government agency on Saturday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 were prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).As per the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Saturday was 348 in Ghaziabad, 360 in Greater Noida, 346 in Noida, 311 in Faridabad and 230 in Gurgaon, according to the CPCB's Sameer app.On Friday it was 304 in Ghaziabad, 312 in Greater Noida, 261 in Noida, 256 in Faridabad and 163 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "very poor" category may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, while that in "poor" category may cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations while Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-poor-in-gurgaon-very-poor-in-ghaziabad-noida-faridabad-101610204170946.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM is acting like 'BJP agent': AAP leader Raghav Chadha||AAP leader Raghav Chadha here on Saturday accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of acting like a “BJP agent” and advised him to “officially join” the saffron party.Chadha further alleged that the Punjab CM was “helpless” and “bound to appease” the Centre to “save” his son who is facing the ED investigation.Amarinder Singh, who is the Punjab CM, is “acting like a BJP agent”, Chadha alleged. “My unsolicited advice to the CM is that you should formally join the BJP. My advice to you is please join the BJP officially. Then all cases against your relatives being probed by the ED, the CBI or corruption matters will be buried,” said Chadha while addressing the media.“And then you can also work openly for the BJP,” he added.The AAP leader further claimed that the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government, which was part of the high-powered committee formed by the Centre on its three contentious farm ordinances earlier, had given its approval.He criticised the CM for approaching the president to seek scrapping of the farm laws instead of PM Narendra Modi.Chadha alleged that the CM did not come out of his residence to stand with farmers when they were facing water cannons and teargas shells on their way to Delhi.The CM had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah but did not bother to travel a few extra kilometres to meet the agitating farmers, he said.Chadha said now the Congress-led dispensation has opposed the decision of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, which had said that the apex gurdwara body would not invite the PM for the upcoming 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur.“Captain Sahib, his ministers and party are opposing the SGPC decision and are saying Modi should be invited,” alleged Chadha.“It proves that to save his son, Captain Sahib is behaving like an agent of BJP,” alleged Chadha.Chadha claimed that his party is providing legal assistance to the aggrieved farmers, who are moving courts against some BJP leaders for their alleged defamatory remarks against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-is-acting-like-bjp-agent-aap-leader-raghav-chadha-101610202076894.html
09-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana cop suspended for keeping man in illegal custody||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) has been suspended for illegally detaining a man at the Division Number 2 police station at the behest of his friend. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has also ordered a departmental inquiry against the cop, ASI Baljit Singh. The role of Division Number 2 SHO inspector Satpal is also under scanner.According to investigators, a friend of the ASI accused a man of cheating. Instead of investigating the case, Baljit rounded up the man and detained him illegally.The top cop said there were clear instructions to police personnel not to apprehend anyone in a fraud case without investigation. There is a separate economic offences wing to deal with such complaints, while civil cases are settled in court only. He reiterated that the police force was not supposed to directly deal with any case of fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cop-suspended-for-keeping-man-in-illegal-custody-101610201243309.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Mask not mandatory if person is alone in a vehicle: Centre to Delhi HC||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Government of India has informed Delhi High Court that it has not issued any guidelines directing people to wear a mask while travelling alone in a vehicle.The response of the Union of India has come through an affidavit in an ongoing petition filed by Advocate Saurabh Sharma challenging the ₹500 challan issued to him for not wearing a mask while he was driving alone in his private car.MoHFW has also submitted that health is a state subject and therefore, the present matter, prima facie, pertains to Delhi Government and prayed to delete MoHFW name from the list of array of parties.Earlier, Delhi Government in the same matter had told the Delhi High Court that "any person" moving around in his personal or official vehicle must be wearing masks compulsorily. Delhi Government in its affidavit had submitted that guidelines are very clear cut that, "any person" moving around in his personal or official vehicle must be wearing masks compulsorily."All "Public Places", and a personal vehicle falls in the said category and cannot be said to be a "private zone" as contended by the petitioner in the instant case," the state government said.The court was hearing a petition which sought a refund of ₹500 fine imposed against him and compensation of ₹10 lakh for publicly causing mental harassment. According to petitioner Saurabh Sharma, on September 9, 2020, Delhi Police issued a challan of ₹500 for not wearing a mask even though he was alone in the car while driving to work.The petitioner argued that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) guidelines only state that the mask has to be worn in a public place or place of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mask-not-mandatory-if-person-is-alone-in-a-vehicle-centre-to-delhi-hc-101610199329616.html
09-01-2021||Dehradun||Magnitude 3.3 earthquake hits Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi, second in 24 hours||Earthquake tremors measuring 3.3 on the Richter scale were felt in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi district on Saturday morning, according to the National Center for Seismology website.The earthquake on Saturday took place around 11.27 am and was located 10 kilometres beneath the surface of the earth.This is the second time earthquake tremors were felt in Uttarakhand in the last 24 hours as Bageshwar district reported an earthquake of the same magnitude on Friday morning.On Saturday, no life or property loss was reported after the earthquake.Also read: PM Modi after govt announces Covid-19 vaccination drive dateDevendra Patwal, Uttarkashi district disaster management officer said, “Earthquake tremors were felt in Bhatwadi and Dunda blocks of the district headquarters at 11.27 am on Saturday. The epicentre of the earthquake was in the forests of Gorsali village of Bhatwadi block.”The hilly districts of Uttarakhand often report earthquakes, mostly low intensity. On December 1 2020, an earthquake hit Haridwar after a gap of 40 years. The earthquake measuring 3.9 on the Richter scale was reported from Haridwar region at 9:41 am.Experts pointed out that the source of the earthquake was due to stress release in the Himalayan Frontal Fault which is located in this area.In February last year, Bageshwar was hit by an earthquake measuring 4.7 on the Richter scale. At least two people, including a woman and a girl, were injured after the earthquake hit the district at around 6.30 am, causing panic among the residents who soon came out of their houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/magnitude-3-3-earthquake-hits-uttarakhand-s-uttarkashi-second-in-24-hours-101610199033573.html
09-01-2021||City||Jagan govt, Andhra poll panel spar over local body election schedule||The confrontation between the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government and the state election commission reached a flashpoint on Friday with the commission announcing the schedule for local body elections in February in four phases. The Jagan government has sharply reacted to the development and has filed a petition in the High Court today seeking to stall the election schedule.Employees Associations declared that they can't take part in the election work because they would be busy with the vaccination exercise. The High Court has posted the matter for hearing to Monday.In a late evening official release on Friday, state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar declared that the first phase of elections for gram panchayats would be held on February 5, the second phase on February 9, the third phase on February 13 and the final and fourth phase on February 17.The notifications for these four phases of elections would be issued on January 23, January 27, January 31 and February 4 respectively. “As per the Supreme Court directions, the model code of conduct would come into force with effect from Saturday,” Ramesh Kumar said.Also read: Special court summons CM Jagan to appear in connection with quid pro quo caseThe state government strongly objected to the unilateral announcement of the schedule for the conduct of local body elections by the SEC. “This is nothing but defying the directions of the Supreme Court, which said the state election commission should decide the schedule only after consulting with the state government on its preparedness,” state principal secretary, panchayat raj, Gopala Krishna Dwivedi said in a statement.He said the three-member committee of senior officials, headed by chief secretary Adityanath Das, which met Ramesh Kumar, categorically told him that the elections to local bodies could not be conducted due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation and the vaccination programme being rolled out by the Government of India from January 13.“The commissioner did not heed to the suggestions given by the state government, which said the conduct of elections was not possible as the entire government machinery would be busy with the vaccination programme. He has announced the schedule without caring for the public health and sought to play with the lives of the people,” Dwivedi said.Ramesh Kumar, however, defended his decision to hold the elections in February as the state government’s excuses were untenable. “Hitherto, the government sought postponement citing a second Corona wave and also a winter spike. But it did not happen and the incidence of daily infections has come down significantly,” he said.He pointed out that near normalcy had returned with the opening up of commercial and educational spheres of activity and political mobilization too was going on at a large scale without visible observance of social distancing.“Now, the government wants deferment of elections on the pretext of vaccination, which is a continuous process. In fact, the phase-III of vaccination programme will extend up to 2022. Hence, elections cannot be postponed till then,” Ramesh Kumar argued.He requested the government to make all arrangements for the conduct of fool-proof and free and fair elections for the local bodies in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagan-govt-andhra-poll-panel-spar-over-local-body-election-schedule-101610194701695.html
09-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Courier firm owner booked for raping employee||The owner of a courier company has been booked for rape on the complaint of his employee, whom he refused to marry after maintaining a physical relationship for five years.The 30-year-old woman had filed a complaint on October 26, 2020. After investigating the matter for over two months, police on Friday booked the accused, 30, a resident of Nirmohgarh Colony, Daad village.The victim, who lives in Gagandeep Colony, Bhattiyan, said she got into a relationship with the accused while working for him as a computer operator since 2014. She alleged that her boss proposed her for marriage and also introduced her to his parents.In July 2015, he established physical relations with her at their office in Minarva Complex near Clock Tower and they continued to date.Later in 2018, his parents asked her to resign, as they didn’t want their relatives to know that their son was going to marry his employee. Meanwhile, the accused stopped answering her calls and kept avoiding her, and eventually, refused to marry her in August last year. When she approached his parents, they said they wanted their son to marry a rich woman.Sub-inspector Maninder Kaur, who is investigating the case, said they had booked the accused under Sections 376 (rape) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and will arrest him soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianacourier-firm-owner-booked-for-raping-employee-101610194102859.html
09-01-2021||City||Special court summons CM Jagan to appear in connection with quid pro quo case||A special court for Enforcement Directorate cases in Hyderabad on Saturday issued summons to YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to appear before the court on Monday in connection with a quid pro quo case.The ED special court also served notices to YSR Congress party MP and general secretary V Vijay Sai Reddy, retired IAS officer BP Acharya, Hetero Group of companies’ director M Srinivasa Reddy, Aurobindo Pharma managing director K Nityananda Reddy and Trident Life Sciences’ former managing director P Sharat Chandra Reddy, asking them to appear before the court for hearing.The case was originally being heard by a metropolitan sessions judge court in Nampally, where the ED had filed a charge sheet in January 2016. Recently, the case has been shifted to the special court for Central Bureau of India (CBI) and ED cases.In all, the special court is now hearing all the six charge sheets filed by the ED in connection with the quid pro quo cases filed against Jagan Mohan Reddy and others. The CBI also filed 11 separate charge sheets in the case.Also read: Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin from January 16 in IndiaThe CBI and the ED probed the case in which Hetero and Aurobindo pharma companies were accused of investing ₹27.25 crore in Jagathi Publications, the media house floated by Jagan, in lieu of the land allotment of 150 acres made to them at Pharma Special Economic Zone at Jadcherla in Mahabubnagar district, by his father and former chief minister late YS Rajasekhar Reddy during the latter’s regime between 2004 and 2009.Aurobindo, later, transferred part of its lands to its sister concern Trident Life Sciences, the investigating agencies said.The ED, probing the case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), had attached assets worth ₹51 crore belonging to these pharma companies. The companies later moved the appellate tribunal to get their attached properties released but the tribunal asked them to make cash deposits that have an equal worth of their respective attachments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-court-summons-cm-jagan-to-appear-in-connection-with-quid-pro-quo-case-101610192035578.html
09-01-2021||Other||Bird flu scare: Delhi closes Ghazipur poultry market for 10 days, bans import of live birds||The Delhi government on Saturday announced closure of the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market for 10 days and also banned import of live birds in the Capital as a preventive measure to stop the potential spread of avian influenza, or bird flu, in the city. The government’s move comes at a time when nearly 100 wild birds have been found dead in various locations across the national capital over the past few days. Addressing a digital press conference, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said no bird flu case has been confirmed in Delhi, adding that the results of the first set of samples sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar for tests will come on Monday.“In view of the prevailing situation and to prevent the virus from spreading in the city, the Delhi government has taken two very important decisions today. Firstly, we have put a complete ban on imports of live birds in the city. Secondly, the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market has been ordered shut for 10 days,” Kejriwal said.Six states --- Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Kerala, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh --- have reported the outbreak that began in December-end. No case among the human population has been reported.At least 24 crows were found dead at a district park in south Delhi’s Jasola over the past three days and 10 ducks have died at the famous Sanjay Lake, government officials said on Saturday. On Friday, the government’s animal husbandry department had found nearly 50 carcasses of crows in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar and Dwarka and Hastsal in west Delhi.Dr Rakesh Singh, animal husbandry department, said until Friday, a total of 104 samples were sent from Delhi to Jalandhar. Five more samples were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, ICAR, Bhopal on Saturday.“Of the 104 samples that have been sent already, 100 are faecal and blood samples and four are dead crows. Of the five samples that will be sent on Saturday to Bhopal, one will be an oral swab and the remaining four are dead birds,” he said.Dr Singh said the first set of results will come by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-scare-delhi-closes-ghazipur-poultry-market-for-10-days-bans-import-of-live-birds-101610191468094.html
09-01-2021||Bhopal||Days after participating in Covid-19 vaccine trial, man dies in Bhopal||A 42-year-old volunteer from Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh died nearly ten days after he participated in the clinical trial for Covaxin held at a private hospital, its vice chancellor said on Saturday while a government official suspected poisoning but added that the exact cause of the death will be known after viscera test.Dr Rajesh Kapur, Vice Chancellor, People's Medical College and Hospital where the trial was conducted, told PTI that Deepak Marawi had participated in the Covaxin trial held on December 12, 2020.Madhya Pradesh Medico Legal Institute Director Dr Ashok Sharma said the doctor who had performed postmortem of the deceased suspects that he died of poisoning.However, the exact cause of the death would be known from his viscera test, he added."After Marawi's death on December 21, we informed the Drug Controller General of India and Bharat Biotech, which is the producer and sponsor of the trial," Dr Kapur said.He said Marawi had volunteered for the trial and was examined."All protocols were followed and Marawi's consent was taken before allowing him to participate in the trial," he claimed.Dr Kapur, however, said he cannot confirm whether Marawi was administered the vaccine shot or was given a placebo."It (the vial containing the liquid for trial) comescovered and coded. During the trial, 50 per cent people get the actual injection while the rest are given saline," he said.Kapur said Marawi was kept under observation for 30 minutes after the trial as per guidelines before he was allowed to go."We monitored his health for 7 to 8 days," he claimed.Madhya Pradesh health minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary did not respond to phone calls.Meanwhile, family members of Marawi, a tribal, said he was working as a labourer.They claimed that Marawi and his colleague were administered the Covaxin injection on December 12 during the trial."When he returned home he felt uneasy and experienced some health problems. He complained of a shoulder pain on December 17. Two days later, he spewed foam. He refused to see a doctor saying he would be alright in a day or two. When his condition deteriorated, he was being rushed to hospital but he died midway (on December 21)," they added.Rachana Dhingra, a Bhopal-based social activist, claimed neither Marawi's consent was taken for participation in the clinical trial nor he was given any proof of his participation in the exercise.However, the hospital has denied this charge.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had last week approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/days-after-participating-in-covid-19-vaccine-trial-man-dies-in-bhopal-101610188518474.html
09-01-2021||Bhopal||Bird flu spreads in MP, Kadaknath chicken sale in Malwa region causes concern||Bird flu has spread to 21 out of Madhya Pradesh’s 52 districts with about 885 crows and nine heron deaths reported from the affected districts. While the presence of the virus was found in crows in nine districts, two of these nine districts also reported the virus in poultry and herons, as per officials.Meanwhile, after the Bird flu was detected in poultry in Malwa region - Indore and Neemuch- the administration in nearby tribal-dominated districts of Jhabua and Alirajpur faces a major challenge in checking the spread of the virus given the sale of high-protein black meat chicken, also known as ‘Kadaknath’, from unregulated markets in the region.Kadaknath is much in demand in Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere given its nutritional value. Backyard poultry farming is much popular among tribals in the region for the sake of good income, as per officials.Malwa region is the worst affected by Bird flu in the state so far. While the chicken shops have been closed in Indore and Neemuch, officials in Jhabua and Alirajpur decided on Friday to launch a massive awareness campaign in the districts through the traditional methods like ‘Munadi’ or public announcements, pamphlets etc.As per a state government communiqué, Bird flu virus has been confirmed in crows in Indore, Mandsaur, Agar, Neemuch, Dewas, Ujjain, Khandwa and Khargone, all districts in Malwa region, and Guna in central MP. Virus was confirmed in poultry samples from Indore and Neemuch, where the poultry markets in the affected and adjoining areas have been closed for seven days as precautionary measures.Director of Animal Husbandry department Dr RK Rokde said, “Virus has been confirmed in herons’ samples too in Khandwa. We are waiting for reports from National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD) on samples of crows collected from at least 12 districts but it’s a matter of relief that except three to four districts in Malwa region including Indore, Mandsaur and Agar, where a good number of crows were found dead, the deaths of crows are not significant in number in other districts.” He said preventive measures are the best way to check the spread of the virus.An agriculture scientist at Agriculture Science Centre, Jhabua, IS Tomar said that the spread of Bird flu in Jhabua and Alirajpur can be checked through awareness only as the districts have unregulated markets for sale of Kadaknath chicken and the practice of backyard poultry farming is also prevalent on a large scale in the district.“How to minimise contact between fowls and human beings in such a situation is a major challenge. However, sale of Kadaknath has been reduced by 25% to 40% in Jhabua after the Bird flu scare. However, Bird flu has not been detected in the district so far.”Alirajpur collector Surabhi Gupta said the administration had launched a massive campaign for awareness for prevention of the disease in chickens through traditional and non-traditional methods.“The traditional methods include Munadi or announcement from village to village while beating a drum and distribution of pamphlets and non-traditional methods include use of social media like WhatsApp etc. So far, there is no presence of Bird flu in the district,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bird-flu-spreads-in-mp-kadaknath-chicken-sale-in-malwa-region-causes-concern-101610188998261.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Ghazipur poultry market to shut for 10 days to prevent bird flu spread||The wholesale poultry market in Delhi's Ghazipur will remain closed for 10 days as a preventive measure to stop the spread of bird flu in the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal ordered on Saturday. There will also be a complete ban on import of live birds in the national capital, Kejriwal added."There is no confirmed case of bird flu in Delhi so far. We have sent around 104 samples to a lab in Jalandhar, the reports will come by the day after tomorrow. The Delhi government will take the necessary decision based on reports," Kejriwal told reporters.Around 50 birds have died in three areas of the national capital over the last three to four days, Dr Rakesh Singh of the animal husbandry department told news agency PTI. "We received information about the death of crows in Dwarka, Mayur Vihar Phase 3 and Hastsal village in west Delhi. However, it is yet to be ascertained if bird flu infection is the reason," Singh said.According to officials, 11 rapid response teams have been set up to monitor Delhi's potential avian influenza (H5N8) hotspots, officials said. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has also instructed officials to maintain a strict vigil on birds at major bird sites, especially poultry markets, water bodies, zoos and other potential hotspots. These include Ghazipur Fish and Poultry Market, Shakti Sthal Lake, Sanjay Lake, Bhalswa Horseshoe Lake, Delhi Zoo, and smaller water bodies in DDA parks among others.Due to the bird flu scare, the wholesale prices of poultry have dropped by around ₹40 per kilo in two days in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), according to traders in the city’s wholesale markets. However, the drop in poultry prices is yet to reflect in retail markets, even as traders across the city said the number of customers has dipped slightly.The Centre has so far confirmed the presence of the disease in six states—Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-ghazipur-wholesale-poultry-market-to-be-shut-for-10-days-to-prevent-spread-of-bird-flu-arvind-kejriwal-101610188986833.html
09-01-2021||Other||Culling begins at five poultry farms to contain bird flu spread in Panchkula||The Panchkula district administration started culling an estimated 1.66 lakh birds at five poultry farms in the Barwala belt of the district on Saturday, a day after samples sent tested positive for avian flu.“We have formed five teams for poultry farms in the infected zone. The teams have been provided with support staff and police protection. The culling is being carried out in all five farms,” said Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.Culling started at Sidharth Poultry Farm at Kheri village in Raipur Rani in the afternoon. “We couldn’t start in the morning as the logistics and support staff were being put in place in these areas,” he said. Later in the evening, culling started at Nature Poultry Farm, Dhandlawar-Ganauli, Raipur Rani. At Sidharth farm around 1,000 birds and at Nature 2700 birds were culled on Saturday. The culling operation is expected to run for another two-three days.On Friday evening, after it was confirmed that the large-scale deaths of birds at poultry farms in the Barwala belt were due to avian influenza, the Haryana government declared the outbreak, turning the area within a kilometre of the two epicentres as infected zone and 1-10km as surveillance zone. The other three affected farms are Narender, Naveen and Sunil farms in Kheri village.So far, more than 4.37 lakh poultry birds have died in the area over the past month. The health department and animal husbandry team are also administering medicines to birds in other poultry farms.Four schools in Raipur Rani have been designated as quarantine facility for members of the 12 rapid response teams involved in culling and other activities to contain the spread of the disease. Meanwhile, the Panchkula health department screened about 9,000 people for influenza-like illness in Barwala and administered 500 doses of Tamiflu as a precautionary measure.Allow vaccination of birds: Poultry farm ownersPoultry farmers have demanded that birds in only those farms that have been affected should be culled.“The government should allow for vaccination of birds in other farms, like in most of the other countries. Indonesia and Vietnam have developed the vaccine as it can protect the industry from outbreaks. The H5N8 virus shows no harm to humans and poultry can be saved by vaccination. If the government cannot provide immediate vaccination, it can be imported,” said Rajesh Singla, a poultry farm owner.Darshan Kumar Singla, president, Haryana Poultry Farmers Association, said, “The government should compensate the poultry farmers as per the current costs of bird rather than those based on earlier computations. The current cost of bird is ₹400-450, but the government is offering only up to ₹90.”Chhatbir Zoo closes bird enclosuresMohali A day after chicken samples from Barwala poultry farms tested positive for avian flu, Chhatbir Zoo authorities decided to close its bird enclosures for visitors till further orders.Earlier, on January 5, the enclosures were closed for five days .Chhatbir Zoo field director M Sudhagar said: “There are possibilities that avian flu is carried by humans and under such conditions giving human exposure to birds may prove fatal. If more forensic reports come positive, then the closure will not be lifted till the animal husbandry department declares the area safe for birds.”Three more dead birds found in ChandigarhChandigarh The carcasses of two crows and a third of an unidentified black bird were recovered from Leisure Valley in Sector 10 on Saturday, taking the total number of dead birds found in Chandigarh in the past five days to 13. The first two samples sent to Jalandhar had tested negative for bird flu on Friday. “We are waiting for the results of rest of the samples before sending more samples,” said chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai.Dr Kanwarjit Singh, joint director, animal husbandry and fisheries department, said active surveillance and monitoring of poultry population is being done in Chandigarh and no mortality or sickness has been found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/culling-begins-at-five-poultry-farms-to-contain-bird-flu-spread-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district-101610188523618.html
09-01-2021||Other||Delhi’s air quality deteriorates slightly, expected to get better from Sunday||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated slightly on Saturday with an hourly average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 289 recorded at 7 am even as officials said the situation was likely to improve with stronger wind speeds expected from Sunday.“Because of increased wind speeds, air quality will also show good improvement. On Saturday, the air quality is expected to be between the poor and moderate zones,” said VK Soni, who heads India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s Environment Monitoring and Research Centre.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the average AQI was 234 and 255 --- in the poor category --- on Friday and Thursday.The IMD also said that the temperatures from Monday will start falling again with the mercury likely to dip to around 8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-air-quality-deteriorates-slightly-expected-to-get-better-from-sunday-101610187444332.html
09-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: Siddaramaiah says coalition with JD(S) led to loss for Congress||Former Karnataka Chief Minister and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah on Friday said the formation of the coalition government with Janata Dal (Secular) in the state was a loss for Congress, and because of it the party lost 14 of its MLAs.In a series of tweets, the former chief minister said that Congress has a stronghold in Karnataka noting that the results of recent Gram Panchayat polls proved it."It was more of loss than gain for Karnataka Congress due to the formation of coalition govt with JD(S). Had we not formed a coalition govt, we would not have lost our 14 MLAs," he tweeted."Congress is a strong party in Karnataka. Recent Gram Panchayat results are an example for the same. This indicates the direction of the next assembly election results as well. This fact will never change," Siddaramaiah said.He further said that India would still be under British rule if the Indian National Congress had not fought for independence under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi."This is the history of Indian National Congress. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are not freedom fighters but they are only the beneficiaries of Independence," Siddaramaiah tweeted.He further claimed that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa was trying to spread Sanathana Dharma in Karnataka in the name of Anubhava Mantapa."Our government had formed a committee under the chairmanship of G R Chennabasappa to re-establish the philosophy of Basavanna by constructing Anubhava Mantapa. But now, the Anubhava Mantapa which is being constructed by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is against the principles of Basavanna," he tweeted."Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is attempting to spread Sanathana Dharma in the name of Anubhava Mantapa. This is the idea of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and Yediyurappa has fallen for it. Anubhava Mantapa should resonate with the ideas of Basavanna and not that of Sanathana Dharma," Siddaramaiah further stated.According to the CLP leader, Basavanna spread the idea of equality and social justice. "He fought against evil practices like caste system, untouchability & gender discrimination which was practiced in Sanathana Dharma."Basavanna was the 12th-century Lingayat saint and Bhakti poet, who spread the concept of Anubhava Mantapa (Centre for Experience), which was the socio-religious centre that existed in the present-day Basava Kalyana of Bidar district in Karnataka.Anubhava Mantapa is regarded as the first religious parliament in the history of mankind. This 12th-century centre has a special significance in the history of humanity, as it represents composite culture, philosophy, spirituality, equality among other universal human values.On January 6, Yediyurappa laid the foundation of 'New Anubhava Mantapa' in Basavakalyan, the place where Basaveshwara lived for most of his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-siddaramaiah-says-coalition-with-jd-s-led-to-loss-for-congress-101610185750595.html
09-01-2021||Patna||Oldest lioness dies of cardiac arrest in Patna zoo||The oldest lioness at the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, popularly known as the Patna zoo, died on Thursday late evening. Zoo officials claimed that the 18-year-old lioness, Urvashi, was not only the eldest inmate of Patna zoo but also the oldest among hybrid lionesses across all the zoos in the country.Urvashi was brought to Patna zoo in 2004 from Bokaro. Authorities said she had almost completed her life span and had turned toothless and inactive about two years back.Patna zoo director Amit Kumar said the lioness had stopped eating since a couple of days. “She was unwell since the last two years due to ageing, so a group of veterinary doctors were monitoring her health and diet on a regular basis. After the advice of veterinary experts, she was shifted to a secluded place, away from public eyes.”“The prime facie examination indicates that the lioness died due to cardiac arrest. A group of veterinary doctors, including experts from Bihar Veterinary College conducted a post-mortem of the deceased. Tissue samples from her lungs, liver, kidney were collected and sent to IVRI Izatnagar lab, Bareilly for further tests. Report is yet to arrive,” he added.Kumar said the average life of a lion is between 7 to 10 years in a forest and 16 to 18 years in captivity.“After the lioness’s death, we are maintaining extra vigil to monitor the health and safety of other inmates,” said a senior zoo official.In December last year, Patna zoo had reported the death of a male lion, Sheru, due to septicaemia shock. Now the zoo is left with two male lions.Lions are currently categorised as vulnerable on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list of threatened species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/oldest-lioness-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-patna-zoo-101610182179708.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi's minimum temperature within comfortable range, likely to drop||At 10.8 degrees Celsius, Delhi's minimum temperature settled four notches above normal on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department said.The minimum temperature in the city has remained above normal since January 3 as a result of cloud cover under the influence of successive western disturbances.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD.The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, an IMD official said.Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground.Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to dip by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-minimum-temperature-within-comfortable-range-likely-to-drop-101610178463574.html
09-01-2021||Other||Samples of crows found dead near Pong Lake in Himachal test positive for bird flu||Dharamshala/Shimla: The Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, has confirmed the presence of the H5N1 virus strain in crow carcasses found in the periphery of Pong Lake Wetlands, the epicentre of the bird flu outbreak in Himachal Pradesh. The deputy director of the animal husbandry department, Kangra, Sanjeev Dhiman, said of the three crow samples sent to the Jalandhar lab. two tested positive for avian flu. “The samples will now be sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory, Bhopal, for further verification,” Dhiman said. He said that 119 samples of poultry birds will also be tested in the Bhopal lab. The reports are expected by Tuesday. More than 3,700 birds, most of them migratory, have been found dead due to the H5N1 virus in the Pong Wetland since December 31. Seventy-six crows were also found dead in the Fatehpur subdivision adjoining Pong Lake. The wildlife department has set up a control room in Nagrota Surian to disseminate information about bird flu. The assistant conservator, wildlife, Chamba, has been posted at Nagrota Surian to assist the DFO, wildlife, Hamirpur, in containing the outbreak of the flu. SCARE IN PAONTA SAHIB VILLAGE Panic gripped Kedarpur village in Paonta Sahib sub division of Sirmaur district after 61 crows were found dead in the area. A team of officials from the forest department, comprising divisional forest officer (DFO) Kunal Angrish, accompanied by veterinary officials rushed to the spot. Angrish said that samples of the dead crow have been to RRDL, Jalandhar. The carcasses were were buried and the area was sanitised. The sudden death of 61 crows at Kedarpur village in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district sparked fears of the flu outbreak. A forest department team rushed to the spot. The DFO said 61 crows were found dead on a private land having eucalyptus trees. Samples of the dead crows have been sent to the Jalandhar-based lab to ascertain the cause. The carcasses of remaining crows were buried and the area was sanitised. DEAD CHICKENS DUMPED ALONG HIGHWAY IN SOLANMeanwhile, more than 200 dead chickens were found dumped on the Kalka-Shimla national highway in Solan district for the second consecutive day. The animal husbandry department has sent samples of the chickens to the Jalandhar lab. The dead birds were buried as per the protocol. The police have increased patrolling on the highway to find out who is dumping the birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/samples-of-crows-found-dead-near-pong-lake-in-himachal-test-positive-for-bird-flu-101610177662874.html
09-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand firm returns ₹2cr to govt amid political storm over corruption||Amid the ongoing audit of the Uttarakhand Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board after allegations of irregularities, a private construction company has returned ₹2 crore to the government on Friday, said officials.The company had received ₹20 crore for a construction project without any financial and administrative permission for the same from the government. After the matter came to light, the government had asked the company to return the amount, following which, it returned ₹18 crore out of the total ₹20 cr. It had stated that the remaining ₹2 crore had been incurred in various expenses.In a statement released by the state secretariat on Friday evening, it was revealed that the company has returned the remaining amount after the government warned it of punitive action in December.The issue of the unauthorised payment has become a big political controversy in Uttarakhand, with the labour department minister, Harak Singh Rawat, being at the centre of the political storm. The Opposition Congress has alleged that the BJP led government is involved in ‘rampant corruption’ in the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-firm-returns-2cr-to-govt-amid-political-storm-over-corruption-101610169069512.html
09-01-2021||Patna||Random bird deaths trigger Bird Flu concerns in Patna, authorities cautious||An owl was found dead near Rajeev Nagar in Patna on Friday, a day after a crow was found dead; triggering concerns among residents amid the Bird Flu outbreak in several states.“An owl death has been reported today in Rajeev Nagar locality. Prima facie, it doesn’t indicate a bird flu case. We have collected samples which will be sent to virology labs for detailed examination,” said Dr MA Shabber, district animal husbandry officer of Patna.On Thursday, a crow was found dead inside the Bihar Working Journalists Union campus, at Lodipur in the state capital.Dr Umesh, director of the Institute of Animal Health and Production, said, “The carcass of the crow was old. So it was difficult to ascertain the reason of death. Collected samples were sent for a test. Results are still awaited. So far, there is no confirmed case of bird flu in Patna.”Meanwhile, the Patna zoo has intensified safety measures to prevent infection among birds.Amit Kumar, director of Patna zoo, said, “We will send samples of birds of 26 species to Kolkata Birds Research Centre after January 20. A medical team is collecting swabs, soil and faeces of birds for samples.”“We have barricaded aviary enclosures to prevent any contact with outside birds. Enclosures are being sanitised on a regular basis. Zookeepers are watching birds’ behaviour to detect any abnormal change,” he said.Dipak Kumar Singh, principal secretary of department of environment, forest and climate change, said, “We are in regular touch with the animal husbandry department. No bird flu case has been found so far. Forest officers in wildlife sanctuaries and bird sanctuaries are on alert and they are watching open water sources as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/random-bird-deaths-trigger-bird-flu-concerns-in-patna-authorities-cautious-101610165979645.html
09-01-2021||Mumbai||10 newborns killed in massive blaze at Bhandara hospital in Maharashtra||At least 10 newborn children died in a fire that broke out at the sick newborn care unit (SNCU) of Bhandara Civil Hospital, some 65 kms from Nagpur, on Saturday early morning.Seven newborns were rescued from the hospital immediately after the fire broke out at around 2.00 am, said Pramod Khandate, the civil surgeon of Bhandara district. He added that an inquiry has been ordered into the incident.“The fire brigade personnel have succeeded to rescue seven newborn children but could not save 10 other babies,” Khandate said.There were 17 newborns admitted at the SNCU unit of the hospital when the fire broke out. A doctor and a nurse were on duty at the time of the incident. The nurse first noticed the smoke coming from the neonatal section and informed the hospital authorities. Fire brigade was called immediately, which rescued seven babies, who were then shifted to another ward, said Khandate.The civil surgeon added that the patients in the ICU ward, dialysis wing and the labour ward were also shifted to other wards for safety after the incident. The fire brigade personnel reached the spot with fire tenders and started the rescue operation with the help of hospital employees.All the infants killed in the blaze were between a month and three-months old. Three to four infants were charred to death while the rest of the casualties happened as oxygen supply was cut. The exact cause of death would be ascertained after the post-mortem of the bodies, Dr Khandate said.The cause of the fire in the four-storey building is yet to be ascertained. However, preliminary investigations suggest that a short circuit could have caused the tragedy. It was said that electric warmers were being used at the neonatal unit at the hospital.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed grief over the tragic incident. “Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible,” Modi tweeted.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has termed the incident unfortunate and appealed to the Maharashtra government to provide assistance to the aggrieved families."The unfortunate incident of fire at Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra is extremely tragic," Gandhi wrote on Twitter. "My condolences to the families of the children who lost their lives," he said and appealed to the Maharashtra government to provide every possible assistance to the families of the injured and deceased.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to health minister Rajesh Tope and the district collector, Sandeep Kadam, and the superintendent of police of Bhandara district, Vasant Jadhav. He has also ordered a probe into the cause of the tragedy.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased.Union home minister Amit Shah has expressed grief over the fire incident.“The fire accident in Bhandara district hospital, Maharashtra is very unfortunate. I am pained beyond words. My thoughts and condolences are with bereaved families. May God give them the strength to bear this irreparable loss," tweeted the Union home minister.The Union minister for transport, Nitin Gadkari, and the leader of the Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis, also expressed their condolences.The Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh also extended his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and instructed the Bhandara police to inquire the matter immediately and submit a report in this regard.Senior officials, including the district collector, Sandip Kadam, civil surgeon of the district, Khandate, the district police superintendent, Vasant Jadhav and the deputy director of state health service, Sanjay Jaiswal, have reached the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10-newborns-killed-in-massive-blaze-at-bhandara-hospital-in-maharashtra-101610164835553.html
09-01-2021||Kolkata||Chaos at BJP rally in West Bengal’s Nandigram; stampede averted||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rally at Nandigram in West Bengal’s East Midnapore district was disrupted by chaos when some outsiders allegedly threw stones at a section of the audience when the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya was in the middle of his speech.“This was definitely a conspiracy to foil the event. There could have been a stampede as people had started running helter-skelter without realizing what was going on,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar who was one of the speakers. A huge canopy had been set up to accommodate the BJP supporters. Other leaders who addressed them were BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy and Nandigram’s former Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Suvendu Adhikari who joined the BJP on December 19. Adhikari resigned from the legislative assembly last month. In their speeches, the speakers targeted chief minister Mamata Banerjee and called for a change in regime in Bengal. A long and violent movement against acquisition of farmland in Nandigram by the erstwhile Left Front government had helped Banerjee oust the Marxists in 2011. “Suvendu addressed the people and calmed them down,” said Majumdar. Although the BJP leaders accused ruling party workers of pelting stones, some BJP workers told local journalists that the chaos was triggered by slogans raised against a local TMC leader who came to join the BJP.Several TMC leaders and workers from East Midnapore joined the saffron camp at Friday’s rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/chaos-at-bjp-rally-in-west-bengal-s-nandigram-stampede-averted-101610143340657.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Dead crows in dozens at Mayur Vihar park spark panic, some more found in Dwarka||Carcasses of dozens of crows have been found in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar and in Dwarka as well as Hastsal in west Delhi over the past few days, triggering fears of a bird flu outbreak in the national capital similar to the one that has affected at least four other states in the country.While officials of the municipal corporation and residents of Mayur Vihar Phase 3 said about 150 crows had died in the past three or four days, the Delhi government said the number of birds found dead at the three places was below 50.On Friday morning, after receiving reports of crow carcasses being found in Mayur Vihar Phase 3, a team of doctors from Delhi government’s animal husbandry department reached A-2 Central Park and collected samples to check if the deaths were caused by the cold or due to avian flu. The test report is expected on Monday.The Delhi government in a statement said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia sent officials immediately to the spot in Mayur Vihar and the team found 17 dead crows in the park. Four samples were collected for testing from among these carcasses.But a senior official of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), which manages the park, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Nearly 150 crows have died over the past three days in the Central Park. As this is a matter pertaining to the Delhi government’s animal husbandry department, we informed the authorities concerned. A team of doctors from the animal husbandry department inspected the park and collected samples of dead birds,” the EDMC official said.HT visited the Central Park on Friday evening and found carcasses of at least four to five crows there. According to residents, the other carcasses were removed on Friday morning but those found in the evening could be from fresh deaths.As news about the bird deaths spread, there was panic among residents and shopkeepers.“Crows are dying and falling off trees for the past four days but the authorities are not paying heed. We had raised the issue with the civic body employees deployed at the park two days ago but action was taken only today (Friday). We fear that it may be an outbreak of bird flu, which has already been reported in other states,” Devendra Kumar, a resident of A-2 block in Mayur Vihar-3, said.Another resident of the area, Dinesh Pratap Singh, said the death of such a huge numbers of crows was frightening. “This mysterious death of crows indicates the presence of bird flu in the city. At least 150 crows have died in the past four-five days. We have stopped going for walks in the park,” Singh said.Traders in the market said in the previous years, there were sporadic cases of birds dying due to the cold. “But crows dying in such large numbers is new. The government officials should check if crows are dying due to bird flu. We don’t know how this disease spreads, and so there is panic among the residents. We are not ready to face another virus or pandemic,” Viru Gupta, who runs a garment shop in the market, said.The Delhi government in a statement on Friday said as part of the exercise to prevent the ingress of avian influenza to the capital, multiple samples have been collected and sent for tests. The collected samples have been submitted to the laboratory in Palam and these will send to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, ICAR, Bhopal, on January 9.“All remaining carcasses were disposed of by deep burial following bio security measures and the area was sanitised. Instructions were also given to attendants of the park to report further mortality of birds, if any. Two crows were found dead at a DDA Park in Dwarka and one sample was collected from there for tests,” a government spokesperson said, adding that at DDA park in Hastsal village reported 16 dead birds. Of this, four samples have been sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, for tests.Dr Rakesh Singh, animal husbandry department, said until Friday, a total of 104 samples were sent from Delhi to Jalandhar. Five more samples have been collected by the department which will be sent to the laboratory in Bhopal on Saturday.“Of the 104 samples that have been sent already, 100 are faecal and blood samples and four are dead crows. Of the five samples that will be sent on Saturday to Bhopal, one will be an oral swab and the remaining four are dead birds,” he said.Dr Singh said the first set of results will come by Monday. “Actions like restricting the number of trucks and regulating shops will be taken only if a bird flu outbreak is confirmed. The results of the samples will start coming from Monday. As of now, Delhi has no case of bird flu,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dead-crows-in-dozens-at-mayur-vihar-park-spark-panic-some-more-found-in-dwarka-101610142494111.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Granthi’s son killed in accident at Punjab MLA Hostel in Chandigarh||A 23-year-old youth was killed after his car rammed into a drop gate at Punjab MLA Hostel in Sector 4, Chandigarh, late on Thursday night. Identified as Anant Gurpal Singh, he was the youngest son of Baba Pritpal Singh, granthi at Gurdwara Gur Sagar Sahib near Sukhna Lake. He had completed his graduation and was involved in sewa at the gurdwara, said people known to the family.Anant was returning home from market around 10pm when the accident took place. The drop gate, which is pulled down only during protests, was open. Anant is suspected to have lost control of the vehicle before ramming it into the drop gate’s base. A police control room vehicle rushed him to the PGIMER, but he succumbed during treatment.Police said the car’s air bags had opened due to the collision, and there was no major external injuries, though some blood was found on the driver’s seat. Police have impounded the vehicle, and initiated inquest proceedings. The family is waiting for Anant’s sister, who is married and stays abroad, to reach the city before performing the last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/granthis-son-killed-in-accident-at-punjab-mla-hostel-in-chandigarh-101610131758174.html
09-01-2021||Other||NGT slams brakes on former Mohali mayor’s housing project||National Green Tribunal has ordered immediate stoppage of work at Falcon View, a housing project being developed by former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh’s firm in Sectors 66, 82 and 83. Reason: The firm did not obtain environmental clearance before starting construction.As per norms, each residential project covered under the environmental impact assessment notification 2006 is required to obtain clearance from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change before initiating any activity at the project site.There are around 1,700 flats in the said project, and the builder has already completed 50% construction.In the orders issued on January 7, NGT said that despite repeated directions by the state-level environment impact assessment authority and initiation of prosecution, the builder continued construction in utter disregard and defiance of the statutory norms. The plea that a writ petition has been filed against the assessment authority’s order cannot in any manner justify continuing illegal constructions, for which there is no sanction in any of the orders of the high court, said NGT, adding that the builder is trying to create an irreversible situation by completing the construction and creating third-party rights, which is not congenial to the enforcement of rule of law and protection of environment and public health. A senior official of Punjab Pollution Control Board said: “The orders have been sent to our legal team and action will be initiated once we get its report.” Meanwhile, Kulwant Singh was not available for comments even after repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-slams-brakes-on-former-mohali-mayor-s-housing-project-101610131698109.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||No signs of avian influenza outbreak in Gurugram yet, say officials||Clinical surveillance for avian influenza (H5N8) has not detected any unusual mortality at poultry farms in the district yet, said officials in the animal husbandry department on Friday. However, the district wildlife department said on the same day that it had retrieved five wild bird carcasses, of which two have been sent for testing to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab in Jalandhar. “We found five fresh carcasses on Friday morning. Four crows and one egret — all seemed to have died of similar symptoms. One crow and egret samples has been dispatched to Jalandhar by the animal husbandry department. The others have been buried,” said Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector, Gurugram, declining to specify where these carcasses had been found. After suspicions arose earlier this week, Haryana on Friday notified an outbreak of influenza strain H5N8, with Panchkula’s Ganauli and Kheri villages being declared as the epicentre. In light of this development, officials said they will continue to monitor the status of chicken farms and wetlands — where migratory waterfowl are feared to be spreading this disease — for at least another three weeks. Chahal, however, said that no migratory bird carcasses have yet been found. “Migrant winter birds are in fact thriving in Sultanpur. There are no plans to close the national park to visitors, as was the case during an earlier bird flu outbreak in 2015,” Chahal clarified.A district-level committee, headed by the animal husbandry department’s three sub-divisional officers (SDO), was also formed on Friday. If any containment operation is put into motion in the next few days — as per a centrally approved action plan received by the regional office on Thursday — it will be steered by this committee, officials said. Veterinary officers assigned to rapid response teams, which were put in place a day earlier, will also report to this committee. “We have had a training workshop for all officers and surgeons on Friday. A detailed discussion was held on the action plan. We are prepared to start viral surveillance and serosurveillance in both poultry and wild birds, at a moment’s notice,” said a department vet, seeking anonymity. Officials in the district animal husbandry department, including their deputy director for Gurugram, Dr Punita Gahlot, declined to comment at length. “We have not been authorised to speak to the press. I can only say that there are no signs of an outbreak in Gurugram as of today,” said Gahlot. However, another senior official in the animal husbandry department, also seeking anonymity, said, “All poultry farmers maintain a log of chicken deaths, since they are an everyday occurrence. The average mortality rate at any high-density chicken farm is about two percent. Some birds will simply not survive their expected life cycle, which is just under two months. We have looked at data from some backyard units going back about two weeks, and there is no statistical evidence of excess mortality.”Officials also said that Gurugram, being one of Haryana’s least productive poultry farming districts, was less susceptible to an outbreak. “The sector itself is very disorganised. There are no large markets. Hatcheries and large farms are scattered. Other than two or three industrial-sized operations, most of the chicken is supplied from backyard units, whose flocks don’t intermingle much, thereby reducing chances of an outbreak,” said one senior veterinarian, also requesting anonymity. Demand hitNotwithstanding these caveats, however, the demand for poultry and eggs in the city has taken a hit, prompting wholesalers and butchers to reduce prices in response. From ₹100 to ₹120 for a full broiler chicken, the price has now come down to about ₹80 in Gurugram’s wholesale market. In retail markets, the price of a full, freshly butchered chicken has dipped to about ₹150, down from about ₹200 to ₹220 just a few days ago. Mustak, who runs a small butcher shop in Chakkarpur, Sector 28, said, “I sell anything between 30 to 40 chickens every day usually, but last two days I have sold only around 25 pieces. The government has said it is safe to eat chicken.” Traders fear that they may have to slash prices further after Haryana notified the outbreak officially. In Panchkula, the prices of chicken have fallen even more sharply, touching about ₹50 per kilogram in the wholesale markets, according to some estimates. Traders expressed serious concerns over the impact this outbreak will have on small and medium-size poultry farmers. Damandeep Singh, who owns multiple fish and meat shops in Delhi-NCR, said, “Poultry farming used to be very prominent in Gurugram until 15 years ago; not so much anymore. Every time there is a bird flu scare, independent hatcheries close down and do not reopen. Demand will definitely pick up again, but smaller businessmen may find it hard to revive their operations.” This, Singh said, was all the more unfortunate given how the industry as a whole suffered during the Covid-19 lockdown. “There were so many rumours about chicken causing Covid-19. Demand fell very sharply and is not yet back to pre-Covid times. So to deal with this now is naturally going to cause even more stress to farmers, butchers and sellers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-signs-of-avian-influenza-outbreak-in-gurugram-yet-say-officials-101610131219656.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Cold, foggy mornings here to stay, but afternoons may be warmer: Experts||While the city’s solitary automatic weather station (AWS) did not record either minimum or maximum temperature on Friday, the India Meteorological Department’s AWS, in Palam in Delhi, recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 11.2 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature at 15.4 degrees Celsius. Just two days ago, the same AWS had recorded a minimum of 14.4 degrees and a maximum of 19 degrees Celsius.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Gurugram, the mercury is going to consistently keep dipping over the next week, although officials also said that chances of another severe cold wave (as Delhi-NCR witnessed over the New Year) are slim. Minimum temperature in Gurugram is expected to dip to as little as 5 degrees Celsius by January 14, though daytime temperature is expected to rise to about 21 degrees Celsius.“The region will see shallow to moderate fog in the morning, which will push the minimum temperature down. During the day, we may have clearer skies so daytime temperature should climb slightly and remain above 20 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional forecasting centre, IMD.Srivastava said that another western disturbance may pass over the northern plains around January 20. “The interim period will be chilly. The drop in temperature will not be too steep, but will fall gradually every day, with the chilliest day being around January 11. Another warm front may come at the time of the next weather system, but until such time, present conditions will prevail,” Srivatasva said.Air quality in the city remained in the “moderate” category of the air quality index, with 163 on the CPCB’s daily AQI bulletin. This is down from 204 (poor) the previous day. Other major NCR towns, including Delhi, recorded “poor” air with AQIs ranging between 200 to 250. Experts attributed this to the resumption of westerly winds on Friday, blowing at between 8 to 10kmph, which may have helped mitigate some of Gurugram’s pollution load by transporting it eastward, towards Delhi and beyond. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air is likely to remain in moderate category on 09.01.2021 and 10.01.2021,” and may remain in the moderate category for the most of the next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cold-foggy-mornings-here-to-stay-but-afternoons-may-be-warmer-experts-101610131219191.html
09-01-2021||Other||First two bird samples sent by Chandigarh admn test negative for bird flu||First two samples sent by the Chandigarh administration to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, to check for bird flu tested negative on Friday night. “The common coot found in the lake on Tuesday along with a pigeon found on Wednesday have tested negative for bird flu. The reports of seven other birds are still awaited,” said Dr Kanwarjit Singh, joint director, animal husbandry and fisheries department. Meanwhile, the number of dead birds found in the city has reached 10, with the carcass of a pigeon recovered from a residential area in Sector 35 on Friday. The department has installed signboards near the regulatory end of Sukhna Lake, asking visitors to remain cautious. “People have been asked to look out for symptoms like tremors, diarrhoea, head tilt and paralysis among birds. If any such symptom is observed at the lake or anywhere else in the city, then the department can be informed on 0172-2700284,” said Debendra Dalai, chief conservator of forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-two-bird-samples-sent-by-chandigarh-admn-test-negative-for-bird-flu-101610131218694.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Electricity department will hold public meeting every two months: CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday directed the power department to hold public meeting across Gurugram once in two months to resolve residents’ complaints.The power department will have to declare the date and time in advance to allow people the opportunity to have their grievances heard.The chief minister issued these orders while addressing a complaint during a grievance redressal meeting. “Power supply has improved since 2014. For making electricity consumption transparent smart meters are being installed. It would help in resolving billing-related issues. However, if people have doubts about the smart meter reading, they can get their meters checked at a lab,” said Khattar. In the last few months, several complaints have been reported in different localities about inflated power bills and smart meter readings. “The power loss through electricity lines which was almost 34% in the state has reduced to almost 17%. Even the subsidy on electricity which would cost nearly ₹7000 crore to the state exchequer has now come down to ₹6000 crore,” said the minister In Friday’s meeting, at least 14 complaints were placed before the CM, including three forwarded from the previous month’s meeting. Khattar ordered FIRs in two cases related to violation of norms in running a hot mix plant in Farukhnagar and construction of a building in New Colony despite both being sealed.“Legal action will be taken against the offenders. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board should impose penalty and file a FIR against the hot mix plant for unsealing the factory and resuming work,” said Khattar. For controlling the air pollution during winter months, the hot mix plants were directed to remain shut. But violating the norms plant kept on functioning. In another case of continuing the construction work in a sealed building which failed to follow the construction norm, CM ordered legal action. During the meeting, relocation of land owners from five villages – Garhouli, Khurd, Harsaru, Mohammed pur, Khandsa and Narshinghpur – whose land were acquired under Special Economic Zone (SEZ) by the state industrial body in 2006 was also raised. Complainants raised the issue of getting unfair compensation. Khattar asked the officials to submit the report and said that the compensation amount will be calculated again and even if the land owners are unhappy, they can approach the court. Other issues like construction of park on a residential land, illegal encroachments in village Bajghera and water connection in sector104 were also discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/electricity-department-will-hold-public-meeting-every-two-months-cm-101610131217341.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to probe complaints of discrimination against EWS residents||Taking into consideration, the complaints of discrimination lodged by residents of EWS (economically weaker section) housing in residential projects, the enforcement wing of the department of the town and country planning (DTCP) has decided to issue notices to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and hold meetings in this regard. The department said that residents of EWS housing have the same rights and responsibilities as other flat owners and they should not be discriminated against in terms of access to entrances, amenities and common areas as per the rules of the DTCP. DTCP officials said that they had received nearly 10 complaints from the residents of EWS housing, alleging that the RWA had created separate entry points for residents and they were not allowed to take the main entrance. In some instances, the residents were not allowed to use the common areas and facilities like parks, community centres and other facilities. In one of the complaints lodged by 119 home buyers of the EWS category in a project located in Sector 95, the residents alleged that the common area demarcated for their block had been barricaded by using iron grilles, thereby depriving them of access.The residents also said that their common area was used as a car parking by apartment owners and they were being denied space, which was rightfully theirs. After a number of complaints of similar nature were lodged by EWS residents, especially during the lockdown, the DTCP officials said that they decided to address the problem in its entirety. “We will be holding meetings with RWAs and conduct inspections of the spots, where these violations have been carried out. Firstly, the RWAs would be asked to remove such walls and gates, which prevent access to common areas. If this doesn’t happen voluntarily, then action would be taken by the enforcement wing,” said Sanjiv Mann, senior town planner. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that they have held meetings with RWAs before in this regard but given the rise in such issues, they have planned an outreach programme to resolve these matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-probe-complaints-of-discrimination-against-ews-residents-101610131160158.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Health department starts forming groups of health workers for Covid-19 vaccination||After the Covid-19 vaccination dry run on Thursday, the Gurugram health department has begun creating groups of 100 private health care workers to be administered the vaccine as and when it is made available. Over 36,000 health workers, including about 4500 from the government sector, will be covered under the first phase of the vaccination drive. The health department will set up at least 60 vaccination sites which could be raised to 80 depending on the requirement, said the senior officials.Among the sites will be at least 21 large private hospitals.“Staff at small health clinics or nursing homes falling within the vicinity of 21 big private hospitals will be clubbed together to form groups of 100 people each. It will help in covering maximum people for the vaccine shot,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. Health care workers have already been registered on Co-WIN, a digital platform to keep real-time information on the beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine. The task is now to map vaccination sites to beneficiary based on proximity. As per the plan, vaccination will be held every Monday, Thursday and Saturday from 9 am to 5 pm. The dry run was helpful in ironing out any wrinkles in the plans.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Out of the 181 sites that we had identified for the vaccination drive, we are likely to choose between 50 and 80. The exact number of sites will be known once we get to know the the vaccine doses that will be made available to us.” Yadav said they hoped to vaccinated the 36,000 health care workers over a few weeks, so that they can be ready to administer the second booster shot after 28 days. “It requires planning and mapping,” said Yadav. Under the phasewise strategy, first health care workers will be vaccinated, followed by frontline workers and then people above 50 years of age. Under priortised group, people below 50 years of age with co-morbidities are also included.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-department-starts-forming-groups-of-health-workers-for-covid-19-vaccination-101610131159706.html
09-01-2021||Other||Delays marked Panchkula administration’s response to bird flu scare||As it was confirmed on Friday that the en masse deaths of birds at poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt were due to avian influenza, it has come to the fore that deaths had been taking place since early December last year. Moreover, even as reports from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, came positive on Thursday night, the Panchkula administration failed to impose restrictions in the affected areas immediately. It was only on Friday evening that the Haryana animal husbandry and dairying department officially declared two pockets as the epicentre of bird flu, and listed out various measures, including planned culling of 1.66 lakh birds at five poultry farms.Over 4.37 lakh poultry birds have died in the area. A Panchkula health official, who did not wish to be named, said that during the field survey, some farm owners reported that deaths had been taking place since December 1.However, it was only on January 3 that some samples were sent by the Haryana animal husbandry department to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar.However, the lab found these samples of “poor quality” and had to send its own team to collect them afresh on January 5. Those reports are still awaited.Meanwhile, on January 4, the ministry of health and family welfare constituted an experts’ team to monitor the situation. It held a meeting with the Panchkula administration on January 7 (Thursday). The same night, reports from the Bhopal laboratory came positive.It mentioned that five samples of “dead birds (chicken)” taken from Siddharth poultry farm, Kheri, and Nature poultry farm, Dandlawar, Ganauli, have been found “positive for H5N8 avian influenza” virus.However, it was on Friday evening that the Haryana government declared the outbreak, turning the area within a kilometre of the two epicentres as “infected zone” and 1-10km as “surveillance zone.” The five affected farms are Siddharth, Narender, Naveen and Sunil in Kheri village and Nature in Dhandalwar, Ganauli. “As per guidelines, alert should be issued immediately and movement must be restricted from farms even when there is a suspicion and samples are taken. However, the administration delayed the process. Even after the final report was out, they took a night and entire day to issue the notification,” said an expert, who is part of the five-member central team, who did not wish to be named.The expert said it will get very challenging to break the chain of transmission, as poultry products have been transported to so many different parts of the region, thus “spreading the infection further”.In fact, Hindustan Times found that even till Friday evening, movement was not restricted at some of these farms. A tractor-trailer was seen leaving a farm with empty egg trays and even the driver was without mask. ‘Less pathogenic, but risk remains’ “Although risk to human health is there as H5N8 can be transmitted from birds to human beings, it is less pathogenic, which means there are lesser chances of catching infection,” said a central government expert.Chances of spread of infection is more among those who have long exposure to these birds.“However, we are worried that if its mutation changes during transmission to humans, it will get difficult to control the spread, and like any other flu, mortality will be more in elderly and in people with low immunity,” said the expert.Task force constitutedThe Panchkula deputy commissioner in a press release issued on Friday night said a task force has been constituted. It comprises of senior officials and will work on a war footing, he said. The team will distribute medicines in the affected areas and help in burying the culled birdsHaryana animal husbandry and dairying minister JP Dalal said avian influenza virus is sensitive to heat. Consumers should ensure that all parts of the poultry are fully cooked (no pink parts) and that eggs, too, are properly cooked (no runny yolks). Persons involved in food preparation should wash their hands thoroughly and clean and disinfect surfaces in contact with poultry products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delays-marked-panchkula-administration-s-response-to-bird-flu-scare-101610131159270.html
09-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmhouse owner arrested for conspiring with cops to extort money from businessman||The Haryana State Vigilance Bureau on Thursday arrested a farmhouse owner for allegedly helping two police officials in illegally detaining a call centre owner and extorting ₹57 lakh from him. The suspect was identified as one Krishan Kumar Yadav, a resident of Kherki Duala, who owns a farmhouse in Farukhnagar. He was produced before the court on Friday and taken on a two-day police remand, said officials. According to the Faridabad vigilance department, the victim, Naveen Bhutani, who runs a call centre and sells religious products in the UK and Australia, had approached the senior officers of the department with a complaint against two officials of Kherki Daula police station, alleging that they had extorted ₹57 lakh from him and were demanding another ₹10 lakh. On December 28, the State Vigilance Bureau, following the complaint, had arrested a head constable of Kherki Daula police station and booked its station house officer (SHO) for accepting bribes. However, the latter remains untraceable, said officials. Bhutani had alleged that he was illegally picked up from a resort near Kherki Daula on the expressway and taken to the police station where he was beaten up by the station house officer and threatened with dire consequences. The victim told the officials that SHO had forcefully kept his laptop, which contained all his business data. He had even taken the help of a person from an outsourced agency, who scanned the company’s turn over, data and other confidential data, said officials. The complainant was illegally detained and allegedly taken to a farmhouse in Farukhnagar, nearly 12 kilometres from the police station. PK Aggarwal, director general of police (DGP), vigilance, said that the two policemen threatened Bhutani to put him behind bars and illegally detained him. “They forced him to make calls to his family members, friends and relatives, asking them to arrange for money. One of his friends arranged the money and came to hand it over to him. Meanwhile, he was taken around in his car by the head constable and two other men,” he said. The victim alleged that the SHO had initially demanded ₹1 crore but after negotiation, the deal was finalised for ₹60 lakh. “A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 384 (extortion ), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) was registered against the police officials. The investigation is underway,” police said. Yadav has been booked for conspiracy and common intention, said the police, adding that he had helped the police to use his space despite knowing they were illegally detaining a businessman, said officials. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that an internal inquiry has been started against the SHO and head constable and things will be clear once the SHO is arrested. “There is no place for corruption and action will be taken against those who are found guilty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmhouse-owner-arrested-for-conspiring-with-cops-to-extort-money-from-businessman-101610131158034.html
09-01-2021||Other||Nigerian national held with seven kilograms of heroin||A 26-year-old Nigerian was arrested on Thursday with seven kilograms of heroine, which was bought from Delhi and was supposed to be delivered to one of the city’s pub, said the police on Friday. The suspect has been identified as one Bethel Kelechi Aroh of Lagos, Nigeria. He is presently living in Delhi, said the police. They arrested the suspect from outside Ambience Mall near Sirhaul toll plaza and allegedly recovered heroin from his possession. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspect used to buy drugs from peddlers in Delhi and supplied them to pubs and bars in Gurugram. “He used to live in Delhi but we are yet to verify the details. We have recovered a photocopy of his passport and have sent the details to Nigerian high commission through Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO). But we are yet to receive their reply,” he said. During questioning, the suspect allegedly tried to mislead the police and gave false information about his visa and stay in Delhi. Sangwan said he bought heroin for ₹20,000 and wanted to sell it for ₹35,000. However, the police received a tip-off and the man was arrested before he could deliver the drug. The police said the suspect came to India on a six-month tourist visa in 2020 and overstayed illegally with help from a friend who is also a drug peddler. Sangwan said he was supposed to get a drug consignment worth over ₹2 crore in the international market through the airport. His friend, a drug trafficker based in Delhi who allegedly smuggles in narcotics from his accomplice, had given a sample to test the results. “We are conducting raids at multiple locations to arrest more suspects involved in the racket,” he said. There are more than five suspects from Nigeria who supply these drugs to the peddlers in Delhi and surrounding areas, Sangwan said. An FIR was registered at the DLF Phase 3 police station under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the suspect was sent to a 14-day judicial custody on Friday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nigerian-national-held-with-seven-kilograms-of-heroin-101610131157379.html
09-01-2021||Other||Protesting farmers at UP Gate get 10 buses to serve as mobile shelters||Ghaziabad: More help poured in on Friday for protesting farmers camped at UP Gate when the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) sent 10 buses to serve as mobile shelters for farmers. The ten buses, according to farmer leaders, can accommodate 25 to 30 beds each, comprising bedrolls, blankets and pillows, etc. They said the buses will prevent farmers from the cold as well as the rain, which have lashed parts of the city for the past several days. “The buses have been sent by the DSGMC and will be here till the protest goes on. They will be helpful in protecting farmers from adverse weather conditions; the seats inside the buses have been removed so as to create more sleeping space. The buses will remain parked at the UP Gate protest site,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, member of UP Gate protest site committee.Since rain started earlier this week, a number of tents as well as belongings of farmers, including rations, were damaged. Refusing to budge, however, they resurrected their tents and have stayed put. More polythene and tarpaulin sheets have been added to the tents and tractor-trolleys to protect against the weather conditions, said farmers. “The buses will be helpful for about 250-300 farmers and will protect them in adverse weather. We don’t know how long we will have to stay here as the government is not ready to accept our demands. Our leaders will decide upon the next course of action as the eighth round of talks ended without any result. Still, we are staying here no matter how long it takes,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).Farmers at UP Gate have occupied the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway since December 3 while the protest at UP Gate started on November 28.The eighth round of talks between the farmers’ unions and the government representatives ended in a stalemate on Friday evening. The next round of talks is now scheduled on January 15. All India Kisan Sabha’s general secretary Hannan Mollah said Friday that farmers would continue their fight against the farm laws till they are repealed, adding that their proposed tractor march on January 26, Republic Day, will go on as planned. Farmers on hundreds of tractors took to the Delhi Meerut Expressway and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway on Thursday, to “rehearsal” for their Republic Day tractor march.Government representatives on Friday meanwhile told farmers that they “cannot and will not repeal” the three new laws, though farmers have made it clear that their protest will go on till the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protesting-farmers-at-up-gate-get-10-buses-to-serve-as-mobile-shelters-101610131098684.html
09-01-2021||Other||Three persons accused of animal slaughter arrested in Greater Noida||Dadri police on Thursday night arrested three persons for slaughtering an animal illegally and dumping the carcass in Maicha village. The carcass had created tensions in the locality after the local people had spotted the flesh and bones in a vacant plot on January 6. The suspects were identified as Javed, 25, a resident of Faridabad, Ghaffar and Shah Alam, residents of Pilkhuwa in Hapur.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the suspects had dumped the carcasses two days ago. “When we received the complaint, we had registered a case against unknown suspects under Sections 3, 5 and 8 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960,” he said.“On Thursday night, seven suspects armed with knives and countrymade guns reached Dadri village in a vehicle. When they spotted the police team, they tried to flee, even firing at the police team.” A few suspects jumped off the vehicle and tried to escape into the dense jungle. The police also opened fire in which Shah Alam and Ghaffar were injured in their legs and were arrested, said police. The third suspect Javed was also arrested but was not injured. Pandey said that the suspects revealed that they used to steal cattle and slaughter them at vacant and deserted locations and sold the meat to people in villages. “We found that four other suspects managed to escape during encounter. We have seized three countrymade guns, one knife, three cartridges and a rope from their possession,” he said. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-persons-accused-of-animal-slaughter-arrested-in-greater-noida-101610131098070.html
09-01-2021||Other||Noida: Petrol pump staffers on way to bank robbed of ₹10 lakh in separate cases; Surajpur SHO suspended||Greater Noida: Armed criminals snatched ₹8 lakh from two staffers of a petrol pump in Surajpur, and ₹2 lakh from two staffers of another petrol pump in the Delta – 1 area on Friday, while the employees were on the way to deposit the money in banks in Greater Noida. The police commissioner later suspended the station house officer of the Surajpur station over alleged negligence.In the first case, two petrol pump employees – supervisor Arjun and driver Ankit - were on their way to a bank on a two-wheeler in Devla village. They had kept the cash bag under the two-wheeler’s seat. “The employees were going to deposit ₹8 lakh in a bank which is about four km away. At 9:30 am, two criminals on a Royal Enfield motorcycle overtook the victims and forced them to stop at gunpoint. The suspects snatched the vehicle and fled the spot,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Central Noida. Chander said it appears the criminals had information that the money was under the two-wheeler’s seat, hence they snatched the vehicle. “The victims soon informed their employer and also the local police. We launched a search but the suspects managed to escape,” the DCP said. Chander said an FIR has been lodged against unknown criminals under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC at the Surajpur police station. “We have some leads in this case after scanning the CCTV footage from neighbouring areas. The two-wheeler and the cash would be recovered soon,” he said. Police also suspect the role of insiders in this case. Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh suspended the Surajpur SHO Pradeep Tripathi over alleged negligence in connection with the case. In the second case, three-four car-borne criminals snatched ₹2 lakh from two staffers of a petrol pump in Sector Beta 2 police station area on Friday afternoon. The two staff members – Ravikant and Tabiyat – worked at the fuel station in Delta -1. “They were going on a two-wheeler to deposit ₹2 lakh in a local bank, when some car borne criminals hit their vehicle and the victims fell. The criminals snatched the money and fled the spot,” said Love Kumar, additional police commissioner (law and order) GB Nagar.He said that a separate case has been registered in Sector Beta 2 police station and the police are investigating both the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-petrol-pump-staffers-on-way-to-bank-robbed-of-10-lakh-in-separate-cases-surajpur-shosuspended-101610131097400.html
09-01-2021||Other||Noida: Four held for under-weighing construction material, duping contractors||Noida: Four men were arrested by the Noida police on Thursday for allegedly duping contractors by under-weighing construction material and falsifying receipts.The suspects were identified as Mukhtar, a Delhi resident, and Rajesh Kurmi, Sintu and Arpit Rajput, residents of Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the police, they worked as suppliers of construction material to contractors.“On December 28, a complaint had been filed at the Sector 58 police station by a contractor who had alleged that he had placed an order with a supply shop in Sector 9. He said that the raw material started arriving after 35 days. One or two trucks would come every day and the victim demanded weighing receipts, of which 24 turned out to be fake. Following this a case of cheating and forgery was registered and a probe had been initiated,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Kumar Rannvijay Singh.Police said that the receipts were examined and found to be allegedly false.“Arpit was printing the false receipts and was nabbed. The suspects wouldn’t get the goods weighed and would give false receipts while supplying the materials, and take money from the contractors, thereby dupe them,” said the ADCP.He said that there are other members of the group who are yet to be apprehended. The officer added that the suspects had allegedly been active for the past four years but they claim that they were only falsifying documents for the past four months.Their criminal history is being verified and information is also being collected about how many people they might have duped and how much money they made this way.Police recovered three trucks which were allegedly being used to transport the material, ₹71,000, phones, over 150 fake weight receipts, 1,721 visiting cards of various tenders, laptops, etc., from the suspects. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-four-held-for-under-weighing-construction-material-duping-contractors-101610131039475.html
09-01-2021||Other||30 detained for vandalism over non-payment of wages at Noida firm||Noida: Police on Friday detained 30 employees of a Noida-based insurance firm for alleged vandalism over non-payment of wages for the past few months.The incident was reported from sector 59 in the evening.“This happened at the BPO office of the insurance firm. The miscreants destroyed the second floor of the building. They broke over 100 desktops set up there,” said assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajneesh Verma.Police said that 19 men and 11 women were detained, all of whom were in their twenties. They were being questioned to identify other vandals and were booked under section 151 (Arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure for disrupting public order. “They claim that they had not been paid wages for some time. We are working on verifying the claims but even then, the vandalism is not justified,” said the ACP.Police officials said that the company owner was out of town but an executive alleged that the salary transfer happens by the 10th of every month. Till press time, the company had not yet filed a police complaint in the matter.A video of the incident was circulated on social media. It showed several people rushing in to the building and smashing laptops and other gadgets on the office floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30-detained-for-vandalism-over-non-payment-of-wages-at-noida-firm-101610131040100.html
09-01-2021||Other||Positivity declines to 1% in first week of January||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad is on a constant decline and the sample positivity rate was around 1% in the first seven days of the new year. Officials marked December as the month when they started seeing the declining trend in active cases although they had expected a spike during winter. An analysis of the situation in the district showed that the sample positivity rate (or SPR, which is the number of postiive cases per 100 tests) has been declining since November when it stood at 4.14% with 4822 positive reports out of 116,399 tests that month. This was 2.99% in December with 3034 positive reports out 101,496 tests. From January 1 to 7, there were 153 positive samples out 15,243 tests. Since February, The officials said that the overall sample positivity since March when the outbreak was detected is about 4.58% with 29118 samples testing positive out of total of 635,919. The number of positive samples is greater than the total cases as a person could have been tested multiple times.“The decline is not only in the district but also in the state of UP as well. However, we are still carrying on with our testing and surveillance and also focussing on targeted testing in high incidence areas,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The state control room records also indicate a declining trend with total of 23031 total cases including 1510 active cases as on November 30 while the total cases on December 31 stood at 26109 including 484 active cases. Till January 7, the total cases have stood at 26254 which include only 282 active cases. The experts said that the cases have shown a steep decline in past one and half months and the trend is continuing in January. “Overall, there has been considerable reduction in number of patients coming in. Although the active cases are only a few hundred but all precautions like wearing face mask and frequent hand-washing besides maintaining social-distancing should continue. The arrival of vaccine is possibly very near and it will certainly help,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “It is expected that the declining trend could possibly be result of herd immunity against the infection. Anyways, trend shows that about 80% of patients remained asymptomatic while 15% developed mild/moderate symptoms. The rest 5% required oxygen intervention or ICU admission and only 2% of the 5% required ventilator support. So, it is also possible that large proportion of the population got the infection and it passed away without giving any symptoms,” he, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/positivity-declines-to-1-in-first-week-of-january-101610131038969.html
09-01-2021||Lucknow||After much fanfare, now govt tells HC: No decision yet on Film City’s location||Four months after the Uttar Pradesh government released the blueprint for the proposed Film City over 1,000 acres along the Yamuna Expressway, it informed the Allahabad high court on Thursday that it had not yet decided on the project’s location.The reply comes after a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed before the court seeking a stay on the proposed project in Gautam Budh Nagar. Appearing on behalf of the state government, lawyer Siddharth Dhawan apprised the court that, as of now, there was only a proposal for building the film city in Noida.Reports have been sought regarding availability of land and other facilities, which are being examined, therefore, the petition at this stage is premature, said Dhawan. The petitioner, Kalakaar Association of Lucknow, then withdrew the PIL.“As we have not entered into merits of the controversy in view of the statements made on behalf of state and opposite party, all pleas are open for being raised at the appropriate stage, if a cause exists,” said the two-judge bench of Justices Rajan Roy and Saurabh Lavania, while dismissing the petition.The planned project was a prestigious projects of the Yogi Adityanath government with an aim to develop the state as an alternative base to the Hindi film industry based at Mumbai.Yamuna Expressway industrial authority (Yeida) had earmarked land in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway for the project. During the presentation of the blueprint, chief minister Adityanath had said,”We intend to provide a high capacity, world class data centre along with all pre-production and post-production infrastructure, processing labs, VFX and digital studios of international level in this zone.”Yeida officials could not be reached for comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-much-fanfare-now-govt-tells-hc-no-decision-yet-on-film-city-s-location-101610131038387.html
09-01-2021||Other||Nip in the air as mercury drops in Noida||Noida: The city saw a drop in mercury by four degrees over the past 24 hours as wind direction changed, with the weather department forecasting foggy days ahead with strong winds.The mercury is set to fall further from Monday, the weather department said, while the maximum and minimum will hover around 17 and 10 degrees Celsius, respectively, before that.“Though the temperatures fell due to the north westerly winds, however, the mercury didn’t fall further due to cloudiness, led by a fresh western disturbance. Cloudy sky conditions will continue till Sunday along with shallow fog in morning hours. This will be followed by strong winds from Monday, that will clear the sky, thereby dropping the mercury,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Noida and its adjoining regions also saw light rains towards Friday evening due to a fresh western disturbance -- a phenomenon that causes snowfall in the Himalayan states and rains in the national Capital region, however, the rains would seize by Saturday, after which the region would see cloudy sky and moderate fog, said analysts.On Friday, the minimum temperature in Noida was recorded at 10.6 degrees Celsius, against 14.9 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature also fell three degrees due to the icy cold north-westerly winds in the past 24 hours, with Friday recording a maximum temperature of 15.9 degrees Celsius -- almost a cold day condition -- again 18.4 degrees a day earlier.The average minimum temperature in NCR, based on the Safdarjung observatory, was recorded at 9.6 degrees Celsius, three degrees above the season’s average, while the maximum was recorded at 16.9 degrees, three degrees below the season’s average.Meanwhile, due to poor ventilation conditions on Friday, led by cold weather and drizzle that hiked humidity thereby trapping pollutants, the air quality of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida fell to the ‘very poor’ category, a first since Jan 3. The air quality index (AQI) of Noida remained under the ‘poor’ category, where it was the day earlier.On Friday, the AQI of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, as per the central pollution control board (CPCB), was 261 against 236 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 312 or ‘very poor’ against 288 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 304 against 294 a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nip-in-the-air-as-mercury-drops-in-noida-101610131037483.html
09-01-2021||Other||Two killed in separate road accidents in Noida||Noida: Two men were killed while another was injured in two separate road accidents which took place under the Sector 39 police station jurisdiction on Thursday night. In the first incident, a 48-year-old man died while another was injured when the motorcycle they were travelling on was hit by an unidentified vehicle from behind, near Kalindi Kunj.The deceased was identified as Rajkumar Pandey, a Delhi resident who was on his way home with his friend Visharav. According to police officials, they were victims of a hit and run case. Passersby in the area rushed them to a nearby hospital where Pandey was declared brought dead, said the police.“His body was sent for an autopsy while his friend is undergoing treatment. The body was handed over to the family for last rites. They haven’t filed a complaint yet but we are on the lookout for the vehicle that might have hit them. A case will be registered as soon as the family files a complaint, said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.The second incident was reported from the service lane of the Noida-Greater Noida expressway when a car lost control and crashed into the central divider.The deceased was identified as Rahul Kumar, a Noida resident. Police officials said that the victim allegedly lost control of the vehicle after hitting a speed breaker, following which the car flipped and crashed with the divider.His body was sent for an autopsy after the accident was reported on the police helpline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-noida-101610131037939.html
09-01-2021||Other||Bird flu has poultry shops in Noida concerned||Noida: With reports of bird flu emerging from across the country, poultries in Noida are a concerned lot. While a few shop owners said that they had seen a slight drop in the sale of poultry products, a few others pointed out that customers were curious about their products -- whether the bird they were buying was healthy when slaughtered and fresh. “We have registered about 30% drop in sale of the chicken today and price too has dropped by ₹40 to 50 per kilogram. However, sale of other meat has picked up too,” said, Muhammad Faizan, who deals in food retail and wholesale business based out in sector 51, Noida. “News of bird flu have spooked a lot of people. However, there have been no such cases from Noida yet. If there are any directions from the administration on this, we will adhere to it.”Another meat and poultry product shop Al-Eshan in sector-77 said their sale has not yet been affected.“The customers are very concerned and asking questions about the safety of the meat and poultry products. But so far we have not seen any drop in sale,” said a worker at the shop.At Delhi’s Ghazipur Murga Mandi that also supplies chicken to Noida and neighbouring cities, the wholesale traders said that price of birds had dropped.“The wholesale rates have gone down by about ₹20 to ₹40 per kilogrammes so far. The demand has also affected due to the fear of the bird flu. However, the effect is not so visible in the retail market yet,” said Imran Qureshi, a wholesaler at Ghazipur Murga Mandi.Cases of bird-flu had been reported in the state of Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala. While no case had been reported in Uttar Pradesh so far, the administration has formed a task force to inspect poultry.“We have put all the veterinary hospitals on alert and the surveillance teams are on high alert. So far there had been no incident of unusual deaths among birds or any symptoms noticed suggesting avian flu. There had been only a few reports of two crow and a pigeon dying around some villages but there was nothing dicey about it as a few wild birds especially the crow often dies during the winters due to the lack of protein,” said VK Srivastava, chief veterinary officer (CVO), Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-has-poultry-shops-in-noida-concerned-101610130979500.html
09-01-2021||Other||Muradnagar roof collapse: SIT takes over probe; magisterial inquiry ordered||Ghaziabad: The officials of the special investigation team (SIT), constituted by the Uttar Pradesh government to probe the Muradnagar roof collapse incident, took over the ongoing investigation from Ghaziabad police on Friday. The team comprises a superintendent of police (SP)-rank officer, besides a circle officer and three inspectors, who will camp in Ghaziabad.The incident, which took place at the Ukhlarsi cremation ground on January 3, claimed 24 lives and left about a dozen people injured. The police, on the basis of complaint filed, registered an FIR and arrested Nagar Palika’s executive officer Niharika Singh, junior engineer CP Singh and supervisor Ashish Kumar, besides contractor Ajay Tyagi and his accomplice Sanjay Garg. The FIR was registered under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (causing damages) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant etc). Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on January 5 had directed that the government’s loss in the incident should be recovered from the suspects. The CM had also directed that action under the National Security Act should be initiated against the suspects.On January 6, Adityanath had directed that the case will be probed by the SIT from the Economic Offences Wing. Tyagi, following his arrest, allegedly revealed to the police that he bribed officials and also resorted to malpractices.“We have taken over the investigation and it is in its initial phase. We have also met the victim families and visited the incident site. More details of the incident are being probed. We are also investigating how the structure collapsed,” said SP Dev Ranjan, who is heading the SIT. According to sources, the SIT met several eye-witnesses and visited the Nagar Palika office, where files of related accounts and works are kept sealed. They added that the probe will also try to find out if more persons were involved in the incident.“The SIT has taken over the investigation from us and they will be staying in Ghaziabad for the duration of the investigation,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). Magisterial inquiry ordered five days after the incident: Meanwhile, the district administration on Friday, five days after the incident, informed the press through a statement by the district information officer that the district magistrate has initiated a magisterial-inquiry into the incident, to be completed by the additional ADM till January 15. When contacted, however, DM Ajay Shankar Pandey maintained that the inquiry was ordered on the day of the incident itself.“I had initiated the magisterial inquiry on January 3 and it is not necessary that every message goes to the media,” Pandey said, while adding that he did not receive the technical inspection report from the committee of engineers constituted after the incident. Earlier, an initial assessment report taken up on the day of the incident by chief engineers of the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) and the municipal corporation had found that prima facie, “substandard quality” material and “design issues” had allegedly led to the structural failure. The initial inquiry report had been sent by the divisional commissioner (Meerut) and inspector general (Meerut range) to the government.Later, a team of senior engineers from the GDA, the civic agency and the UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam Limited had inspected the incident site on Tuesday. The team was directed by the DM to submit a technical report.Sources said Friday that the team was not able to find any design plan for the structure. The work had been assigned to Tyagi in February 2020 from funds received under the Fourteenth Finance Commission.“The team could not find the design plan for the structure. It also recommended that an expert agency be roped in and a probable design of the structure be prepared to assess different aspects which should have been in place. It is a general practice that public works must include soil testing, foundation design and load bearing capacity of the structure. Otherwise, it is a big risk,” said the source. Free education for children of victim families The DM said he has handed over letters of free education to the 31 children from victim families, including injured persons.“We also have confirmation letters from schools to this effect and handed over letters to families of children. The free education of these children will continue till the last class of the school, whether government or private,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muradnagar-roof-collapse-sit-takes-over-probe-magisterial-inquiry-ordered-101610130978549.html
09-01-2021||Other||Bail of Muradnagar executive officer rejected, lawyers to move sessions court||A Ghaziabad court on Friday rejected the bail plea of a Muradnagar Nagar Palika executive officer arrested in connection with the collapse of a crematorium shelter that killed 24 people on January 3.Petitioner Niharika Singh’s lawyer said they will now move the sessions court. “During the hearing we maintained that she was not directly involved in awarding the tender or monitoring quality of the work. She is not a technical person and payments could be released payments only after it was duly inspected by engineers,” said Singh’s lawyer Manoj Sisodia outside the office of the chief judicial magistrate where the hearing took place. “The court said that Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) were invoked in the case and will tried by the sessions court, so the bail was rejected.”Singh was lodged at Dasna jail in Ghaziabad. Police had also arrested contractor Ajay Tyagi, his alleged accomplice Sanjay Garg, and Muradnagar Nagar Palika junior engineer CP Singh and supervisor Ashish Kumar in the case. The FIR names them and also invoked IPC sections 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (causing damages). Contractor Tyagi was entrusted with the construction work at Ukhlarsi cremation ground. It was to cost about ₹55 lakh and assigned to Tyagi in February, 2020 who was to complete it in 60 days. Tyagi, during questioning, allegedly told police that he received first payment of ₹26 lakh in March and another ₹16 lakh in July. He had to allegedly pay ₹16 lakh to the junior engineer and the executive officer before he could receive the first instalment.Following the alleged disclosure, the Ghaziabad police in a written statement issued on January 5 said that they will add sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act to the ongoing investigation. However, the UP government has entrusted the inquiry to a special investigation team of the Economic Offences Wing. The team headed by superintendent of police Dev Ranjan arrived at Ghaziabad on Friday and visited the incident site and also met victim families and several eye-witnesses. “We have taken over the investigation and it is in initial phase at present. More details will be revealed once the investigation progresses,” SP Dev Ranjan, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bail-of-muradnagar-executive-officer-rejected-lawyers-to-move-sessions-court-101610130979003.html
09-01-2021||Noida||Residents demand cleaning of stinking drain||Residents of Jalvayu Vihar sectors 21 and 25 on Friday carried out a march demanding immediate cleaning of a drain in their locality.“We wanted to spread awareness about how the unclean drain is causing air and water pollution in our neighbourhood and causes diseases like bronchitis, skin problems, malaria and dengue,” said Manjul Thapliyal, who organized the campaign.Senior citizens, retired military officers, children and women also took part in the campaign. Children made paintings to attract the attention of the Noida authority on the issue.There are 75 main drains and 44 small drains across Noida. The authority hires contractors to de-silt them as and when needed. However, residents say, that even after cleaning the drains are full of plastic and other waste.“The authority should cover this drain in a manner so that it can be cleaned regularly and the gases emanating out of it does not pollute air in this locality,” said DP Goyal ex-chairman of Jalvayu Vihar Sahkari Awas Samiti.The Noida authority said that it will do what it can.“We clean the drains regularly but people keep throwing all kinds of waste into the drains. However, the national green tribunal had banned covering drains,” said Indu Prakash Singh officer on special duty of the Noida authority.The NGT on March 25, 2014 said banning drains could cause emission of hazardous gases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-demand-cleaning-of-stinking-drain-101610130977440.html
09-01-2021||Noida||Noida: IIT clears funds for water conservation ponds||The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D) has approved Noida Authority’s ₹6.5 crore budget to clean the city’s largest irrigation drain that passes through dozens of residential areas.The technology institute has been vetting the Noida Authority budget for more than 10 years as a third party agency for verification.“Now, we will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with UP irrigation department, which owns the drain, soon and then release the funds,” said Avinash Tripathi officer on special duty of the Noida authority.The 17-km irrigation drain from Delhi’s Ashok Nagar merges with the Yamuna at sector 168. It carries waste water from both Delhi and Noida. It is, however, choking with plastic and other waste thrown into it as it passes through the cities. At least 300 smaller drains merge with it and are just as polluted. The Noida authority has started putting up bamboo net traps to stop this.The irrigation department said they build at least 50 ponds and plant trees that will help reduce pollution levels.“We will start work at the site once the MOU is signed,” a UP irrigation department official confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-iit-clears-funds-for-water-conservation-ponds-101610130978038.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||HC asks authorities to ensure speedy disposal of cases against MPs, MLAs||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the authorities to take steps for the speedy disposal of the cases against the MPs and MLAs while noting that there has been some progress in the rate of disposal of the cases.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, while hearing a plea initiated by itself on the directions of the Supreme Court to all high courts for monitoring the pending criminal cases against MPs and MLAs, was informed by the Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, that only 13 cases are pending.Advocate Rajshekhar Rao, appearing for the Delhi High Court, said that six cases have been disposed of from October till date of which two were decided by a sessions judge and rest four by the magistrate.Following this, the court said, “It appears that there is a progress in court cases. We expect that the concerned respondents will take measure for speedy disposal of matters before the trial court. We expect that the witnesses be produced so that the rest of the matters are also disposed of”.It asked the Centre and the Delhi government to file a status report with regard to the cases disposed in December 2020 and January 2021 while posting the matter hearing on April 18.The PIL was initiated after the apex court, on September 16, had asked the chief justices of all high courts to forthwith list before an appropriate bench all pending criminal cases involving sitting and former lawmakers where stay was granted.The direction came on a petition which was filed in 2016 and raised the issue of inordinately delay in disposal of criminal cases against former and sitting lawmakers. While hearing the plea, SC had issued the direction after observing that there has been “no substantial improvement” in disposal of pending criminal cases against sitting and former lawmakers.It directed the high courts of all the states that “in the event that a stay is considered necessary, the court should hear the matter on a day-­to-­day basis and dispose of the same expeditiously, preferably within a period of two month, without any unnecessary adjournment.”Referring to a report placed before it in the matter, the top court had said that it indicated that about 175 cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and 14 cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 are pending against sitting or former lawmakers.“These are in addition to the 4,442 criminal cases indicated to be pending as per the earlier report of the amicus dated September 8, 2020,” the Supreme Court noted while directing the chief justice of each high court to formulate and submit an action plan for rationalization of the number of special courts necessary.It had said that the aspects to be considered, while making the action plan, were -- total number of pending cases in each district, required number of proportionate special courts, number of courts that are currently available, number of judges and the subject categories of the cases, tenure of the judges to be designated, number of cases to be assigned to each judge, expected time for disposal of the cases, distance of the courts to be designated and adequacy of infrastructure.The top court had also said that while preparing the action plan the chief justices of the high courts should also consider whether it would be necessary and appropriate to transfer cases where trial is going in an expeditious manner.“The chief justices of the high courts shall also designate a special bench, comprising themselves and their designate, in order to monitor the progress of these trials,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcasks-authorities-to-ensure-speedy-disposal-of-cases-against-mps-mlas-101610130917319.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||HC to hear plea on alleged overcharging of colour coded fuel stickers||The Delhi High Court on Friday said that it will hear in February, a plea by the President of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee, Anil Kumar, alleging that the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) were overcharging for the colour coded fuel stickers and High Security Registration Plate (HSRP) that have been made mandatory for vehicles in the national capital.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was informed by advocate Sohail Dutt that the matter is pending in the Supreme Court. However, the claim was disputed by advocate Sunil Fernandes for the petitioner who contended that the present matter had nothing to do with the apex court.He urged the court to at least direct the petitioners to file their reply to the Public Interest Litigation (PIL). The court posted the matter for further hearing on February 12.During the hearing Kumar’s plea was opposed by senior advocate Salman Khurshid, who appeared for the manufacturers, putting two fellow congressmen against each other.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma for the Dehi government told the court that these are statutory schemes and have to be adhered to so that the public is to be benefitted. He said that there is an impression that the citizens of Delhi are in some sort of fear. But there is nothing of that sort.According to the plea, the manner in which the Delhi government was implementing Supreme Court orders for HSRP and colour coded fuel stickers would lead to a loss of around ₹342 crore to the people of the national capital. It said that the notified fee for a colour coded sticker is ₹12.15 and for a complete HSRP set, including the sticker, it is ₹213.24.However, the OEMs were charging customers ₹141.60 (tax not included) and ₹991.20 for the sticker and the HSRP set, respectively, the petition has claimed.It has further claimed that there was a “probable collusion” between OEMs and Delhi government as the latter has commenced a city-wide drive to challan vehicles not having the sticker or the HSRP and the fine amount of ₹5,500 has created a “fear psychosis” in people in the national capital region who are scrambling to get the sticker and HSRP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-to-hear-plea-on-alleged-overcharging-of-colour-coded-fuel-stickers-101610130797349.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Interstate gunrunner nabbed in Delhi, 35 illegal pistols recovered||A consignment of 35 sophisticated illegally-manufactured pistols and 60 cartridges smuggled into Delhi from Madhya Pradesh by hiding them in secret cavities made inside a car were seized from a 24-year-old alleged interstate gunrunner, police said on Friday. The firearms and bullets were to be sold to different criminals active in Delhi and Haryana, police added.The alleged trafficker of illicit firearms was arrested by a team of the special cell on Thursday afternoon from northwest Delhi’s Pitampura, where he had come to deliver the consignment. He was identified as Ashish Kumar Pandey, a resident of Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said.“Pandey purchased one pistol for R7,500 and sold it further to his contacts in Delhi-CR for R15,000, earning a double profit. The same pistol is sold to a criminal between R25,000 and R30,000,” added the DCP.DCP Yadav said that keeping in view the forthcoming Republic Day celebrations the special cell has been carrying out a special drive against suppliers of illegal firearms in Delhi and adjoining states. Several teams were tasked to identify and nab gunrunners entering Delhi with trafficked firearms manufactured illegally in Bihar’s Munger, and places in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The prime focus was mounted on syndicates that procured illicit firearms from Khargone, Dhar, Barwani, and Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh.On Thursday, a police team received information that an alleged gunrunner, Ashish Kumar Pandey, would be coming to Pitampura with a consignment of arms and ammunition in a Swift Dzire car. Around noon, a trap was laid on Shree Kalyan Parshvanath Jain Mandir Marg, where the suspect arrived in the car after around 1 pm.“The team members surrounded the vehicle and apprehended Pandey. The car was thoroughly searched and 35 pistols along with 60 bullets were found hidden in the secret spaces created in its four doors and the boot. Four pistols were kept in each door while the remaining 19 were kept with the bullets in the spare tyre’s space,” said Yadav.The DCP said Pandey confessed to being a member of an interstate syndicate involved in trafficking of illegal firearms and ammunition. He had procured the weapons from one Prahlad alias Jaggu in Barwani.Pandey told the police that after completing his graduation from Kanpur, his financial crisis led him to come in contact with some illegal arms suppliers two years ago.The police are now looking for other members of the syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/interstate-gunrunner-nabbed-in-delhi-35-illegal-pistols-recovered-101610130497698.html
09-01-2021||Other||Court denies bail to woman accused in head constable Rattan Lal’s murder||A Delhi court on Friday dismissed the bail plea of a woman accused in connection with a case related to the murder of head constable Rattan Lal during north-east Delhi riots last year while stating that “even burqa­ clad women are clearly seen attacking the police party with sticks and other material in their hands and they clearly appeared to be charged up”.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav rejected the bail plea of Tabassum, a resident of Chand Bagh of Delhi, observing that the call detail records of the mobile phone of her revealed that she was in constant touch with several co­-accused.The judge noted that “it is clearly evident that the protesters and organisers had motivated the mob and certain unscrupulous elements had surrounded the scene of crime and they appeared to be fully equipped with rioting material — like stones, sticks, sharp ­edged and other sort of raw weapons.”“It has also come on record that some of the persons of the mob had taken possession of the rooftops of high­ rise buildings at or around 25 feet road, having firearms and other rioting material with them,” the judge noted.He said that “all this prima facie indicates that everything was being done under a well­ hatched conspiracy, the common object whereof was to cause blockade of the main Wazirabad Road and if resisted by the police, then to go to any extent to liquidate them by the use of force.”The police had opposed the bail plea saying Tabassum used to share stage with other protesters and instigate the gathering against the government, which ultimately led to violence on February 24 last year thereby resulting in death of more than 50 people in north-east Delhi, including head constable Rattan Lal.According to the prosecution, during the incident, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Shahdara, Amit Sharma, ACP of Gokalpuri Anuj Kumar, and 51 other policemen had also suffered severe injuries at the hands of rioters.The woman’s counsel had contended that the applicant was a lady, aged about 38 years and a permanent resident of Chand Bagh, who had two minor school going children. He said that the children’s future is at stake as they have been deprived of the care and custody of their mother while also contending that she has been falsely implicated in the present matter by the investigating agency.Communal riots had broken out in north east Delhi in February last year claiming 53 lives and leaving over 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-denies-bail-to-woman-accused-in-head-constable-rattan-lal-s-murder-101610130497249.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Poultry prices crash in wholesale markets amid fears of avian flu outbreak||The wholesale prices of poultry has dropped by around ₹40 per kilo in two days amid fears of an outbreak of bird flu in Delhi-NCR, according to traders in the city’s wholesale poultry markets.However, the drop in poultry prices is yet to reflect in retail markets, even as traders across the city said the number of customers have dipped slightly on Friday in retail as well as wholesale markets.Cases of bird flu so far have been confirmed in at least six states ---Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Kerala.The Delhi government had on Thursday launched a sample collection drive to check for bird flu.“Even though there has been no cases of bird flu in Delhi, residents are exercising caution in buying poultry. So, the wholesale rates of poultry has dropped in the market. Till Wednesday, the wholesale prices were about ₹100 per bird per kilo which has now dropped to ₹80 to ₹60 per bird per kilo depending upon quality,” said Tehseen Quraishi, a wholesale trader in Ghazipur Fish and Poultry market.Adil Ahmed, another trader at the wholesale market, said that they are taking all precautions and teams of Delhi government are also collecting samples from the market.“Fewer customers came to buy poultry today as compared to the last two days. Samples are being collected by the government to check and control spread of the flu,” he said.However, traders in the city’s retail markets said that the prices of poultry is the same, but customers are asking question before buying the bird.“The customers are probing if the poultry they are buying is healthy and fresh and if it might have been infected by the flu. Though the prices have not yet dropped, but the number of customers has dipped slightly as compared to the last 2-3 days. If cases of bird flu start being reported from the city, then the business will take a hit,” said Salim Quraishi, who has a poultry shop in Sukhdev Vihar area.Consumers said that there was no drop in retail prices of poultry but they were exercising caution.Madhuri Nath, a resident of South Delhi’s Moti Bagh said that the retail prices of chicken had not reduced till at least Friday morning.“We ordered a kilo of boneless chicken on Friday for ₹240. The place where we usually get our supply from had assured us of safety but now that the cases might be coming up in Delhi, we might stop buying poultry altogether,” said Nath.Another consumer, Nipun Tiwari, a resident of Meera Bagh, said that since the news of avian flu scare came out, they have not ordered poultry or chicken products.“We have completely stopped ordering poultry or eggs for the last 2-3 days. It might not be dangerous to humans but we do not want to take any chance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poultry-prices-crash-in-wholesale-markets-amid-fears-of-avian-flu-outbreak-101610130437654.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Mercury may rise, but air will get cleaner: IMD||The air quality in the national capital improved marginally on Friday on the back of stronger winds during the day, even as the temperature dropped, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The department said there is a forecast of light rains in some parts of the city in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that Delhi’s air quality on Friday was 234, in the ‘poor’ category. On Thursday, the AQI was 255, also categorised as ‘poor’.On Friday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, considered the official marker for the city, was 9.6 degree Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 16.9 degree Celsius — both normal for this time of the season.IMD scientists said winds picked up speed during the day on Friday, due to light rain in some areas of Faridabad on Friday, leading to the dispersion of pollutants.VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said winds will get significantly stronger from January 10.“Because of increased wind speeds, air quality will also show a good improvement. On Saturday, the air quality is expected to be between the ‘poor’ and ‘moderate’ zones,” said Soni.IMD has also forecast that the temperature is expected to increase slightly over the weekend due to another western disturbance affecting Delhi and areas in the National Capital Region (NCR).Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said there is a possibility of moderate to dense fog in the early hours of Saturday.“There is no major warning of any drastic dip temperature in the coming days. The fog in the early hours is also likely to be moderate. The wind from Sunday will also help clear the fog,” said Srivastava.Due to abundant moisture and other favourable meteorological features, dense to very dense fog is also likely over isolated pockets in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, West Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and east Uttar Pradesh on January 9 and 10, IMD officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mercury-may-rise-but-air-will-get-cleanerimd-101610130438152.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||18 more ventilators for patients in need of neurosurgery at GB Pant hospital||The Delhi cabinet on Friday approved the procurement of 18 advanced ventilators for the neurosurgery department at the Govind Ballabh Pant hospital near Delhi Gate. The hospital specialises in gastrointestinal, cardiac, and neurological treatment.It is the oldest of the three super speciality hospitals run by the Delhi government and the only one that offers all services free of cost. The other two – Rajiv Gandhi Superspecialty Hospital and Janakpuri Superspecialty hospital – are autonomous institutes under the Delhi government and charge for certain tests and procedures.“The Delhi cabinet has also decided to procure 18 advanced ventilators for intensive care units (ICUs) of neurosurgery department at GB Pant Hospital,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet on Friday.The hospital currently has 22 intensive care unit beds under the neurosurgery department and 20 under the neurology department, as per the hospital’s website. It is a 714-bed hospital that sees around 15,000 admissions each year.It also offers postgraduation courses.“It is with great delectation that I inform that the proposal to procure 18 advanced ventilators for ICUs of neurosurgery department at GB Pant Hospital has been approved. This addition to the existing capacity will enable us to provide medical treatment to a larger number of patients in the future,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18-more-ventilators-for-patients-in-need-of-neurosurgery-at-gb-pant-hospital-101610130437202.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Hospitals say dry run was a good practice days ahead of the vaccine roll out||With a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) days away from being rolled out, Delhi conducted a third dry run at multiple sites spread across all 11 districts on of the national capital Friday. The dry run was mainly to build confidence in the processes, resolve any issues that might arise, and to gain much needed practise in taking care of any adverse events that might happen during the immunisation drive.The vaccination drive might begin Wednesday onwards, HT had reported on Friday. The districts have long-listed 55 government and 105 private hospitals, each with over 100 health care workers, to receive the initial roll-out.Meanwhile, officials of the Union health ministry informed the Delhi government on Friday that the vaccine will be rolled out at 89 sites in Delhi.The vaccination sites will be a three-room set-up – the waiting room where beneficiaries will wait on arrival, the vaccination area, and the observation area.There are four vaccine officers and a vaccinator designated for each site and they will verify each person’s ID before matching the name with the list on the government’s CoWIN portal, take a medical history and then administer the shot.The person is to wait in the observation room for 30 minutes to check if (s)he develops any allergic reactions, rashes, breathing difficulty, or fever.At each site, 25 beneficiaries were called in on Friday to go through the mock drill that started at 9am and lasted two hours.At the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the site was in the employee health clinic on the eight floor of the outpatient block. “Since the health care workers would be the first to get vaccinated, we have created a site in the employee health clinic. Our nurses are already trained in the exercise and the whole process went smoothly,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital.Across the road, Safdarjung hospital created a vaccination site on the first floor of its old outpatient clinic block that was converted for Covid testing since the pandemic outbreak. “There are things like how to store the vaccine – even in the vaccine carrier boxes, there has to be a certain amount of ice and a certain number of doses. Or, how to take care of adverse events. The dry runs help those who haven’t taken part in such vaccination drives previously understand the processes,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at the hospital.All sites will have an “adverse event following immunisation (AEFI)” kit present and it will contain medicines such as atropine, epinephrine, antihistamine for allergies and paracetamol for fever to take care of any immediate reactions/ side effects.The government has decided to conduct the vaccination drives at 55 government hospitals and 105 private hospitals initially– before starting them in dispensaries – to see what reactions might happen and ensure timely treatment of those who suffer such reactions.At private hospitals selected as centres, the vaccines will be supplied by the Delhi government and will be available for free to beneficiaries. The sites will draw staff from the hospital but will have government appointed supervisors present.“At first, the beneficiaries will be from our own hospital. A list of our staff members who are experienced in vaccinations has already been sent to the Delhi government. They will now be trained for a couple of days on using the government portal and the vaccination process. However, some government staff will also be present during the actual drive,” said Dr Amiya Verma, deputy medical superintendent of Max hospital, Patparganj, which also conducted a dry run on Friday.He said the only hitch o Friday was that many of the staff members called in as beneficiaries had carried their hospital ID instead of a government issued ID needed for the vaccination drive.“It gave us an understanding of how everything needs to be arranged for the actual drive,” he said.India’s drugs controller on Sunday granted restricted emergency approval to two companies for their Covid-19 vaccines.The first vaccine to become available in Delhi will likely be the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, called Covishield in India, and manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute of India. The other vaccine that has been granted approval for “restricted use in emergency situations” is Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospitals-say-dry-run-was-a-good-practice-days-ahead-of-the-vaccine-roll-out-101610130377188.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi records less than 500 Covid cases in a first since May last year||As the city continues to report fewer number of new cases of Covid-19, the number of tests being conducted too has seen a dip in the last one week.The city has conducted around 70,583 tests on an average daily for the last seven days. In comparison, there were 75,953 average daily tests conducted the week before and 82,710 tests the week before that.On Friday, Delhi reported 444 new cases of Covid-19 and 10 new deaths due to the infection. Delhi’s current death toll stands at 10,654.The positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – has, however, coninued dipping.On Friday, the single-day positivity rate stood at 0.59%. The average positivity rate reported over the last seven days was 0.68% as compared to 0.86% the week before that and 1.16% the week before that, the daily data shared by the Delhi government showed.Experts believe that the spread of the infection is under control if the positivity rate remains at 5% or less for 14 days. Delhi has seen a positivity rate of less than 5% for 37 days now. With flights from UK set to resume, the Delhi government has ordered that all UK returnees must remain in 7-day mandatory institutional quarantine and 7-day home quarantine even if they test negative to prevent the spread of the more transmissible variant of Covid in the city.“For the first time in the last 7 and a half months, the number of cases has gone below 500. After May 17 last year, this is the lowest number of cases recorded. Positivity rate has fallen; testing is still being conducted on a large scale. The outbreak in Delhi is quite contained, but I will still urge you all to wear a mask and follow all the proper precautions,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-records-less-than-500-covid-cases-in-a-first-since-may-last-year-101610130317750.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Teachers to be included as front line workers for vaccination||Teachers in schools run by the Delhi government and the municipal corporations — who have been actively involved in Covid-19 duty — will also be included in the list of front line workers to be vaccinated in the first phase, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said he raised the matter in the meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday, after which it was unanimously decided that all personnel, irrespective of their departments, who have been part of the city administration’s Covid management team, will be given the vaccine shots on a priority basis under the category of front line workers.“The matter was discussed at length and it was unanimously decided that all personnel who were or have been engaged in Covid related works will be given the vaccine shot under the priority category. This is going to be across all departments,” said Sisodia.The DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and has chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as its vice-chairperson.Earlier the government’s list of front line workers for vaccination only included police personnel, sanitation workers and civil defence volunteers.Apart from teachers, the DDMA’s decision means that select workers from the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), and departments such as transport, power, and revenue, among others, will also be considered for vaccination, if the concerned official had performed any Covid duties in the past 11 months.As per rough estimates of the government, around 300,000 health care workers and 600,000 lakh front line workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase. However, the final list of front line workers is still being worked out by the administration.As for including teachers, their inclusion was discussed because school teachers were put on Covid-19 duty, sometimes even for 12 hours or more, as physical classes in schools across the city have been on hold since March last year owing to the pandemic. Hundreds of teachers were helping the government in food distribution during the migrant crisis and were also made in-charges of temporary shelter homes. Scores of other MCD and government teachers are also involved in the government’s door-to-door survey programme in detecting Covid-19 cases and now have been deployed for the upcoming vaccination campaign.“After the vaccine process begins, the government can consider reopening schools. It will be better if teachers are vaccinated. Reopening schools is important because it has been shut for more than 10 months now. The whole academic learning process for thousands of students has taken a hit, especially in government-run schools,” said an officer, who was part of the DDMA meeting.Outlining the Capital’s plan for the first phase of the vaccine roll out, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that the government has identified 5.1 million people who will be the first to get Covid-19 vaccination under the Central government’s “priority category”.The government is currently conducting a registration drive and has identified citizens in three priority categories -- health care workers, front line workers such as police personnel and citizens who have been deemed at-risk. The phone numbers of citizens are being updated and an SMS will be sent to the person’s mobile number notifying them about the date, time and place of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-to-be-included-as-front-line-workers-for-vaccination-101610130317299.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi makes 7-day institutional quarantine mandatory for all UK returnees||The Delhi government on Friday announced that all passengers arriving from the United Kingdom would have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine of seven days, even if they tested negative in an RT-PCR check conducted at the airport on landing, in order to better control the spread of a more infectious mutant Covid-19 strain that is raging in parts of Britain.According to the Union health ministry’s protocols for incoming flyers, released on Wednesday, those who tested positive were to be housed in state quarantine, while those who tested negative could be in home isolation for 14 days.Delhi initially endorsed the guidelines, before adding the extra clause of institutional quarantine for all for the first seven days. The decision was supported by experts from a preventive perspective, but by the time the order was issued, flyers from the UK were already airborne. They learnt that they would have to mandatorily stay in an institutional quarantine facility only after they landed, leading to chaos at Delhi airport soon after the first incoming flight from the UK in 16 days — carrying 256 passengers — landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport.Over the course of the day, several of the passengers posted videos and photographs on social media blaming authorities for issuing the order without prior notice.Sauravan Roy, who lives and works in Southampton, said he had taken the first available flight from London to India to visit Kolkata. He said his father had died on January 2, but he could not attend the last rites due to the bar on flights. On Friday, when he reached the airport with a negative Covid-19 test report, he was told that every incoming passenger had to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for seven days in Delhi.“I followed all the guidelines laid down by the Indian government. I brought along my RT-PCR test report, and got tested upon landing. Despite that, I have been left with no choice but to spend seven days in quarantine. This defeats the purpose of me travelling home during an emergency,” said Roy.He contended that since the new rule was put in place after their flight had departed, those who tested negative should have been exempted, and the rule should have bee applied from the next flight onwards. “If passengers knew about the new mandate, many would have planned their travel accordingly,” he said.Till Friday night, two of the UK returnees had tested positive for Covid-19, and their samples will now be sent for genome tests to check for the mutation.Government authorities said the decision, while inconvenient, was important for safety.“After seeing three waves of Covid in Delhi, somehow the number of daily cases has become manageable. The positivity rate has come down to 0.59%. In such a case, if there is an outbreak of the new UK variant of Sars-Cov-2 it will spread like wildfire in the city as it has higher transmissibility,” said a senior health official who asked not to be named.He added that allowing home quarantine for UK returnees who test negative for Covid-19 would be “too big a risk”.Since the emergence of the new strain in early December, the UK has seen its most severe spike in cases and deaths since the Covid-19 outbreak began. In the last seven days, the country has added an average of 57,243 new cases of the infection per day.The Delhi government has identified 20 hotels and five hospitals to quarantine the passengers. The incoming flyers will have to pay to stay at the hotels -- mostly 4-5 stars; the list includes Taj Palace, ITC Maurya, The Imperial, and several hotels at Aerocity, among others -- and for treatment at four of the five hospitals — Max (Saket), Batra, Fortis (Vasant Kunj), and Sir Gangaram. Treatment at the fifth hospital, Lok Nayak, is free of charge.The rates at the hotels — approximately ₹4,000-4,800 a night — include all meals.Incoming flyers can also stay for free at a quarantine facility at Terapanth Bhawan in Chhatarpur.Officials of the New Delhi district administration, which is in charge of making quarantine arrangements for the UK returnees, said a total of 1,950 rooms in 20 hotels will be used as paid institutional quarantine facilities for the passengers. Eleven of the hotels are in Aerocity, where 1,450 rooms are reserved for quarantine. The other nine have been asked to reserve 500 rooms for the UK returnees.AIRPORT CHAOS The incoming flight (AI 112) landed in Delhi at 10.30am, and passengers said they had to spend around 8-10 hours to get their tests done, receive their reports, and be sent to their respective quarantine centres.Sanju Rigson said she travelled to India on Friday for her wedding on January 18, but was forced to miss her connecting flight to Kochi because of the new rules. “At Heathrow airport, I was given the boarding pass for my flight from Delhi to Kochi. The Delhi government came up with the rule only after we had departed and so we should have been exempted,” she said.Rigson was tested at the Delhi airport around 4.30pm. At 7pm, when she spoke to HT, she was yet to get an update about her test result.“There was a lot of mismanagement at the airport. Only two testing counters are open, causing long queues. The first batch was tested around noon, but there are no updates on reports even at 7pm,” she said.However, officials of the Delhi airport on Friday said that they had specified, in advisories to passengers, that the “time for the test results at T3 may take up to 10 hours”.Passengers also complained that the charges for the Covid-19 tests and paid quarantine were too high. A passenger from Derby, who said his incoming trip was an emergency because his son had sustained burn injuries at his home in Andhra Pradesh, said he had to pay ₹3,400 for the mandatory RT-PCR test at the airport.“Everyone wants to opt for free government quarantine facility. But it will soon be full and we will be left with no option to spend ₹4,000 per night for our quarantine in a hotel,” he said.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said people in the initial phase of infection do not test positive. “The infection’s incubation period is five to six days. A 14-day isolation period is important, and essential. If they had done this (mandatory quarantine) when the infection began to spread in January, we would have managed to contain the spread more effectively,” Kant said.Delhi government spokespeople did not respond to requests for comment, despite multiple calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-makes-7-day-institutional-quarantine-mandatory-for-all-uk-returnees-101610130257296.html
09-01-2021||Other||Delhi zoo taking precautions for safety of its inhabitants||The Delhi zoo authorities said they are taking all precautions to ensure safety of its inhabitants, as reports of carcasses of crows being found in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar poured in on Friday.The Delhi zoo has been closed for visitors since March last year when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.Officials said that in the coming days, teams from Delhi government’s animal husbandry department will be taking samples from the zoo as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, a standard operating procedure (SOP) is also being followed on the zoo premises by authorities.“All the enclosures are being disinfected thrice a day, with special focus on areas where wild and migratory birds come in. Enclosures are also being inspected regularly to check for any symptoms of flu” said a Delhi zoo spokesperson.The official also said that as a precautionary measure, the National Zoological Park has also stopped ordering chicken from NCR towns and from other wholesale markets. Usually, the Delhi zoo orders around 40-50 kilos of chicken to feed the animals there.“We have stopped feeding chicken to animals. This is not only for the safety of animals but also for the safety of the enclosure keepers who are handling their feed,” the official said.When it comes to checking the feeding of animals, the zoo is also at present not keeping fish and bird feed in open enclosures, to ensure that this does not attract wild birds.Officials said that they are careful and do not want a repeat of the 2016 bird flu epidemic at the Delhi zoo, which led to the death of several birds. The Delhi zoo, one of the most popular tourism spots of NCR, was closed for visitors for nearly three months after the 2016 scare.“All the tests will be conducted and we will ensure maximum safety,” the Delhi zoo spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-zoo-taking-precautions-for-safety-of-its-inhabitants-101610130198375.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||Eye on Goa polls, Delhi govt to open Konkani academy||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday approved the setting up of a Konkani academy to facilitate the growth and promotion of the Konkani language and culture in the national Capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.The announcement comes at a time when the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is trying to strengthen its popularity in Goa by wooing its voters as a viable alternative, where Konkani is the official language. Elections in Goa are scheduled some time around March next year.“Congratulations to all Konkani speaking people and all those who love Konkani language. To promote Konkani language, Delhi Cabinet today approved setting up of a Konkani academy in Delhi,” Kejriwal announced in a tweet on Friday.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said Goa has a special place in every Indian’s heart. “The Delhi government’’s Konkani academy will bring forth the best of authentic Konkani culture to the capital,” he said.The academy will be set up under the Department of Art, Culture and Languages of the Delhi government, for the people of Delhi to have exposure to the rich Konkani culture, language, literature and folk arts.“The newly set-up academy will soon be allocated an office space with all the necessary infrastructure,” an official statement said.Konkani is an Indo-Aryan language that is spoken by the Konkani people living primarily in the country’’s western coastal region. It is one of the 22 scheduled languages mentioned in the Constitution’’s 8th schedule.In 2019, the Delhi government had constituted 14 new language academies under the Department of Art, Culture and Languages.Recently, a Tamil academy was also notified and set up by the Delhi government to promote Tamil culture and language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eye-on-goa-polls-delhi-govt-to-open-konkani-academy-101610129958535.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||PWD translocates pipal tree near demolished temple in ChandniChowk to east Delhi||The Delhi government’s public works department (PWD) early Friday morning removed the pipal tree in Chandni Chowk -- located right next to the Hanuman temple that was demolished by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation earlier this week on the orders of the Delhi high court -- and transplanted it at a site in east Delhi. Although the PWD officials said they had taken permission from the forest department and were in line with the law while removing the tree, the Delhi BJP criticised the government for not protecting heritage trees.A PWD official said the tree has been transplanted at its subdivision office near Geeta Colony in east Delhi after being removed from the site around 2am Friday.“We had necessary permission for the relocation of the tree from the forest department. It has been transplanted at our subdivision office. Like the temple, the tree was also falling on the right of way and had to be removed,” said the PWD official in charge of the project.But the BJP took umbrage over the way it was transplanted. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shanker Kapoor, said, “They removed the tree at night. The PWD removed the tree from the site after permission from the government. We condemn the move.”North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “This shows that the government is not concerned about heritage trees and the environment.”The temple, located on the road which is being redesigned only for pedestrians only as part of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment plan, was declared “illegal” by the high court and the order for its removal was passed in 2015.On Sunday, the North corporation had demolished the Hanuman temple in the heritage market in pursuance of the high court order.This had led to a blame game between the AAP and the BJP. While the AAP blamed the BJP, which is the ruling party in the North corporation for the demolition, the latter blamed the Delhi government for not incorporating the temple and the tree in the redevelopment plan of Chandni Chowk.The Chandni Chowk redevelopment work aims to have a decongested and pedestrianised heritage market along the 1.5km road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid and the project is being executed by Shahjahanbad Redevelopment Corporation.Both the AAP and the Delhi government refused to comment on the issue despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pwdtranslocates-pipal-tree-near-demolished-temple-in-chandni-chowk-to-east-delhi-101610129957649.html
09-01-2021||Delhi||High court to hear plea against Covid bed reservation on Feb 12||The Delhi High Court on Friday said that it would hear the plea by Association of Healthcare Providers challenging the decision of the Delhi government to reserve 80% Covid ICU beds in 33 private hospitals on February 12 after the petitioners raised questions on the gradual manner of de-escalation of Covid ICU beds.Justice Navin Chawla said that no further adjournments would be given on the next date and posted the matter for Tuesday.The Delhi government counsel advocate Urvi Mohan sought an adjournment from the court due to the absence of the Additional Solicitor General. However, this was opposed by senior advocate Maninder Singh, for the petitioners, who said that they should not be left at the mercy of the government which has reserved the beds even after the positivity rate had plunged to 0.5%.Senior advocate Singh said that when the government had to reserve the beds, it did it in one go but the de-escalation is being done gradually. He also opposed the Delhi government’s move to reserve 40% Covid ICU beds in 33 private hospitals and said that he has also advised his client to file a suit of recovery against the government.“It is very convenient for the government to take adjournments in the matter when there is no stay on the order. We are under article 226 and we are not getting any adjudication here,” Singh, along with advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, submitted.The Delhi government also informed the court that it has reduced the reservation of Covid-19 intensive care units (ICU) beds from 80% to 40% in 33 private hospitals, while considering the low occupancy of such beds by Covid patients in the city.The government gave an order of January 6 passed by the medical superintendent of nursing homes, RN Das, under the approval of home minister Satyendra Jain to the court, stating that it has accepted the recommendations of a review meeting held on January 5 by a committee of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to reduce the number of beds further to 40%.The order has said that the data with respect to pattern of Covid ICU bed occupancy on Jan 5 in 33 private hospitals was analysed by the committee and it was recommended that the de-escalation should take place up to 40%.It, however, added that the status of Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital, Saket as a fully COVID dedicated hospital shall continue.On December 27, the Delhi government had reduced the ICU beds occupancy from 80% to 60%. However, it had also said that they would not consider any further de-escalations in the wake of the new strain of the Sars-Cov-2 virus detected in the United Kingdom, as well as with Christmas and New Year’s celebrations in mind. The government said it will review the situation in January.The court had, on December 24, said it would be “inhumane” to have 80% ICU beds in almost three dozen private hospitals of the city reserved only for Covid-19 patients, especially when the positivity rate and cases in the city was falling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-to-hear-plea-against-covid-bed-reservation-on-feb-12-101610129957147.html
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE board exams from May 4: Many pvt schools in Ludhiana to conduct pre-boards twice||With the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) deciding to conduct board exams for Classes 10 and 12 from May 4, several private schools have decided to postpone the pre-board exams. Others have decided to conduct two such exams along with weekly tests to ensure students are fully prepared.Amid the Covid pandemic, the board took the decision after taking feedback from and consulting various stakeholders. The practicals/projects and internal assessment for Class 12 will be conducted from March 1.Majority of the private schools have already conducted pre-board exams in December and were planning to conduct revision tests for students at school. However, in the last three days, they have received requests from parents to hold the pre-board exams later before final exams.BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, conducted pre-boards in December for students of board classes and were planning to hold it again this month. But now, they have decided to conduct it in March.School principal Paramjit Kaur, said, “The final board exams will be held in May so why conduct the pre-board exams early. We will hold regular classes for the students from now so that they can clear their doubts.”Other private schools such as BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri is also planning to postpone the pre-board exams. It was scheduled to begin from January 9 for the board classes. School principal Vandna Shahi, said, “We will ask the students of boards classes to attend classes physically. Teachers can repeat the concepts which are difficult and revise the syllabus.”The authorities of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, have decided to conduct pre-board exams for Class 10 students online instead of offline from January 5. The school has 427 students in Class 10. JK Sidhu, principal, said, “We will conduct the pre-board exams as per schedule for Classes 10 and 12 from January 5 and January 16, respectively. We will again hold pre-boards for Class 10 physically in February.”Kundan Vidya Mandir school, Civil Lines, will conduct the pre-board exams for board classes from January 7. School principal Navita Puri, said, “The schedule for pre-board exam was already finalised and the exam will be conducted as per schedule. But we will conduct a test series for both classes.”At Bhartiya Vidya Mandir, Udham Singh Nagar, the pre-board exams will start from January 15 for board classes. The authorities have decided to conduct two such exams to ensure students are fully prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-board-exams-from-may-4-many-pvt-schools-in-ludhiana-to-conduct-pre-boards-twice/story-duYbsjJgchIavn0EIUoUfM.html
09-01-2021||World||Hit by Twitter ban, president plans to start own platform||US President Donald Trump said he will look at building his own social media platform after Twitter suspended him on Friday, citing a “risk of further incitement of violence” following the storming of the US Capitol.Trump sent the latest tweets on his @POTUS account after Twitter banned his personal account. He had been using @realDonaldTrump for announcements, accusations and misinformation. Twitter said in a blog post, “We have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence.”Also, owners of the two major app stores took action against the Parler social networking service because of posts inciting violence, with Alphabet’s Google removing it and Apple warning it may do the same.Trump to blame for death of woman, says familyThe brother-in-law of a woman killed during the assault on the US Capitol by a mob said he blames President Trump for the riot, and has joined calls for him to be removed from office.Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was one of four civilians who died in the rioting. Police did not disclose the cause of Boyland’s death. Boyland’s brother-in-law Justin Cave told the media that the family was grieving for others killed and injured in the rioting, he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hit-by-twitter-ban-president-plans-to-start-own-platform-101610215228754.html
09-01-2021||World||Pak court remands main accused, 55 others for vandalisation of Hindu temple||An anti-terrorism court in Pakistan on Saturday sent the main accused, along with 55 others, arrested in the vandalisation of a Hindu temple by a mob led by members of a radical Islamist party in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, to police custody for nine days.The court also remanded another 56 accused in the case, including Maulvi Sharif who is said to have incited the crowd, to judicial custody.The temple in Terri village in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's (KP) Karak district was attacked last week by the mob after members of the Hindu community received permission from local authorities to renovate its decades-old building. The mob had demolished the newly constructed work alongside the old structure.Khyber Pakhtunkhwa police chief Sanaullah Abbasi said on Friday that Faizullah, who was identified as the main accused, was arrested from Karak district. He is said to have instigated and facilitated the mob for attacking the temple and damaging the Samadhi of a religious leader there.The attack on the temple by members of radical Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam party (Fazal ur Rehman group) drew strong condemnation from human rights activists and the minority Hindu community leaders.Police have filed complaint against 350 people in the case.The Supreme Court has ordered the Evacuee Property Trust Board (EPTB) to start reconstruction of the damaged temple and instructed authorities to recover the money for the restoration work from the attackers whose act has caused "international embarrassment" to Pakistan.Hindus form the biggest minority community in Pakistan.According to official estimates, 75 lakh Hindus live in Pakistan. However, according to the community, over 90 lakh Hindus are living in the country.The majority of Pakistan's Hindu population is settled in Sindh province where they share culture, traditions and language with Muslim residents. They often complain of harassment by the extremists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-court-remands-main-accused-55-others-for-vandalisation-of-hindu-temple-101610214868269.html
09-01-2021||World||No surprise: Trump left many clues he wouldn't go quietly||President Donald Trump left plenty of clues he'd try to burn the place down on his way out the door.The clues spread over a lifetime of refusing to acknowledge defeat. They spanned a presidency marked by raw, angry rhetoric, puffed-up conspiracy theories and a kind of fellowship with “patriots” drawn from the seething ranks of right-wing extremists. The clues piled on at light speed when Trump lost the election and wouldn't admit it.The culmination of all that came Wednesday when Trump supporters, exhorted by the president to go to the Capitol and “fight like hell” against a “stolen” election, overran and occupied the building in an explosive confrontation that left a Capitol Police officer and four others dead.The mob went there so emboldened by Trump's send-off at a rally that his partisans live-streamed themselves trashing the place. Trump, they figured, had their back.This was, after all, the president who had responded to a right-wing plot to kidnap Michigan's Democratic governor last year with the comment: “Maybe it was a problem. Maybe it wasn't.”Over the arc of his presidency and his life, by his own words and actions, Trump hated losing and wouldn't own up to it when it happened. He spun bankruptcies into successes, setbacks in office into glowing achievements, the stain of impeachment into martyrdom.Then came the ultimate loss, the election, and desperate machinations that politicians likened to the practices of “banana republics" or the "Third World” but were wholly America in the twilight of the Trump presidency.Often with a wink and a nod over the past four years, sometimes more directly — “We love you,” he told the Capitol Hill mob as he gently suggested well into the clashes that they go home now — Trump made common cause with fringe elements eager to give him affirmation in return for his respect.That made for a combustible mix when the stakes were highest. The elements had been coming together in plain sight, often in missives delivered by tweet. (On Friday, Twitter banned Trump's account, denying him his megaphone of choice, "due to the risk of further incitement of violence.”)“I wish we could say we couldn’t see it coming,” President-elect Joe Biden said of the Capitol melee. "But that isn’t true. We could see it coming.”Mary Trump saw it coming from her unique vantage point as a clinical psychologist and Trump niece.“It’s just a very old emotion that he’s never been able to process from when he was a little kid — terrified of the consequences of being in a losing position, terrified of being held accountable for his actions for the first time in his life,” she told PBS a week after the election.“He is in a position of being a loser, which in my family, certainly ... was the worst possible thing you could be,” she said. “So he’s feeling trapped, he’s feeling desperate ... increasingly enraged."Post-election trouble was predictable because Trump all but said it would happen if he lost.Months before a vote was cast, he claimed the system was rigged and plans for mail-in voting fraudulent, assailing the process so relentlessly that he may have hurt his chances by discouraging his supporters from voting by mail. He pointedly declined to assure the country in advance that he would respect the result, something most presidents don't have to be asked to do.There was no evidence before the election that it would be tainted and no evidence after of the massive fraud or gross error that he and his team alleged in scores of lawsuits that judges, whether appointed by Republicans, Democrats or Trump himself, systematically dismissed, often as nonsense. The Supreme Court, with three justices placed by Trump, brushed him off.That didn't stop him.“I hate defeat," he said in a 2011 video. “I cannot stand defeat.”But the election aftermath ultimately left him with no fallback except his foot soldiers, who couldn't countenance his losing, either.Trump's history of advancing false and sometimes racist conspiracies rooted in right-wing extremism is long.He's praised supporters of QAnon, a convoluted pro-Trump conspiracy theory, saying he didn’t know much about the movement “other than I understand they like me very much” and “it is gaining in popularity.”QAnon centers on an alleged anonymous, high-ranking government official known as “Q” who shares information about an anti-Trump “deep state.” The FBI has warned that conspiracy theory-driven extremists, such as QAnon, are domestic terrorist threats.In 2017, Trump said there was “blame on both sides” for deadly violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, the site of a standoff between white supremacist groups and those protesting them. He said there were “fine people” on both sides.And during a debate with Biden, Trump wouldn’t criticize the neo-fascist Proud Boys. Instead, Trump said the group should “Stand back and stand by.” The remark drew a firestorm and a day later he tried to walk it back.Trump didn’t condemn the actions of an Illinois teen accused of fatally shooting two people and wounding a third during summer protests on the streets of Kenosha, Wisconsin. Kyle Rittenhouse pleaded not guilty to charges.In October he chose not to denounce people who plotted the kidnapping of Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat. “When our leaders meet, encourage or fraternize with domestic terrorists, they legitimize their actions and they are complicit,” she said. “When they stoke and contribute to hate speech, they are complicit.”To Mary Trump, the manner of her uncle's defeat helped to set the stage for the toxicity she presciently said in November would happen.Republicans in the Senate and House races outperformed him, enlarging their minority in the House and holding their Senate majority until Georgia’s two elections this month tipped the Senate balance to Democrats.His defeat Nov. 3 was on him, not the party. “So he also doesn’t have anybody else to blame,” his niece said. “So I think that he is probably in a position that nobody can help him out of emotionally and psychologically, which is going to make it worse for the rest of us.”Worse came.Oren Segal, vice president of the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism, called the attack Wednesday the “logical conclusion to extremism and hate going unchecked” during Trump’s presidency.“If you’re surprised, you haven’t been paying attention,” said Amy Spitalnick of Integrity First, a civil rights group engaged in lawsuits over the 2017 Charlottesville violence.Thursday night, Trump took a stab at a unifying message, after months of provocation, saying in a video “this moment calls for healing and reconciliation."But Friday he was back to tending “his great American Patriots” and demanding they be treated fairly, and he said he won't go to Biden's inauguration.He acknowledged his presidency was ending, but did not — could not, may never — acknowledge defeat.For all of the insulting nicknames he's tagged on his political foes — sleepy, shifty, cryin’, corrupt, crazy, little, brain-dead, wacky, pencil neck, low-IQ, watermelon head, dummy, deranged, sick puppy, low energy — none was meant to sting more than “loser.” And nothing, it seems, stung more than when the loser was him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-surprise-trump-left-many-clues-he-wouldn-t-go-quietly-101610214199468.html
09-01-2021||World||Factbox: Details of airplane and airline in Indonesia crash||Here are some facts about the airplane and airline involved in the crash of a Boeing 737-500 jet operated by Sriwijaya Air on an Indonesian domestic flight on Saturday, with 62 people on board.BOEING 737-500The Boeing 737-500 is part of the 737 family, the world's most-flown commercial aircraft series. It was developed in the 1960s to serve short- or medium-length routes.The 737-500 entered service in 1990 and comes from the second of four generations of 737, dubbed 737 Classic.It shares only limited features with the fourth and latest generation, Boeing's problem-plagued 737 MAX, and does not have the flawed cockpit software that contributed to two fatal crashes and triggered the MAX's 20-month grounding.But the 737-500 has mostly been phased out in favour of younger, more fuel-efficient models for economic reasons.The aircraft that crashed was almost 27 years old and was originally flown by carriers in the United States.Commercial jets typically fly up to 25 years before being scrapped, but are built to last longer.Boeing delivered a total of 10,050 of the 737s developed before the MAX, including 389 of the 737-500 model.The 737-500 has been involved in four fatal crashes in Russia, Tunisia and Egypt, which investigators linked to factors including pilot performance, training or weather, according to Aviation Safety Network, an online safety database.The worst crash involved an Aeroflot 737-500 with the loss of 88 lives in Perm, Russia, in 2008.The 737-500 is designed to hold 145 people but those flown by Sriwijaya are configured for 120, according to its website.Its engines are built by French-American CFM International, co-owned by General Electric and France's Safran.SRIWIJAYA AIRFounded in 2003, Jakarta-based Sriwijaya Air group flies largely to domestic locations in Indonesia as well as limited service to foreign destinations including Penang in Malaysia.The loss-making airline is roughly the fifth largest carrier in Indonesia by flights scheduled, with some 10% of the local market, according to aviation data firm Cirium.Its operations and finances were briefly run by Citilink, the low-cost arm of state carrier Garuda after losses raised questions over its survival, but it ended the deal in 2019.The airline has a solid safety record with no onboard casualties in four incidents recorded on the Aviation Safety Network database, though a farmer was killed when a Boeing 737-200 left the runway in 2008 following a hydraulic problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/factbox-details-of-airplane-and-airline-in-indonesia-crash-101610213186703.html
09-01-2021||World||Connecticut outpaces New York in race to vaccinate residents||Governor Andrew Cuomo has insisted that New York’s health-care workforce be fully vaccinated before others in the state are immunized, but in neighboring Connecticut, a looser approach is getting results more quickly.On Friday, Cuomo reversed course after criticism, saying New York will start scheduling vaccination appointments for seniors, teachers and first responders.According to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker, New York has administered just 38% of the shots it has received from the U.S. government as of Jan. 7. Connecticut has worked through 46% of its supply. The difference has narrowed in recent days, with Connecticut receiving another batch of shots and New York picking up the pace of vaccination.The gap raises questions about whether the tightly controlled rollout in the Empire State has left vaccines on the shelf even as new highs are reported in daily cases. A national debate is emerging over how to balance the goal of vaccinating high-risk populations with the need to get as many shots into arms as quickly as possible.“You’ve got to move down the list very quickly, and quite frankly, what we absolutely ought to do is get essential workers, people with co-morbid conditions who are patients at risk, we’ve got to get this done as soon as possible,” Steven Corwin, chief executive officer of New York-Presbyterian health system, said Friday in an interview with Bloomberg TV.More than three weeks into the U.S. Covid-19 vaccination campaign, 6.25 million doses have been administered, according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker. That represents about 29% of the shots distributed by the federal government. Federal officials had a goal of vaccinating 20 million people by the end of December.Frustration GrowingFrustration with Cuomo’s approach boiled over in New York City. Mayor Bill de Blasio this week said the city has 270,000 shots going unused because of rigid rules. The state created tightly defined priority groups dictating whom to vaccinate and when.De Blasio Friday pleaded with the governor to allow the city to start immunizing residents 75 and older. The two Democrats, who had worked together in the Clinton administration, have been feuding for years.First in line in New York were high-risk hospital workers, such as emergency room and intensive-care staff. Other health-care personnel such as independent doctors were scheduled to be vaccinated later, though Cuomo opened vaccination to them Monday.Cuomo on Friday said the guidelines were designed to protect the people treating coronavirus patients. They are also causing frustration among some health-care workers.Jana Dehovitz, a pediatrician in Brooklyn, unsuccessfully tried to get vaccinated for weeks. She said she was frustrated hearing stories of politicians and specialists at large health systems who don’t see patients receiving their shots.“Are they going to come see our patients for us since they’ll be protected?” Dehovitz said. She got the first of a two-course shot Thursday through Weill Cornell Medicine, where she is affiliated.Accelerating PlansHospitals in the state administered 195,078 shots this week, the largest weekly total thus far, Cuomo said. He blamed “incompetent” organizations for moving too slowly and urged them to vaccinate at all hours.Corwin, the New York-Presbyterian CEO, said guidelines need to be loosened.“If we do this in too rigid of a manner, too linear of a manner, if you will, I don’t think we’ll get there,” he said of vaccinating enough people to reach herd immunity. “It will dribble out.”New York will open registration to people 75 and older, teachers, first responders, public transit workers and public safety workers on Monday, Cuomo said. The state also will start sending shots to pharmacies and doctor’s offices.Supply will remain an issue, Cuomo said, adding that New York receives 300,000 doses from the federal government every week. At that rate, the state won’t be able to immunize everyone in the first two waves until April 16. He urged people to be patient.Connecticut StrategyConnecticut Governor Ned Lamont in a briefing Thursday said micromanaging which populations receive the vaccination has slowed down some states. Without identifying locations, he described breakdowns between nurses and doctors in the emergency room over staff or those cleaning the same hospital room.“We tried to provide clear guidance” on who’s eligible for vaccines and when, Lamont said.Connecticut took a more general approach, making all health-care workers eligible immediately. The state defined the group as paid and unpaid people serving in health-care settings who have the potential for direct or indirect exposure to patients or infectious materials. Lamont said the state wanted to give health systems leeway to make their own decisions.Yale New Haven Health began vaccinating those at the highest risk of exposure, said Richard Martinello, medical director of infection protection. The system has administered 17,839, or 76%, of the 23,550 doses allocated to it as of Wednesday, he said. It aims to immunize 80% of its 28,000 employees by the end of the month.Martinello serves on Connecticut’s vaccine advisory committee. While creating detailed breakdowns makes logical sense, he said, it can be time consuming to ensure the right people are being vaccinated.“That’s a challenge and it takes a lot of resources to do that,” Martinello said.Connecticut placed first responders -- including police, fire and emergency medical technicians -- in its initial group eligible for vaccination, along with health-care workers and residents of long-term care facilities.Lamont on Thursday described a “Wild West” in states that quickly opened vaccination to seniors, relying on concert-ticketing sites and creating long lines in some areas.A more flexible approach isn’t speeding distribution in every state, however. Florida and Texas have thrown the doors open to seniors, but their administration rates are lower than New York’s.The FDA supports states like Texas moving to age-based distribution when they have extra shots, Commissioner Stephen Hahn said Friday at a conference of the Alliance for Health Policy. He said the FDA encourages states to continue doing that, echoing comments earlier in the week from Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar.“We think that would go a long way toward using these vaccines appropriately,” Hahn said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/connecticut-outpaces-new-york-in-race-to-vaccinate-residents-101610212066277.html
09-01-2021||World||Pope Francis to have Covid-19 vaccine as early as next week||Pope Francis said on Saturday he planned to have a Covid-19 vaccination as early as next week and urged everyone to get a shot, to protect not only their own lives but those of everyone else."I believe that ethically everyone should take the vaccine," the Pope said in an interview with TV station Canale 5. "It is an ethical choice because you are gambling with your health, with your life, but you are also gambling with the lives of others."The Vatican City, the smallest independent county in the world, has said it will shortly launch its own vaccination campaign against the coronavirus."Next week," the Pope said, "we will start doing it here, in the Vatican, and I have booked myself in. It must be done."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-francis-to-have-covid-19-vaccine-as-early-as-next-week-101610212378518.html
09-01-2021||World||Coronavirus infections cross 9,000-mark in Canada||The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases crossed the 9,000-mark for the first time in Canada, while public health authorities reported that one of those infections was due to a mutation of the virus that recently originated in South Africa.With 9,197 cases reported on Friday, the total caseload crossed 643,800 while the fatalities recorded so far have touched 16,700.The second wave that has seen a surge in cases and deaths this winter has been worse than the incidence of infections in spring last year when the pandemic first raged across the world.A new worry for public health officials is that more contagious variants of the coronavirus are being detected in the country. The province of Alberta found the first case of a South African variant in a traveller who returned to the country from overseas recently and is now in quarantine. Canada’s Chief Public Health Officer Dr Theresa Tam also confirmed during a media interaction that 14 cases of a new variant from the United Kingdom had also been detected in Canada.The upward trend in cases, including rising number of those with severe illness and deaths, was described as “worrisome” by Tam. Public health officials have presented modelling data that forecasts the number of cases reaching between 12,000 and 14,000 daily this month.However, Tam also offered some positive news, as she said that of the 115,072 Covid-19 vaccines administered in the country through December 2020, there were only nine reports of “adverse reactions”, or just 0.008% of the total. “There have been no unexpected vaccine safety issues identified to date,” she tweeted.Meanwhile, the government continues to face criticism over the slow pace of vaccine rollout in the country, even as emergency authorisation was given to the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines last month and shipments arrived in Canada. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has reasserted that the nationwide inoculation programme will be completed by September this year for those willing to be vaccinated. “Quantities of both the Pfizer and the Moderna vaccines will scale up in February. We need to make sure we’re getting those doses as quickly as possible, and I can assure you that we continue ongoing conversations with the companies about accelerating the schedule of delivery, so that we can get Canadians vaccinated as quickly and efficiently as possible,” Trudeau said.Only 0.66% of the population has received at least the first jab of the vaccine so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-infections-cross-9-000-mark-in-canada-101610211635833.html
09-01-2021||World||Stalin-themed cafe in Moscow closed after public outcry||A shawarma shop in Moscow was forced to close a day after it opened following an outcry over its provocative Josef Stalin-themed branding, the shop's owner told Reuters on Saturday.The Stalin Doner shop featured a portrait of the controversial Communist leader above its front door. Inside, a man dressed in the Stalin-era security service uniform served customers meat wraps named after Soviet leaders."We fully opened the day before yesterday and served around 200 customers," shop owner Stanislav Voltman said."There were no legal reasons (to close the shop)," he added, but said that police had forced him to remove the Stalin sign and then "colossal pressure" from local authorities forced him to shut completely.The branding was hotly debated on social media with some commenters condemning it as distasteful.Stalin's rule was marked by mass repression, labour camps and famine. Nearly 700,000 people were executed during the Great Terror of 1936-38, according to conservative official estimates.However, many in the former Soviet Union still regard him primarily as the leader who defeated Nazi Germany in the Second World War, ensuring the country's very existence."I had expected some social media hype," Voltman said. "But I had not expected that all TV stations, all the reporters and bloggers would flock here and queue up like they do in front of the Lenin mausoleum."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stalinthemed-cafe-in-moscow-closed-after-public-outcry-101610211429584.html
09-01-2021||World||Capitol chaos: Canadian PM accuses Donald Trump of inciting the rioters||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has accused outgoing US President Donald Trump of inciting the rioters who wreaked havoc at the US Capitol in Washington, DC earlier this week.Speaking to the media in front of his residence in Ottawa Rideau Cottage, Trudeau said, “What we witnessed was an assault on democracy by violent rioters, incited by the current president and other politicians.”He also said that while the riots were “shocking, deeply disturbing, and frankly saddening”, the week also witnessed “that democracy is resilient in America, our closest ally and neighbour. Violence has no place in our societies, and extremists will not succeed in overruling the will of the people.”Trump’s rival Joe Biden’s election as the next president of America was ratified just hours after Trump supporters barged into the chambers of the US Congress on Wednesday.Describing democracy as “precious”, the Canadian PM added, “We must always work to secure our democracy, and not give comfort to those who promote things that are not true or give space for hate and extremism.”Placing events in the Canadian context, Trudeau said that “we will continue to be extremely vigilant to remember that the choices we make as leaders, as politicians, have consequences”.This isn’t the first time that Trudeau has weighed in on the violence in Washington, DC. In a tweet as the events at the Capitol unfolded on Wednesday, Trudeau had said, “Canadians are deeply disturbed and saddened by the attack on democracy in the United States, our closest ally and neighbour. Violence will never succeed in overruling the will of the people. Democracy in the US must be upheld - and it will be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-chaos-canadian-pm-accuses-donald-trump-of-inciting-the-rioters-101610211564041.html
09-01-2021||World||US Capitol riots: Donald Trump heading for second impeachment||US Democrats could start the process to impeach outgoing President Donald Trump on the charge “incitement of insurrection” by his supporters who stormed the Capitol at his instigation as soon as Monday if he doesn’t resign “immediately”.If the move succeeds, he will become the first US president to be impeached twice. Democrats are undeterred by the shortage of time available to both impeach Trump and evict him from office before he leaves the White House at the end of his term on January 20.Trump’s remaining 12 days in the White House seemed increasingly in jeopardy as even Republicans have joined in the growing calls for his removal from office. “I want him to resign. I want him out. He has caused enough damage,” Lisa Murkowski, a Republican senator, told The Anchorage Daily, her home state news publication in Alaska. Other Republicans such as Senator Ben Sasse expressed willingness to consider voting for an impeachment motion, if introduced.Twitter, however, didn’t wait any longer. It “permanently suspended” Trump’s account “due to the risk of further incitement of violence”, it said in a post. Trump is reported to have tried to circumvent the ban by posting under the official account of @POTUS (short for President Of The United States) , but Twitter caught his move and shut it down. The social media platform had initially blocked Trump’s account for 12 hours. Earlier on Friday, Twitter had banned Trump’s personal lawyer Sidney Powell, the purveyor of the US president’s election fraud claims, and former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, who has suggested the use of presidential powers to seize voting machines to prove Trump’s claims of poll irregularities. Facebook and Instagram had locked Trump’s accounts in the immediate aftermath of the insurrection targeting the US Capitol, a centuries-old building that houses both chambers of Congress. And Google purged Parler, a self-acclaimed right-wing alternative to Twitter, from its entire suite of online platforms.President-elect Joe Biden slammed Trump in remarks to introduce new members of his cabinet, saying he has been a worse president than feared. Biden welcomed the president’s announcement that he will not attend the inauguration, saying that was one of the few things he agreed with Trump on. But he refused to associate himself with his congressional colleagues’ move to oust Trump, saying he will leave it to them.Congressional Democrats were moving at breakneck speed to get Trump out of office before January 20, the day when Biden will be sworn in as president. “It is the hope of members that the president will immediately resign. But if he does not, I have instructed the rules committee to be prepared to move forward with Congressman Jamie Raskin’s 25th amendment legislation and a motion for impeachment,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement. “Accordingly, the House will preserve every option - including the 25th amendment, a motion to impeach or a privileged resolution for impeachment.”Raskin’s 25th amendment legislation is about a lesser-known subsection of the constitutional provision that empowers the vice-president and an outside body set by Congress to determine if the president is unfit to continue and then replace him. The better-known provision empowers the vice-president and a majority of the cabinet to oust a president for the same reason.A four-page draft of the motion of impeachment that was widely cited in US media charges Trump with “incitement of insurrection”. It said, “In all of this, President Trump gravely endangered the security of the United States and its institutions of government. He threatened the integrity of the democratic system, interfered with the peaceful transition of power, and imperiled a coordinate branch of government. He thereby betrayed his trust as President, to the manifest injury of the people of the United States.”Trump was impeached on December 18, 2019 by the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives, but his removal from office, the second and more consequential part of the punishment for a president, was voted down by the Republican-led Senate on February 5, 2020. Trump’s second possible impeachment has the possibility of being more consequential than the first one. With the Senate going under the control of the Democrats on January 20, Democrats can complete the process. According to reports, Democrats have discussed the possibility of carrying on with the impeachment process, if not wrapped up by inauguration day, and impeach and convict him as well, if the motion gets enough support, which will permanently ban him for running for any federal office, which would bar Trump from running for the White House again.However, the impeachment move is serious enough for the White House to recognise and oppose it. “A politically motivated impeachment against a President with 12 days remaining in his term will only serve to further divide our great country,” said spokesman Judd Deere. The Republican leadership, those still aligned with Trump, has made the same argument - that it will be divisive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-riots-donald-trump-heading-for-second-impeachment-101610211444461.html
09-01-2021||World||Extremists could return to Washington, disrupt Biden’s inauguration: Report||The US department of justice on Friday charged 15 people for their involvement in the violence in the Capitol but reports suggest that the threat of another such assault has not died down. Several organisations monitoring hate and extremism on online platforms had issued warnings of possible violence on January 6 but the law enforcement agencies were caught off guard when US President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the Capitol.On January 4, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), which tracks and counters hate, wrote a blog alerting about the threats of possible violence when Congressional leaders were supposed to meet and certify president-elect Joe Biden’s win. ADL said that many extremist supporters of Trump were framing rallies as a last resort to prevent Biden from being sworn in as the next president of the United States.The organisation had cautioned that online chatter among potential attendees in the days leading up to the rally had increased. While ADL made clear that it wasn’t aware of credible threats of violence planned for January 6, “the combination of an extremist presence at the rallies and the heated nature of the rhetoric suggests that violence is a possibility.”“In response to a user who wondered what happens if Congress ignores ‘evidence’ that President Trump won the election, a user wrote, ‘Storm the capitol’,” the blog post says, referring to a chat on thedonald.win, a pro-Trump online forum.Also Read | Explained: How Trump could be impeached again within daysExperts have issued a similar warning that the calls for violence have only intensified as incoming Biden administration prepares for inauguration on January 20. ADL CEO Jonathan Greenblatt told CNN that the white supremacists and far-right extremists “feel emboldened in this moment”. "We fully expect that this violence could actually get worse before it gets better," Greenblatt was quoted as saying by the US media network.The extremists are vowing to return to Washington ahead of Biden’s inauguration even after five people, including a police officer, lost their lives in the violence that ensued on Wednesday following Trump’s rally. “Round 2 on January 20th. This time no mercy. I don’t even care about keeping Trump in power. I care about war,” an anonymous person posted on thedonald.win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/extremists-could-return-to-washington-disrupt-biden-s-inauguration-report-101610210149320.html
09-01-2021||World||Candida auris: Mysterious fungus that infected Covid-19 patients at US hospital||A hospital in Florida reported nearly 40 cases of the mysterious, often deadly fungus Candida auris among patients who were being treated for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in July last year, a US government study has said. The hospital, which wasn’t named in the study, carried out an additional screening in the following month in which 35 more patients were identified as being Candida auris-positive.According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report, follow-up data was available for only 20 out of the 35 patients. Eight of these 20 people died. However, it was not clear whether the fungus was the main factor or not.What is Candida auris?C auris is a multidrug-resistant yeast that can cause invasive infection. Its ability to colonise patients asymptomatically and persist on surfaces has contributed to previous C auris outbreaks in health care settings, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.C auris is associated with up to 40% in-hospital mortality and is usually caught inside healthcare settings, especially when people have feeding or breathing tubes, or catheters placed in large veins. It causes bloodstream, wound and ear infections and has also been found in urine and respiratory samples, but it's not clear if the fungus actually infects the lung or bladder.OriginThe fungal disease was first identified in Japan in 2009 and has been a top priority for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in recent years because of its increasing global spread. Since the first C auris case was identified in Florida in 2017, aggressive measures have been implemented to limit spread, including contact tracing and screening upon detection of a new case. C auris has now been documented in more than 30 countries, with some 1,500 US cases reported to the CDC as of October 31, 2020.What leads to Candida auris infection?The Florida department of health and CDC together performed an investigation focused on infection prevention and control measures, finding numerous weaknesses. "Mobile computers and medical equipment were not always disinfected between uses, medical supplies (e.g., oxygen tubing and gauze) were stored in open bins," the CDC report said.It added that hospital staff, possibly out of fear of the coronavirus, were wearing multiple layers of personal protective equipment (PPE), which is not recommended and in fact heightens the risk of microbe transmission. There were also instances of extended PPE use and re-use. The CDC says the fungus can spread in healthcare settings "through contact with contaminated environmental surfaces or equipment, or from person to person."What did the Florida hospital do?After Candida auris-positive cases were found, the hospital removed supplies from hallways, enhanced cleaning and disinfection practices, and improved practices around PPE use following which no new cases were detected on subsequent surveys."Outbreaks such as that described in this report highlight the importance of adhering to recommended infection control and PPE practices and continuing surveillance for novel pathogens like C auris," the report said.(With AFP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/candida-auris-mysterious-fungus-that-infected-covid-19-patients-at-us-hospital-101610209179886.html
09-01-2021||World||'Brian did his job': Family remembers fallen Capitol Hill officer||From his early days growing up in a New Jersey hamlet, Brian Sicknick wanted to be a police officer.He enlisted in the National Guard six months after graduating high school in 1997, deploying to Saudi Arabia and then Kyrgyzstan. Joining the Guard was his means to joining law enforcement, his family said.He would join the U.S. Capitol Police in 2008, serving until his death Thursday after being attacked as rioters seething over President Donald Trump’s election loss stormed the U.S. Capitol, believing the president's false claims of a rigged election.“His brother told me, ‘Brian did his job,’” said John Krenzel, the mayor of Sicknick’s hometown of South River, New Jersey.Sicknick's death has shaken America as it grapples with how an armed mob could storm the halls of the U.S. Capitol as the presidential election results were being certified, sending hundreds of lawmakers, staff and journalists fleeing for safety. Videos published online show vastly outnumbered Capitol Police officers trying in vain to stop surging rioters, though other videos show officers not moving to stop rioters in the building.Police leadership badly miscalculated the threat despite weeks of signals that Wednesday could get violent. And they refused Pentagon help three days before the riot, and again as the mob descended. Under withering criticism, the police chief resigned as have the chief security officers for both the U.S. House and Senate.The Capitol Police said in a statement that Sicknick was injured “while physically engaging with protesters." During the struggle, Sicknick, 42, was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher, two law enforcement officials said. The officials could not discuss the ongoing investigation publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.Sicknick was the youngest of three boys growing up in South River, a small borough of about 16,000 people in central New Jersey, 20 miles from Staten Island. He graduated from the Middlesex County Vocational and Technical School in East Brunswick, New Jersey, in June 1997.Superintendent Dianne Veilleux said school records show Sicknick wanted to be in law enforcement. The school will honor him by planting an oak tree on campus to symbolize his strength.He enlisted in the New Jersey Air National Guard that December, still a teenager, first deploying to Saudi Arabia in 1999. In 2003, he deployed to Kyrgyzstan, where the U.S. military operated a transit base supporting the war in Afghanistan. He was honorably discharged in December of that year.After the U.S. invasion of Iraq in March 2003, Sicknick became a vocal critic of the war, writing several letters to the editor of the local newspaper that sharply criticized former President George W. Bush for his management of the effort. In one July 2003 letter, published five months before his formal discharge, he said that “our troops are stretched very thin, and morale is dangerously low among them.”In a statement issued Friday, Sicknick’s family said he “wanted to be a police officer his entire life” and had joined the Guard “as a means to that end.”A biography issued by his family says Sicknick cared for rescued Dachshunds in his spare time and rooted for the New Jersey Devils hockey team. He is survived by his parents, Charles and Gladys Sicknick, his brothers Ken and Craig, and his longtime girlfriend, Sandra Garza.The family asked the public to respect its wishes “in not making Brian’s passing a political issue.”“Brian is a hero and that is what we would like people to remember,” the family said.On Saturday, New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy ordered that the U.S. and New Jersey flags be flown at half-staff at all state buildings and facilities in honor of Sicknick, saying he “embodied the selfless spirit of his native state.”“Officer Sicknick gave his life protecting the United States Capitol, and by extension, our very democracy, from violent insurrection," Murphy said. "His needless murder at the hands of a mob bent on overthrowing the Constitution he had dedicated his life to upholding is shocking. It is my fervent hope that the rioters whose actions directly contributed to his death are quickly identified and brought to justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brian-did-his-job-family-remembers-fallen-capitol-hill-officer-101610208858220.html
09-01-2021||World||Queen Elizabeth and husband receive Covid-19 vaccines: Palace||Britain's Queen Elizabeth and her husband Philip, both in their nineties, have received vaccinations against COVID-19, Buckingham Palace said on Saturday."The Queen and The Duke of Edinburgh have today received COVID-19 vaccinations," the palace said in a statement. The Queen is 94 years old and Philip is 99, putting them in the priority category in Britain's coronavirus vaccine rollout.A royal source said the vaccines were administered by a household doctor at the queen's Windsor Castle residence, adding that she made the news public to counter any speculation.With a highly transmissible new variant of the virus surging across Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has shuttered the economy and is rushing out vaccines in a bid to stem the spread of the pandemic.The government plans to vaccinate the elderly, the vulnerable and frontline workers - around 15 million people - by mid-February, to ease a new strict lockdown imposed after a spike in cases to daily records.Britain has the world's fifth-highest official death toll from COVID-19 at nearly 80,000, and the 1,325 deaths reported within 28 days of a positive test on Friday surpassed the previous daily record toll from last April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-elizabeth-and-husband-receive-covid-19-vaccines-palace-101610208901143.html
09-01-2021||World||Democratic wins could strengthen Biden's legislative push||President-elect Joe Biden's victory in November was tempered by concerns that he would face Republican opposition in the Senate that could stymie him at every turn.Those worries eased this past week when Democrats swept two Senate special elections in Georgia, giving the party control of Congress and the White House for the first time since 2011.And the bipartisan outrage over the violent insurrection at the Capitol by pro-Donald Trump supporters could, at least for a moment, ease the partisan tensions that have paralyzed the legislative process for years.“I think it makes my job easier, quite frankly,” Biden said Friday. He said “a number” of Senate Republicans had called call him to say they “are as outraged and disappointed and embarrassed and mortified by the president's conduct as I am and Democrats are.”Biden ran for office pledging to enact the boldest legislative agenda since the Great Depression, passing everything from a massive stimulus to combat the pandemic to trillions of new spending to address climate change, expand health coverage and tackle economic inequality.To accomplish even a slice of his plans, he will have to expertly navigate a Congress that, while in Democratic hands, is closely divided. The Senate will be split evenly, with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris casting the tiebreaking vote when needed. The 222-211 Democratic majority in the House is the party's narrowest in decades.That means major legislation probably will not advance without at least some Republican support. GOP Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the current majority leader, has shown skill in keeping his party united against Democratic priorities.Passing major legislation is “still a challenge in a 50-50 Senate,” said Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin, the second-ranking Democrat.“We can win simple majorities, but you have to face those 60-vote margins,” he said, referring to the number of votes needed to overcome a filibuster.Biden will also have to cope with higher expectations after Georgia's results than if he had faced a Republican-controlled Senate. That could lead to battles with progressive Democrats who want to push the new administration further left than it likes.“Georgia, but obviously the election in November and really the last year, have been the American people saying, 'We need more. We need more and we want more,'” said Adrianne Shropshire, executive director of BlackPAC, which advocates for economic, justice and political reform. She acknowledged, however, that she does not think major change is "going to be a cakewalk” for Biden.Adam Green, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which is closely aligned to leading voices on the left, including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, said that while activists will not get everything they want right away, “the ceiling has just been raised on the possibility of every progressive issue.”Biden, who represented Delaware in the Senate for 36 years, said he was aware of the challenges. In introducing Boston Mayor Marty Walsh as his choice for labor secretary, Biden noted that he gave “serious consideration” to progressive Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont. But the president-elect added that he and Sanders decided against that, lest it cost Democrats a vital vote in a 50-50 Senate, even temporarily.Democratic Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware, a Biden confidant and someone the new administration is counting on to help coordinate its legislative strategy, said an evenly divided Senate makes some policy goals championed by the party's most progressive wing “very hard to do.” “I think the message that was just sent to the people of Georgia and to the Senate and to the people of the United States by these elections" was "folks wanted to stop the division” and ”work together" in Congress, Coons told CNBC this past week.Even when Democrats had larger congressional majorities after President Barack Obama took office in 2009, they usually needed some Republican support in the Senate for legislation. Even then, they failed to get major initiatives approved on other issues Obama campaigned on, including climate change, immigration and scores of tougher limits on corporate influence in government.Progressives also have clamored for Democrats to scrap the Senate filibuster rule, which would make things even easier for Biden's legislative agenda. But Biden has opposed doing that, and Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, poised to become the new majority leader, was noncommittal this past week. That probably means his caucus will have to compromise with Republicans.Others, though, say now is the time to put major policy initiatives above bipartisanship, especially in an era of such deep political divisions.Alicia Garza, head of the Black to the Future Action Fund, said the scene of Trump supporters storming the Capitol, “blows out of the water this idea of any kind of 'Kumbaya'-ing between parties.” “Just a week ago, we were hearing a lot of conversation about moderation and working across the aisle," Garza said."I think what we actually need to be really clear about is that we're not dealing with the parties of the 1990s and we're not even dealing with the parities of the 2000s.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democratic-wins-could-strengthen-biden-s-legislative-push-101610201914228.html
09-01-2021||World||Moderna vaccine set to arrive in France as country steps up anti-Covid drive||Moderna Inc's Covid-19 vaccine will arrive in France on Monday, French Prime Minister Jean Castex said, as the country steps up its vaccination drive following a sluggish start.Castex and Health Minister Olivier Veran visited a health centre in Tarbes, southwestern France, on Saturday as part of the government's campaign to accelerate France's vaccine rollout.Vaccinations against the coronavirus also took place at a centre in Taverny, near Paris. French medical regulator HAS said on Friday it had approved the Moderna vaccine, having previously cleared Pfizer/BioNTech's rival.The French presidency also said on Saturday that President Emmanuel Macron had held phone conversations on Friday with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen to discuss Europe's vaccine strategy.US based Moderna said on Monday it would produce at least 600 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine in 2021, up by 100 million doses from its previous forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-vaccine-set-to-arrive-in-france-as-country-steps-up-anti-covid-drive-101610202400209.html
09-01-2021||World||Indonesian plane feared to have crashed with 62 aboard. What we know so far||An Indonesian budget airline jet suspected to have crashed into the sea just minutes after take-off from Jakarta had 62 passengers and crew on board, including 10 children, the transport minister said on Saturday.The Sriwijaya Air Boeing 737 lost contact with air traffic control about four minutes after take-off just after 2.30pm (0730 GMT) on its way to Borneo island. Flightradar24, a tracking service, said on its Twitter feed that Flight SJ182 "lost more than 10,000 feet of altitude in less than one minute, about 4 minutes after departure from Jakarta". "Sriwijaya Air flight #SJ182 lost more than 10,000 feet of altitude in less than one minute, about 4 minutes after departure from Jakarta," the tracking agency tweeted."The total number of passengers was 50 along with 12 crew," Indonesian transport minister Budi Karya Sumadi told reporters, adding that the figure included seven children and three infants. Another official had said earlier there were 56 passengers and six crew.Indonesian television channels showed pictures of suspected wreckage.Here is what we know so far:1. It was raining at Soekarno-Hatta International Airport when the Sriwijaya Air flight SJ182 took off for Pontianak, around 740km away.2. The plane was bound for Pontianak on Indonesia's section of Borneo island, about 90 minutes flying time over the Java Sea. The suspected crash site is near tourist islands just off the coast of Indonesia's sprawling capital.3. Bagus Puruhito, head of the country's search and rescue agency Basarnas, said teams had been dispatched to search the waters north of Jakarta. No radio beacon signal had been detected, the agency said. Rescue official Agus said, according to Reuters, 50 people were taking part in the search and that they would search into the night.4. Agus Haryono, another official with the agency, told Reuters that debris suspected to be from the plane had been found in the sea, but it had not been confirmed that it came from the missing flight.5. "We found some cables, a piece of jeans, and pieces of metal on the water," Zulkifli, a security official, told CNNIndonesia.com.6. A fisherman in the area known as Thousand Islands told local media that he and his crew had found several pieces of metal.7. According to fleet data on Planespotters.net, the jet had been operated by Sriwijaya Air since 2012 and was previously used by Continental Air Lines and United Airlines Holdings Inc.8. The jet is a 737-500 model that’s much older than the Max 737 aircraft that was grounded globally for about two years in 2019 after two fatal crashes.9. A Lion Air disaster killed 189 people in 2018 and prompted global outrage against Boeing’s newer 737 Max jet. An AirAsia Group Bhd plane plunged into the Java Sea in December 2014 with 162 people on board.10. Jakarta-based Sriwijaya Air group, which was founded in 2003, flies largely within Indonesia. The airline has a solid safety record until now, with no onboard casualties in four incidents recorded on the Aviation Safety Network database. However, a farmer was killed when a Boeing 737-200 left the runway in 2008 following a hydraulic problem.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-plane-feared-to-have-crashed-with-62-aboard-what-we-know-so-far-101610202459161.html
09-01-2021||World||Twitter removes Khamenei vaccine tweet for 'violating' rules||Twitter has removed a tweet by Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei suggesting coronavirus vaccines made in the United States and Britain are "untrustworthy", saying the post violated its rules."Importing vaccines made in the US or the UK is prohibited. They're completely untrustworthy. It's not unlikely they would want to contaminate other nations," said a tweet posted Friday on Khamenei's English-language Twitter account."Given our experience with France's HIV-tainted blood supplies, French vaccines aren't trustworthy either," the Iranian leader added in the tweet with the hashtag #CoronaVaccine.Twitter later removed the tweet and replaced it with a message that said it was "no longer available because it violated the Twitter Rules".The US social media company announced a policy in December to crack down on what it described as potentially "false or misleading information" about Covid-19 vaccinations.The Islamic republic has reported more than 1.2 million cases of the novel coronavirus, which have caused over 56,000 deaths.It has accused arch-enemy the United States of hampering its access to vaccines through tough sanctions.Last month, President Hassan Rouhani said Washington had demanded Tehran pay for the drugs through US banks, adding he had feared the US would seize the money.France was singled out by Khamenei on Friday because of a scandal in the 1980s in which blood infected with HIV was distributed in France, and later abroad. Hundreds of people in Iran were among those infected.Khamenei's ban concerns vaccines made by pharmaceutical giants Pfizer of the US and its German partner BioNTech, American firm Moderna and the vaccine produced by multinational company AstraZeneca and Britain's Oxford University.The World Health Organization granted emergency validation to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine at the end of December.The WHO's experts and others found the vaccine to hold "the must-have criteria for safety and efficacy set out by WHO and that the benefits of using the vaccine to address Covid-19 offset potential risks", it said.On Wednesday the organisation's experts warned it could take months before vaccines turn the tide against the pandemic."We've got another three or six months of hard, hard road ahead of us. But we can do it. The cavalry is coming, the vaccines are coming," said Michael Ryan, WHO's emergencies director.Twitter had said in December that "vaccine misinformation presents a significant and growing public health challenge -- and we all have a role to play".Khamenei's tweets are managed by his office and usually contain statements he made during sermons, which are later published by Iranian media.The English-language account @khamenei_ir has more than 873,000 followers, including the verified accounts of top Iranian officials such as Rouhani and Foreign Minister Mohammed Javad Zarif.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-removes-khamenei-vaccine-tweet-for-violating-rules-101610201935982.html
09-01-2021||World||Public warned against Covid-19 vaccine scams in UK||Fraudsters are targeting elderly and vulnerable people with a vaccine scam and asking for bank details or cash payments for access to COVID-19 vaccines that are fake or non-existent, the UK's National Crime Agency (NCA) warned the British public in a message this week.As the UK's vaccination programme involving the Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca jabs began expanding to National Health Service (NHS) hospitals and centres, the authorities have also been alerted to scams including a case being investigated by the City of London Police of a 92-year-old woman being defrauded of 160 pounds by a man posing as a “vaccinator”.The NCA said it is working with the government and law enforcement to urge people to remain vigilant and follow basic advice in relation to the NHS COVID vaccination programme, which will always be free and that the NHS will never ask for payment for vaccines or bank details.“The current level of reported fraud in relation to the vaccine remains very low but is increasing,” said Graeme Biggar, Director General of the National Economic Crime Centre at the NCA.“The advice is very simple. The vaccine is only available on the NHS, and you will never be asked to pay for it or to provide your bank details. Anything that suggests otherwise is a fraud,” he said.In the UK, coronavirus vaccines are only available via the NHS in England, Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland. At the appropriate time, eligible people based on the risk criteria set will be contacted directly by the NHS, an employer, a general practice (GP) surgery or local pharmacy to receive the vaccine. However, the authorities are keen to stress that the vaccine is free of charge and at no point will people be asked to pay.“This latest scam, which plays on people's hopes for a vaccine, is one of the most callous and despicable so far, which is why we want to arm everyone with the knowledge that the NHS will never ask for cash or financial details to pay for the vaccine or verify a patient’s identity,” said UK Cabinet Office minister Julia Lopez.“It’s a sad reality that scammers and fraudsters are using the pandemic to fleece innocent people out of their hard-earned cash. If you receive an email, text message or phone call claiming to be from the NHS and you are asked to provide financial details, or pay for the vaccine, this is a scam,” added UK Security Minister James Brokenshire.Action Fraud, the UK's national fraud and cyber reporting centre, has warned that it has received around 57 reports of COVID-19 vaccination scams and reiterated the message for the public to be vigilant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/public-warned-against-covid-19-vaccine-scams-in-uk-101610201397521.html
09-01-2021||World||Georgia's Republican governor under fire after US Senate losses||Even though he wasn’t on the ballot, Republican Gov. Brian Kemp has been painfully bruised by the 2020 elections.In a state long dominated by Republicans, Democrats won Georgia’s electoral votes for president in November and two US Senate seats in runoff elections Tuesday, defeating Kemp's hand-picked Senate appointee. President Donald Trump, furious at Kemp for resisting efforts to overturn Trump's election loss, vowed to oppose the governor’s reelection next year.Trump loyalists are already working to recruit a primary challenger. Meanwhile, Democrats who have gained strength in Georgia since Stacey Abrams’ narrow 2018 loss to Kemp are spoiling for revenge.“Gov. Kemp, you’re next. See you in 2022,” the Democratic Governors Association tweeted Wednesday as the upset victories of Democrats Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff in the Georgia Senate races came to light.The governor's political capital took a serious hit with the loss of Republican Sen. Kelly Loeffler. A year ago, he chose the wealthy businesswoman and political novice to fill the seat vacated by retiring Sen. Johnny Isakson, in part to help Republicans win back support among suburban women. In doing so, he passed over more experienced contenders — including Trump’s personal choice, former GOP Rep. Doug Collins.The gamble failed. And the defeats of both Loeffler and fellow Republican David Perdue handed control of the U.S. Senate to Democrats.“Brian Kemp is the governor of the Titanic,” said Debbie Dooley, president of the Atlanta tea party and a Republican activist. “His governorship hit a big iceberg and it’s going down.”Dooley said she and other Trump supporters are recruiting candidates to challenge Kemp and other Republican officials deemed disloyal to Trump. Among them: Lt. Gov. Geoff Duncan, who repeatedly refused to back baseless claims that Trump won the election, and Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, who rejected the president’s pleas to “find” more Trump votes in a recorded phone call that became public.Some Republicans blame Trump and his false claims of election fraud for hurting GOP turnout in the Senate runoffs. A crowd attending a Trump rally on the eve of the Senate runoffs erupted in cheers when the president promised to see Kemp defeated in 2022.“I’ll be here in about a year and a half, campaigning against your governor,” Trump said. “I guarantee it.”The strain on Kemp was on display Tuesday when the governor attended an election-night event for the GOP Senate candidates before their defeats were sealed.“This has been a tough time for our family for a lot of reasons,” Kemp told the crowd, which applauded his appearance. He said it wasn’t just the Senate race, but also the coronavirus pandemic, volatile protests over racial injustice and a personal tragedy that hit during the runoff campaigns.Harrison Deal, a Loeffler campaign worker who had dated one of Kemp’s daughters and grown close to his family, died in a highway crash in December. Kemp’s wife and daughters dabbed at tears as he recalled “the tragic loss of a young life way too soon.”While Trump and others have named Collins as a potential GOP challenger for Kemp, the former congressman could also run for the Senate seat that Loeffler lost. Warnock will be back on the ballot in 2022 after finishing the final year of Isakson’s term.Among Democrats, Abrams is being closely watched to see if she will make a second run for governor after losing to Kemp by fewer than 55,000 votes in 2018. She spent the past two years working to register new voters and advocating for expanded access to the ballot in a state that Republicans have controlled for roughly two decades. Abrams has been credited with paving the way for the Democrats' victories in November and on Tuesday.Democrats eyeing 2022 campaigns are expected to start making announcements later this year.“You’ve got to give yourself an 18-month window,” said state Rep. Calvin Smyre of Columbus, the legislature’s longest-serving Democrat.State Sen. Jen Jordan, a Democrat who represents parts of Atlanta and suburbs that have swung rapidly to her party, said the internal Republican jousting has obscured Kemp's other problems. Democrats are determined to make Kemp pay a political price for Covid-19′s impact on Georgia, seeing as reckless his unwillingness to impose a statewide mask mandate and refusal to impose stronger restrictions as hospitalizations and deaths have escalated this winter.“I’m sure it has not been fun being governor during a pandemic, and the economy is not great,” Jordan said. “He’s getting killed on the GOP side. But he’ll have to answer for all the other stuff, too.”Kemp will take center stage next week as the Georgia legislature opens, likely highlighting a relatively low unemployment rate, a string of industrial announcements, opposition to gangs and sex trafficking and his plan for a partial expansion of Medicaid. Ryan Mahoney, a political consultant who has worked for Kemp, said the governor’s agenda is popular and he will be able to seize the spotlight.“The session couldn’t come at a better time,” Mahoney said. “For the next three months, he gets to remind people he’s governor.”Mahoney said he believes Democratic control of the White House and Congress will help bring Republicans back to Kemp, giving him a chance to reunite a fractured party by spearheading conservative opposition to Biden.“It’s going to be a pretty binary choice,” Mahoney said. “At some point, are you with us or are you with them?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgias-republican-governor-under-fire-after-us-senate-losses-101610199946253.html
09-01-2021||World||Pakistani court directs authorities to arrest JeM chief Masood Azhar by Jan 18||A Pakistani court has given police officials time till January 18 to arrest Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) chief Masood Azhar, days after directing them to produce the UN-designated terrorist on charges of terror financing.The anti-terrorism court (ATC) at Gujranwala in Pakistan’s Punjab province had on Thursday issued an arrest warrant for Azhar on the request of the local Counter-Terrorism Department and judge Natasha Naseem Supra had ordered that he should be produced in court on Friday.The court’s order was the first official acknowledgement of Azhar’s presence on Pakistani soil in recent years. Pakistani officials and leaders have repeatedly said they didn’t have information on his whereabouts.When the matter came up for hearing in the Gujranwala court on Friday, the judge gave the Counter-Terrorism Department time till January 18 to arrest Azhar, failing which steps would be taken to declare him a fugitive.“ATC Gujranwala judge Natasha Naseem Supra, during the case hearing on Friday, directed the CTD to arrest JeM chief Masood Azhar by January 18 and present him in the court. In case of failure (to arrest him), the court may begin proceedings to declare him a proclaimed offender,” a court official was quoted as saying by PTI.Indian officials have said the Pakistani court’s actions are clearly linked to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) beginning the process to review Islamabad’s efforts to counter terror financing and money laundering during key meetings this month and in February.JeM was among the groups specifically named by FATF for terror financing in its reports in the past two years. India has already provided evidence on JeM and Azhar’s role in the 2019 Pulwama attack, in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed. The attack had brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war.The Counter-Terrorism Department had earlier arrested six JeM terrorists – Muhammad Afzal, Muhammad Amir, Allah Ditta, Muhammad Iftikhar, Muhammad Ajmal and Muhammad Bilal Makki – on terror-related charges and sought an arrest warrant for Azhar in the same case even though he wasn’t named in the original chargesheet, people familiar with developments said.Azhar was last believed to be in his stronghold of Bahawalpur in Punjab province. There was no information on whether Pakistani authorities had launched efforts to trace him.Pakistan was placed on FATF’s “grey list” in June 2018 for failing to counter terror financing. The multilateral watchdog had given it time till February this year to implement an action plan to curb the raising of funds by terrorists after it missed several deadlines for complying with FATF’s recommendations.The UN had designated Azhar a “global terrorist” in May 2019, when China lifted its hold on a proposal to blacklist the Pakistan-based JeM chief, a decade after New Delhi approached the world body for the first time on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-court-directs-authorities-to-arrest-jem-chief-masood-azhar-by-jan-18-101610198959068.html
09-01-2021||World||French warplanes fly over Central African Republic again as vote tensions grow||French warplanes have flown over the Central African Republic for the second time in two months, French President Emmanuel Macron's office said, as tensions in the African gold and diamond producer grow in the wake of a disputed election.Macron's office said he had condemned recent acts of violence in the republic during a phone call with its President Faustin-Archange Touadera, who is facing calls for an election re-run.French warplanes also flew over the Central African Republic ahead of the election on Decem 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-warplanes-fly-over-central-african-republic-again-as-vote-tensions-grow-101610199955948.html
09-01-2021||World||Ain't flying unless it's just us: Jakarta man books entire flight to avoid Covid||An Indonesian man booked an entire flight from Jakarta to Bali for himself and his wife to prevent themselves from contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a series of Instagram stories, socialite Richard Muljadi shared photos of him sitting in a completely empty flight."After I'd book(ed) as many seats as possible, it was still cheaper than chattering (chartering) a PJ (private jet). That's the trick fellas. #LIFEHACKS," Muljadi wrote in the caption to his post on January 4. "Had to make sure no one else (was on) this flight. We ain't flying unless it's just us," he said in another caption, before his last story on the social media platform saying, "Bye, ghost ship," as he exited the flight.According to Mashable Southeast Asia, Muljadi said he and his actor wife Shalvynne Chang were "super paranoid" about getting infected by Covid-19, so they booked the entire flight to travel alone and be safe from other passengers who might be carrying the virus."Had to make sure no one else (was on) this flight. We ain't flying unless it's just us," he said in another caption, before his last story on the social media platform saying, "Bye, ghost ship," as he exited the flight.Lion Air Group, the owners of Batik Air, later confirmed that the couple were on board the flight ID-6502 from Jakarta to Denpasar, Bali on Tuesday afternoon, according to Mashable SE Asia. However, it added, the airline said that Muljadi's booking was only confirmed for two passengers, contradicting the socialite's claim.As of Saturday, there were 818,386 confirmed Covid-19 cases in Indonesia, according to worldometers infection tally. The virus has so far claimed 23,947 lives while 673,511 people have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aint-flying-unless-it-s-just-us-jakarta-man-books-entire-flight-to-avoid-covid-101610198313058.html
09-01-2021||World||US lawmakers argue why Trump must be removed with only a few days left in office||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Friday expressed her intention to introduce an article of impeachment against US President Donald Trump after Democrats demanded his removal from the office, citing his role in the violence at the Capitol earlier this week. The progressive caucus of Congressional Democrats has been at the forefront of the demand to remove Trump for allegedly inciting his aggressive supporters on Wednesday to storm the Capitol, which led to the death of five people, including a police officer.Vermont senator Bernie Sanders of the progressive caucus argued in the favour of Trump’s removal even though he has only a few days left in the office, saying a precedent should be set for future presidents. Taking to Twitter, Sanders said that it must be made clear that no president can lead an insurrection against the US government. “Some people ask: Why would you impeach and convict a president who has only a few days left in office? The answer: Precedent. It must be made clear that no president, now or in the future, can lead an insurrection against the U.S. government,” Sanders tweeted.Some people ask: Why would you impeach and convict a president who has only a few days left in office? The answer: Precedent. It must be made clear that no president, now or in the future, can lead an insurrection against the U.S. government.House member Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, popularly known as AOC, urged her Republican colleagues to remove Trump, claiming that the outgoing president will allow opportunities of physical harm against them if they aren’t “sufficiently loyal” to him. Notably, Trump had incited the crowd against the result of the November 3 election when his allies were inside the building to certify the victory of president-elect Joe Biden.Concerns arising from Trump’s power to launch nuclear weapon even prompted Pelosi to contact the Pentagon's top general, Mark Milley, to understand how to prevent "an unhinged president" from ordering a nuclear strike. Pelosi has called on vice president Mike Pence to invoke the constitution's 25th amendment to remove the president from power.While Trump’s removal from the office is largely being demanded by Democrats, some of the Republicans have also indicated that they would consider the article of impeachment. Republican senator Ben Sasse told CBS that if House pursues impeachment, he will “definitely consider whatever articles they might move” because he believes the president has “disregarded his oath of office.”“Lies have consequences. This violence was the inevitable and ugly outcome of the President's addiction to constantly stoking division,” Sasse had said in a statement after the violence unfolded on Wednesday. A Republican senator from Alaska, Lisa Murkowski, was the first GOP lawmaker to call on Trump to resign. Speaking to Anchorage Daily News, Murkowski said, “I want him to resign. I want him out. He has caused enough damage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-argue-why-trump-must-be-removed-with-only-a-few-days-left-in-office-101610197912560.html
09-01-2021||World||UK rolls out 'Act like you’ve got it' drive amid 'alarming' Covid-19 spike||The UK government on Saturday began rolling out a series of stark advertisements as part of a new awareness drive that warns people to “Act like you’ve got it” because anyone can spread coronavirus, especially the new highly transmissible variant that has seen hospitals being overwhelmed with COVID-19 patients.The campaign – made up of television, radio and newspaper adverts as well as a social media blitz – comes as the latest daily death toll from the deadly virus hit a new peak of 1,325 deaths and infections rose to 68,053 cases. Around one in three people infected with the virus do not have any symptoms and could therefore be passing it on without realising, according to the government's messaging.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson took to social media to urge people to strictly follow the stay-at-home lockdown as the disease continues to spread at an “alarming rate”.“Our hospitals are under more pressure than at any other time since the start of the pandemic, and infection rates continue to soar at an alarming rate,” Johnson said in a Twitter statement.“The vaccine rollout has given us renewed hope, but it’s critical for now we stay at home, protect the NHS and save lives,” he said.The warnings come a day after London Mayor Sadiq Khan declared a “major incident” in the UK capital because the coronavirus cases are “out of control” as latest figures revealed the infection rate in London has exceeded 1,000 per 100,000 people, with hospitals over-capacity with patients.A major incident is defined as an event or situation with a range of serious consequences, which requires special arrangements to be implemented by one or more emergency responder agencies.“The announcement that London has declared a major incident in the battle against coronavirus is a stark reminder of the critical point we are at,” said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Matt Twist, who leads the Metropolitan Police’s response to the COVID pandemic, as he reiterated a call for people to “stick to the rules”.“I know Londoners will be shocked that officers are still dealing with a small selfish minority who think the rules don't apply to them by holding house parties, large warehouse raves or other gatherings. These are creating breeding grounds for the much more transmissible variant,” he said.“These rule breakers cannot continue to feign ignorance of the risk that this virus poses or listen to the false information and lies that some promote downplaying the dangers. Every time the virus spreads it increases the risk of someone needlessly losing their life,” he added.UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock also issued a plea to "pull together for one final push"."I know how much we have all sacrificed already, but the new variant has significantly changed the current landscape and we absolutely cannot let up now," he said.England, much of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland continue to be under strict national lockdown measures, with stay-at-home orders in place for most people. The rules require people to be outdoors only for very limited reasons of one form of daily exercise, essential shopping or medical needs. Schools have been closed and moved on to remote learning, with the current rules likely to be in place at least until next month. PTI AK RS RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-rolls-out-act-like-you-ve-got-it-drive-amid-alarming-covid-19-spike-101610195487002.html
09-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi moves cautiously against Trump as Biden focuses on agenda||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is moving cautiously as she faces pressure from angry Democrats to impeach President Donald Trump for a second time, while President-elect Joe Biden is making it clear he wants to focus on his agenda and fighting the coronavirus.With many House Democrats demanding impeachment after Trump encouraged a mob that stormed the Capitol this week, Pelosi said Friday that Democrats “will preserve every option” to force Trump from office unless he resigns immediately.That could either be through the very unlikely prospect that Vice President Mike Pence invokes the 25th Amendment to declare the president incapable of governing or by impeachment in the House, which would require the Senate to act and convict Trump.She also could just let the clock run out on Trump’s presidency. Another possibility -- that Trump’s remaining advisers might simply convince him to resign -- seems remote.Pelosi said she’s instructed the House Rules Committee to be ready to move forward with an impeachment case, but she stopped short of saying that would be brought for a vote.“With great respect, our deliberations will continue,” Pelosi said in a statement. If Democrats follow through, Trump would become the first American president to be impeached twice.For Democratic leaders there’s little risk in pressuring Trump’s cabinet and Pence, but impeachment would put the spotlight on Trump instead of on preparing for Biden’s incoming administration. It could also mean a Senate impeachment trial during the first days of Biden’s presidency, forcing the chamber to set aside other business, including confirming a new cabinet.Biden on Friday, when asked about impeaching Trump, said that was a judgment for Congress to make. But he also appeared to suggest tapping the brakes on such a politically fraught move when there’s only a dozen days until his inauguration and he wants to begin tackling his agenda.“It’s important we get on with the business getting him out of office. The quickest way that that will happen is us being sworn in on the 20th,” Biden said at a news conference in Wilmington, Delaware. “I am focused now on us taking control as president and vice president on the 20th, and to get our agenda moving as quickly as we can.”Pelosi told House Democrats in a conference call early Friday afternoon that she would be talking to Biden to get his view about how they should proceed, according to a person who listened to the call. A statement from the president-elect’s transition team later said Biden spoke to Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer but it made no mention of any discussion of what actions to take on Trump.The text of the proposed impeachment resolution includes a single article accusing Trump of “Incitement of Insurrection” and says he engaged in high crimes and misdemeanors by “willfully inciting violence against the government of the United States” in connection with the storming of the Capitol Wednesday by throngs of his supporters.“We can do this by way of privileged resolution, when we’re meeting in pro forma on Monday, we can introduce it. Then, the leadership will decide whether or not we will take it up and whether they will call us back into session,” Representative David Cicilline, a Rhode Island Democrat and one of the resolution’s sponsors, said on CNN.Any attempt to impeach Trump would be running up against the calendar as well as against divisions among Republicans over how to contain the president during his final days in office. The House would have just days to act before Biden’s inauguration, and it’s not clear that the Senate could move ahead with a trial within a week. Convicting Trump would require support from a significant number of GOP senators.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who has stayed mum on any next steps regarding Trump, sent a memo to GOP senators late Friday that outlines what the the timetable would be for any impeachment trial. It said that the Senate is in recess and it would require unanimous consent in the chamber to act on any articles impeachment trial before Jan. 19. A trial would not begin until Trump’s term expired and then would require the Senate to remain in session daily until a verdict is rendered.Pelosi said the House also would move forward with legislation drafted by Maryland Representative Jamie Raskin to establish an permanent independent commission to accelerate the process of removing a president under the 25th Amendment of the Constitution if incapacity is found.Pelosi in a letter to Democrats earlier on Friday warned that Trump is “unhinged” and said she sought assurances from the nation’s top military commander that safeguards are in place in case he initiates an armed conflict or tries to launch a nuclear strike.Setting BlameDemocrats and some Republicans have blamed Trump for encouraging his supporters to march on the Capitol as lawmakers were formally counting the Electoral College votes affirming Biden’s victory in the presidential election. There were at least five deaths and dozens of injuries stemming from the mob’s clashes with police.Calls for Trump to resign have been growing in Congress, including among some Republicans. GOP Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska was the latest to urge the president to step down, telling the Anchorage Daily News that she questioned her future as a Republican if the party doesn’t break with the outgoing president.“I want him to resign. I want him out,“ Murkowski said in a Friday interview with the newspaper.Other Republicans implored Pelosi and Democrats not to go ahead with another impeachment.South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, who has been one of Trump’s closest allies, said if Pelosi pursued Trump’s impeachment now, it would “do more harm than good.” He appealed to Biden, who has said he wants to govern in a spirit of bipartisanship. “I’m hopeful President-elect Biden sees the damage that would be done from such action.”Trump on Thursday appeared to be trying to quell the furor and head off any clamor for his ouster within the GOP. He released a video message in which he condemned the attack on the Capitol, and said he was prepared for a smooth transition to Biden’s administration.But on Friday, Trump said he wouldn’t attend Biden’s inauguration, breaking decades of precedent, and praised his supporters in a tweet. Twitter Inc. on Friday permanently banned Trump’s personal account for repeated rules violations, marking the most high-profile punishment the social media company had ever imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-moves-cautiously-against-trump-as-biden-focuses-on-agenda-101610193265871.html
09-01-2021||World||UK's Rishi Sunak looking to delay tax rises||British finance minister Rishi Sunak is expected to delay plans for tax rises until late this year, The Times newspaper reported on Friday, citing a senior government source.The source said the upcoming budget on March 3 was the "wrong time" for tax rises and the plans were likely to be delayed until autumn at the earliest, the newspaper reported.Sunak has also rejected calls to extend a temporary cut to taxes on property purchases, known as stamp duty, that is due to expire at the end of March, the Times reported.A source at the finance ministry told Reuters that it never comments on tax policy."But the truth is that no decisions have been taken this far in advance, not least given the amount of uncertainty in the current outlook," the source added.Analysts say the temporary stamp duty cut helped to fuel a pandemic boom in Britain's housing market as buyers sought bigger houses with gardens during the coronavirus lockdown.Sunak launched a 4.6 billion pound ($6.2 billion) support package for businesses on Tuesday to soften an expected recession caused by a surge in Covid-19 cases that has triggered a third national lockdown.Sunak has previously announced emergency help for the economy worth 280 billion pounds, including a massive job protection scheme that will run until the end of April.Britain's economy looks likely to tip back into recession - shrinking in the final quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021 - following a record 25% fall in output in the first two months of lockdown last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-rishi-sunak-looking-to-delay-tax-rises-101610195365422.html
09-01-2021||World||First Qatari vehicles cross border into Saudi after Gulf detente||Qatari vehicles crossed into Saudi Arabia through a land border on Saturday for the first time since Arab states severed diplomatic and transport ties with Doha in mid-2017, Saudi state TV said, following a deal this week to restore relations."It's good the crisis has been resolved, and the warm welcome we had, and the happiness we see in our brothers," the driver of the second car to pass through the Abu Samra-Salwa crossing told Ekhbariya TV.Saudi Arabia on Tuesday announced a US-backed deal to end a bitter dispute with Qatar that saw Riyadh, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt imposed an embargo on Doha over allegations that it supports terrorism and is cosying up to foe Iran. Qatar denies the charges and says the boycott aimed at curtailing its sovereignty.A UAE official this week said travel and trade links could resume within a week of the deal, but restoring diplomatic ties requires more time as parties work to rebuild trust.So far no flights have resumed between Qatar and the four Arab states. Qatar Airways on Thursday began re-routing some of its flights through Saudi airspace.Etihad airways, Abu Dhabi's carrier, intends to recommence services between Abu Dhabi and Doha, a spokesperson said on Saturday.Measures to contain the spread of the new coronavirus are in place on both sides of the Saudi-Qatar land border.All arrivals into Qatar crossing at Abu Samra must present a negative Covid-19 test, take a new test at the border and quarantine for one week in one of a number of selected hotels, Qatar News Agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-qatari-vehicles-cross-border-into-saudi-after-gulf-detente-101610193309909.html
09-01-2021||World||Chaos in Pak Senate over arrest of PDM workers||The Pakistan Senate session which started on December 30 has become a battleground between the Imran Khan-led government and the opposition on the issue of the arrest of Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) workers.On Friday, salvos were exchanged over the arrest of PDM workers. The opposition members charged that the law enforcement agencies on the instructions of Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI), were involved in launching a crackdown against hundreds of their political workers before PDM's scheduled rallies across the country, reported Dawn."The opposition's movement was being taken as anti-state by the government, despite the fact that no opposition party had resorted to any illegal activity to move the PDM protest forward," said Sassui Palijo of Pakistan People's Party (PPP).She also criticised Imran Khan for not visiting the bereaved families of 11-Mach coalfield Hazaras who were brutally killed by unidentified gunmen last Sunday."The prime minister should have gone there and then taken the Senate into confidence over the tragic incident in Mach," she said, adding that there was frustration among the provinces over this incident.Taking a shot at PM Khan, she said that he could find time to meet the team of the popular Turkish drama serial Ertugrul Ghazi but not visit Quetta.Pashtoonkhwa Milli Awami Party (PkMAP) Usman Khan Kakar said the PDM demands were democratic, but the government cracked down on its workers before every rally and registered cases against them.He said the movement was struggling while remaining within the democratic parameters and following the ideology of non-violence, but the government was forcing people into rebellion and violence.The session is expected to become stormier as it is taking place amidst heightened political temperature in the backdrop of the opposition's anti-government rallies held by PDM across Pakistan since October 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chaos-in-pak-senate-over-arrest-of-pdm-workers-101610193319849.html
09-01-2021||World||US Capitol Hill violence: Chicago police union head apologises for defending mob||The president of the Chicago Police officers' union apologised for defending the pro-Trump mob that stormed the US Capitol and downplaying this week's violence that left four people dead.In a statement posted on Facebook on Friday, John Catanzara, called his “poorly worded” comments made during an interview with WBEZ, Chicago's public radio station, a lapse in judgment.“I certainly would never justify any attacks on citizens, democracy or law enforcement,” he wrote.Catanzara has been a staunch supporter of President Donald Trump. In the initial comments, he characterized participants as supporters of the president who believed— as Trump has falsely claimed repeatedly—that the election had been stolen. Catanzara, who said he, too, believes that “something shady” had happened to secure the election for former Vice President Joe Biden, said the crowd had merely “pushed past security” and did not engage in violent acts such as looting or arson once inside.But those comments were also made before officials announced that a U.S. Capitol police officer who had been injured in the melee had died. Catanzara did not mention the officer's death, saying only, “After seeing more video and the full aftermath, my comments would have been different.” Catanzara's initial comments drew harsh criticism from Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot and others for his characterization of the ugly assault on the nation's Capitol that left four other people dead, including a woman who was shot by police.And on Friday, the National Fraternal Order of Police President Patrick Yoes in a strongly worded statement joined the growing chorus of critics of Catanzara's initial comments.“The National FOP rejects this gross mischaracterization and sees the incident for what it was — a violent mob of looters and vandals, visiting fear and destruction on one of our nation's most sacred spaces..." Yoes wrote.Catanzara has appeared in public wearing a shirt emblazoned with the words “Cops For Trump.” And after the president tweeted his congratulations when Catanzara was elected president of the union, Catanzara said he'd accepted an invitation to the White House to attend Trump's acceptance speech when he was nominated for a second term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-gill-violence-chicago-police-union-head-apologises-for-defending-mob-101610193329026.html
09-01-2021||World||5.7 magnitude quake strikes Taiwan, no immediate reports of damage||A 5.7 magnitude earthquake struck off the northeastern coast of Taiwan on Saturday, the island's weather bureau said, with no immediate reports of damage.The quake, which briefly shook buildings in the capital, had a depth of 72.2 km (44.9 miles), the bureau added.Taiwan lies near the junction of two tectonic plates in the South China Sea and is prone to earthquakes. More than 100 people were killed in a quake in southern Taiwan in 2016, and some Taiwanese remain scarred by a 7.3 magnitude quake that killed more than 2,000 people in 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/57-magnitude-quake-strikes-taiwan-no-immediate-reports-of-damage-101610193485762.html
09-01-2021||World||3 killed by avalanche at Siberian ski resort||At least three people were killed by an avalanche that hit a ski resort in Siberia, officials said Saturday.The avalanche swept over several buildings at the Otdelnaya Mountain ski complex outside the Arctic city of Norilsk just before midnight.About 250 rescuers who combed the area for hours in a snowstorm recovered the bodies of a married couple and their 18-month-old son. The couple's second child, a 14-year-old boy, was found alive and hospitalized with serious injuries.Russia's Investigative Committee has opened an investigation into an alleged breach of safety rules at the mountain ski resort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-killed-by-avalanche-at-siberian-ski-resort-101610190923840.html
09-01-2021||World||Indonesian Sriwijaya Air plane loses contact after taking off from Jakarta||A Sriwijaya Air plane with more than 50 people on board lost contact after taking off from Indonesian capital Jakarta on Saturday en route to Pontianak in West Kalimantan province, local media reported.Reliable tracking service Flightradar24 said on its Twitter feed that Flight SJ182 "lost more than 10,000 feet of altitude in less than one minute, about 4 minutes after departure from Jakarta".The aircraft is a 27-year-old Boeing 737-500, according to registration details included in the tracking data.Sriwijaya Air, an Indonesian airline, said in a statement it is still gathering more detailed information regarding the flight before it can make any statement.(Reporting by Fransiska Nangoy, Agustinus Beo Da Costa, Tabita Diela and Tim Hepher; Editing by Frances Kerry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-sriwijaya-air-plane-loses-contact-after-taking-off-from-jakarta-101610190527481.html
09-01-2021||World||Explained: How Trump could be impeached again within days||Top Congressional Democrats, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have called for the impeachment and removal of US President Donald Trump for "incitement of insurrection" after he egged on a protest earlier this week that escalated into a deadly riot inside the US Capitol. Pelosi said that the House would move ahead with the process to impeach Trump for the second time if he did not resign “immediately”.Trump could become the first president in the history of the United States to be impeached twice. In 2019, Pelosi took months to back the idea of Trump’s impeachment after some Democrats started pushing for it, which was followed by elaborate investigation and hearings. However, there are less than two weeks left for Trump to leave the office, with President-elect Joe Biden set to take charge on January 20.Democrats plan to introduce an article of impeachment for Trump’s role in the storming of the US Capitol on Wednesday and it is likely that Pelosi would hold a floor vote without any hearings, given there is little need to investigate the matter as most of the Congressional leaders were in the building when the President’s supporters broke into. A police officer and four others died after the violence, which followed a rally at which Trump exhorted supporters to fight to overturn the result of the November 3 election that he lost.The House of Representatives will vote on the article of impeachment and the majority of members would require to vote in favour to get Trump impeached for the second time during his four-year tenure. In the recently concluded House elections, Republicans narrowed their disadvantage but Democrats held onto their majority. This means the Democrats are likely to get Trump impeached if voting takes place.The proceedings will then move to Senate, the upper chamber where Democrats gained the control after Georgia runoffs. In order to convict the US president, at least two-thirds of the senators have to vote in favour of removal, which seems highly unlikely as several Senate Republicans have argued against it. According to a memo from top Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell’s aide, the soonest the upper chamber could take up the articles of impeachment would be on January 19, reported BBC.While constitutional experts are divided on the possibility of Senate trial after president’s tenure ends, Trump could be barred from ever holding public office if the upper chamber convicts him on the article of impeachment pursued by the House. Paul Campos, a law professor at the University of Colorado, told news agency Reuters that the Senate would have the authority to vote only on future disqualification if Trump’s impeachment trial is still pending on January 20, the day when he finally leaves the office.In the history of the United States, only three presidents, Andrew Johnson (1868), Bill Clinton (1998) and Donald Trump (2019), have been impeached so far but all of them got acquitted in the Senate. In 1974, the then president Richard Nixon had faced impeachment proceedings but resigned from the office before any voting could take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-how-trump-could-be-impeached-again-within-days-101610189244549.html
09-01-2021||World||Singapore to legislate on contact-trace data use for crimes||Singapore’s government plans to create urgent legislation to formalize the use of virus contact-tracing data in investigations of serious crimes.Legislation will be introduced in the next sitting of parliament in February to limit the use of the data to probes of seven categories of serious crimes, the Smart Nation and Digital Government Office said in a statement Friday. Those will include murder, terrorism, kidnapping and serious sexual offences, it said.The move comes amid concerns over privacy issues in the city-state’s TraceTogether contact-tracing program designed to help contain the spread of the coronavirus.“We acknowledge our error in not stating that data from TraceTogether is not exempt from the Criminal Procedure Code,” the office said.TraceTogether is being used by 78% of Singapore’s population. According to its website, the program does not collect data about individual GPS locations, Wifi or mobile networks being used. But a clause about data being only used to contact trace people exposed to the coronavirus was removed and replaced with a statement noting that police “can obtain any data, including TraceTogether data, for criminal investigations.”“The government was unequivocal last year that the data would only be used for contract tracing and public health,” said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director of Human Rights Watch. It should “return to the original purpose of TraceTogether by firewalling that program’s data from police, prosecutors, and the criminal justice system,” he said.Gerald Giam, a lawmaker for the opposition Workers’ Party, posted this week on Facebook that it’s “ill-advised” that the government hasn’t ruled out the use of TraceTogether data for criminal investigations.“It is not in the public interest to completely deny the Police access to such data, when the safety of the public or the proper conduct of justice is at stake,” the office said in the statement. The country has already used it to investigate a murder case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-to-legislate-on-contact-trace-data-use-for-crimes-101610186627192.html
09-01-2021||World||Need to build back US economy better so that it lifts up everyone: Kamala Harris||US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris has said that there is a need to build back the economy better so that it lifts up everyone as the world’s largest economy has been severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic.Speaking to reporters in Wilmington, Delaware on Friday, Harris said that building back the economy means providing access to capital for small business owners, the economic engines of the neighbourhoods, so that they can create the jobs that are in the communities and help communities thrive.US President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Harris will take the oath of office on January 20.“We must build our economy back better so that it lifts up everyone no matter what you do for a living or where you live, whether it's in a small town, a big city, or anywhere in between,” she said in the hometown of Biden.“It means making sure we are equipping workers with the skills they need for the jobs of the future and making sure our entrepreneurs and businesses continue to out innovate and outcompete the rest of the world. And it means protecting and expanding workers' rights by fighting for a higher minimum wage and paid leave, safe and healthy workplaces, and stronger unions,” Harris said.Dignity of work is one of the fundamental values that she and Biden believe in, Harris said, adding that they both understand that a job is so much more than just a paycheck.“It's about dignity and respect. Joe learned that lesson from his father and I learned it from my mother.“My mother taught me in her words and in her actions that no matter how you earn a living, whether you're a caregiver or a truck driver or a grocery store clerk or a small business owner, every job has inherent value and worth, and every worker everywhere has a right to earn a living wage, work in safe and healthy conditions and pursue a better life for themselves and their family,” Harris said.After her parents divorced, Harris was raised in the US primarily by her Hindu single mother Shyamala Gopalan, a cancer researcher and civil rights activist from Chennai.Right now, the dignity of an honest day's work and the financial stability of a steady income are out of reach for millions of Americans. The December jobs report makes that very clear, she said.Food banks are being strained trying to feed people who've had to worry for the first time in their lives about where they can find their next meal. Essential workers continue to risk their own health and the health of their families for all, she said.“Small business owners from restaurants to barber shops to dry cleaners are hurting. Those who run America's small businesses are not just business leaders, but civic leaders, community leaders. They are the ones who sponsored the Little League team and scholarships for local kids and all kinds of local causes and activities. They are the ones who are role models in their communities. And we've got to do right by them.“So, first and foremost as the president elect has said, we will provide more immediate relief. We must for working families and businesses now. And even as we address our immediate crises, even as we work to contain this pandemic and open our economy responsibly, we must also do what President-elect Biden and I have pledged to do,” she said.Harris said that she and Biden share a vision of America where opportunity is within the reach for all the people, where everyone can see a better and a brighter future for themselves and for their children.“With the leadership of these public servants and our entire economic team, we will get to work building that America less than two weeks from today,” she added.The US, due to the coronavirus pandemic, experienced an unprecedented unemployment rate as millions of Americans lost their jobs.The country's unemployment rate for April 2020 was 14.7 per cent, the highest since 1948.The economy had lost 22.1 million jobs in March and April when most parts of the US were under lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/need-to-build-back-us-economy-better-so-that-it-lifts-up-everyone-kamala-harris-101610188695100.html
09-01-2021||World||Hong Kong warns probe against those who help pro-democracy protesters escape||The Hong Kong Government, under the draconian National Security Law, has warned that the police would investigate anyone who helps an "offender" to abscond from Hong Kong after reports emerged that the city was looking into prosecuting two Danish politicians who aided former opposition lawmaker Ted Hui Chi-fung as he fled to Europe.South China Morning Post citing Danish reports, reported that the government was also examining the possibility of extraditing politicians Uffe Elbaek and Katarina Ammitzboll, as they had helped Hui head to Denmark at the end of November.The incident, which has already provoked a strong response from Beijing, could trigger a diplomatic row between Denmark and China.The Security Bureau in Hong Kong did not confirm the report, saying only that Hui, who had been prosecuted for various criminal offences, had openly jumped court bail and absconded.The bureau stated that he is an offender who fabricated false reasons and lied to the court in an attempt to abscond added to the severity of his crime."In light of the circumstances of each case, the police will track down the whereabouts of the fugitive offenders through various means in accordance with the law and pursue them," the bureau told the Post.It added, "Wherever any person, regardless of his nationality, is suspected of having committed a crime in organising, planning or aiding the absconding, or in such criminal conspiracy, the police will actively investigate and pursue their legal liabilities under the existing legal framework."Out on bail and facing a raft of criminal charges related to pro-government protests that broke out in 2019, the former lawmaker left Hong Kong for Denmark on November 30.The draconian national security law also applies to offences committed against Hong Kong outside the city by a person who is not a permanent resident.Beijing last month accused Danish politicians of harbouring 'criminals' and meddling in China's domestic affairs by supporting Hui, according to South China Morning Post."We oppose having any individual in any country interfering in Hong Kong's matters and China's domestic affairs in any way, and harbouring criminals," foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said.Hui faces nine charges including one count of being involved in an act intended to pervert the course of justice, as well as two counts of obtaining access to a computer with dishonest intent, and criminal damage over a protest in Tuen Mun.According to the draconian security law, a principal offender convicted of subversion faces imprisonment of 10 years to life, while an "active participant" can be sentenced to between three and 10 years' jail, while a minor can face a fixed term of not more than three years' imprisonment or short-term detention or restriction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-warns-probe-against-those-who-help-pro-democracy-protesters-escape-101610187868453.html
09-01-2021||World||Blizzard covers Spain in white, brings Madrid to standstill||An unusual and persistent blizzard has blanketed large parts of Spain with snow, freezing traffic and leaving thousands trapped in cars or in train stations and airports that had suspended all services as the snow kept falling on Saturday.The capital, Madrid, and other parts of central Spain activated for the first time a red weather alert, the highest, and called in the military to rescue people from vehicles trapped on everything from small roads to the city's major thoroughfares.The national AEMET weather agency had warned that some regions would be receiving more than 24 hours of continuous snowfall due to the odd combination of a cold air mass stagnant over the Iberian Peninsula and the arrival of the warmer Storm Filomena from the south.AEMET had said that up to 20 centimeters (nearly 8 inches) of snow could accumulate in large parts of the country but the build-up reached more than 50 centimeters even in urban areas. The storm is expected to move northeast throughout Saturday, the agency said.Carlos Novillo, head of the Madrid emergency agency, said that more than 1,000 vehicles had become trapped, mostly on the city's ring road and the main motorway that leads from the capital to the south, toward the Castilla La Mancha and Andalucia regions.“The situation remains of high risk. This is a very complex phenomenon and a critical situation," Novillo said Saturday morning in a message posted on social media.“We ask all those who remain trapped to be patient, we will get to you," he added.Airport operator AENA said that the Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas International Airport, the main gateway in and out of the country, would remain closed throughout the day after the blizzard bested machines and workers trying to keep the runways clear of snow.All trains into and out of Madrid, both commuter routes and long-distance passenger trains, as well as railway lines between the south and the northeast of the country, were suspended, railway operator Renfe said.The storm had caused serious disruptions or closed altogether over 430 roads by Saturday morning, according to Spain’s transit authorities, which urged people to stay indoors and avoid all non-essential travel.The wintry weather even halted the country's soccer league, with some of the La Liga top teams unable to travel for games. A flight to Madrid carrying players of the current leader in the championship, Athletic Bilbao, had to return to the Bilbao airport, while the second-place Real Madrid team was unable to take off for its match against Osasuna on Saturday night.The blizzard also yielded unusual images for many Madrileños, including a few brave people heading out with their ski gear on a main commercial avenue and in the central Puerta del Sol square, and even a dog sled that was seen on videos widely circulated on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blizzard-covers-spain-in-white-brings-madrid-to-standstill-101610185832689.html
09-01-2021||World||Billionaires who championed Donald Trump have now gone largely quiet||They bankrolled Donald Trump. They applauded his tax cuts. They cheered as the stock market soared. Now, the sound coming from some of the president’s wealthiest donors is this: silence.As chaos engulfs the White House and Democrats talk of impeachment, few of these billionaires have much to say about the president they showered with many millions in campaign contributions.“I’m sorry, I am not available right now,” wrote venture capitalist Peter Thiel. No thank you, said Thomas Peterffy, who controls Interactive Brokers Group Inc. Richard LeFrak, the New York real estate magnate, said through a spokesman he’s not doing press at the moment.And Andy Beal, the Texas banking billionaire, couldn’t comment because, “he doesn’t know what happened,” according to his assistant. “He wasn’t there and he doesn’t believe mainstream news reporting anymore.”Only a handful of the two dozen or so of Trump’s wealthiest donors contacted by Bloomberg News left statements or declined to comment; most didn’t respond. A few published statements. No one agreed to be interviewed on the record.Financial DonorsMany among the world’s ultra-wealthy tend to air political leanings through financial contributions rather than words. But their silence echoes particularly loudly this week as a final act of a turbulent presidency turned into mayhem that sent shock waves around the globe.On Thursday, Democratic lawmakers urged Trump’s cabinet to immediately remove him from office and threatened to impeach him a second time if they don’t act. They accused him of inciting the crowd that breached the Capitol. The riots have left five people dead, including one police officer.A few of Trump’s supporters spoke out against the violence, including Blackstone Group Inc. founder Stephen Schwarzman, who contributed more money to Trump’s re-election bid than anyone else in high finance.“The insurrection that followed the president’s remarks today is appalling and an affront to the democratic values we hold dear as Americans,” Schwarzman said in a statement. “I am shocked and horrified by this mob’s attempt to undermine our constitution. As I said in November, the outcome of the election is very clear and there must be a peaceful transition of power.”‘Worst Elements’“I unambiguously condemn the thugs and criminals who yesterday epitomized the worst elements of society by vandalizing the sacred halls and chambers of Congress, together with all who incited and abetted their unconscionable violence,” said Ronald Lauder, the billionaire chairman of Estee Lauder Cos. and a Trump donor.Lauder’s statement, which he made in has capacity as president of the World Jewish Congress, didn’t specifically mention Trump.The National Association of Manufacturers, through its chief executive officer, Jay Timmons, on Wednesday called on Vice President Mike Pence to consider invoking the 25th Amendment, which could eject Trump from office before the Jan. 20 transition.Harold Hamm, the oil titan who’s a Trump confidante, sits on the board of the trade association. He didn’t return requests for comment.Also silent were Richard and Liz Uihlein, owners of Uline Inc., who’ve poured tens of millions into conservative causes in recent years. Hedge fund manager John Paulson didn’t respond to a message seeking comment, nor did Charles Dolan, whose family controls the Madison Square Garden companies.More SuccinctOthers were succinct in their thoughts. Ken Fisher of Fisher Investments wrote that Wednesday’s events were “sickening behavior in so many ways and a tragedy.”And Nelson Peltz, who organized a fundraiser for the president last year, said in a joint statement with his two co-founders of Trian Fund Management that they “condemn President Trump’s efforts to overturn the election results.”In a Thursday interview with CNBC, Peltz was even more blunt: “I voted for him in this past election in November. Today I’m sorry I did that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/billionaires-who-championed-donald-trump-have-now-gone-largely-quiet-101610184312895.html
09-01-2021||World||Saudi king receives first dose of a coronavirus vaccine: Report||Saudi King Salman received a first dose of a coronavirus vaccine on Friday in the NEOM economic zone, the state news agency SPA said.The agency posted two pictures and a short video that showed a medical staff injecting the king with the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-king-receives-first-dose-of-a-coronavirus-vaccine-report-101610184129166.html
09-01-2021||World||'Won’t defend him anymore': Some Republicans begin to flee from Trump||President Donald Trump's steadfast grip on Republicans in Washington is beginning to crumble, leaving him more politically isolated than at any other point in his turbulent administration.After riling up a crowd that later staged a violent siege of the US Capitol, Trump appears to have lost some of his strongest allies, including South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham. Two Cabinet members and at least a half dozen aides have resigned. A handful of congressional Republicans are openly considering whether to join a renewed push for impeachment.One GOP senator who has split with Trump in the past called on him to resign and questioned whether she would stay in the party.“I want him out,” Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska told The Anchorage Daily News. "He has caused enough damage.”The insurrection on the heels of a bruising election loss in Georgia accomplished what other low points in Trump's presidency did not: force Republicans to fundamentally reassess their relationship with a leader who has long abandoned tradition and decorum. The result could reshape the party, threatening the influence that Trump craves while creating a divide between those in Washington and activists in swaths of the country where the president is especially popular.“At this point, I won’t defend him anymore,” said Ari Fleischer, a former White House press secretary for George W. Bush and a GOP strategist who voted for Trump. “I won't defend him for stirring the pot that incited the mob. He's on his own.”When the week began, Trump was without question the most dominant political force in Republican politics and a 2024 kingmaker, if not the GOP’s next presidential nominee himself. On Friday, there was a growing sense that he was forever tarnished — and may be forced from office before his term expires in 12 days.Absent a resignation, calls for a second impeachment on Capitol Hill grew louder on Friday. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Congress would proceed with impeachment proceedings unless Trump leaves office “imminently and willingly.”President-elect Joe Biden isn't putting his weight behind the effort yet, suggesting there's not enough time between now and his Jan. 20 inauguration to pursue impeachment or any other constitutional remedy.“I am focused now, on us taking control as president and vice president, on the 20th and getting our agenda moving as quickly as we can,” Biden told reporters.Trump still has supporters, especially among the many rank-and-file Republican voters and conservative activists beyond Washington.On Thursday morning, there was loud applause and shouts of “We love you!” when Trump phoned into a breakfast meeting of the Republican National Committee in Florida.“The vast majority of the committee is in full denial,” said Republican National Committee member Bill Palatucci, of New Jersey, who attended the breakfast. “They’re willing to condemn the violence, but without any reference to the president’s role in any of it."The president insists he did nothing wrong. He continues to tell aides, privately at least, that the election was stolen from him. Republican officials in critical battleground states, his recently departed attorney general and a series of judges — including those appointed by Trump — have rejected those claims as meritless.Trump had to be convinced to record the video released Thursday night in which he finally condemned the rioters and acknowledged his November defeat for the first time, while initially pushing back at the prospect of speaking negatively of “my people."He ultimately agreed to record the video after White House counsel Pat Cipollone warned that he could face legal jeopardy for inciting the riot. Others, including chief of staff Mark Meadows and his daughter Ivanka Trump, urged Trump to send out a message that may quell the talk of his forcible ouster from office, either by impeachment or constitutional procedures outlined in the 25th Amendment.And while Trump acknowledged in the video that a new administration would take over on Jan. 20, he also said Friday that he would not attend Biden’s inauguration. That makes Trump the first outgoing president since Andrew Johnson 152 years ago to skip the swearing-in of his successor.Trump has no plans to disappear from the political debate once he leaves office, according to aides who believe he remains wildly popular among the Republican rank-and-file.Lest there be any doubt, Trump’s false claims about voter fraud in his November loss resonated with hundreds of thousands of Republican voters in Georgia's Senate runoff elections this week. About 7 in 10 agreed with his false assertion that Biden was not the legitimately elected president, according to AP VoteCast, a survey of more than 3,700 voters.Leading Republican pollster Frank Luntz has had extensive conversations with grassroots voters and Republican officials about Trump's standing since the siege.“The professionals are running away from a sinking ship, but his own supporters have not abandoned him, and they actually want him to fight on,” Luntz said. “He’s become the voice of God for tens of millions of people, and they will follow him to the ends of the earth and off the cliff.”And because of the voters' continued loyalty, elected officials in deep red areas must remain loyal to the outgoing president as well, even if his own Cabinet does not. In the hours after this week's riot, 147 Republicans in Congress still voted to reject Biden's victory, including eight senators.The dramatic split in the party is reflected within the divergent paths adopted by the early slate of 2024 Republican presidential prospects.Sens. Josh Hawley, of Missouri, and Ted Cruz, of Texas, embraced Trump's calls to reject Biden's victory before and after the mob attack. Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton resisted Trump's wishes, drawing an angry tweet from the president earlier in the week.Such attacks didn't carry as much weight at the end of the week as they once did given Trump’s weakened political state. On Thursday, Cotton chastised Republican colleagues like Hawley and Cruz, who had given voters “false hope” that Trump's November loss could be overturned.Nikki Haley, who served as the US ambassador to the United Nations under Trump, tried to toe the line as she condemned Trump's actions this week during a closed-door meeting with the Republican National Committee.She lauded some of Trump’s accomplishments but predicted that, “His actions since Election Day will be judged harshly by history."Meanwhile, there is no clear path for the Republican Party without Trump. Speaking to reporters on Friday, even Biden raised concerns about the health of the GOP.“We need a Republican Party,” Biden said, noting that he spoke with Republican Sen. Mitt Romney, a leading Trump critic. “We need an opposition that’s principled and strong.”Meanwhile, Trump has been plotting ways to retain his political clout once he moves from the White House to his Florida estate, Mar-a-Lago, later in the month.Believing his supporters will stick with him no matter what, he has continued to discuss encouraging primary challenges against Republicans who haven't been sufficiently loyal to him. And he has hinted publicly and privately that he will likely challenge Biden in a 2024 rematch, though losing his powerful Twitter account — which was or using xenophobia to malign a country permanently shut down by the company on Friday — could complicate his efforts to rule the Republican party by fear.Doug Deason, a Texas-based donor who served on the Trump campaign's finance committee, said this week's events have done nothing to shake his confidence in the Republican president.“He has been the best President in my lifetime, including Reagan,” Deason said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-defend-him-anymore-some-republicans-begin-to-flee-from-trump-101610181887763.html
09-01-2021||World||New Covid-19 variant found in eight US states: Official data||A new, more infectious strain of the coronavirus has now spread to at least eight US states, official data showed Friday, as the country logged a record new daily virus caseload.The B117 coronavirus strain, which emerged in Britain late last year, has been shown to be between 40 and 70 percent more contagious than variants which have spread previously.Data from the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) showed Friday that the strain -- first reported in the US last week -- has been detected in eight states, with California and Florida the worst affected.The strain has also been found in Colorado, Texas, New York, Georgia, Connecticut and Pennsylvania, in a total of 63 cases.Top US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci told Newsweek on Wednesday that the variant may be "more widespread in the United States than we are currently detecting it to be"."I'm certain it's here, we just haven't detected it yet. And I think it's pretty clear that if it's in places like California, and New York and Colorado... that pretty soon it's going to be in several more states," he said.The spread of B117 and another more infectious variant from South Africa, known as B1351, has sparked fears of a similar new strain emerging in the US.But US officials on Friday denied reports that one had been detected so far."Researchers have been monitoring US strains since the pandemic began, including 5,700 samples collected in November and December," CDC spokesman Jason McDonald told CNBC."To date, neither researchers nor analysts at CDC have seen the emergence of a particular variant in the United States as has been seen with the emergence of B.1.1.7 in the United Kingdom or B.1.351 in South Africa."Almost 290,000 new coronavirus infections were reported in the US within 24 hours Friday according to Johns Hopkins University, a day after the world's worst-hit country recorded a daily high of nearly 4,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-covid-19-variant-found-in-eight-us-states-official-data-101610183284425.html
09-01-2021||World||French Covid-19 vaccine rollout slowed by focus on elderly, red tape||The few hours it took to give the first coronavirus vaccine shots to 14 residents of the John XXIII nursing home — named after a pope and not far from the birthplace in eastern France of vaccine pioneer Louis Pasteur — took weeks of preparation.The home's director, Samuel Robbe, first had to chew his way through a dense 61-page vaccination protocol, one of several hefty guides from the French government that exhaustively detail how to proceed, down to the number of times (10) that each flask of vaccine should be turned upside down to mix its contents.“Delicately,” the booklet stipulates. “Do not shake." As France tries to figure out why its vaccination campaign launched so slowly, the answer lies partly in forests of red tape and the decision to prioritize vulnerable older people in nursing homes. They are perhaps the toughest group to start with, because of the need for informed consent and difficulties explaining the complex science of fast-tracked vaccines.Claude Fouet, still full of vim and good humor at age 89 but with memory problems, was among the first in his Paris care home to agree to a vaccination. But in conversation, it quickly becomes apparent that his understanding of the pandemic is spotty. Eve Guillaume, the home's director, had to remind Fouet that in April he survived his own brush with the virus that has killed more than 66,000 people in France.“I was in hospital,” Fouet slowly recalled, “with a dead person next to me.” Guillaume says that getting consent from her 64 residents — or their guardians and families when they are not fit enough to agree themselves — is proving to be the most labor-intensive part of her preparations to start inoculations later this month. Some families have said no, and some want to wait a few months to see how vaccinations unfold before deciding.“You can't count on medicalized care homes to go quickly,” she says. “It means, each time, starting a conversation with families, talking with guardians, taking collegial steps to reach the right decision. And that takes time.” At the John XXIII home, between the fortified town of Besancon and Pasteur's birthplace in Dole, Robbe has had a similar experience.After the European Union green-lighted use of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine in December, Robbe says it took two weeks to put together all the pieces to this week vaccinate 14 residents, just a fraction of his total of more than 100.Getting consent was the biggest hurdle for a doctor and a psychologist who went from room to room to discuss vaccinations, he says. The families of residents were given a week over the December holidays to approve or refuse, a decision that had to be unanimous from immediate family members.When one woman's daughter said yes but her son said no, a shot wasn't given because “they can turn against us and say, 'I never agreed to that,'” Robbe explained. “No consensus, we don't vaccinate.” Only by cutting corners and perfunctorily getting residents to agree could the process go quicker, he says.“My friends are saying, 'What is this circus? The Germans have already vaccinated 80,000 people and we've vaccinated no one,'" he says. "But we don't share the same histories. When you propose a vaccine to Germans, they all want to get inoculated. In France, there is a lot of reticence about the history of vaccinations. People are more skeptical. They need to understand.They need explications and to be reassured.” France prioritized nursing homes because they have seen nearly one-third of its deaths. But its first vaccination on Dec. 27, of a 78-year-old woman in a long-term care facility, quickly proved to have been only the symbolic launch of a rollout that the government never intended to get properly underway before this week.Only on Monday, as scheduled, did authorities launch an online platform where health workers must log all vaccinations and show that those inoculated got an obligatory consultation with a doctor, adding to the red tape.In some countries that are moving faster than France, the bureaucracy is leaner. In Britain, where nearly 1.5 million have been inoculated and plans are to offer jabs to all nursing home residents by the end of January, those capable of consenting need only sign a one-page form that gives basic information about the benefits and possible side effects.No doctor interviews are needed in Spain. It started vaccinating the same day as France but administered 82,000 doses in the first nine days, whereas France managed just a couple of thousand.Germany, like France, also mandates a meeting with a doctor and is prioritizing shots for care home residents, but it is getting to them quicker, using mobile teams. At its current rate of nearly 30,000 vaccinations per day, Germany would need at least six years to inoculate its 69 million adults.But while the German government is facing criticism for the perceived slow rollout, France made an even more leisurely start, at least in numerical terms, but has pledged to reach 1 million people by the end of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-slowed-by-focus-on-elderly-red-tape-101610182783827.html
09-01-2021||World||China issues rules to stop ‘unjustified’ use of foreign laws||China issued new rules to block its companies and citizens from having to follow “unjustified” foreign laws and measures, in its latest riposte to US restrictions on businesses like ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok.The rules on “counteracting unjustified extra-territorial application” of foreign legislation and other measures are effective immediately and allow authorities to ban the imposition of other jurisdictions’ laws on Chinese entities when it deems them inappropriate, the Ministry of Commerce said in a statement on its website on Saturday. China’s move aims to protect “normal trade” and other activities, it said.The new order will be enforceable in China but it will be difficult to use for activities outside of the country, Nicholas Turner, a lawyer at Steptoe & Johnson LLP in Hong Kong who specializes in economic sanctions, said Saturday.“It remains to be seen whether activities outside of China will be caught or whether China will be effective at discouraging companies from complying with US sanctions in the region or elsewhere,” Turner saidThe Chinese move comes as outgoing US President Donald Trump extends his campaign against Chinese companies in his final days in office, further straining ties between the world’s two largest economies.Banned TransactionsTrump earlier this month banned transactions with Chinese apps like Ant Group Co.’s Alipay and Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s digital wallets, adding to a prior push to force the sale of TikTok by ByteDance. The New York Stock Exchange has also become involved, heeding calls from the Trump administration to delist certain Chinese companies traded on its bourse.Beijing also repeatedly pressured Canada to release Meng Wanzhou, daughter of Huawei Technologies Co.’s billionaire founder Ren Zhengfei, after she was detained by Canadian authorities over a year ago under the request of the US government.Many companies will continue to “err on the side of complying with US law because of Washington’s history of aggressive enforcement,” Turner said. The China order “does not alter U.S. companies’ obligations to comply with sanctions or other laws. Companies with significant business interests in China may need to tread carefully.”The growing list of improper use of foreign laws overseas has “continuously disrupted the rules-based multilateral trade system and caused negative impact on the global economic recovery,” the commerce ministry said in a separate statement, citing Han Liyu, a law professor at the Renmin University of China.A new working mechanism involving the commerce ministry and the top planning agency will oversee the assessment of such cases, and decisions will be based on considerations like whether international law has been violated and the potential impact on China’s sovereignty and the “legitimate rights” of Chinese entities, according to the statement.Companies and citizens can sue in Chinese courts for compensation of losses incurred from foreign rulings deemed as unjustified under the new rules, the ministry said.China isn’t unique in using such measures, as similar legislation has been in place in the European Union and countries like Canada and Mexico, Han said.“The fact that China hasn’t had a clear mechanism until now to block the effect of foreign sanctions is itself notable,” Turner said. “The EU blocking statute has been in place since 1996. Russia and other countries have similar measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-issues-rules-to-stop-unjustified-use-of-foreign-laws-101610181880123.html
09-01-2021||World||Kim Jong Un says Inter-Korean unification dream now further away||Inter-Korean relations are on the brink of catastrophe with prospects for unification now dimmer than they were before the historic 2018 summit, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has told the 8th ruling party congress.On Friday, Kim continued delivering his report as the 8th Congress of the Workers' Party of Korea entered the fourth day.According to the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), the report has pointed out that inter-Korean relations have reached a crossroads. The two countries should rectify the current state of affairs and move toward peace and unification, otherwise the confrontation will intensify and relations will freeze, and the sides will experience the "pain of division" in an atmosphere of a "threat of war," the agency reported."It is no exaggeration to say that North-South relations have now returned to the pre-[2018] Panmunjom Declaration state, the dream of unification is now even further away," Kim said in the report.According to Pyongyang, Seoul continues its hostile activities and rhetoric toward the North, which makes the future of inter-Korean relations "hazy." The problem at the same time cannot be solved at the level of ordinary people, and it "will not disappear by itself" over time."If [South Korea] really wants peace and unification and is concerned about the future and the fate of the nation and future generations, it should not just look on this serious situation and should take active measures to resolve and improve existing inter-Korean relations, which are on the verge of disaster," the report added.North Korea expects the South to demonstrate "sincerity" in relations, which includes the cessation of joint drills with the United States and hostile actions as well as the implementation of all inter-Korean agreements, according to the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-says-inter-korean-unification-dream-now-further-away-101610181907591.html
09-01-2021||World||Trump to blame for death of woman trampled in Capitol riot, family member says||The brother-in-law of a woman killed during Wednesday's assault on the US Capitol by a mob seeking to overturn President Donald Trump's election loss said he blames Trump for the riot, and has joined calls for him to be removed from office.Rosanne Boyland, a 34-year-old resident of Kennesaw, Georgia, was one of four civilians who died in the rioting, according to Washington, DC police. A Capitol Police officer also died from injuries in the melee.Police did not disclose the cause of Boyland's death.However, Justin Winchell, a friend who accompanied Boyland to a Trump rally near the White House and marched with her to the Capitol, told Atlanta CBS affiliate WGCL that she was trampled to death in a massive crowd surge when protesters clashed with Capitol Police."I got my arm underneath her, that was pulling her out - pulling her out - and then another guy fell on top of her and another guy was just walking" over her, he said. "I mean, there was people crushed."Boyland's brother-in-law, Justin Cave, told Atlanta media that his wife, Boyland's sister, had tried to persuade her not to attend the Trump rally in Washington.Boyland was "passionate about her beliefs" and support of Trump and the family was grieving for others killed and injured in the rioting, he told https://twitter.com/aungeliquefox5/status/1347325983393800194 a local Fox television reporter."I've never tried to be a political person, but it's my own personal belief that the president's words incited a riot that killed four of his biggest fans last night and I believe that we should invoke the 25th Amendment at this time," Cave said.A White House spokesman did not respond to a request for comment about Boyland's death.Asked if Trump was to blame for his friend's death, Winchell said: "Does he have blood on his hands? No!"Trump urged his supporters to come to Washington for the rally Wednesday, the day the US House of Representatives and Senate were scheduled to certify his election loss to Joe Biden, then told them to walk to the Capitol "to fight."Under the 25th Amendment, a president can be forcibly removed from power if the vice president and a majority of cabinet members agree that the president is unfit for office. Democratic leaders in Congress have called for immediate impeachment proceedings if Vice President Mike Pence and Trump's Cabinet fail to seek to remove Trump from power.Washington, DC, police on Thursday said that three other civilians were killed in the rioting on Wednesday.Ashli Babbitt, a 35-year-old California native, was shot by a Capitol Police officer in an incident that DC police are investigating. Babbitt, a USAir Force veteran, had embraced far-fetched right-wing conspiracy theories, according to her social media activity.New video https://twitter.com/bellingcat/status/1347428500530204674 of the moments leading to Babbitt's shooting emerged on Friday, showing a plainclothes officer fire in a chaotic scene as Babbitt attempted to enter the Speaker's Lobby outside the House of Representatives chamber through a smashed glass partition.Other deathsDC Police also said Kevin Greeson, 55, of Athens, Alabama, and Benjamin Phillips, 50, of Ringtown, Pennsylvania, died after experiencing medical emergencies.A statement released by Greeson's family to local media said that the avid motorcycle rider had suffered a heart attack."Kevin was an advocate of President Trump and attended the event on Jan. 6 to show his support. He was excited to be there to experience this event," according to the statement quoted in The News Courier in Athens.Phillips, a computer programmer, died of a stroke, the Philadelphia Inquirer reported.Also killed was Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick, 40, who suffered a stroke after injuries sustained "while physically engaging with protesters" the department said.(Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Heather Timmons, Andrea Ricci and Daniel Wallis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-to-blame-for-death-of-woman-trampled-in-capitol-riot-family-member-says-101610178155109.html
09-01-2021||World||Twitter boots prominent Donald Trump allies in QAnon crackdown||Twitter Inc said on Friday it would permanently suspend accounts pushing QAnon content, banning prominent right-wing boosters of its conspiracy theories including Michael Flynn and Sidney Powell following Wednesday's storming of the U.S. Capitol by supporters of President Donald Trump.Flynn, a former national security adviser to Trump, and Powell, a former Trump campaign lawyer, have both been close allies of the president and promoted efforts to cast doubt about his defeat in the 2020 presidential election.Twitter also suspended Ron Watkins, the administrator of fringe message board 8kun, which effectively serves as home base for the QAnon conspiracy movement."Given the renewed potential for violence surrounding this type of behavior in the coming days, we will permanently suspend accounts that are solely dedicated to sharing QAnon content," Twitter said in a statement.QAnon followers espouse an intertwined series of far-fetched beliefs based on anonymous web postings from "Q", who claims to have insider knowledge of the Trump administration.At the core of the baseless conspiracy theories embraced by QAnon is the idea that Trump is secretly fighting a cabal of child-sex predators that includes prominent Democrats, Hollywood elites and "deep state" allies.QAnon has been amplified on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, the video streaming service of Alphabet Inc's Google. Its adherents were among those who participated in the Capitol siege that left five people dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-boots-prominent-donald-trump-allies-in-qanon-crackdown-101610178378688.html
09-01-2021||World||Joe Biden to unveil trillions in pandemic economic relief spending next week||US President-elect Joe Biden said Americans need more economic relief from the coronavirus pandemic now and that he will deliver a plan costing "trillions" of dollars next week.Biden, introducing several members of his economic team, spoke on Friday after data showed the US economy lost jobs for the first time in eight months in December as a resurgent Covid-19 pandemic shuttered restaurants and other businesses.He said the proposal includes relief for state and local governments grappling with the pandemic, as well as new support for people who lost their jobs or cannot afford rent.Biden also called for raising the minimum wage to $15, a campaign promise, and for sending out $2,000 in direct cash payments. Democrats sought those cash payouts in the last relief bill, passed in December, but only were able to get Republicans to agree to $600."We need more direct relief flowing to families, small businesses, including finishing the job of getting people that $2,000 relief direct payment. $600 is simply not enough," he said.Biden said he would unveil the plan on Thursday.The Democrat, who takes office on Jan. 20, emerged emboldened from a pair of Senate elections this week in Georgia that handed Democrats a majority in that chamber to complement control of the House of Representatives. The majorities could allow Biden to pass larger spending bills.Biden's initial plan was for a bill under $1 trillion but he said on Friday that "economic research confirms that with conditions like the crisis today, especially with such low interest rates, taking immediate action - even with deficit financing - is going to help the economy."Speaking to reporters as he announced his nominees to head the Commerce and Labor departments, the president-elect said action was needed to help Americans get to the other side of the health and economic crisis, and to "avoid a broader economic cost that exists out there, that will happen due to long term unemployment, hunger, homelessness and business failings."Markets have reacted quickly to expectations that government spending will rise since Democrats won the Georgia elections, with stock indexes rising and the interest investors demand on 10-year US Treasury bonds climbing to their highest levels since March.Yet Republicans and even some Democrats may be resistant to greater deficit-fueled spending, with Sen. Joe Manchin, a Democrat from West Virginia, among those who initially greeted the idea skeptically.Biden's transition team also said on Friday that they are looking into other economic relief actions they can take unilaterally, including extending a pause on repayments of federal student loans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-unveil-trillions-in-pandemic-economic-relief-spending-next-week-101610178282440.html
09-01-2021||World||Biden calls Trump 'unfit' but doesn't endorse impeachment||President-elect Joe Biden says that President Donald Trump isn't “fit for the job,” but he repeatedly refused to endorse growing Democratic calls to impeach him a second time.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a letter to members of her chamber that lawmakers could move as early as next week to impeach Trump for inciting a violent mob that overran the U.S. Capitol if the president didn't “immediately" resign. Pelosi and Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer also have called on Vice President Mike Pence and the Cabinet to invoke the 25th Amendment to force Trump from office — a process for stripping the president of his post and installing the vice president to take over.Addressing reporters in his home state of Delaware after an event Friday introducing some of his Cabinet choices, Biden noted that a key reason he ran for president was because he'd “thought for a long, long time that President Trump wasn’t fit for the job."“I’ve been saying for now, well, over a year, he’s not fit to serve,” Biden said. “He’s one of the most incompetent presidents in the history of the United States of America.”But he refused to back efforts to remove Trump from the White House and insisted that impeachment was up to Congress. Instead, Biden said he was focused on the start of his own administration on Jan. 20, and he said his top three priorities are beating back the coronavirus, distributing vaccines fairly and equitably and reviving the struggling economy.His comments laid bare the political balance Biden has worked to strike in the months since winning the presidential election. He has continued to sharply criticize Trump and nearly every facet of his administration but also worked to keep the public's attention focused on what the new administration will do rather than indulging recriminations against the last one.Biden nonetheless conceded that Trump “exceeded my worst notions about him. He’s been an embarrassment” and likened the "damage done to our reputation around the world" to “tin horn dictatorships.” The president-elect also suggested that a key hurdle to removing Trump was that he has less than two weeks remaining in his term.“If we were six months out, we should be doing everything to get him out of office. Impeaching him again, trying to evoke the 25th Amendment, whatever it took,” Biden said. “But I am focused now on us taking control as president and vice president on the 20th and to get our agenda moving as quickly as we can.”Trump would be the only president to be impeached twice. The House impeached him in late 2019, but the Republican-led Senate acquitted him. Removal from office could also prevent Trump from running for president in 2024, or ever holding the presidency again.Most Democrats, and many Republicans, put the blame squarely on Trump after hundreds of protesters broke into the Capitol on Wednesday and caused destruction and mass evacuations. The president had urged his supporters to protest as Congress was counting the electoral votes that confirmed Biden’s win. Five people died, including a Capitol Police officer.Biden called what happened a “god-awful debacle” and said it had “the active encouragement of the president of the United States.”The president-elect's comments came hours after Trump tweeted that he planned to skip Biden’s inauguration, becoming the first president in more than 150 years — and just the fourth in U.S. history — to do so. Biden said he'd be “honored” to have Pence at the swearing-in, but didn't feel the same way about Trump.That's "one of the few things he and I have ever agreed on," Biden said. “It's a good thing, him not showing up.”Also Friday, Biden called on the Senate — which Democrats won narrow control of thanks to a pair of runoff election victories in Georgia earlier this week — to confirm his Cabinet choices “promptly and fairly."“Given what our country’s been through the last few days," Biden said, "they should be confirmed as close to Jan 20 as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-calls-trump-unfit-but-doesn-t-endorse-impeachment-101610177163442.html
09-01-2021||World||Laptop stolen from Pelosi's office during storming of US Capitol, says aide||A laptop was stolen from the office of U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi during the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, one of her aides said on Friday.Drew Hammill, an aide to Democrat Pelosi, said on Twitter that the laptop belonged to a conference room and was used for presentations. He declined to offer further details.The theft of electronic devices from congressional offices has been a persistent worry following the invasion by pro-Trump followers. They were encouraged by Republican President Donald Trump at a rally beforehand to march to the Capitol while Congress was certifying Democrat Joe Biden's Nov. 3 election win.Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat, said on Twitter that a laptop was taken from his office. On Thursday, Acting U.S. Attorney Michael Sherwin said that some of the thefts might have potentially jeopardized what he described as "national security equities.""We just don't know the extent of that damage at this point," he said.The demonstrators who broke into the Capitol posted several photographs of themselves using congressional phones and various other devices. One reporter with the right-wing outlet Blaze posted a photograph of what purported to be a computer from Pelosi's office with emails "still on the screen."What else might have been taken during the chaos is not yet known. Some information technology experts worry that intruders may have planted malicious software on computers, although it's not clear that devices were the focus of any particular attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/laptop-stolen-from-pelosi-s-office-during-storming-of-us-capitol-says-aide-101610177068251.html
09-01-2021||World||Polls reveal 18 pc of Republicans support Capitol riots||Close to 18 percent of the Republicans support the pro-Trump rioters who stormed the Capitol on Wednesday in opposition to Congress's certification of President-elect Joe Biden's win according to a survey conducted by BS NewsHour/Marist released on Friday (local time).Citing the survey, The Hill reported that more than 800 adults were polled the day after the riots also found some common support among other GOP (alternate name for the Republican Party) also found that despite some support among GOP members, most Americans, approximately 88 percent, either opposed or strongly opposed the mob's actions."Nearly a fifth of Republicans -- 18 percent -- were in favor of Trump supporters breaking into the US Capitol, far more than the three percent of Democrats and seven percent of independents who felt the same," as reported by the survey.Those who surveyed were divided in their opinions on the level of President Donald Trump's responsibility in the riots, with 63 percent of those surveyed saying Trump deserves "a great deal or good amount of blame" for Wednesday's events. Among Republicans, 69 percent believe Trump is "at little or no fault"."Trump encouraged his supporters at a rally on Wednesday to march to the Capitol and challenge Congress's vote, repeating his disputed claims that the election was "stolen" from him and that there was widespread voter fraud," The Hill reported.Among those included in Friday's poll, 48 percent joined calls from some lawmakers for the President to be removed from office, while 49 percent opposed such a move.Among independents, about 51 percent believe Trump should remain in office with less than two weeks to go until President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration.A substantial majority, 90 percent of the respondents, believe the perpetrators of the riot, which saw participants breaking through windows of the Capitol and ransacking offices, should be prosecuted for their actions.The survey, with regard to the police's response to the events at Capitol Hill, reported that 56 percent of survey respondents believe that police were "not aggressive enough" in dealing with the rioters.Several injuries have been reported since Wednesday's events, and five people died amid the chaos, including a woman who was shot by a Capitol Police officer and an officer who died after suffering injuries while responding to the rioting. Both fatalities are under investigation.Lee Miringoff, director of The Marist Poll, said in a statement along with Friday's survey said "there is a consensus across party lines that the divisions that exist pose a threat to our democracy," with 81 percent of those surveyed agree with this sentiment as quoted by the American daily."But, Americans also believe we will dig ourselves out of this crisis, and the democracy will survive," Miringoff added, as more than seven in 10 of those surveyed say they still believe in the strength of American democracy.A chaotic and violent scene erupted at the Capitol on Wednesday as supporters of Trump stormed the building to protest the Electoral College vote, forcing a lockdown and various confrontations with police. Four people died in the melee.Wednesday's violence came hours after Trump encouraged his supporters to fight against the election results as Congress was certifying Biden's victory in the November vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/polls-reveal-18-pc-of-republicans-support-capitol-riots-101610176416971.html
09-01-2021||World||World’s least favored stocks shine in 2021 after Brexit deal||Just as the U.K. enters another national lockdown, the stars are lining up for Britain’s long-suffering equities.Fresh from its worst annual drop in more than a decade, the benchmark FTSE 100 Index posted its best start to a year on record. It has rallied 6.4% so far in 2021, helped by a long-awaited Brexit deal and global growth optimism. Investors are also piling into the country’s exchange-traded funds.The trade deal with the European Union removed a key obstacle for U.K. assets just as the FTSE 100’s undervalued shares are in demand amid expectations of a global economic rebound. Many analysts and investors are looking beyond the latest pandemic restrictions, citing vaccine rollouts and the potential for more U.S. stimulus with Democrats in charge of Congress as reasons for their optimism about the longer-term outlook for equities.“The prevailing negative investor sentiment and discount valuations attached to U.K. equities now creates some interesting investment opportunities,” said Chris Dyer, director of global equity at Eaton Vance. “The future looks brighter for the U.K. market and U.K. equities, though investors must remember that Brexit will continue to be a drag on the U.K. economy for years to come.”Investors such as Toscafund Asset Management and Eaton Vance, as well as strategists at firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc. and UBS Group AG are bullish about British equities following the Brexit deal.Cyclical BoostMiners, energy shares and banks boosted the FTSE 100 in the year’s first week of trading. Investors backed cyclical sectors around the world on speculation additional U.S. stimulus will spur the economy under the Democrats, and oil surged after an OPEC+ compromise on production cuts. Index heavyweights such as Rio Tinto Group, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP Plc all rallied 13% or more.Heavy exposure to these sectors and a slew of global franchises make the FTSE 100 one of Europe’s best recovery prospects in 2021, according to Bloomberg Intelligence strategists Tim Craighead and Laurent Douillet. In a note last week, they called the market one of the “bastions of value” across the region.U.K. equities were the world’s most popular underweight for months, according to the Bank of America Corp. fund manager survey. Such has been the underperformance of U.K. stocks that they would need to rise by 80% relative to the world to return to their medium-term relative values, Toscafund Chief Economist Savvas Savouri wrote in a Jan. 6 note.Manulife Asset Management’s Nathan Thooft acknowledges U.K. equities are better off on an absolute basis, but is less confident they will overtake peers because many of the “obvious” positives -- low valuations and an index tilt toward cyclical and value themes -- are shared by other regions. The relative benefit of reduced Brexit uncertainty also hinges on the magnitude of the currency appreciation and value rotation, he said.“We expect both directionally but aren’t necessary pounding the table for massive moves,” Thooft, Manulife’s global head of asset allocation, said by email.Even so, investors have piled into U.K. ETFs since the Brexit trade deal. The largest such fund focused on the country’s shares, the iShares Core FTSE 100 UCITS ETF, saw inflows of 183 million pounds ($249 million) in the final week of 2020, the most since March.Shares exposed to the domestic economy were also in favor. The iShares FTSE 250 ETF saw record inflows in December, with investors bringing in almost 400 million pounds, and about 44 million pounds so far in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.“Part of this may be positioning for a relative value trade, where U.K. equities are seen as strong value investments based on fundamentals,” Citigroup analyst Kim D. Jensen wrote in a note, saying investors may also have been expecting that a weakening pound could support returns for euro- and dollar-based investors.As FTSE 250 firms’ revenues are more dependent on domestic economic conditions, the recent flows are also positioning for U.K. strength, Jensen added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worlds-least-favored-stocks-shine-in-2021-after-brexit-deal-101610174374404.html
09-01-2021||World||Thousands defy Covid-19 risk in Manila to attend Nazarene feast||Tens of thousands of people ignored government advice and flocked to the Philippines capital Manila on Saturday to celebrate the feast of the Black Nazarene, a statue that is believed to have healing powers.Between 20,000 and 30,000 pilgrims gathered in the city’s Quiapo district, according to media reports. While only 400 at a time were allowed inside the church where the statue stands because of coronavirus restrictions, thousands others prayed outside the building, Rappler reported.More than a million people have taken part in the annual pilgramage over past years. On Saturday, most people appear to have heeded the advice of authorities and health experts, who urged devotees to stay home and attend mass online.The Philippines has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in Southeast Asia, at more than 480,000 as of Jan. 8.The feast of the Black Nazarene is one of the country’s biggest annual security challenges as the faithful of Asia’s most Catholic country troop to the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-defy-covid-19-risk-in-manila-to-attend-nazarene-feast-101610171605304.html
09-01-2021||World||EU secures deal to double Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine supply||The European Union (EU) has secured a deal to double the supply of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, bringing its total to 600 million doses, President of the European Commission Ursula Von der Leyen said on Friday (local time)."We have right now, access to 300 million doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine. Now the good news is that we have agreed with BioNTech-Pfizer to extend the contract. With the new agreement, we could purchase a total of up to an additional 300 million doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine. In other words, this will allow us to double the number of doses of the BioNTech-Pfizer," she told a press conference.The additional doses will be delivered starting in the second quarter (Q2) of 2021, with 75 million being available in Q2 and the rest in Q3 and Q4.With the 600 million Pfizer-BioNTech doses and 160 million doses of Moderna vaccine, both authorised for conditional marketing in the EU, the bloc would have an amount enough to vaccinate 380 million Europeans, which is "more than 80 percent of the European population," noted Von der Leyen.Pledging that more brands will be given greenlight "in the coming weeks and months," Von der Leyen said the EU has so far secured up to 2.3 billion doses from the most promising vaccine candidates for the EU and its neighborhood.Addressing the criticism of the EU's slow start in the vaccine rollout when compared to Britain and the United States, Von der Leyen insisted that the EU has taken "the right course of action," explaining that her commission had to sift six from 160 vaccine candidates.She affirmed that the commission would be monitoring the vaccination process along with the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control. "Of course, we have to step up, it has to get more, we have to raise the numbers of vaccination rapidly," she admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-secures-deal-to-double-pfizer-biontech-vaccine-supply-101610170049083.html
09-01-2021||World||Brazil's Bolsonaro asks India to expedite Covid vaccine shipment as delays loom||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro asked Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to expedite a shipment of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine amid broader delays to the vaccine's arrival in Brazil, according to a letter on Friday.Bolsonaro's letter, released by his press office, comes amid growing pressure to speed up Brazil's vaccine rollout and end the world's second-deadliest coronavirus outbreak. Critics say the immunization campaign is running behind regional peers, and they question why the government has not moved more quickly."To enable the immediate implementation of our National Immunization Program, I would appreciate ... the supply to Brazil, with the possible urgency and without jeopardizing the Indian vaccination program, of 2 million doses," Bolsonaro wrote in the letter, shared by his press office.His message to Modi comes as the federally funded Fiocruz biomedical center said on Friday that the active ingredients needed to fill and finish millions of doses of AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine in Brazil, previously slated to arrive in the country on Saturday, may not land until the end of the month.Fiocruz, which was counting on the shipment Saturday to supply the government with doses this month, said it was in talks to import more finished doses of the vaccine, likely from India on top of the 2 million it has already ordered.A source involved said the active ingredient is ready to be shipped to Brazil but is waiting for an export license from China, where it is produced.Earlier, Fiocruz requested an emergency use authorization for AstraZeneca vaccines coming from India, which are expected to arrive in Brazil in the middle of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazils-bolsonaro-asks-india-to-expedite-covid-vaccine-shipment-as-delays-loom-101610168848834.html
09-01-2021||World||House will move to impeach Trump if he doesn’t resign 'immediately': Pelosi||US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi has said the House would move ahead with the process to impeach President Donald Trump for encouraging a mob that stormed the Capitol if he did not resign "immediately".Trump, who lost the November 3 elections, would be succeeded by Joe Biden on January 20 as mandated by the Constitution. However, Pelosi and the Democrats believe that in the aftermath of the incident of his supporters storming the Capitol on Wednesday, he should be removed from office immediately.Also Read | 'Conspiring to silence me': Trump after Twitter permanently suspends his account"It is the hope of members that the President will immediately resign. But if he does not, I have instructed the Rules Committee to be prepared to move forward with Congressman Jamie Raskin’s 25th Amendment legislation and a motion for impeachment," Pelosi said in a statement on Friday."Accordingly, the House will preserve every option – including the 25th Amendment, a motion to impeach or a privileged resolution for impeachment,” she said after the House Democratic Caucus had an hours-long discussion on the issue.Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal said the impeachment proceedings should begin immediately. "Let’s do it right now," she said.Congressman Kaiali'i Kahele said he fully support removing Trump from office, either by invoking the 25th Amendment or bringing forth articles of impeachment against him."We cannot have a sitting president in office who incites violence among the people, or who tries to upend the American people's democratic process and right to a just election...his remarks in front of an agitated mob of his supporters that roused civil indignancy at the grounds of the US Capitol are unforgivable," he said.Every day Trump remains in the White House is another day America is unsafe, Kahele said.Also Read: Shocked by Capitol siege, more aides, GOP backers desert TrumpKahele is a co-sponsor of two resolutions of impeachment authored by fellow US members of Congress -- one sponsored by Representatives David Cicilline, Ted Lieu, and Jamie Raskin; and the other by Congresswoman Ilhan Omar.The resolution by Cicilline, Lieu and Raskin offers a single article of impeachment of abuse of power that covers both inciting violence against the US as well as Trump’s urging of Georgia’s Secretary of State to find votes.Omar’s resolution contains two articles of impeachment -- Trump's abuse of power and unlawful attempts to overturn the November 2020 presidential election; and his abuse of power to incite violence and orchestrate a coup against the country.Congressman Gregory Meeks, Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, led Democratic members of the Committee in calling for the impeachment of Trump for instigating the attack on the Capitol.In a letter to Speaker Pelosi, the lawmakers underscored that the president’s actions have already emboldened demagogues around the world and holding him accountable is critical to help restore US global leadership on democracy and the rule of law."There is a foreign policy imperative to hold the President accountable for his actions — we must demonstrate to the world that no one in America is above the law...the Constitution demands that we, as members of the House of Representatives, use every tool at our disposal to safeguard our country and our democracy during this perilous time by holding to account those who would do them harm. That tool is impeachment," the members wrote.Congressman Adam Schiff alleged that by inciting the act of insurrection, Trump has committed his worst offence against the country and Constitution to date."The danger of him continuing to abuse his power will go up, not down, in the time remaining in his term. To protect the country from any further harm, he must leave office, immediately. The best course would be for him to resign...Failing that, the Vice President and Cabinet should invoke the 25th Amendment and remove him from any further performance of his duties,” he said.House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer also demanded that Trump be removed from office. "The Twenty-Fifth Amendment would be the quickest way to proceed, but Congress should consider impeachment if that Amendment is not invoked,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-will-move-to-impeach-trump-if-he-doesn-t-resign-immediately-pelosi-101610168755494.html
09-01-2021||World||North Korea's Kim calls US 'our biggest enemy' in challenge to Biden||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un called for more advanced nuclear weapons and said the United States is "our biggest enemy," state media said on Saturday, presenting a stark challenge to President-elect Joe Biden just days before he takes office.Washington's hostile policies would not change regardless of who occupies the White House but dropping those policies would be key to North Korea-U.S. relations, Kim said, according to state news agency KCNA."Our foreign political activities should be focused and redirected on subduing the U.S., our biggest enemy and main obstacle to our innovated development," Kim said during nine hours of remarks over several days at a rare party congress in Pyongyang."No matter who is in power in the U.S., the true nature of the U.S. and its fundamental policies towards North Korea never change," Kim said, vowing to expand ties with "anti-imperialist, independent forces."North Korea would not "misuse" its nuclear weapons, Kim said but the country is expanding its nuclear arsenal, including "preemptive" and "retaliatory" strike capabilities and warheads of varying sizes.Kim called for developing equipment including hypersonic weapons, solid-fuel intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs), spy satellites, and drones.North Korea is preparing for the test and production of various new weapons, including a "multi-warhead rocket" and "supersonic gliding flight warheads for new type ballistic rockets," while research on a nuclear submarine is nearly complete, he said."Kim pretty much showed what's on his mind – submarine missiles, better ICBMs and other advanced arms," said Yoo Ho-yeol, professor of North Korean studies at Korea University in Seoul. "He is saying that’s basically what Washington will see going forward, which could escalate tension or open doors for talks.”Kim's remarks were one of the most ambitious outlines of North Korean national defence and nuclear matters in some time, said Ankit Panda, a senior fellow at the U.S.-based Carnegie Endowment for International Peace."It could presage a return to nuclear testing, which is now on the table given that Kim renounced his April 2018 moratorium," he said.U.S. TALKS STALLEDThere was no immediate comment from the U.S. State Department. A spokesman for the Biden campaign declined to comment.Kim criticised South Korea for offering cooperation in "non-fundamental" areas such as coronavirus aid and tourism, and said Seoul should stop buying arms from and conducting military drills with the United States.South Korea's Unification Ministry said it still hopes for a better North Korea-U.S. relations, and will continue to pursue the de-nuclearisation of the Korean peninsula."The inauguration of the new U.S. administration can be a good opportunity to improve U.S.-North Korea relations, and we expect relations to swiftly resume," the ministry said in a statement after Kim's comments were released.Biden, who was vice president under President Barack Obama, called Kim a "thug" during the election campaign. In 2019 North Korea called Biden a "rabid dog" that needed to be "beaten to death with a stick."Kim had three unprecedented meetings with President Donald Trump and the two corresponded in a series of letters, but those efforts failed to lead to a de-nuclearisation deal or official change in the countries' relations."North Korea is declaring the window for cooperation is much, much smaller for the Biden administration," Yoo said.Biden said in October that he would meet Kim only on the condition that North Korea agreed to draw down its nuclear capacity.Last month Kurt Campbell, the top U.S. diplomat for East Asia under Obama and considered a contender for a top Asia policy position under Biden, said the incoming U.S. administration would have to make an early decision on what approach it will take with North Korea and not repeat the delay of the Obama era.'SELF-RELIANCE'Besides U.S. and defence policy, Kim spoke at greater length on proposals for a five-year economic plan due to be announced at the congress, which he said would continue a focus on building an independent economy."The basic seeds and themes of the new five-year economic development plan are still self-reliance and self-sufficiency," he said.Among the plans are building energy-saving steel plants, significantly increasing chemical goods, boosting electricity production, and securing more coal mines, Kim said.The congress took steps toward "strengthening the united guidance and strategic management of the state over the economic work."North Korea faces growing crises caused by international sanctions over its nuclear programme, as well as self-imposed lockdowns to prevent a coronavirus outbreak."In practical terms, there's a disconnect between North Korea's dire internal economic situation and this ambitious nuclear and military modernisation agenda," Panda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-calls-us-our-biggest-enemy-in-challenge-to-biden-101610168198761.html
09-01-2021||World||China: Over 4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in emergency use||More than 4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses from China National Biotec Group (CNBG) have been administered as of Jan. 4 via China's emergency use program, the company's parent firm said late on Thursday.Two vaccines respectively from two institutes owned by CNBG, a unit of state-backed China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm), are included in China's emergency vaccination scheme, which was officially started in July targeting specific groups of people facing a high infection risk."No serious adverse reaction was reported in large-scale emergency use of Sinopharm's Covid-19 vaccines," Sinopharm said on Chinese social media WeChat.A total of 72,000 people have been overseas after receiving China's emergency jabs, including around 40% of more than 5,000 staffers on one Chinese firm's Pakistan-based project, Sinopharm said.None of the vaccinated diplomats, international organization representatives or employees at Chinese firms, who went to countries of high virus risk, contracted the Covid-19 disease caused by the new coronavirus, despite their close contact with infected locals, Sinopharm said.The firm did not break down the number of doses for each of the two vaccines used in the emergency program.Aside from CNBG's two vaccines, China's emergency use program also includes a potential shot from Sinovac Biotech. A fourth candidate from CanSino Biologics was approved for use in Chinese military personnel.The vaccine from CNBG's unit Beijing Institute of Biological Products was approved in China for broader use among the general public last year. The two-dose regimen is 79.34% effective against the disease, according to interim analysis from late-stage clinical trials overseas.Although the CNBG vaccine's protection rate is lower than the more than 90% efficacy of vaccines from Moderna Inc or Pfizer Inc and its partner BioNTech SE, it can be transported and stored at less demanding temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chin-over-4-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-emergency-use-101610167963584.html
09-01-2021||World||Hong Kong blocks website on national security grounds: Report||Hong Kong police blocked a local website and cited the National Security Law for the first time in doing so, Ming Pao reported, citing police sources it didn’t identify.The National Security Department of the Hong Kong Police Force blocked hkchronicles.com, without specifying which content violated the law, according to Ming Pao. The website often features pro-democracy articles.Ming Pao reported that Hong Kong police declined to comment on individual cases on Friday, but the authority cited Article 43 of the National Security Law, which states the officers can order service providers to block access to electronic information deemed likely to constitute a crime endangering national security or result in such a crime. The police said they would take action in accordance with the law, depending on the circumstances.The national security law was imposed by Beijing on the former British colony in June, sparking international condemnation led by the U.S. that Beijing was reneging on promises to guarantee the city’s unique freedoms following its return to Chinese rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-blocks-website-on-national-security-grounds-report-101610167902570.html
09-01-2021||World||'Still preparing': China on WHO's visit to Wuhan for Covid-19 origin probe||China confirmed Saturday that preparations were still ongoing for a World Health Organization mission to Wuhan to investigate the origins of Covid-19, following a rare rebuke from the UN body over a delay to the long-planned trip.The comments came after the WHO chief said on Tuesday he was "very disappointed" that Beijing had yet to finalise permission even as the team of experts had begun travelling to China to explore the beginnings of the virus, which first emerged late last year in the central city.On Saturday, National Health Commission vice minister Zeng Yixin told reporters: "The specific time is being determined, and we are ready here.""As long as these experts complete the procedures and confirm their schedule, we will go to Wuhan together to carry out investigations," he said.Earlier in the week, Chinese authorities had refused to confirm details of the visit, a sign of the enduring sensitivity of the mission -- which has been beset with delays and politics.The WHO previously said China had granted permission for a visit by a 10-person team."We are currently waiting for WHO's experts to arrive, and have arranged for relevant expert groups to receive them," Zeng added.He expressed hope the WHO investigations could further understanding on the origins of the coronavirus.Asked about the effectiveness of vaccination against a coronavirus strain found in Britain that appeared to be more infectious, Zeng added: "Our vaccine has the same neutralising ability against such a mutant strain.""It seems that the mutation speed of the new coronavirus is still within an acceptable range, and the mutation speed is not particularly fast," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/still-preparing-china-on-who-s-visit-to-wuhan-for-covid-19-origin-probe-101610167439575.html
09-01-2021||World||China to provide Covid-19 vaccines free of charge||China will provide Covid-19 vaccines free of charge once they become available to general public, government authorities said on Saturday.National Health Commission official Zheng Zhongwei said that while manufacturing and transport of vaccines have costs, the government can provide vaccines for free to individuals."Our people don't have to pay a single cent for the vaccine," Zheng told a press event in Beijing.China in late December approved its first vaccine for general public use. Three vaccines had already been given to limited groups at high risk of infection, including medical workers, through an emergency-use program.The country widened the inoculation scheme in mid-December to more key groups such as employees in the food and public transport sectors, in an effort to stem a resurgence in the winter and spring.Those vaccinations are also free for individuals, said National Health Commission official Zeng Yixin."We had found some local governments had charged individuals fees, we...demanded immediate rectification," Zeng told the briefing, adding that currently local governments have since properly implemented the free vaccination policy.China has administered more than 9 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, Zeng said. Of that total, over 7 million were administered since mid-December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-provide-covid-19-vaccines-free-of-charge-101610167171218.html
09-01-2021||World||NHS England plans to vaccinate frontline staff against Covid in next few weeks||NHS England said on Friday it had made plans to vaccinate all frontline staff against Covid-19 in the next few weeks following the rollout of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.Nikita Kanani, the Nation Health Service medical director for primary care, said the vaccine will be administered to "all health and social care staff" by mid-February.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the NHS was under severe strain, as Britain recorded its highest daily death toll on Friday and London hospitals were at the risk of being overwhelmed.Britain has the world's fifth-highest Covid-19 death toll at nearly 80,000, and the 1,325 deaths reported within 28 days of a positive test on Friday surpassed April's record."From the middle of January, all NHS Trusts will be able to provide vaccinations for local healthcare and social care workers, which will be critical in keeping both them and patients safe," the NHS said in an emailed statement."The life-saving jab will be offered to all staff across NHS services, including those who work in general practices, pharmacies, dentists and other primary and secondary care settings," it said, adding that clinics will be scaled up to enable vaccinations seven days a week.A number of staff have already received their first dose of the vaccine.The NHS said it will prioritise the vaccination of its workers based on local risk assessments such as underlying health conditions and whether people are from Black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds.In a letter to NHS Trusts seen by Reuters, three key NHS England officials, including Kanani, said they were under an "immediate requirement to vaccinate frontline health and social care workers, ensuring maximum uptake of vaccination and timely, equitable access across staff groups".Britain, the first country to approve vaccines made by Pfizer/BioNTech and AstraZeneca, on Friday approved Moderna's shot, which it hopes to begin administering this spring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nhs-england-plans-to-vaccinate-frontline-staff-against-covid-in-next-few-weeks-101610166799191.html
09-01-2021||World||A farewell to @realDonaldTrump, gone after 57,000 tweets||@realDonaldTrump, the Twitter feed that grew from the random musings of a reality TV star into the cudgel of an American president, died Friday. It was not quite 12 years old.The provocative handle was given birth by a New York real estate tycoon who used it to help him become the 45th US president. It began with a May 4, 2009, tweet promoting Donald Trump's upcoming appearance on David Letterman's show.It died more than 57,000 tweets later, with Trump using some of his final postings on the powerful platform to commiserate with a pro-Trump mob that besieged the halls of Congress as lawmakers were set to certify his defeat.The account met its demise when Twitter announced Friday it was pulling the plug permanently on @realDonaldTrump, citing concern that Trump would use it for “further incitement of violence.” Trump retorted that he'd be "building out our own platform in the near future. We will not be SILENCED!"Trump, a novice politician but seasoned salesman, realized the power of social media in ways that few other politicians did. And he wielded it with never-before-seen power to diminish his opponents, shape elections and mold reality — at least in the eyes of his supporters.Early on, @realDonaldTrump seemed innocent enough. Its owner, who had prolific experience in marketing casinos, real estate and even Oreos, used the platform mostly to promote his books, media appearances and give friendly plugs to friends.But as Trump began seriously toying with a White House run, it became a tool to scorch opponents and give shape to his nationalist, “America First” philosophy.He deployed its venom equally, whether insulting celebrity enemies (Rosie O’Donnell was “crude, rude, obnoxious and dumb”) or entire countries (Britain is “trying hard to disguise their massive Muslim problem”).Peter Costanzo, then an online marketing director for the publishing company putting out Trump’s book, “Think Like a Champion,” helped bring Trump to the platform.Twitter was still in its infancy at the time. But Costanzo, who later came to work for The Associated Press, saw the then-140-character-per-message platform as a new tool that the real estate mogul could use to boost sales and reach a broader audience.Costanzo was given seven minutes to make his pitch to Trump — “Not five minutes, not 10,” he recalled in a 2016 interview.Trump liked what he heard.“I said, ‘Let’s call you @realDonaldTrump — you’re the real Donald Trump,’” recalled Costanzo. “He thought about it for a minute and said: ‘I like it. Let’s do it.’”Other than Trump’s family, no one seemed off limits from his Twitter wrath. Trump attacked Senate Republicans, Senate Democrats, 2016 political rivals, current administration staffers, former administration staffers, the Republican Party and cable networks.@realDonaldTrump was prolific: On days when its owner was particularly agitated, such as in the midst of impeachment proceedings, it pushed out more than 100 tweets.In its most popular tweet, on Oct. 2, 2020, @realDonaldTrump announced that Trump and first lady Melania Trump had contracted the coronavirus. The post got 1.8 million likes and nearly 400,000 retweets, according to Factba.se., which tracks the president’s social media habits and commentary.The account was used to announce firings. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson learned of his ouster in a tweet.The account threatened adversaries in the most colorful terms. Before Trump “fell in love” with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un through secretly exchanged letters, Trump used Twitter to dub him “rocket man” and vowed to respond with “fire and fury” if the authoritarian dared attack the United States.@realDonaldTrump frequently spread misleading, false and malicious assertions, such as the baseless ideas that protesters at Justice Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation hearings were paid by the liberal philanthropist George Soros and that November’s election was beset by voter fraud.Trump often tweeted well past midnight and before dawn, a cathartic outlet for grievances (Witch hunt! Crooked Hillary, Russia, Russia, Russia, FAKE NEWS, and so on.) For the most part, @realDonaldTrump and its 280-character posts effectively allowed Trump to work around the Washington media establishment and amplify the message of allies.Sometimes @realDonaldTrump stumbled. Trump deleted 1,166 tweets and, in his final months on the platform, had 471 tweets flagged by Twitter for misinformation, according to Factba.se.In one of his most memorable Twitter stumbles, Trump in May 2017 sent (and later deleted) a cryptic post-midnight tweet that read “Despite the constant negative press covfefe.”The gibberish set the Twitterverse afire with speculation. Theories included that the tweeter-in-chief had fallen asleep mid-message and that the man who once bragged of having “the best words” was adding a new word to the lexicon to properly describe collusion between Democrats and the press.The mystery was never solved.Sam Nunberg, a longtime — and now former — Trump adviser, said that in the summer of 2011, after Trump announced he wasn’t running in 2012 but wanted to remain relevant, his team decided to start using social media to boost his profile.They chose to focus on Twitter, where he already had an account and several hundred thousand followers. Nunberg remembers sending Trump daily reports on his follower growth. Trump would sometimes hand it back with hand-written notes — “Why not more?” “Why so slow?”They celebrated when they hit the million mark.“Twitter definitely played a pivotal role in building Donald Trump as a political figure within Republican politics and he also greatly enjoyed it,” said Nunberg. “Remember he used to say: ‘I wanted to own a newspaper. This is great, it’s like a newspaper without the losses.’”Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., took to Twitter shortly after the platform banned @realDonaldTrump to note that it continues to allow Iran’s supreme leader “and numerous other dictatorial regimes” to use the platform, but cannot abide his father.“Mao would be proud,” Trump Jr. scoffed.In the end, @realDonaldTrump offered an in-the-moment peek into Trump's state of mind over more than a decade, a period in which the “Apprentice” TV star transformed into the 45th American president.Down the road, when historians look for a glimpse into Trump thoughts on the issues of his time -- anything from actress Kristen Stewart's treatment of co-star Robert Pattinson to the president's views on Russian meddling in the 2016 election — the first stop may inevitably be one of the many digital archives that have preserved the tweets of @realDonaldTrump.With Trump, whatever the topic, there's always a tweet for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-farewell-to-realdonaldtrump-gone-after-57-000-tweets-101610165904977.html
09-01-2021||World||Brazil President Bolsonaro asks India to expedite vaccine shipment||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro asked Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to expedite a shipment of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine amid broader delays to the vaccine's arrival in Brazil, according to a letter on Friday.Bolsonaro's letter, released by his press office, comes amid growing pressure to speed up Brazil's vaccine rollout and end the world's second-deadliest coronavirus outbreak. Critics say the immunization campaign is running behind regional peers, and they question why the government has not moved more quickly."To enable the immediate implementation of our National Immunization Program, I would appreciate ... the supply to Brazil, with the possible urgency and without jeopardizing the Indian vaccination program, of 2 million doses," Bolsonaro wrote in the letter, shared by his press office.His message to Modi comes as the federally funded Fiocruz biomedical center said on Friday that the active ingredients needed to fill and finish millions of doses of AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine in Brazil, previously slated to arrive in the country on Saturday, may not land until the end of the month.Fiocruz, which was counting on the shipment Saturday to supply the government with doses this month, said it was in talks to import more finished doses of the vaccine, likely from India on top of the 2 million it has already ordered.A source involved said the active ingredient is ready to be shipped to Brazil but is waiting for an export license from China, where it is produced.Earlier, Fiocruz requested an emergency use authorization for AstraZeneca vaccines coming from India, which are expected to arrive in Brazil in the middle of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-president-bolsonaro-asks-india-to-expedite-vaccine-shipment-101610164367683.html
09-01-2021||World||Twitter suspends Trump's campaign account @TeamTrump for violating its rules||Twitter Inc on Friday deleted new tweets posted by U.S. President Donald Trump on official government account @POTUS and suspended the account of his presidential campaign, after booting his personal account off the platform permanently.Trump tweeted "We will not be SILENCED!" from the @POTUS government account, with 33.4 million followers. Twitter had permanently suspended the president's go-to megaphone, his @realDonaldTrump personal account, hours earlier.The company said accounts used by Trump to try to get around the ban could face permanent suspension as well under its "ban evasion" policies."Twitter is not about FREE SPEECH," Trump wrote in the now-deleted tweets, adding that he is considering building his own social media platform in the near future.Twitter shut down his @TeamTrump campaign account shortly after it sent out a tweet with a "statement from President Trump" accusing Twitter of "banning free speech" and coordinating with "the Democrats and the Radical Left" to silence him.The account shortly before that had pointed its 2.3 million followers to its account on Parler, which is popular with conservatives for its hands-off approach to content moderation.Alphabet Inc's Google suspended Parler on Friday, citing posts inciting violence, while Apple Inc gave the service 24 hours to submit a detailed moderation plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-suspends-trump-s-campaign-account-teamtrump-for-violating-its-rules-101610160880230.html
09-01-2021||World||'Conspiring to silence me': Trump after Twitter permanently suspends his account||US President Donald Trump on Friday accused Twitter of conspiring with his political enemies "to silence me," after the social media platform permanently suspended his account."Twitter has gone further and further in banning free speech, and tonight, Twitter employees have coordinated with the Democrats and the Radical Left in removing my account from their platform, to silence me -- and YOU, the 75,000,000 great patriots who voted for me," he said in a series of tweets from the official @POTUS account.The post was swiftly deleted by Twitter.Apparently expecting such a move, Trump also put out his comments as a statement through the White House press office.Trump signaled to his followers, of which he had 88.7 million on @realDonaldTrump until it was shut down, that they would have a new place to meet virtually soon."We have been negotiating with various other sites, and will have a big announcement soon, while we also look at the possibilities of building out our own platform in the near future."We will not be SILENCED!" he declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-accuses-twitter-of-conspiring-to-silence-me-101610158691819.html
09-01-2021||World||Biden says Trump decision to skip inauguration a 'good thing'||US President-elect Joe Biden welcomed Donald Trump's announcement on Friday that he won't attend the January 20 inauguration, calling it a "good thing.""I was told on the way over here that he indicated he wasn't going to show up at the inauguration," Biden told reporters in Wilmington, Delaware."One of the few things he and I have ever agreed on," Biden said. "It's a good thing, him not showing up.""He's been an embarrassment to the country," Biden said."He's not fit to serve," the president-elect added of Trump, who is facing the possibility of being impeached next week for inciting his supporters to storm the US Capitol."He exceeded even my worst notions about him," Biden said. "He's one of the most incompetent presidents in the history of the United States of America."Biden said Vice President Mike Pence would be welcome at his inauguration.Biden's remarks came after Trump tweeted earlier Friday that he would not attend the inauguration."To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th," Trump tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-trump-decision-to-skip-inauguration-a-good-thing-101610154615270.html
09-01-2021||World||Rioters fired, face company boycotts after storming Capitol||A printing company in Maryland saw the photo on Twitter Wednesday night: an employee roaming the halls of the US Capitol with a company badge around his neck. He was fired the next day.Others are facing similar repercussions for their participation in Wednesday's riot at the US Capitol. Some business owners are being trashed on social media and their establishments boycotted, while rank-and-file employees at other businesses have been fired.The printing company, Navistar Direct Marketing, declined to name the worker but said it can’t offer employment to people “demonstrating dangerous conduct that endangers the health and safety of others.”More than 90 people have been arrested since Wednesday when loyalists to outgoing President Donald Trump disrupted lawmakers as they met to confirm the Electoral College results and President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. People on social media have been trying to identify rioters photographed or filmed at the Capitol Wednesday, pressuring companies to fire those employees.At a data analytics firm in suburban Chicago, the employee in question was the top boss. Cogensia placed CEO Bradley Rukstales on a leave of absence for participating in the riot and said his views don't represent the views of the company. Rukstales, who was arrested for unlawful entry, told a local CBS news channel that he had entered the Capitol and apologized for his role in the events. Calls and emails to Rukstales weren’t returned.A Cleveland school occupational therapist resigned from the district after her alleged involvement in the riot. A spokeswoman for a fire department near Orlando, Florida said one of its firefighters was being investigated for his participation. Sanford Fire Department firefighter Andy Williams has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome, said spokeswoman Bianca Gillett.Most private employers can fire workers for attending protests, since First Amendment rights only prohibit people from being punished by the government for their speech, not by a private employer, said Susan Kline, an Indianapolis-based labor and employment attorney at law firm Faegre Drinker.There are some exceptions. Those who works for the government may be more legally protected, and so too can unionized workers, who typically have a contract listing the reasons they could be fired for. And some states may have laws that protect workers' free speech.But “what people did at the Capitol Wednesday was rioting, not protesting,” said Aaron Holt, a labor and employment attorney with law firm Cozen O’Connor. “When someone violates the law, that’s almost never going to be protected, and a private employer is going to be within their rights to discipline or take some kind of action in response to that that might go against their fundamental core values.”Small businesses are also facing backlash on online review sites such as Yelp, which flagged at least 20 businesses for unusual review activity related to Wednesday’s rioting.One business, Becky’s Flowers in Midland, Texas, is owned by Jenny Cudd, a former mayoral candidate who posted a video on Facebook bragging that she had broken into House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office. By Friday, Cudd’s flower shop was flooded with dozens of one-star reviews in which she was called a traitor and domestic terrorist, along with photos of her inside the Capitol. Reached by text message, Cudd said she was not available to speak Friday.It’s not the first time Yelp has flagged businesses for unusual review activity after political events. Reviewers raged on on the Yelp page of Virginia restaurant The Red Hen after it booted former White House press secretary Sarah Sanders from its establishment a few years ago. And commenters from the left and right bombarded Big Apple Pizza’s Yelp page with political beliefs after former President Barack Obama was enthusiastically hugged by a customer there.Social media has outed people for other controversial activities outside of the workplace, landing them in trouble with their employers. In 2017 after a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, many posted photos on social media of those who participated, leading in some cases to their firing.In Louisiana, customers said they would boycott supermarket chain Rouses Market after retired owner Donald Rouse was shown in a photo at Wednesday's riot. Rouse said in an email statement that he attended the rally as a supporter of the president but left before the violence began.“I’m horrified by the violence and destruction we saw yesterday and the pain it has caused so many,” Rouse said. “Our country desperately needs to come together to heal, and I will do everything I can to be a part of that process.”The Krew of Red Beans, a group which organizes parades, posted on Instagram that it would return $20,000 in donations it received from the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rioters-fired-face-company-boycotts-after-storming-capitol-101610153401664.html
09-01-2021||World||US Justice Department charges 15 over Capitol violence||The US Justice Department announced Friday that it has charged 15 people involved in the assault on Congress, including one man accused of possessing bombs made to act like "homemade napalm."But Ken Kohl, a federal prosecutor with the Washington US attorney's office, said they did not expect to charge anyone with "incitement" or "insurrection" in Wednesday's violence, amid calls for legal action against President Donald Trump, his lawyer Rudy Giuliani and others for encouraging it.The department unveiled the cases against 13 people, including Richard Barnett, a Trump supporter who invaded the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and Lonnie Coffman of Alabama, who was found carrying two handguns and had 11 Styrofoam-enhanced Molotov cocktails in his truck.Others whose charges were unsealed include Christopher Albert of Maryland, who allegedly entered the US Capitol with a loaded handgun; and Mark Leffingwell, charged with punching an officer.Most of the 13 were charged with illegal entry into restricted buildings of Congress, and violent or disorderly conduct.They were also charged with impeding government functions after forcing the shutdown of a joint meeting of Congress to officially certify that Trump rival Joe Biden had won the November 3 election, which Trump had until Thursday refused to accept.'Lawless destruction'Barnett, famously photographed with his feet on a desk in Pelosi's office, was charged with theft of stationery."The lawless destruction of the US Capitol building was an attack against one of our nation's greatest institutions," said Acting US Attorney Michael Sherwin in a statement.Kohl said that not all the charges filed over Wednesday's violence had been unsealed, and that more were in the pipeline as the FBI investigates."This investigation has the highest priority," he said, with "hundreds" of Justice Department investigators working the case.More charges and arrests were expected.Around 40 people were arrested and charged by local Washington police, mostly for curfew violations, weapons offenses and unlawful entry.But the charges announced by Kohl Friday were on the federal level and potentially carry heftier punishment.He said the FBI was not investigating anyone on possible "incitement" or "insurrection" charges.Some people have called for Trump, Giuliani, Trump's son Donald Jr. and others to be charged with incitement for openly encouraging the president's supporters to take action just hours before the mob stormed the Capitol."We don't expect any charges of that nature," Kohl said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-justice-department-charges-15-over-capitol-violence-101610151091111.html
09-01-2021||World||North Korea to pursue more advanced nuclear technology, says Kim Jong Un||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said the country must constantly strengthen its defense capabilities against the threat of the US, such as through the pursuit of more advanced nuclear technology, according to state-run Korean Central News Agency, citing a report he presented to delegates at a Workers’ Party Congress underway in Pyongyang.The US will “never” change its fundamental approach to North Korea regardless of who’s in power, Kim was cited as saying to his ruling party.The plans include making smaller and lighter nuclear weapons, proceeding with large nuclear warheads and improving the ability to hit and destroy strategic targets within 15,000 km (9,320 miles). Kim also plans to develop solid-fuel ICBMs and nuclear submarines, and he is seeking to strengthen intelligence-gathering capabilities with satellites, according to KCNA.The congress was being watched for clues on how Kim will engage with USPresident-elect Joe Biden. The North Korean leader, who turned 37 on Friday, hasn’t made substantive comments on his weapons program since unveiling a new intercontinental ballistic missile at an October military parade.Kim was also cited as saying that relations with South Korea has backtracked to pre-Panmunjom Declaration times, as the neighboring country continues to ignore the North’s demands to halt joint military exercises with the US He added that any improvement of inter-Korean relations is wholly dependent on the attitude of South Korea, and that North Korea didn’t see the need to make any “one-sided” demonstration of goodwill.Kim issued a dire warning in opening remarks to the gathering of 5,000 delegates and party officials, saying the previous five-year plan fell far short of goals and the party would explore a “new path” for making a “big leap forward.”North Korea’s sanctions-battered economy was dealt further blows last year by natural disasters and Kim’s decision to shut borders due to the coronavirus. Gross domestic product likely shrank by 8.5% in 2020, according to a projection by Fitch Solutions, leaving it smaller than when Kim took power in 2011 with a pledge to improve people’s living standards.Despite the bonhomie Kim showed in three meetings with outgoing President Donald Trump, the North Korean leader repeatedly rejected the Trump administration’s call for a “complete, verifiable and irreversible” nuclear dismantlement before Pyongyang could receive any rewards. North Korea is likely seeking to calibrate its approach during the transition to preserve Kim’s chances of securing a deal to relieve the sanctions.The Biden administration has indicated it may be ready to ease sanctions in exchange for steps by Kim to freeze, cap and wind down his atomic arsenal. Biden has said he wants to “jump start” a campaign with US allies and others for denuclearization. Biden’s choice for secretary of state, Antony Blinken, in a 2017 opinion piece in the New York Times, backed a negotiated settlement with North Korea “that first freezes and then rolls back North Korea’s nuclear program, with inspectors to carefully scrutinize compliance” before a more comprehensive deal is reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-to-pursue-more-advanced-nuclear-technology-says-kim-jong-un-101610151257379.html
09-01-2021||World||Twitter permanently suspends Donald Trump's account||Twitter Inc. has permanently banned US President Donald Trump’s personal account for breaking its rules against glorifying violence, marking the most high-profile punishment the social-media company has ever imposed and the end of Trump’s relationship with his favorite social media megaphone.“After close review of recent Tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around them — specifically how they are being received and interpreted on and off Twitter — we have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence,” the company wrote in a blog post on Friday.Also Read | Donald Trump, increasingly isolated, lashes out at Mike Pence: ReportThe San Francisco-based company announced the ban two days after Trump was initially suspended for posting a series of tweets that misled users about the presidential election results, and appeared to encourage violent rioters who had mobbed the US Capitol. One included a video message of Trump expressing love for the insurgents and calling the election “fraudulent.”Twitter had demanded that Trump delete three offending tweets, and warned at the time that he would be permanently banned for subsequent rules violations. His account, which had more than 88 million followers, was restored Thursday. Trump’s posts on Friday included a tweet saying he wouldn’t attend President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration -- and Twitter determined the tweets violated the company’s policies when “read in the context of broader events in the country.”“The 75,000,000 great American Patriots who voted for me, AMERICA FIRST, and MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN, will have a GIANT VOICE long into the future. They will not be disrespected or treated unfairly in any way, shape or form!!!” Trump posted earlier Friday.The company said this was an indication that the president planned to continue supporting and empowering those who believe he won the November election. “Plans for future armed protests have already begun proliferating on and off-Twitter, including a proposed secondary attack on the US Capitol and state capitol buildings on January 17, 2021,” Twitter wrote.Twitter said it reviewed the tweets given “the ways in which the President’s statements can be mobilized by different audiences, including to incite violence, as well as in the context of the pattern of behavior from this account in recent weeks.” The company’s shares slipped about 2.6% in extended trading. The White House didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the permanent ban.Trump’s suspension ends what has been the most controversial relationship Twitter has ever had with one of its users. Trump often used his account to verbally attack opponents and spread misinformation in ways that broke the social network’s rules. In some cases, Twitter created new rules specifically to accommodate the president’s reckless tweeting, including a special policy for world leaders, which put their rule-breaking tweets behind a filter instead of removing them entirely. The company had begun to take a tougher stance on Trump’s tweets in recent months, especially on posts about Black Lives Matter protests and unsubstantiated claims of election fraud.After Trump’s temporary suspension earlier this week, many critics and civil rights advocates voiced concern that Twitter hadn’t gone far enough. That group included many Twitter employees, who delivered a letter to Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey Friday demanding the service remove Trump entirely.“We do not believe these actions are sufficient,” employees wrote of Twitter’s temporary ban, according to a copy of the letter published by the Washington Post. Earlier on Friday, the group SumOfUs which fights for change at powerful companies, parked a boat on the water outside of Dorsey’s San Francisco home demanding Twitter ban Trump. Dorsey hasn’t made any public comment about the activity on his network this week. Executives have said that Dorsey generally lets such decisions fall to Twitter’s top policy executive, Vijaya Gadde.Trump supporters have long accused social networks of overstepping in their efforts to police user content. Many have declared their intention to move from Twitter to Parler Inc., a social network that bills itself as the home of free speech.“Disgusting. Big Tech wants to cancel all 75M @realDonaldTrump supporters,” wrote Trump campaign adviser Jason Miller, on Twitter. “If you don’t think they’re coming for you next, you’re wrong.”Trump, meanwhile, will retain control of the Twitter account @POTUS until inauguration on Jan. 20. That account, which belongs to the office of the president, has about 33 million followers, less than half that of his @realDonaldTrump personal account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-permanently-suspends-donald-trump-s-account-101610148842773.html
09-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi says House preparing to move forward on Trump impeachment||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Friday she has instructed the Rules Committee to be prepared to move forward on a motion to impeach U.S. President Donald Trump if the Republican does not resign after deadly pro-Trump riots at the U.S. Capitol."It is the hope of members that the president will immediately resign," Pelosi said in a statement on her meeting with the House Democratic Caucus. "The House will preserve every option... With great respect, our deliberations will continue."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-says-house-preparing-to-move-forward-on-trump-impeachment-101610146988351.html
09-01-2021||India||Remembering Madhavsinh Solanki: Congress veteran, doyen of Gujarat politics||By Darshan Desai﻿If there is one regret that Prime Minister Narendra Modi may have from his stint in Gujarat, it would be that with all his clout he failed to break the yet unbeatable record of four-time former chief minister Madhavsinh Solanki of winning 149 out of 182 state Assembly seats.The doyen of Gujarat politics and the most successful Congress chief minister walked into oblivion at 94 on Saturday morning as he breathed his last - an indelible loss to the Congress.The unbeatable 149 seats in Gujarat were the result of Solanki implementing a formidable KHAM (Kshatriya, Harijan, Adivasi, Muslim) theory aligning a whopping 70 per cent of the population under one umbrella. He expanded the reservation system in the state to include Other Backward Classes to cover all types of backward and marginalised communities in Gujarat.“The KHAM theory was originally conceived by the Congress’ grassroots leader Jinabhai Darji and another veteran Sanat Mehta at Gela-Somnath in Surendranagar district. Solanki is being credited for the theory, but he was the one who effectively put it into action,” said veteran journalist MK Mistry, an eminent English journalism in Gujarat.Also read: Bengal governor meets Amit Shah, fears violence in run-up to crucial pollsCongress' fall in Gujarat, that began after Solanki’s resignation months after that huge victory in the wake of anti-reservation riots taking a communal turn in 1985, has only continued and the nonagenarian passed away amid its debris.The whiff of air - howsoever symbolic - that may have been left in the void in the Congress party, has gone with Solanki. The void is complete.The principal opposition party in Gujarat is yet to see a leader with the class that spawned from his knowledge of the social and democratic values nor has there been anyone with the gravitas of Madhavsinh Solanki. Many a political journalist, researcher, academician and bureaucrat would visit his personal library with over 5,000 books, including some rare ones that he painstakingly sourced from across the world.His background in literature and journalism is something that has found prominent mention in the tributes from CM Vijay Rupani-led government’s cabinet in an official resolution to pay homage to Solanki.Also read: Over 1,200 birds found dead across India; UP 7th state to report avian influenzaBorn on July 30, 1927, in Pilundra village of North Gujarat’s Mehsana district, Madhavsinh Solanki was the first to introduce the revolutionary mid-day meal scheme for government school children in Gujarat.“The Tamil Nadu government under MGR had first introduced mid-day meals. Solanki (as the CM) sent two senior bureaucrats to Chennai to study it. He wasted no time to implement it in Gujarat,” MK Mistry noted.“Solanki’s contribution towards inclusive education was immense. In those days, the initiative meant a great deal when he instructed his education minister Prabodh Rawal to ensure that every taluka (tehsil) in Gujarat had an ITI (Industrial Training Institute),” Mistry, 85, pointed out.Former chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela, who grew and resurrected the BJP along with PM Narendra Modi fighting against Solanki and the Congress, said, “It was Madhavsinh Solanki who laid the foundation of the Sardar Sarovar Narmada project that you see today.”He went on, “I haven’t seen any politician with a rich library that he had. He was a visionary and his departure is a huge loss to Gujarat and the country.”It wasn’t the Mumbai-Pune toll expressway or the Ahmedabad-Vadodara toll expressway, but the Vadodara-Halol highway leading to Indore that became the first toll road initiated by Solanki.Solanki, who started his political career way back in 1947, became a chief minister for the first time in 1976. Next, from 1981 to 1985 and 1989 to 1990. He was Union external affairs minister between 1991 and 1992 and also of planning. Solanki’s son Bharatsinh is a senior leader and a former Union minister.The Gujarat government observed a day’s state mourning, as chief minister Vijay Rupani said Solanki’s death was a huge loss to Gujarat and created a void that was difficult to fill. The Gujarat Congress leaders, right from state president Amit Chavda, working president Hardik Patel, to Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani and a battery of others, besides party workers across Gujarat were left in grief by his departure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remembering-madhavsinh-solanki-congress-veteran-doyen-of-gujarat-politics-101610214744338.html
09-01-2021||India||26 teachers in Odisha district test positive for Covid-19 after schools reopen||A day after schools reopened across Odisha for Class 10 and 12 students, at least 26 teachers and 2 students tested positive for Covid-19 in Gajapati district.Chief district medical officer of Gajapati, Pradip Kumar Patra said while 17 teachers tested positive for the virus on Friday, nine more were found infected on Saturday. Of the 26, Mohana block accounted for 21 cases.Patra said the tests were done as per SOPs laid out by the school and mass education department. "All those teachers who tested positive for Covid-19 are asymptomatic. There is nothing to worry about. The teachers have been asked to quarantine themselves," said Patra.On Thursday, two government schools in Bihar were shut after 22 students in Munger and the principal of a school in Sariya block of Gaya district tested positive for Covid-19.Also read: English language course for government school teachers at US embassyOn Friday, the Odisha government had reopened the schools for Classes 10 and 12 in view of the board examinations. As per the SOP, students will attend schools with the written consent of parents but attendance will not be enforced.Parents have to ensure they take responsibility of the child’s commute to school. No student will be coerced to come to school. Only those parents and students who feel comfortable attending school should do so. All the classrooms will be sanitised every day after the closure of the school. A maximum of 25 students would be allowed to sit in each classroom, the standard operating protocol stated.Schools without 100 per cent access to potable drinking water and adequate functional toilets for all students have not been allowed to reopen. Hostel facilities have not been opened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-teachers-in-odisha-district-test-positive-for-covid-19-after-schools-reopen-101610213196379.html
09-01-2021||India||Civic body polls to be conducted in Himachal Pradesh tomorrow||Local body elections will be held in 29 nagar parishads and 21 nagar panchayats across Himachal Pradesh in a single phase on Sunday amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The polling will take place from 8am to 4pm amid strict Covid-19 guidelines. The counting of votes will be taken up immediately after the polling on January 10 itself.The State Election Commission informed the polls will be conducted in adherence to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines will be followed keeping in mind the coronavirus pandemic. It is therefore mandatory for every person to wear a face mask during election-related activity. Social distancing shall also be maintained as per the guidelines of the state government and the ministry of home affairs. Sanitisers will be used and thermal screening of all persons related to the election process as well as voters will be conducted at the entry of premises used for election purposes.The nominations for the civic bodies were filed on December 24, 26 and 28 last year and the nomination papers were scrutinised on December 29. The list of candidates, including the names of contestants and their symbol was prepared and affixed on December 31.The elections are a direct contest between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress. It is evident that the stakes are high for the parties as senior leaders of both the parties took part in the campaigning for the elections.Union minister of state (MoS) for finance and corporate affairs and BJP leader Anurag Thakur asserted that his party will perform well in every corner of Himachal Pradesh in the upcoming Panchayati Raj polls.“We won elections in Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and even the general election. In the coming days, Panchayati Raj polls will be held in Himachal Pradesh and I am confident that BJP will perform well in every corner of the state,” Thakur said while addressing people of Himachal Pradesh via video-conference on completion of three years of Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civic-body-polls-to-be-conducted-in-himachal-pradesh-tomorrow-101610212742035.html
09-01-2021||India||Over 1,200 birds found dead across India; UP 7th state to report avian influenza||Over 1,200 birds were found dead across the country on Saturday, including 900 in a poultry farm in Maharashtra, with the Centre saying that the outbreak of avian influenza has been reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total number of affected states to seven.The Centre said confirmation of bird flu in Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, is awaited as the samples have been sent for testing, it said.Besides Uttar Pradesh, the other six states where bird flu is confirmed are Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a ban on import of live birds in the national capital and closure of Ghazipur poultry market, the biggest in the city, for the next 10 days in view of bird flu scare.Noting that there is no confirmed case of avian influenza in Delhi so far, the chief minister said samples have been sent to Jalandhar laboratory. He also said that a 24-hour helpline has been set up for assistance of people.He said the Delhi government is following all guidelines and directions issued by the central government with regards to bird flu."Rapid response teams have been formed in every district to contain the spread and conduct proper surveillance, and they will function under the district magistrates. Our veterinary officers are conducting proper surveys in all bird markets, wildlife establishments and water bodies across Delhi."The special focus of the teams are poultry market Ghazipur, Shakti Sthal Lake, Bhalswa Lake, Sanjay Lake, Delhi Zoo, DDA Parks, situated at Hauz Khas village, Pashchim Vihar and Dwarka," Kejriwal added.At least 24 crows have been found dead at a district park in south Delhi's Jasola in the past three days and 10 ducks have died at the famous Sanjay Lake, officials said."The samples of ducks found dead have been taken by the veterinary department authorities to ascertain if the cause of death was bird flu or not," a senior DDA official said.On the death of crows, the DDA has informed the Delhi government's forest department, he said.Three recreational parks and famous Sanjay Lake in Delhi were closed by authorities amid an avian flu scare in the city as several birds were found dead on their premises in the last couple of days, officials said.Besides, the popular Hauz Khas Park in south Delhi, which is a huge water body and attracts a large number of crowd every day, has also been shut, they said.As many as 900 hens have died at a poultry farm in Murumba village in Parbhani district of Maharashtra, a senior official said.Their samples have been sent for investigation to identify the exact cause of the death, Parbhani district collector Deepak Mulgikar told PTI.He said the poultry farm where the death of birds was reported is run by a Self Help Group (SHG).Prima facie, the death of hens could be related to nutrition, the collector said, adding that the test results are awaited.Over 350 birds were reported dead in Rajasthan, taking the death count to 2,512, an official said.Of the 356 birds reported dead on Saturday, 257 were crows, 29 pigeons, 16 peacocks and 54 others.Even as Gujarat recorded its first confirmed cases of bird flu, four crows were found dead at a village in Mangrol taluka in the state's Junagadh district.The state on Friday recorded its first cases of bird flu after samples taken from two dead lapwings recovered in the district tested positive for the infection."We found carcasses of four crows at Loej village on Friday evening. The remains will be sent to a laboratory in Bhopal to ascertain the cause of death," said Ashok Kumbhani, veterinary officer of Mangrol veterinary dispensary in the district.Out of 10 birds found in the area, four were dead at the spot and six are currently under treatment, the official said.Six crows were found dead in Dakshina Kannada, bordering Kerala and samples have been sent for testing to ascertain the cause of death.Five crows were found dead in a drain in the Sitabpur area in Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal district. Samples of the dead birds have been sent to a laboratory in Bhopal for testing, Veterinary Officer BM Gupta said.A response team headed by a doctor and four health workers has been formed at the district level to keep a track on the death of birds and chickens and taking the samples for testing, Chief Veterinary Officer in Pauri SK Bartwal said.A drive to cull over 1.60 lakh poultry birds at five poultry farms commenced in Haryana's Panchkula district on Saturday, officials said.The move comes after samples of some birds in two poultry farms at Kheri and Ganauli villages in Panchkula tested positive for the H5N8 strain of avian flu on Friday."The process (to cull birds) started today by the state's animal husbandry department," Panchkula Deputy Commissioner M K Ahuja said.He said it will take around two to three days to complete the drive.The deputy commissioner further informed that a team of National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal would visit Panchkula next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-200-birds-found-dead-across-india-up-7th-state-to-report-avian-influenza-101610212424432.html
09-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM holds meeting with DMs over preparations for Covid-19 vaccination||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday held a meeting with district magistrates (DMs) via video-conferencing over the preparations for Covid-19 vaccination in the state.He directed the DMs to make concrete arrangements for Covid-19 vaccination and said there is a possibility that the drive will start soon in UttarakhandAccording to an official release, Rawat asked the DMs to focus on clearing all the doubts regarding vaccines. An awareness campaign should be initiated for raising awareness about Covid-19 vaccine, he said.Chief secretary Om Prakash, who participated in the meeting with Chief Minister, said that another round of dry run of Covid-19 vaccination will be held at all the vaccination centres on January 12.Health Ministry has said that the objective of dry run for Covid-19 vaccine introduction is to assess operational feasibility in the use of CovidVaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) application in a field environment, to identify the challenges and guide the way forward prior to actual implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-holds-meeting-with-dms-over-preparations-for-covid-19-vaccination-101610209517546.html
09-01-2021||India||40-year-old Punjab farmer dies after consuming poison at Singhu border: Police||A 40-year-old Punjab farmer, who was taking part in the protest at the Singhu border against the Central farm laws, allegedly died by consuming some poisonous substance on Saturday evening, police said.The farmer, Amarinder Singh, was a resident of Punjab's Fatehgarh Sahib district. The man was rushed to a local hospital in Sonipat where he died, said Sonipat's Kundli police station's inspector Ravi Kumar.Farmers from various parts of the country, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at different border points of Delhi for over a month now demanding repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties.The three laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and Mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40yearold-punjab-farmer-dies-after-consuming-poison-at-singhu-border-police-101610211046719.html
09-01-2021||India||Farmers' leaders should discuss with govt and resolve stir: Ramdas Athawale||The leaders of the farmers' agitation in Delhi should discuss with the Centre on the three farm laws and try to resolve the issue as the government is ready to amend the laws, Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale said on Saturday.While the farmers' leaders want the farm laws to be repealed, the government is explaining to them that the new legislations are aimed at helping the farmers' cause, he said."Government is also ready to amend the laws. But, the leaders of the farmers are not ready. Therefore, I request all the leaders...on 15th (of January), there is a meeting with (Union agriculture minister) Narendra Singh Tomar," he said."I have confidence that leaders of the farmers... they should accept the proposal of the Government of India...," he told reporters here.It is not good for democracy if the laws are repealed as there could be more demands to abolish the laws made by Parliament, he said.The Centre is ready to make amendments with regard to the laws on the points raised by the leaders of farmers, he said.Farmers from Punjab are active in the ongoing agitation and those from other states are not so active, he claimed.He appealed to the TRS government in Telangana to provide five acres of land to landless poor, irrespective of caste affiliations, for their uplift.Athawale, president of Republican Party of India (RPI-A), favoured extending reservations to people from economically backward classes in the society.Referring to the demand by Maratha community in Maharashtra for quotas, he said the Reddy community in Telangana should be given reservation and the TRS government should take such a decision like the Maharashtra government did, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-leaders-should-discuss-with-govt-and-resolve-stir-ramdas-athawale-101610210676406.html
09-01-2021||India||Railways serve eviction notice to 1581 for encroaching railway land in Nainital||The North Eastern Railways zone of the Indian Railways have served eviction notices to 1581 people who are allegedly encroaching the railway land in Haldwani area of Nainital district on Saturday.The eviction notices have been served on the direction of the High Court of Nainital while hearing a public interest litigation filed by a resident of Haldwani in 2016 in which he alleged that the railway authorities are doing nothing against the encroachers of railway land in Haldwani. The railways had then identified 4365 people allegedly encroaching on its land.Confirming the development, public relation officer, north eastern railway, Haldwani, Rajendra Singh said, “A team of railway officials accompanied by police personnel had served eviction notices to 1581 encroachers in Ghafoor Basti, Dholak Basti, Kidwai Nagar and wards 15,22 and 24.”“Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the notices were not sent to all encroachers individually but put on about 40 notice boards in these areas. They have been asked to vacate the land in 15 days or they would be evicted forcefully," said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-serve-eviction-notice-to-1581-for-encroaching-railway-land-in-nainital-101610208004881.html
09-01-2021||India||PM Modi to head panel to mark Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary||An 85-member panel, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been formed to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the government said on Saturday.The members include 10 Union ministers and seven chief ministers who will decide on the activities to be undertaken for the year-long commemoration planned by the government.Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Nirmala Sitharaman are among those who are part of the committee. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her predecessor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee both have found place in the panel.With the Bengal Assembly polls around the corner, the panel has a host of BJP leaders and central ministers from the state as members. Suvendu Adhikari, who quit as Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA and minister in December to join the BJP, has also been included in the high-level committee.The members also include historians, authors, citizens, members of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's family, experts, as well as eminent people associated with the Azad Hind Fauj (INA), the Ministry of Culture said in a statement.The list of members also include musician A R Rahman, actors Kajol and Mithun Chakraborty, cricketer Sourav Ganguly, and Medanta chairman Ravi Kasliwal. Secretary in the Ministry of Culture Raghvendra Singh is the convenor of the panel.Members of the committee from Bengal include Union Ministers Babul Supriyo and Debasree Choudhury, BJP state president and MP Dilip Ghosh, BJP parliamentarians Raju Bista, Roopa Ganguly, Sunil Mondol, Jayanta Kumar Roy, Jagannath Sarkar, Saumitra Khan, Khagen Murmu and Jyotirmay Singh Mahato.The TMC will be represented by its MP Sudip Bandhyopadhyay. Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury are included in the committee. Rajya Sabha members Swapan Dasgupta and Rajeev Chandrasekhar also its members.Apart from Banerjee, Chief Ministers Neiphui Rio of Nagaland, Naveen Patnaik of Odisha, Biplab Kumar Deb of Tripura, Biren Singh of Manipur, Zoramthanga of Mizoram, and Conrad Kongkal Sangma of Meghalaya are members of the panel."The mandate of the National-Level Committee will be to approve policies/plans, programmes and supervise and guide the commemoration of the 125th Birth Anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose including preparatory activities and decide on the broad dates for the detailed programme of celebration."The recommendations of the committee will be considered by the government for implementation, subject to extant rules, instructions and practices," a gazette notification issued on Saturday said.The government in a statement on December 21 had said that Amit Shah was to head the committee, but Modi's decision to chair it himself underscores the importance the Centre has accorded to the exercise.While the Centre has its plans, the West Bengal chief minister has also announced her own plans to commemorate Netaji's birth anniversary. These include a grand parade in Kolkata and the dedication of the Independence Day parade in the city to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose.The Ministry of Culture itself has planned a series of activities in Kolkata and its minister Prahlad Patel, who is a member of the panel, has announced that all documents, pictures and memorabilia available with the Bose family and other INA members will be gathered and displayed in Kolkata in the form of a museum.He had also said on January 23 that an exhibition on Netaji will be held at Victoria Memorial and an "an eminent personality" will deliver the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Memorial lecture on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-head-panel-to-mark-subhas-chandra-bose-s-125th-birth-anniversary-101610209065870.html
09-01-2021||India||'30 govts in 57 years': Vice prez questions frequent change in Goa's leadership||Frequent changes of government in Goa over the past decades since liberation raises questions of the ability of the leadership to deliver and results in a negative perception of politicians, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said.Speaking in Goa on the occasion of Legislator’s Day to mark the day when the then legislative Assembly of Goa Daman and Diu first convened in 1963 two years after the state was freed from the Portuguese rule, Naidu lamented that only three governments since then were able to complete a full five-year term.“Since the first elections in 1963 after Liberation, Goa had as many as 30 governments during the last 57 years. This is quite a huge number by any reckoning. 11 of these 30 governments had less than one year, ranging from six days to 334 days,” Naidu said.“Another three governments lasted less than two years. Only three governments lasted the full term of five years. The state was placed under the president's rule as many as five times of a total of 659 days which is about two years,” Naidu added.“Change of government mid-course for genuine and compelling reasons are democratically sanctioned. Frequent such changes raise the question of stability and the ability of the governments to deliver. Why? How has it happened? Stability and ability go together to make progress. Though Goa has done well despite such frequent changes of government, it is difficult to understand such a political flux," he stated.Also read: MP anti-conversion law comes into effect - All you need to know“This results in negative perceptions. The question I would like to raise is would Goa have done better with better political stability?” he asked.Naidu also lamented that the image of politicians is ‘going down’.“Unfortunately, the people's perception is that the right character among the politicians is in short supply. I am sorry, I am frank. One has to be frank. This is what is happening. The image of the politicians is going down, because of the conduct of some people,” Naidu said.The function was attended by Governor of Goa and Maharashtra Bhagat Singh Koshyari, chief minister Pramod Sawant, Speaker Rajesh Patnekar, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, among several other legislators of the past and present day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-govts-in-57-years-vp-naidu-questions-frequent-change-in-goa-s-leadership-101610208194109.html
09-01-2021||India||Gujarat's amendment to Industrial Disputes Act gets presidential nod||Gujarat's amendment to the Industrial Disputes Act that seeks to increase ease of business by reducing the compliance burden on industries in terms of layoffs, retrenchment and compensation has received the assent of President Ram Nath Kovind, an official said on Saturday.The Industrial Disputes (Gujarat Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was passed in the state Assembly on September 22 last year, received the presidential assent on January 1, he said.Vipul Mittra, Additional Chief Secretary, state Labour and Employment department, said the amendment aims at reforms to increase ease of doing business, and was carried out on the instructions of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani as per the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.As per Industrial Disputes Act 1947, establishments having 100 or more workers are required to seek prior permission of the state government before effecting layoff, retrenchment, or closure, while the amendment has raised the employee limit to 300.Similarly, in case of layoffs, workers were, so far, required to be paid compensation amounting to 15 days salary for every year of service. Now, workers will also get an amount equivalent to the average pay of the last three months as compensation, a state government release said.Earlier, workers needed to be given three months' notice or wages for the notice period before retrenchment, while, as per the amendment, workers can be retrenched after giving them three months' notice only.Mittra said the exemptions are aimed at reducing the compliance burden on industries, which in turn will help the state attract new industries and investments to create more employment opportunities."The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted industries and, thereby, economic growth. The government is trying to play the role of a facilitator to put growth back on track," Mittra said."These labour reforms, coupled with industry-friendly policies, quick decision-making, and availability of skilled manpower, will help Gujarat attract new industries. However, we are ensuring that interests of workers are protected," he added.Since the Industrial Disputes Act is a Central law, any change that states want to make must get the approval of the president.The Gujarat government has planned a series of measures to boost industrial activity, while also protecting workers' interests, an official release said.More ordinances were passed in the Assembly on the Contract Labour Act, Factory Act and Child act, and they are also expected to be approved soon, said the government release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarats-amendment-to-industrial-disputes-act-gets-presidential-nod-101610202392278.html
09-01-2021||India||Centre must distribute Covid-19 vaccine for free: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||The Chhattisgarh government is ready to roll out Covid-19 vaccination in the state by following all guidelines and protocols laid down by the Centre, said state's Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday, adding the Union government should distribute the vaccine free of cost."Government of India must distribute the Covid-19 vaccine for free across the nation," demanded Baghel.Speaking to media, the Chhattisgarh CM said, "We did not close down our industries and mines during the lockdown. These institutions were working with just 60 to 70 per cent of the workforce."Baghel said this increased the income of the state during the pandemic.Regarding the ongoing protests by the farmers over newly enacted farm laws, he said: "The central government have understood that the new farm laws are not beneficial to the farmers, but are being hesitant to revoke the laws. This is why they asked the agitating farmers to go to Supreme Court."The Chhattisgarh CM is on his three-day visit to the Bastar division of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-must-distribute-coronavirus-vaccine-for-free-bhupesh-baghel-101610200265132.html
09-01-2021||India||AP govt moves HC against SEC's decision to hold gram panchayat polls||The Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government on Saturday challenged the State Election Commissions decision to conduct elections to the gram panchayats and hurriedly moved a 'House Motion petition' in the High Court seeking that the poll process be stalled.The government did not get any relief as the High Court has not immediately taken up the petition and may consider it on Monday, authoritative sources said.State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar announced the schedule late on Friday night, overruling the state governments objections against the conduct of the elections, saying the polls to gram panchayats would be held in four phases in February.The ruling YSR Congress alleged that the SEC is "dancing to the tunes of Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu."YSRC MP V Vijaya Sai Reddy went on to announce that the gram panchayat elections would be held only in May-June after completion of the impending by-election to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat.Taking strong exception to this, the State Election Commissioner wrote a letter to the Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das that such utterances would conclusively influence the government action (if not already done) vis-a-vis the local body elections."It is also indicative that the party (and the government by default) is not in favour of holding elections during the tenure of the present Commissioner and shall hold elections only after my demitting the office (on March 31, 2021)," Ramesh Kumar averred in the letter.The governments official line, however, has been that holding the elections would be difficult in view of the invocation of the National Disaster Management Act."The Covid-19 pandemic is tackled along with the vaccination programme being undertaken by the Union Ministry of Health and the whole state machinery would be engaged in the massive operation, " the Chief Secretary said in his reply to the SECs letter.But, with the SEC going ahead with the announcement of the poll schedule, the government minced no words in attacking Ramesh Kumar."The SEC acted in a pre-determined fashion and stubbornly announced the gram panchayat election schedule without considering the state governments request for further consultations," Panchayat Raj Principal Secretary Gopal Krishna Dwivedi said. "He did not consult the government while postponing the elections (in March last) and now while announcing the fresh schedule.This exposes the SECs intentions," he said in a statement.The SEC has put the public health at stake by unilaterally announcing the poll schedule, he alleged.The AP Non-Gazetted Officers Association president Chandrasekhar Reddy said the government staff would not take part in the poll process as it would jeopardise their lives.The Revenue Services Association president Bopparaju Venkateswarlu also opposed the SEC decision.The main opposition Telugu Desam Party welcomed the SEC decision to conduct the gram panchayat elections and said the governments stance on the issue amounted to breakdown of the Constitution."The government is supposed to act as per the Constitution but the Jagan regimes acts could lead to constitutional breakdown.Elections are inevitable and even the Supreme Court made it clear that seeking postponement of the polls without reason was not right," TDP senior leader and former minister Alapati Rajendra Prasad said.He wondered why the YSRC was shying away from the panchayat elections when it claims to have the support of 50 per cent of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-govt-moves-hc-against-sec-s-decision-to-hold-gram-panchayat-polls-101610201932212.html
09-01-2021||India||Beant Singh assassination: SAD chief urges Centre to set free Rajoana as a ‘humanitarian gesture’||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday urged the Centre to release Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted for the assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, as a humanitarian gesture. Badal also said that all Congress party leaders, including chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, should support Rajoana’s release. The SAD chief also said that setting Rajoana free would be in consonance with Centre’s commitment to commute the death sentence into life imprisonment as a special gesture to the Sikh community on the eve of the 550th Parkash Utsav of Shri Guru Nanak Dev.“I request the union govt to set Bhai Balwant Singh Rajoana free as a humanitarian gesture. He has served nearly 2 life terms in prison. All Cong leaders including Punjab CM @capt_amarinder should also back the release of Bhai Rajoana,” Badal wrote on Twitter.The Supreme Court had on Friday asked the Centre to take a decision before January 26 regarding Rajoana’s plea which sought commutation of his death penalty in the assassination case. Rajoana, a former constable of the Punjab police, was convicted for his involvement in the bomb blast outside the Punjab civil secretariat which killed Beant Singh and 16 other people in 1995. He has been serving time in jail for over 25 years.I request the union govt to set Bhai Balwant Singh Rajoana free as a humanitarian gesture. He has served nearly 2 life terms in prison. All Cong leaders including Punjab CM @capt_amarinder should also back the release of Bhai Rajoana. 1/2Rajoana had approached the top court in 2019 complaining about the delay on the government’s part to process his mercy petition, which was filed in 2012 with the then president of the country. The Supreme Court had also questioned the government on December 4 last year over delay in sending the proposal for commuting his death sentence to the President. The top court further instructed the government to inform it about the date the authority would send the proposal in this regard to the President under the Constitution's Article 72.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who is appearing for Rajoana, argued that his client’s mercy petition was pending since 2012. “This court has held that the death sentence of a person, if delayed for over eight years, can be commuted. He has been in jail for 25 years,” Rohatgi added.Also Read| SC urges Centre to decide on Rajoana’s plea by Jan 26Meanwhile, the Union home ministry said a decision on Rajoana’s mercy petition was put on hold as the appeals filed by other co-accused in the case, were pending before the Supreme Court. Additional solicitor general KM Nataraj, who is appearing for the government, assured the top court that a decision will be taken and the file processed by the home ministry will be sent to the President. “Competent authority is looking into the file. We will try to do it by then,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urge-centre-to-set-free-rajoana-as-a-humanitarian-gesture-sadchief-101610207525859.html
09-01-2021||India||Bengal governor meets Amit Shah, fears violence in run-up to crucial polls||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar met Union home minster Amit Shah in Delhi on Saturday afternoon and discussed law and order situation in the state for 75 minutes.After the meeting, Dhankhar told the media that the 2018 panchayat polls and 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Bengal were marked by violence and people apprehend a similar scenario in the assembly polls due in a few months.Dhankhar’s remarks drew strong reaction from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, who have accused him several times in recent months of being a mouthpiece of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“I cannot reveal the discussion I had with the home minister but the media surely knows more than me what I said. It is my job to keep the Centre informed. 2021 is a crucial year because of the elections. I have been constantly appealing for free and fair polls and asking public servants to shun politics. I hope people organizing the elections will take note and take action so that Bengal becomes an example for the rest of the country and the world,” said Dhankhar.“The Election Commission of India (ECI) is competent but every citizen has a role. As governor I have to protect the Constitution. I am not a stakeholder in politics. My only concern is that the election process should not tamper the Constitution. I confine myself to constitutional limitations,” said Dhankhar when asked to react to the TMC’s allegation that he crosses his jurisdiction.“Public servants (in Bengal) indulging in political activity are playing with fire. They should stop being political foot soldiers. My repeated warnings have had some effect. Most of them have rectified themselves,” Dhankhar added.Senior TMC leader and Rajya Sabha Member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the governor stepped out of his jurisdiction once again.“The governor, knowing it fully well that conduct, superintendence and control of assembly, Lok Sabha and Rajya elections are within the domain of the ECI, is shamelessly repeating the rhetoric and he will ensure free and fair elections,” Roy told HT.“He has also alleged that the 2019 elections were not free and fair in West Bengal. The question is whether such wild allegations of the governor are endorsed by the ECI. Isn’t the governor, who is otherwise a magnificent cipher, not only stepping out of his jurisdiction but is also transgressing into the jurisdiction of the ECI?” said Roy.Roy was among the five TMC MPs who made an appeal to the President in December seeking Dhankhar’s removal.“In exercise of your power conferred under Article 156(1) of the Constitution of India, you may be graciously pleased to kindly consider withdrawing your pleasure for holding the office of Governor of West Bengal by Hon’ble Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar for a serious breach of oath of his office.....,” read the letter the MPs wrote to Ram Nath Kovind.Though increasing acrimony has marked the relationship between the Bengal government and the Governor House, Dhankhar told the media on Saturday that neither he nor chief minister Mamata Banerjee were aware of any tension between them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-meets-amit-shah-fears-violence-in-run-up-to-crucial-polls-101610206602019.html
09-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rescuers search for Indonesia jet carrying 62||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indonesian plane feared to have crashed with 62 aboard. What we know so farAn Indonesian budget airline jet suspected to have crashed into the sea just minutes after take-off from Jakarta had 62 passengers and crew on board, including 10 children, the transport minister said on Saturday. Read moreAndhra Pradesh local body elections to be held in 4 phases from Feb 5The gram panchayat elections in Andhra Pradesh will be held in four phases beginning from February 5, 2021, the State Election Commission (SEC) has announced, and the model code of conduct (MCC) has been enforced from Saturday. Read more23 Indian sailors stranded in Chinese waters set to return next weekTwenty-three Indian sailors stranded in Chinese waters for almost seven months are set to return home after a crew change was arranged for their vessel at a Japanese port, minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday. Read moreIndia to launch Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, govt announcesThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive in the country will begin on January 16, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Saturday. Read moreDeepika Padukone shares unseen pic of Ranveer Singh eating her birthday cakeDeepika Padukone has been treating her fans to unseen pictures from her private photo album all day. In an Instagram interaction session with her fans, she has posted pictures requested by them. Read more'Almost scared to play a shot': Allan Border criticises Cheteshwar PujaraCheteshwar Pujara scored his first fifty of the four-match Test against Australia on Saturday. It took 5 innings for Pujara to hit his stride as hit a 176-ball 50 in the third Test in Sydney to help India score 244 in the first innings. Read moreDon’t know about your messages, but your WhatsApp Pay details are safe, as per the pay policyA review of WhatsApp’s India payments policy reveals that Facebook is not going to have any access to a user’s details of a digital transaction as the Indian policy overrules any privacy changes in the messaging platform. Read moreWestern Railway tweets about first all-women crew piloted goods train. Check it outThe Western Railways shared this tweet from their official Twitter account on January 6. The post, which talks about an all-female crew piloted goods train, has captured the attention of many. Read moreExplained: India announces Covid vaccination launch date; who's first in line?The Government of India announced the launch date of its mass immunisation programme against Covid-19. The vaccinations will begin on January 16, 2021. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rescuers-search-for-indonesia-jet-carrying-62-101610204979115.html
09-01-2021||India||23 Indian sailors stranded in Chinese waters set to return next week||Twenty-three Indian sailors stranded in Chinese waters for almost seven months are set to return home after a crew change was arranged for their vessel at a Japanese port, minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday.A total of 39 Indian seafarers on the MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia have been stranded off two Chinese ports for months, and India had been exploring several options to bring them back. The situation is believed to be the outcome of the China-Australia trade row - both vessels were carrying Australian coal and weren’t allowed to discharge their cargo.The 23 Indians on MV Jag Anand are now expected to return next week, though there was no official word on the status of 16 Indians on MV Anastasia.“Our Seafarers stuck in China are coming back to India! Ship M.V. Jag Anand, having 23 Indian crews, stuck in China, is set to sail toward Chiba, Japan to carry out crew change...This could only happen due to strong leadership of [Prime Minister] @NarendraModiji,” Mandaviya said in a tweet.The seafarers are expected to reach Chiba port on January 14, and will fly back to India after the completion of procedures related to Covid-19 protocols, Mandaviya said.The minister said he appreciated the humanitarian approach of Great Eastern Shipping Company, the owner of MV Jag Anand, towards the sailors and for “standing by them in this crucial time”.India had on Friday said it had again taken up with China the issue of bringing back all 39 stranded sailors and was awaiting a response from Beijing and shipping companies to various options for handling the matter. Among these options was seeking early approval from China for a crew change, as is being done in the case of MV Jag Anand.Chinese authorities have outlined detailed steps for a crew change in view of the country’s strict pandemic control and prevention measures, and these have to be complied with by the shipping companies, the external affairs ministry had said.MV Jag Anand has been at anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13, while MV Anastasia has been on anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20.In a separate development, the Indian embassy in Beijing said on Saturday that it has been repeatedly advised by Chinese authorities that Covid-19-related restrictions in place are unlikely to be relaxed in the coming months and courses for Indian students studying in China “are likely to continue only through online means” for the next semester.A statement issued by the embassy indicated that it wouldn’t be possible for Indian students to return to China in the near future. “Even as the embassy continues to take up the matter with Chinese authorities, there has unfortunately been no positive evolution of this situation,” it said.Following reports of resurgence of Covid-19 cases in China, authorities have reinforced epidemic controls and restrictions on travel and entry. “The suspension of visas of Indian nationals issued before November 2, 2020...is an instance of these enhanced controls,” the statement said.Chinese authorities have also denied permission for chartered flights between the two countries in view of the strict control measures.“While the embassy is aware of the difficulty of undertaking courses in medicine in online format, Indian students enrolled in Chinese universities are advised to take note of the restrictions currently in place and make appropriate arrangements for continuing their education,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-indian-sailors-stranded-in-chinese-waters-set-to-return-next-week-101610203639651.html
09-01-2021||India||Kerala local body polls: Polling officer says MLA threatened him during polls||The State Election Commission has sought a report from the Kasaragod district collector on a complaint filed by a polling officer alleging that a CPI(M) legislator from the district had threatened him during the local body polls held last month.A polling officer on duty at the GLP school in nearby East Chekapara has complained to the State Election Commission (SEC) recently that the Uduma MLA K Kunhiraman had threatened him, for verifying credentials of voters."We have sought a report in the incident from the District Election officer (District Collector) and from the returningofficer of the panchayat.Based on the report, we will take necessary action," State Election Commissioner V Bhaskaran told PTI.K M Sreekumar, Professor, Agricultural Entomology, Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) in nearby Peelicode, was on election duty as the presiding officer at the polling station.Sreekumar accused the MLA of silencing him when he raised a dispute over bogus voting during the third phase of the local body polls on December 14."Let the first polling officer verify and you keep mum.If you don't listen to what we say, your legs will be chopped off," the complaint, quoting the MLA's alleged remarks, said.Sreekumar, a leftist and also the president of the Peelicode unit of the Teacher's Organisation of Kerala Agricultural University, has also claimed there were only CPI-M agents at the booth, facilitating unquestioned bogus voting.The incident came to light when Sreekumar posted about the incident on Facebook.Senior officials from the election commission said the polling officer was supposed to report incidents of bogus voting or threats, to the police and the returning officer concerned the same day or the next day.The CPI-M block panchayat candidate first intervened and demanded that he desist from the formality of identifying the voter and later the MLA asserted the demand, the complainant alleged."The MLA threatened me when we continued with formalities as the same voters who cast their votes earlier returned to cast bogus votes," Sreekumar alleged.However, the MLA has denied the charges and said he intervened when the officer tried to refuse the right to vote for a voter.Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala said a criminal case should be registered against the MLA for threatening a poll officer."A criminal case should be registered against the MLA for threatening the poll officer who tried to stop the bogus voting," Chennithala said.Polling,held in three phases, was completed on December 14 and the results were out on December 16 in which the Left parties got a comfortable victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-local-body-polls-polling-officer-says-mla-threatened-him-during-polls-101610203799784.html
09-01-2021||India||Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan will make world order more just and fair: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday that the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan would make the world order more just and fair, promoting greater cooperation and peace.Virtually addressing the valedictory session of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention, he said that the idea of self-reliant India, Atmanirbhar Bharat, does not mean seeking self-centred arrangements or turning the country inwards."It is about self-belief, leading to self-sufficiency. We intend to contribute towards mitigating disruptions in global supply chains by enhancing the availability of goods and services," the president said."The Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan of India will make the world order more just and fair, promoting greater cooperation and peace," Kovind said."Our diaspora has an important role in the realisation of India's global aspirations. Our diaspora is our face to the world and champions India's cause on the global stage,” he said.Kovind said it has always come to India's aid, whether it is for advocacy regarding international issues of concern to India, or contributing to the Indian economy by way of investments and remittances.The president said that on this very day in 1915, Mahatma Gandhi, the greatest Pravasi Bharatiya, returned to India."He gave a much wider base to our social reforms and freedom movement, and during the next three decades, he changed India in many fundamental ways.“Before that, during his two decades of stay abroad, Bapu had identified the basic principles underlying the approach India should adopt for its growth and development,” Kovind said.He said that Pravasi Bharatiya Divas is also an occasion to recall Gandhiji’s ideals for individual and collective life.“Gandhiji's emphasis on Indianness, nonviolence, ethics, simplicity and sustainable development remain our guiding principles,” Kovind said.The president said, "We are indebted to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee whose vision re-energised the links with our diaspora. The Pravasi Bharatiya Divas celebrations started in 2003 when he was the Prime Minister of India. Atalji's initiatives have proved immensely helpful in strengthening the engagement of diaspora with the motherland."Kovind noted that India has one of the largest diaspora populations of nearly 30 million, residing in every corner of the world today.Addressing the Indian diaspora, he said, “You have spread the soft power of India and made your mark on the global stage. Your continued emotional attachment to India, its culture and traditions makes all of us very proud of you."“You have been contributing to the growth and development of the countries of your residence and, at the same time, you have been carrying your Indianness in your hearts. This emotional bonding has also translated into tangible gains for India. You have expanded India’s global embrace.”Speaking about the coronavirus pandemic, the president said that year 2020 has been the year of a global crisis caused by COVID-19.“India has been at the forefront in forging a global response to combat the enormous challenges posed by the pandemic. We supplied medicines to nearly 150 countries, making the world look at India as the ‘pharmacy of the world."“The recent success of our scientists and technicians in developing two COVID vaccines is a major achievement for the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan which is driven by the spirit of global well-being,” he said.Kovind said that the seeds of an Atmanirbhar Bharat were sown many years ago by Mahatma Gandhi's call for Swadeshi and self-reliance.“Our vision of aatmanirbhar Bharat has five key pillars of economy, infrastructure, demography, democracy and supply chains. Successful integration of all these factors will help achieve rapid growth and development,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmanirbhar-bharat-abhiyaan-will-make-world-order-more-just-and-fair-kovind-101610202322233.html
09-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami inaugurates eight renovated heritage structures||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday inaugurated eight heritage monuments, including temples and a pond that were recently renovated at a cost of ₹13.27 crore with funds from Asian Development Bank.The renovation, initiated through the state archaeology department, has rendered these scenic spots more attractive, convenient and safe for the tourists and local visitors. The Tirumalai Nayak Mahal, Madurai, Marudhu Pandiyar Fort in Sivagangai district, Udayagiri fort in Kanyakumari district among others which were refurbished were inaugurated by the chief minister through video conference from the secretariat, a release said. According to sources in the archaeology department, adequate amenities have been provided at the renovated sites for the benefit of the tourists. "Restoring the forts and palaces was a herculean task. The Marudhu Pandiyar fort, for instance, was reduced to rubble in 1800. We resurrected it at a cost of ₹60.13 lakh," a senior official in the Archaeology department said. Similarly, the Thirumalai Nayak palace built in 1636 AD and the Udayagiri fort, which was originally a mud structure and rebuilt with stones by King Marthanda Varma, were also painstakingly restored. The timely intervention by the Archaeology department in the form of restoration and conservation saved the ancient heritage monuments from further deterioration, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-inaugurates-eight-renovated-heritage-structures-101610203041369.html
09-01-2021||India||Government buys 531 lakh tonnes paddy till Jan 8 at MSP for over ₹1 lakh crore||The Centre has procured 531.22 lakh tonnes of paddy so far during this kharif marketing season from over 70 lakh farmers at MSP, costing a little over ₹1 lakh crore, amid the ongoing protest by farmers at Delhi borders seeking repeal of three new farm laws and legal guarantee of MSP.The kharif marketing season starts from October."In the ongoing kharif marketing season (KMS) 2020-21, the government continues to procure kharif 2020-21 crops at MSP from farmers as per existing MSP schemes," according to an official statement.Paddy procurement has reached 531.22 lakh tonnes till January 8, up 26 per cent from the year-ago period."About 70.35 lakh farmers have already benefited from the ongoing KMS procurement operations with MSP value of ₹1,00,294.26 crore," the statement said.Out of the total purchase of 531.22 lakh tonnes of paddy, Punjab has contributed 202.77 lakh tonnes."Till January 8, a quantity of 82,19,567 cotton bales valuing ₹24,063.30 crore have been procured benefitting 1,60,0518 farmers," the statement said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at several Delhi borders for more than a month.The eighth round of talks between protesting unions and the central government ended inconclusively on Friday as farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of three laws. The next meeting has been scheduled for January 15.Food Corporation of India (FCI) is the nodal agency for the procurement and distribution of foodgrains.The Centre procures paddy and wheat at MSP to meet its requirements for the National Food Security Act (NFSA), under which 5 kg of grain is supplied per person per month through ration shops to over 80 crore people at a highly subsidised rate of ₹2-3 per kg. The difference between the acquisition cost of grains and the issue price is borne by the Centre in form of food subsidy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-buys-531-lakh-tonnes-paddy-till-jan-8-at-msp-for-over-rs-1-lakh-crore-101610201564139.html
09-01-2021||India||BJP, SP in the fray for UP legislative council polls on Jan 28||Elections to the 12 legislative council seats in Uttar Pradesh will be held on January 28 as the term of 12 members of legislative councils (MLCs) is coming to an end on January 30. UP's deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, chairman of UP legislative council Ramesh Yadav and state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh are among these members.Here’s all you need to know about the UP legislative council elections:1. Nominations for the elections can be filed by the candidates till January 18. Scrutiny of nominations will be held on January 19 and withdrawal of names can be done till January 21.2. In the 100-member UP legislative council, the Samajwadi Party has 55 MLCs, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 25, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has eight and the Congress has two MLCs. 4 MLCs belong to smaller parties while there are three independents and three seats are vacant.3. Of the 12 MLCs whose tenure is expiring, six are from the Samajwadi Party, three are from the BJP, three belong to the BSP. These include Swatantra Dev Singh, Dinesh Sharma and Laxman Acharya (BJP), Naseemuddin Siddiqui (disqualified), Dharmavir Ashok and Pradip Jatav (BSP), and Ahmed Hasan, Ashu Malik, Ramesh Yadav, Ram Jatan Rajbhar, Virendra Singh and Sahib Singh Saini (SP).Read more| Election Commission announces dates for legislative council by-polls in 3 states4. The poll watchdog has also issued guidelines to be followed during the entire election process for all persons keeping in mind the coronavirus pandemic. Every person shall wear a face mask during election-related activity and social distancing shall be maintained as per the guidelines of the state government and the ministry of home affairs. Sanitisers will be used and thermal screening of all persons will be conducted at the entry of hall/room/premises used for election purposes.5. Panchayats reserved for Scheduled Castes or Other Backward Classes will not be applicable for reservation this time in the areas of block heads, district panchayat members and district panchayat presidents. The same system will also be applicable in the areas reserved for SC, ST.6. Counting of votes will be done on January 28 itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sp-in-the-fray-for-up-legislative-council-polls-on-jan-28-101610200912856.html
09-01-2021||India||Farm laws: Congress to protest outside governor houses across country on Jan 15||The Congress party on Saturday announced that it will stage protests outside governor houses across the country on January 15 to extend its support to the ongoing farmers' agitation."Why the government is not fulfilling its duties towards people? The government is sold out to few capitalists. The Congress party has decided to celebrate 'Kisan Adhikar Diwas' on January 15 while holding protest and demonstration at district headquarters. We will also organise rallies and after the rallies, we will march towards governor houses across the country. Now, the time has come to listen farmers' voices," said Congress' General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala.This comes a day after the eighth round of talks between the government and the farmer unions remained inconclusive. The government asked farmer unions to "give an option other than repealing" and the next round of talks is proposed for January 15.While addressing a press conference here, Surjewala alleged that government is playing the games of meetings instead of repealing "black laws"."Instead of repealing the black laws, Modi government is playing meeting-meeting, giving dates for talks. Farmers have been protesting for the last 40 days and 60 farmers have died. Prime Minister has not spoken a word condoling the demise of those farmers. This is the fight against the attrocities of government by farmers," he added.The Congress party will also run a campaign on social media with *SpeakUpForFarmers on January 15, Surjewala said.This comes after a meeting, which was charied by Congress general secretary KC Venugopal, with party general secretaries and in-charges in connection with the ongoing farmers' agitation at the borders of Delhi.According to sources, in the virtual meeting discussion was held on the situation and to chalk out a strategy to support farmer's protests. Congress has been in support of the farmers in their movement against the newly enacted farm laws by the Centre in September.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had on Friday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party is anti-farmers while Congress works towards their betterment. He said Congress will fight with the farmers to get the three farm laws repealed.The Congress party has time and again slammed the Union government over the farm laws. Earlier, Rahul Gandhi met with President Ram Nath Kovind to discuss the laws and the issues faced by protesting farmers.With concerns that farm laws would weaken the minimum support system and mandi systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital for over a month against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Maintaining that the apprehensions are misplaced, the government has ruled out repealing the laws and asked farmer leaders to hold a discussion on clause by clause of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-congress-to-protest-outside-governor-houses-across-country-on-jan-15-101610198435593.html
09-01-2021||India||‘Ready to contest polls if Cong offers seat in Ernakulam’: Ex Kerala HC judge||Former judge of the Kerala High Court, Justice B Kemal Pasha, who is known for his proactive stand on critical issues, said on Saturday that he is willing to contest the upcoming assembly polls if the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) offered him a seat in Ernakulam district.Talking to reporters in Ernakulam he said lone voices won’t make much of an impact in the present world and it is always good to be part of a collective movement. “Earlier some leaders have approached me with a suggestion to contest from Punalur, my native place in Kollam district. Since I am settled in Ernakulam I told them if you give me a seat in the district I will consider it,” he said adding if elected he won’t accept the salary of a legislator.Asked if the ruling CPI(M) or the BJP offered him a seat instead, he said he won’t accept it because he was more inclined to the Congress ideology and fascinated by its role in the freedom movement. People with integrity and eminence should join politics rather than criticising the system sitting on the sidewalks. “I have taken a strong position against corruption throughout my life. If I get a chance to extend my fight and take my ideals into politics, there is nothing wrong in it. Personally I feel more people should join politics,” he said. Congress leaders are yet to react to his suggestion.A staunch critic of the ruling party he was chided by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday while inaugurating two flyovers in Kochi. Pasha had supported “We for Kochi, a non-political youth movement, activists last week when they opened one of the flyovers for traffic. Activists had claimed that it was waiting for the date of the CM for inauguration, though its works were completed long back. Later many activists of the movement were arrested and slapped stringent charges. Pasha had justified their act saying “any beggar can cut the ribbon once work is completed.”Two years back his security was withdrawn after he criticised the government on a number of issues. He was given security after intelligence agencies warned that he was facing threats from some extremist elements. When five nuns staged a sit-in in Kochi in 2018 seeking action against rape accused former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mullakal he openly supported them. Similarly he criticised the alleged inaction of the government in the rape and murder of two siblings in Walayar. Since his retirement in 2018 he extended his support to many popular issues in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-contest-polls-if-cong-offers-seat-in-ernakulam-ex-kerala-hc-judge-101610196888722.html
09-01-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh local body elections to be held in 4 phases from Feb 5||The gram panchayat elections in Andhra Pradesh will be held in four phases beginning from February 5, 2021, the State Election Commission (SEC) has announced, and the model code of conduct (MCC) has been enforced from Saturday.State election commissioner Dr N Ramesh Kumar had issued proceedings on the election on Friday and said that “the commission having carefully weighed in the pros and cons, is in favour of adopting a pragmatic schedule” about the date of the elections. He also assured that the election commission is “fully prepared to hold elections” and sought the support of all concerned stakeholders.Also read: Jagan govt, Andhra poll panel spar over local body election scheduleHere is everything you need to know about the Andhra Pradesh gram panchayat elections:1. The elections will be held in four phases on February 5, 9, 13 and 17 from 6:30am to 3:30pm. Model code of conduct (MCC) would be implemented in poll-bound areas from Saturday.2. Counting of votes would begin at 4pm and declaration of results would be done on the same day as polls.3. Initial notification for holding the gram panchayat polls in Andhra Pradesh was declared on March 7, 2020. However, the state government had cited the Covid-19 pandemic and contested the SEC’s decision to hold elections. After multiple rounds of a legal tussle between the two sides and an intervention by the Supreme Court, SEC has again declared the dates.4. The last date for the receipt of nominations for the polls are January 27 and 31 and February 4 and 8 for the four phases respectively. Also, for withdrawal of candidature, the last dates are January 31, 2021, and February 4, 8 and 12 respectively.5. SEC would publish the final list of contesting candidates on January 31 and February 4, 8 and 12 at 3pm.6. Notably, SEC N Ramesh Kumar has alleged that the state government “is not in favour of holding elections during the tenure of the present commissioner and shall hold elections only after his demitting office.” In the proceedings, the SEC also said that the government has been citing Covid-19 pandemic as the reason earlier and the vaccination program as the reason now.7. The election schedule would begin from January 23, 2021, and end by February 17, 2021, and would not coincide with the Category 3 Covid-19 vaccination program in the state, according to the state poll body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-local-body-elections-to-be-held-in-4-phases-from-feb-5-101610196039297.html
09-01-2021||India||'Landmark step': PM Modi after govt announces Covid-19 vaccination drive date||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday India would take a landmark step forward in fighting the coronavirus pandemic on January 16 when the government will begin the drive to vaccinate nearly 30 million healthcare and frontline workers."On 16th January, India takes a landmark step forward in fighting Covid-19. Starting that day, India’s nation-wide vaccination drive begins. Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including Safai Karamcharis," PM Modi tweeted.The Centre in a release stated that the vaccine will be administered to the healthcare and frontline workers on a priority basis, which would be followed by those above the age of 50 and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities- which were estimated to be around 27 million.On 16th January, India takes a landmark step forward in fighting COVID-19. Starting that day, India’s nation-wide vaccination drive begins. Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including Safai Karamcharis. https://t.co/P5Arw64wVtThe Prime Minister had earlier chaired a meeting to review the coronavirus pandemic situation in the country along with the preparedness of the states and Union territories for the vaccination drive. The meeting was attended by the principal secretary to PM, health secretary, cabinet secretary and other senior officials of the government. During the meet, Modi was also provided information with regard to the Co-Win app and the dry runs conducted across the country.Also Read| Ready to protect humanity with 2 ‘Made in India’ Covid vaccines: PM ModiOn January 3, the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) had granted approval for the Covid-19 vaccines of the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use. The Union health ministry added that vaccines of both these manufacturers have established safety and immunogenicity.Also Watch| Explained: India announces Covid vaccination launch date; who's first in line?﻿﻿India has so far conducted two dry runs of the Covid-19 vaccination. The first dry run was held on January 2 at 286 session sites across 125 districts while the second phase was held on January 8 736 districts across 33 states and Union Territories.The health ministry had highlighted that the purpose such mock drills was to stimulate the actual vaccine administration event. It also aimed to familiarise the state, district, block and hospital level officers on all aspects of the vaccine roll-out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-step-pm-modi-after-govt-announces-vaccination-drive-date-101610195255993.html
09-01-2021||India||UP's new excise policy aims ₹6,000 crore excess revenue next fiscal||The Uttar Pradesh government has given its approval to the Excise Policy 2021-22, expecting revenue to jump by ₹6,000 crore during the fiscal.The approval was granted by the state cabinet headed by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The cabinet meeting took place on Saturday night."To provide good quality liquor at economic prices, UP Made Liquor (in Tetra-pack and of 42.8 per cent strength only) made from Grain ENA, shall be sold at an MRP of ₹85 through country liquor shops. Integrated Supply Chain Management System (IESCMS) shall be implemented by computerizing the various processes of the department. The system of sale of liquor in retail shops using PoS machines shall be implemented in 2021-22," the state government said in a statement on Saturday.The Excise Policy got clearance of the UP Cabinet hours after five people died and 16 others hospitalised after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district on Friday.The authorities have suspended four policemen and removed three senior Meerut zone excise officials from their post for laxity. An excise inspector and three other members of the department have also been suspended.Police have also arrested the main accused, identified as Kuldeep.As against expected revenue ₹28,340 crore in 2020-21, the expected revenue for 2021-22 is ₹34,500 crore, the statement said.Renewal of country liquor, foreign liquor, beer, bhang retail shops and model shops permitted for 2021-22. Due to situation arising out of Covid-19, the period April 2020 to June 2020 shall be excluded in determining the renewal criteria, according to the new policy.To promote production of wine within the state, wine made out of locally produced fruits shall be exempted from excise duty for a period of five years, it said.Vintners shall be allowed retail sale of wine. Wine Tavern shall also be allowed in its premises, the policy said.The sale of Low Alcoholic Beverages (LAB) shall be allowed in foreign liquor retail shops, model shops and premium retail vends in addition to beer shops. The excise duty on beer is reduced and the shelf life of beer will be 9 months, it added.Premium retail vends shall be permitted at airports. Wine tasting facility and sale of drinking accessories shall be allowed at premium retail vends.A special campaign will be launched to create awareness to the public on the ill effects of drinking and responsible drinking, the statement said. The campaign will mainly focus on --- under age drinking, drunken driving and responsible consumption. Rupees one crore will be earmarked for this campaign, it added.To promote ease of doing business, brand registration, label approval, bar and micro-brewery licences will have the option to be renewed up to 3 years instead of requiring approvals every year, the New Excise Policy said.Advance storage of foreign liquor, beer and wine for the year 2021-22 will be allowed from February 15. Also, to ensure availability of liquor during the beginning of the year, rollover process of residual stock on March 31 for next year is simplified and there will be no roll over fee for carrying forward of these stocks.Keeping in view the festival of Holi, the renewed country liquor retail shops will be allowed sale of residual stock till April 7, it said. To encourage exports from the state, brand and label approval process for exports to other states and countries simplified. Keeping in view the complex process of trade mark registration and the time taken, brand registration will be permissible on submission of proof of filing of application for trademark registration, the state government said.At present, the strength of alcohol is being measured by manual hydrometers. To promote use of technology in monitoring of production processes, the use of digital alcohol meters certified/ calibrated by NABL will be mandatory in laboratories of the department and in distilleries.The sugar mills and distilleries in the state shall install mandated modern electronic devices before December 31, 2021. Sale of imported liquor (BIO) and Indian made foreign liquor in scotch category, with maximum retail price of ₹2,000 or more, will be permissible in mono-cartons.The provision that no liquor shop shall be opened within 5 kilometers of the border of another district, without the consent of the collector of both the districts will be done away with, the policy said.The power for renewal of micro-brewery licenses shall be delegated from Excise Commissioner to District Collector. District Collector shall be authorised to amend the names of the renewed shops, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ups-new-excise-policy-aims-rs-6-000-crore-excess-revenue-next-fiscal-101610193593783.html
09-01-2021||India||India to launch Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, govt announces||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive in the country will begin on January 16, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Saturday.“After the detailed review, it was decided that in view of the forthcoming festivals including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bihu etc., the COVID19 vaccination will start from 16th January 2021,” the health ministry said in a statement.The announcement came even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation as well as the preparedness of states and Union Territories the vaccination drive on Saturday.Modi did a detailed and comprehensive review of various issues such as emergency use authorisation or accelerated approval that has been granted by the national regulator to two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin). “…PM was also briefed about the preparedness status of the Centre in close collaboration with the State and UT governments for roll out of the vaccine in the near future. The vaccination exercise in underpinned by the principles of people’s participation (Jan Bhagidari); utilizing experience of elections (booth strategy) and Universal Immunization Program (UIP); no compromise of existing healthcare services, especially national programs and primary health care; no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms, other SOPs; and an orderly and smooth implementation driven by technology,” said the health ministry statement.The roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine will give priority to the healthcare workers and the frontline workers (who are estimated to be around 30 million), followed by those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities (numbering around 270 million). The Prime Minister was also apprised about the Co-WIN Vaccine Delivery Management System, which is a unique digital platform to provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine.This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. At least 7.9 million beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform.As the vaccinators and vaccine administrators comprise a crucial pillar of the vaccination exercise, their training process was detailed out. 2,360 participants were trained during national level “Training of Trainers”, which comprised state immunization officers, cold chain officers, and development partners etc.At least 61,000 programme managers, 200,000 vaccinators and 370,000 other vaccination team members have been trained so far as part of trainings at States, districts and block levels.Three phases of dry runs have already been conducted across the country, with the third dry run having been conducted on Friday across 615 districts covering 4,895 session sites in 33 States/UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-launch-covid-19-vaccination-drive-on-saturday-govt-announces-101610193573618.html
09-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: JP Nadda reaches out to farmers in Bengal||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In Bengal, Nadda defends agri laws, reaches out to farmersBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Saturday defended the three farm laws enacted in September, saying they will enable farmers to set the prices of their products and choose the buyers even as the legislation has triggered protracted protests. Read moreFire audits of all Maharashtra hospitals to be checked, orders CM ThackerayTerming the fire incident at Bhandara district hospital as very unfortunate, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a detailed investigation into the incident. He also directed officials to check the status of fire audits of all the hospitals across the state. Read morePandemic forces Taj Mahotsav cancellation for the first time since 1992The 10-day Taj Mahotsav held annually in February to promote Indian arts, crafts, cultures, cuisine, dance, and music near one of India’s most popular tourist destinations in Agra has been cancelled this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MoreSingapore to legislate on contact-trace data use for crimesSingapore’s government plans to create urgent legislation to formalize the use of virus contact-tracing data in investigations of serious crimes. Legislation will be introduced in the next sitting of parliament in February to limit the use of the data to probes of seven categories of serious crimes, the Smart Nation and Digital Government Office said in a statement Friday. Read moreHow to move your WhatsApp group chats to SignalIf you have been living under the rock this is a good time to remind you that WhatsApp is changing its privacy policy and you have to ‘agree and accept’ if you plan to keep using the app post February 8. Read moreVarun Dhawan on marriage plans with Natasha Dalal: 'Maybe this year'Actor Varun Dhawan and his designer girlfriend Natasha Dalal were among the most popular Bollywood celebrities who were expected to tie the knot last year. However, as the coronavirus pandemic worsened, their plans also hit a roadblock. Read moreIndia vs Australia: India lodge complaint of racial abuse against Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Siraj at SCG - ReportThe Indian team management has reportedly filed an official complaint of racial slurs against fast bowlers Mohammed Siraj and Jasprit Bumrah at the hands of the crowd during the 3rd Test against Australia at Sydney Cricket Ground. As per a report from Cricbuzz, the events took place during the 2nd and 3rd day of the Test. Read moreYouTuber stays inside ‘world’s smallest Airbnb’ for 24 hours. Clip is intriguingThe Internet is filled with videos of YouTubers taking part in various challenges. From bizarre to scary, the challenges are varied, just like this one taken by YouTuber Ryan Trahan. He decided to stay inside the ‘world’s smallest Airbnb’ for 24 hours. Read moreWatch| Covid vaccine: Ecuador envoy hails Indian companies, takes part in trials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-jp-nadda-reaches-out-to-farmers-in-bengal-101610189249828.html
09-01-2021||India||Bihar rural local body polls to be held in April-May: All you need to know||Elections for the three-tier rural local bodies in Bihar are likely to be held in April-May this year in which six posts of ward member, mukhiya, panchayat samiti member, district board member, panch and sarpanch will go to the polls. The exercise to revise the electoral rolls is already underway in the state and will continue till January 11.Here’s everything you need to know about the Bihar panchayat elections:1. Bihar has 8,378 gram panchayats, 534 panchayat samitis and 38 district boards in the state. There are 258,000 posts with 114,667 ward members each.2. The panchayat polls may be conducted through electronic voting machines (EVMs) and a proposal for the same is under consideration of the state government and awaiting a nod from the cabinet.3. The State Election Commission (SEC) is likely to send the schedule for conduct of the panchayat polls by next month to the Bihar government for approval.4. The Bihar local body polls, which are likely to be held in April-May in a phase-wise manner, are estimated to cost about ₹450 crore of which around ₹300 crore is for SEC and ₹125 crore is for the purchase of EVMs.Read more: Election Commission announces dates for legislative council by-polls in 3 states5. Candidates are likely to get the facility of filing their nomination papers online, apart from the conventional method, as the state election body is attempting to make the polls digital owing to the coronavirus pandemic. For this, candidates will have to go to designated portals and deposit the requisite fee through a challan digitally and then visit the office of the returning officer (RO) at an appointed time. This system was also adopted in the assembly polls in Bihar last year.6. Issuing of e-certificates to winning candidates soon after results are declared is also under consideration7. The draft publication of the updated rolls for panchayat polls would be done on January 19 and the final publication of rolls would be done on February 19 after addressing all the claims and objections to the first draft.8. The updated voters’ list would be put online and voters would be able to download it and also search for their names by using various apps as the entire process will be digitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-rural-local-body-polls-to-be-held-in-april-may-all-you-need-to-know-101610191073902.html
09-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin from January 16 in India||The Centre said on Saturday the Covid-19 vaccination drive would begin in the country on January 16, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed as a "landmark step", when nearly 30 million healthcare and frontline workers will be inoculated. Moments after the Centre's announcement of the date, PM Modi tweeted about the people who will be inoculated on priority.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had chaired a meeting on Saturday to review the status of the coronavirus pandemic in the country along with the preparedness of the states and Union Territories (UTs) for the vaccination drive. The meeting was attended by the cabinet secretary, principal secretary to PM, health secretary, and other senior officials concerned, the release added."The roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine will provide priority to the healthcare workers and the frontline workers who are estimated to be around 3 cr, followed by those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 27 cr," the Centre stated in a release.  On 16th January, India takes a landmark step forward in fighting COVID-19. Starting that day, India’s nation-wide vaccination drive begins. Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including Safai Karamcharis. https://t.co/P5Arw64wVt"After the detailed review, it was decided that in view of the forthcoming festivals including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bihu etc., the vaccination will start from 16th January 2021," the release said.During the meeting, PM Modi was briefed about the preparedness status of the Centre in close collaboration with states and UTs for rolling out vaccine doses in near future and was also informed about the Co-WIN mobile application. Co-WIN is a digitised platform that will provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the vaccine. More than 7.9 million beneficiaries have been registered on the app.Also Watch| Explained: India announces Covid vaccination launch date; who's first in line?﻿﻿The release pointed out that over 61,000 program managers, 200,00 vaccinators and 370,000 other vaccination team members have been trained so far as part of the training at the states, districts and block levels.India has registered over 10.43 million Covid-19 disease cases till now of which 150,798 people have lost their lives. The active cases continue to remain below the 300,000-mark while the recoveries are over 10 million and constitute 96.41 per cent of the total caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-to-begin-in-india-from-january-16-says-centre-101610189889889.html
09-01-2021||India||No case of bird flu in Karnataka, says health minister||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said there was no case of bird flu in the state and all the tests done so far have turned negative. The minister also said that Covid-19 vaccines are expected to arrive in the state soon and would be administered as per the instructions or guidelines that will be issued by the Centre. "Regarding bird flu, tests have been done, all the test reports so far have come negative. There is no bird flu in Karnataka so far," he told reporters here. All the birds which died had been tested, he said. The state is already on alert after bird flu was reported in two districts in Kerala. Also, six crows were found dead in Dakshina Kannada, bordering Kerala and samples have been sent for testing to ascertain the cause of death. Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan too on Friday had said there was no case of bird flu in Karnataka and that officials have been asked to be vigilant. Bird flu has been reported in parts of Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in neighboring Kerala, prompting officials to cull birds, including ducks and chicken there. Sudhakar said 13,90,000 vials of Covid-19 vaccine are being despatched to Karnataka and vouchers and all related details had already been given to the government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will kick start the vaccination drive at several sites across the country through videoconferencing, two sites among them- one from Bengaluru and the other from north Karnataka- are from the state,he said A total of 5,000 sites have been identified for vaccination in the country, of which 235 are in Karnataka The minister said vaccination will be first administered to health care workers and 6.30 lakh healthcare professionals have registered in Karnataka till date. Next would be people with comorbidities,those aged above 60 and in other departments like Police and Revenue working against the pandemic, Sudhakar said. He said the central government's cabinet secretary chaired a video conference on Saturday with the Chief Secretaries, Principal Secretaries of the Health Department and officials of the states on the vaccination and supply. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states on Monday to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out in the country, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-case-of-bird-flu-in-karnataka-says-health-minister-101610188557441.html
09-01-2021||India||PM Modi addresses 16 Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention. Read full text here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the country is ready to save humanity with two 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines and added that the world is discussing India's efforts to empower the poor by using modern technology."Today, India is ready to save humanity with two 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines. India has done this earlier and it is doing it now as well," PM Modi said while speaking at the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention.PM Modi further said that the ongoing campaign in India to empower the poor of the country is being discussed around the world.Here is the full text of PM Modi's adddress:Hello all my Indian brothers and sisters settled in India and abroad! Happy 2021 to all of you! Today, even though the Internet has connected us from every corner of the world, but the mind of all of us is always connected to Mother Bharati, connected to each other.Friends,There is a tradition of giving Pravasi Bharatiya Samman every year to all of you colleagues who increase the pride of Maa Bharati around the world. In the journey started under the guidance of Bharat Ratna late Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji, so far 240 dignitaries living in 60 different countries have been given this honor. This time too it will be announced. Similarly, thousands of colleagues from all over the world have participated in the Know India Quiz Competition. These numbers suggest that you may get away from the root, but the new generation's engagement is increasing that much.15 winners of this quiz are present among us in this virtual ceremony today. I congratulate all the winners, wish them all the best and also congratulate all the participants in this Quiz Competition and I urge all of you who participate in this Quiz Competition to decide the next time the Quiz Competition Then 10 more new people will join your efforts. These chains should move, chains should move, people should join. Many foreigners come to India to study, go to their countries after studying, they should also urge that those who have ever studied in India, also join this Quiz Competition and become Ambassador of Quiz Competition Because to identify India in the world, there is a technology driven very simple solution to arouse the curiosity of the new generation to know India. And so it will be my request that you all take this matter forward.Friends,The past year has been a year of great challenges for all of us. But amidst these challenges, the manner in which our Indian Diaspora has spread around the world, has performed its duty, it is also a matter of pride for India. This is our tradition, this is the rites of this soil. From this place, the trust of fellow Indian origin is being strengthened for social and political leadership all over the world.The Chief Guest of our event today, the new President of Suriname, Mr. Chandrika Prasad Santokhi ji, is himself a shining example of this service. And I will also say that many of our Indian siblings living abroad have lost their lives during this Corona period. My condolences to them and also to their families, I pray to God, very much, pray this. Today, the warm words of the Suriname President and his affection for India have touched the hearts of all of us. In every word of his, the feeling he had towards India in every sense was flowing, manifesting and inspiring us. Like him, I also hope that we will meet soon, and we will also have the opportunity to give a grand welcome to the Suriname President in India. In the last year, NRIs have strengthened their identity in every field.Colleagues,I have had discussions with many Heads of the state in the past months. State Heads specifically mentioned how their country has been served by expatriate Indian doctors, paramedics, and ordinary Indian citizens. Whether it is a temple, whether it is our gurudwara, whether it is our great tradition of langar, many of our small social, cultural, religious organizations have taken the lead in service. And has done the work of serving every citizen even in this difficult situation. How proud I am when I hear this in every country of the world. And you can guess, when I used to hear your praise on the phone, and every leader of the world used to praise you for a long time, and when I shared this thing with my colleagues, everyone's heart was filled with happiness. , Used to be proud Your culture is being exposed in every corner of the world. Who will be an Indian who does not like it. All of you, not only where you are staying, have also cooperated in every way in India in the ongoing battle with Covid-19. The contribution you made to PM Cares is being used to strengthen Health Infra in India. I thank all of you for this.Colleagues,The great saint and philosopher of India, Saint Thiruvalluvar has said in Tamil, the oldest language in the world, and we should say it proudly, the oldest language in the world-Kaa-dariyak ketta iddattum vadngundra.Nadenp Nattin Talai.Its sense is that - the best land in the world is that which does not learn evils from its opponents and which, if ever in trouble, does not decrease the welfare of others.Colleagues,You all have shown this mantra by living it. This has always been the specialty of our India. Whether it is time for peace or crisis, we Indians have always faced every situation firmly. Because of this, we have seen a different behavior about this great land. When India opened the front against colonialism, it became the inspiration for the freedom struggle in many countries of the world. When India stood in front of terrorism, the world also got new courage to fight this challenge.Colleagues,India today is using technology more and more to end corruption. Lakhs of crores of rupees, which earlier used to reach the wrong hands due to all the deficiencies, are now reaching directly into the bank account of the beneficiary. You must have seen, the new institutions that India has developed, have also been praised by global organizations at this time of Corona. The campaign to empower the poorest of the poor with modern technology is going on in India today, it is discussed in every corner of the world, at every level.brothers and sisters,We have shown that in the case of Renewable Energy, any country of the developing world can also take the lead. Today India's Diya One Sun, One World, One Grid- This mantra is appealing to the world as well.Colleagues,The history of India is a witness that whenever anyone fears about the power of India, the power of Indians, all the apprehensions have been proved wrong. During slavery, big scholars abroad said that India cannot be free because it is very divided. Those fears proved to be wrong, and we gained freedom.Colleagues,When India got independence, it was also said that such a poor and so little educated India, this India will be broken, shattered, democracy is impossible here. Today's truth is that India is also united and if democracy is the strongest, vibrant, vibrant in the world, then it is in India.brothers and sisters,For decades after independence, it was also operative that India is poor and uneducated, hence the possibilities of investment in science and technology were underestimated. Today, our Tech Startup eco-system, India's space program, is a world leader. In the year of Kovid's challenge, many new Unicorns and hundreds of new Tech Startups have come out of India.Friends,In this era of Pandemic, India again showed what our potential is, what our potential is. The solidarity with which such a Democratic country stood, is not an example in the world. Be it PPE Kits, Masks, Ventilators, Testing Kits, all these were sought from outside India. Today, he increased his strength in this corona period and today India has not only become self-reliant in them but has started exporting many of these products as well. Today India is one of the countries with the lowest Fatality Rate and fastest Recovery Rate in the world.Today, India is ready to protect humanity with not one but two Made in India Corona Vaccines. Being the pharmacy of the world, India has done the work of delivering essential medicines to every needy in the world and is still doing it today. Today, the world is not only waiting for India's vaccine, but it is also looking at how India runs the world's largest vaccination program.Colleagues,What India has learned during this global pandemic has now become the inspiration for the self-reliant India campaign. We have hereShathaast Samah Sahastharast San KiranThat is, earn with hundreds of hands, but share with thousands of hands. This is also the sentiment behind India's self-reliance. The products that will be made in India by the hard work of millions of Indians, the solutions that will be prepared in India, will benefit the whole world. The world can never forget how India played a role in Y-2, how India had worried the world. The role of our pharma industry even in these difficult times, it shows that in whatever field India is capable, its benefits reach the whole world.Colleagues,Today, if the whole world has so much trust in India, then all you overseas Indians also have a big contribution in this. Wherever you went, took India along with Indianness. You continued to live Indianism. You have also awakened people with Indianness. And you see Food or Fashion, Family Values ​​or Business Values, you have spread Indianness. It has always been my belief that if the culture of India has become popular all over the world, all this is possible because of the life of you, more than the magazines, cookbooks or manuals, because of your behavior, because of your behavior is. India has never imposed or tried to impose anything on the world, has never thought of imposing it, but all of you in the world have created a curiosity, an interest for India. It may have started with prodigy, but it has reached conviction.Today, when India is moving forward to become self-reliant, here too your role is important in strengthening the identity of Brand India. When you make more and more use of Made In India Products, then the confidence around them will also increase. When you see your colleagues, your friends using Made In India Products, will you not be proud of it? From Tea to Textile and Therapy, it can be anything. I feel happy when Khadi is becoming the center of attraction in the world today. With this, you will not only increase the volume of India's exports, but will also bring India's Rich Diversity to the world. Above all, under the self-sufficient India campaign, you will become a means of delivering Affordable and Quality Solutions from the poorest of the world.Friends,Contribution of investment or large amount of remittances in India, your contribution has been incredible. Your Expertise, Your Investment, Your Networks, Your Experience Benefit Every Indian, entire Hindustan is proud forever and is always eager for your benefit. For this, every necessary step is also being taken so that you too get an opportunity and the expectations here are also fulfilled.Many of you know that for the first time a few weeks ago, the 'Global Indian Scientific Summit' ie 'Vaibhav' was organized. In this conference, more than 25 thousand scientists and experts from 70 countries discussed for about seven and a half hours. And this led to about 100 reports on 80 Subjects, which are going to be used in the development of technologies and systems in many fields. This dialogue will continue like this now. Apart from this, India has made structural changes in the last months for meaningful change from Education to Enterprise. This has led to the expansion of Opportunities for your investment. Production Linked Subsidies Scheme to promote manufacturing has become very popular and very popular in a very short time. You too can take full advantage of it.Colleagues,The Government of India stands with you, every moment, with you. More than 4.5 million Indians stranded abroad from Corona Lockdown were rescued under the Vande Bharat Mission. Every effort was made to get the Indian community overseas the right help on time. Due to Pandemic, every effort has been made at diplomatic level to ensure employment of Indians abroad.A new initiative called 'Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support', ie Swades, was launched for colleagues returning from many countries including Gulf. The objective of this database is to do a skill mapping of workers returning to the Vande Bharat Mission and connect them with Indian and foreign companies.Similarly, for better connectivity with the Indian community around the world, a new portal named Rishta has been launched. Communicating with your community in difficult times with this portal, it will be easy to reach them quickly. This portal will also go a long way in utilizing the Expertise of our colleagues around the world in the development of India.Colleagues,From here we are now moving towards the 75th year of independence. The next Pravasi Bharatiya Divas will also be associated with the celebration of the 75th year of independence. Inspired by countless great personalities like Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and Swami Vivekananda, the Indian community around the world has played an important role in independence. In such a situation, it is time to remember those comrades, even those fighters who worked for the independence of India while staying outside India.I would urge all the people of the Indian community around the world, all those who are sitting in our mission, to create a digital platform, create a portal and in that portal for the overseas Indians who played a special role in the freedom struggle Have played, all their fact-based things should be kept in it. Wherever photos are available, photos should be kept. When in the world, who did what, how did these things be described in it. Praise every Indian's valor, effort, sacrifice, sacrifice, devotion to Mother India. May be his biographies, which contributed to the liberation of India while abroad.And I would also like that the Quiz should also have a separate chapter on the contribution of such Indian community worldwide in the Quiz which will be prepared for the Quiz Competition. Five hundred, seven hundred, thousand, should be the questions which should become a good lake of knowledge for the curious people about the Indians spread all over the world. All such steps will strengthen our bond, inspire generations to come.You have all met today in such a large number. Due to Corona, it has not been possible to meet in Rubaru, but every citizen of India always wants that you all be healthy, all of you stay safe, keep illuminating your name and country.With this wish, I once again express my heartfelt gratitude to the President of Suriname. He who has inspired all of us, is associated with us, he is truly one of those great men who made India proud. I also thank him very much. And with this wish, thank you very much!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-16-pravasi-bharatiya-divas-convention-read-full-text-here-101610187517584.html
09-01-2021||India||In Bengal, Nadda defends agri laws, reaches out to farmers||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Saturday defended the three farm laws enacted in September, saying they will enable farmers to set the prices of their products and choose the buyers even as the legislation has triggered protracted protests.Speaking at the launch of BJP’s first campaign for farmers in poll-bound West Bengal’s East Burdwan, which is considered the state’s rice bowl, Nadda cited the measures the government has taken over the last six years for the farm sector. “Since the BJP came to power at the Centre [in 2014], Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made a six-fold increase in the central budget for farmers. He implemented the minimum support price [at least 50% more than the weighted average cost of production] recommended by the Swaminathan Committee,” Nadda saidNadda insisted the three farm laws will make farmers free. “These will enable farmers to set the price of their products and choose the buyer,” Nadda said.Nadda’s statement came a day after the eighth round of talks between the Centre and farmer unions failed to end the deadlock on Friday. The Centre maintained it would not scrap the three laws and asked farmer unions to wait for the Supreme Court to weigh in on the issue. The farm leaders stuck to the stand that the laws must be repealed and raised placards saying they will “prevail or die”.Sharp exchanges and tense arguments between the two sides were also reported even as they agreed to meet again on January 15.Thousands of protesting farmers have encircled Delhi for 45 days, demanding the government scrap the laws.The Supreme Court is set to take up a bunch of petitions challenging the validity of the laws on Monday. The petitions have argued that the federal government does not have the powers to bring legislation on the agriculture sector because it falls in the domain of states. The farm leaders have said even if the laws were declared constitutionally valid, they would continue to demand their repeal.Nadda, who also said that Bengal ranks 24th in the country when it comes to procurement price paid to farmers, announced the BJP will hold 40,000 meetings across Bengal before the assembly elections.Nadda also launched the door-to-door rice collection programme. He visited five homes and collected the rice in a saffron bag slung on his left shoulder.Nadda, who offered prayers at the temple associated with the 15th-century saint Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, later had lunch at a farmer’s house.Nadda’s visit to Bengal comes as the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government is planning to hold a special session of the assembly to pass a resolution against the three farm laws.Nadda said the enthusiasm he has noticed shows that people of West Bengal have made up their mind to welcome the BJP. He added chief minister Mamata Banerjee has now written to the Centre that she wants to implement the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi programme. “We have been asking her for a long time to do it.”Nadda accused the TMC leadership of corruption and misappropriating ration the Centre sent in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Smuggling of coal and sand is all that you hear about these days. The Calcutta high court ordered an audit into the expenses made towards relief [after cyclone Amphan]. But the government challenged it in the Supreme Court. Why? Why is Mamata Banerjee so worried?” TMC Lok Sabha leader Saugata Roy reacted to Nadda’s comments, saying the BJP chief is from Himachal Pradesh and questioned what does he know about Bengal. “Spreading misinformation will not help the BJP. The TMC will return to power with an absolute majority.” Nadda was scheduled to offer prayers at the Sarbamangala temple in Burdwan, lead a roadshow and visit the BJP district office to address the media and the party’s core committee members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-nadda-defends-agri-laws-reaches-out-to-farmers-101610188108085.html
09-01-2021||India||Maharashtra orders probe into Bhandara hospital fire that killed 10 infants||Maharashtra's home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday said the state government has ordered a high-level level probe into the fire at a hospital in Bhandara district that killed 10 infants. “Those found responsible for negligence will be strictly punished,” he told news agency ANI.Pramod Khandate, the civil surgeon of the Bhandara district, said seven infants were rescued from the Bhandara Civil Hospital, nearly 65km away from Nagpur, immediately after the fire broke out at around 2am. Khandate said there were 17 newborns, aged between a month and three months, admitted at the SNCU unit of the hospital when the fire broke out. A doctor and a nurse were on duty at the time of the incident. The nurse first noticed the smoke coming from the neonatal section and informed the hospital authorities. The fire brigade was called immediately, which rescued seven babies, who were then shifted to another ward, he added.The cause of the fire in the four-storey building is yet to be ascertained. However, preliminary investigations suggest that a short circuit could have caused the tragedy. It was said that electric warmers were being used at the neonatal unit at the hospital.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the several political leaders who expressed grief over the accident. "Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible," PM Modi tweeted.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis also issued a statement demanding an investigation."The government should carry out a thorough inquiry into the incident and initiate action against those who are responsible for the death of 10 infants. It is a very painful accident," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-orders-probe-into-bhandara-hospital-fire-that-killed-10-infants-101610187085041.html
09-01-2021||India||Pandemic forces Taj Mahotsav cancellation for the first time since 1992||The 10-day Taj Mahotsav held annually in February to promote Indian arts, crafts, cultures, cuisine, dance, and music near one of India’s most popular tourist destinations in Agra has been cancelled this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Agra’s district magistrate, Prabhu N Singh, said the carnival will not be held near Taj Mahal because of the pandemic for the first time since it began in 1992.Authorities last month increased the number of visitors allowed into the 17th-century monument to 15,000 daily. The monument earlier reopened in September months after it was shut in March following a lockdown imposed to curb the pandemic spread.The cancellation of the festival has come as a fresh setback to Agra’s tourism industry that has been facing massive losses due to the pandemic.“The concerns of the administration are understandable but the cancellation, for whatever reason, would send a negative message about tourism prospect in the city of Taj,” said Sandeep Arora, president, Agra Tourism Development Foundation.Rakesh Chauhan, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Agra, echoed Arora. “While all the trades are moving in full swing now, the cancellation of Taj Mahotsav would not be a welcome move. However, we understand the reasons leading to such decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-forces-taj-mahotsav-cancellation-for-the-first-time-since-1992-101610176617100.html
09-01-2021||India||Robbers held hours after looting a bank in Bihar||The Bihar police on Friday arrested four people hours after they allegedly robbed a bank in broad daylight at a busy market in Muzaffarpur, an officer said. ₹16.71 lakh looted from the bank were recovered from the four along with three firearms, two blank, and 17 live cartridges.The gang looted over ₹17 lakh at gunpoint and shot at a vendor, who caught one of the robbers near the bank.The robbery came a day after robbers shot a trader in his head after looting ₹70,000 from him in Muzaffarpur on Thursday night and prompted chief minister Nitish Kumar to summon Bihar police chief and order him to solve the case immediately.Rathin Das, the bank manager, said the armed men barged into the bank and made everyone there stand in one place, and carried out the robbery.Additional director general of police S M Khopde said they were tipped off about the presence of the robbers in Patna as they had gathered to distribute the looted money among themselves.He identified the four alleged robbers as Nitish Kumar Mahto, Rahul Mahto, Rahul Kumar Roy, and Sudhir Sharma.Police were looking for others involved in the crime. Investigators said the four took to robbery because they were unable to find jobs. They have confessed to committing other robberies as well, they added.The police team that solved the case in less than eight hours will get a cash reward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/robbers-held-hours-after-looting-a-bank-in-bihar-101610187443301.html
09-01-2021||India||Ready to protect humanity with 2 ‘Made in India’ Covid vaccines: PM Modi||India is ready with two “Made in India” coronavirus vaccines to protect humanity from Covid-19 even as the world is watching the roll-out of the world’s largest vaccination programme in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Addressing the virtual inaugural session of the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention, Modi said India was continuing to play its role as the “world’s pharmacy” by getting essential medicines to those most in need around the world. “We are ready to protect humanity with two ‘Made in India’ corona vaccines,” he said. “The world is not only waiting for India’s vaccine, but everyone is watching how India runs the world’s largest vaccination programme.” Indian authorities recently cleared the Serum Institute’s Covishield, or the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, for restricted use in an emergency situation subject to regulatory conditions, while Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine was approved for restricted use in emergency situations in “clinical trial mode”. Amid the pandemic, India supplied medicines and medical equipment to some 150 countries, including materials that were provided as grants to several neighbours and developing nations. Several countries have also expressed an interest in acquiring vaccines from India. Modi said the lessons learned by India during the pandemic had become the inspiration for the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, and this movement for self-reliance is meant to help others as “Made in India” products and solutions will benefit the world. The world still remembers the role played by India to address the Y2K issue and now the role of the country’s pharmaceutical industry has shown that the whole world benefits when India enters any particular arena, he said. “If there is so much trust in India, the diaspora too has made a big contribution,” he said, adding that Indian-origin people had taken Indian culture and “lived it and inspired others”, including through their food and family and business values. “India has never imposed anything on the world, nor has it tried to do so or even though of doing so,” Modi said. As India moves forward with its self-reliance initiative, the diaspora will have to play an important role in making Brand India stronger. “If you use more Made in India products, the trust of others in them will increase,” he said. Atmanirbhar Bharat will also help take affordable and quality solutions to the world’s poorest, and the investments, remittances, expertise and networks of the diaspora can help drive this initiative, he added. At the same time, the government’s structural reforms and subsidy scheme for manufacturing have increased investment opportunities for the diaspora, he pointed out. Amid the pandemic, India repatriated lakhs of its nationals through the Vande Bharat Mission and took steps at the diplomatic level to protect the employment of Indians abroad, he said, adding that a database was also created of the skills of workers who returned from West Asia and other regions so that they can be connected to Indian and foreign employers. Modi said the past year was “one of many challenges for everyone”, but the way the Indian diaspora had rendered services and fulfilled its responsibilities was a matter of pride for India. “For social and political leadership across the world, the trust in Indian-origin people is becoming greater,” he said. He said many heads of states he had talked to had made specific mention of the services rendered by Indian doctors, paramedics and citizens services, while the help extended by gurdwaras, temples and organisations in difficult circumstances was also a matter of pride. The contributions of the diaspora to the PM Cares fund had helped strengthen health infrastructure in India, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-protect-humanity-with-2-made-in-india-covid-vaccines-pmmodi-101610187386774.html
09-01-2021||India||HC expresses dissatisfaction over UP’s Covid-19 steps for Prayagrag’s Magh Mela||The Allahabad high court has expressed dissatisfaction over the steps the Uttar Pradesh government has taken to prevent Covid-19 spread in Prayagraj’s Magh Mela area.“After having gone through the instructions, we are not convinced, at all, that the steps which are being taken by the state, would be sufficient to stop the infection if it came through someone who entered inside Prayagraj with it,” the court said.The observation came after the government told the court that only people with Covid-19 negative reports will be allowed to enter the Magh Mela area.The court, which was hearing public interest litigation (PIL) related to the pandemic, will hear the matter next on January 12. It asked the government to come up with fool-proof methods by which it intended to control the spread of the infection.“They may keep in mind that such congregations during the month of Magh are very large, and if even one infected person sneaks into the city, he can create havoc,” the court said.The court directed the state government to place before it a definite date and intended programme of the Covid-19 vaccination in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcexpresses-dissatisfaction-over-up-s-covid-19-steps-for-prayagrag-s-magh-mela-101610187385109.html
09-01-2021||India||Delhi’s 10 border points remain impacted due to farmers’ stir||Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed at several points on Saturday due to the ongoing agitation by farmers.In all, Delhi’s 10 border points -- eight with Haryana and two with Uttar Pradesh -- remain impacted fully or partially. Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur have remained closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad, while the opposite carriageway remains open. For those coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, the traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected. The police have continued checking these border points for groups of protesting farmers who may try to sneak in, but it has only slowed down traffic there a little, not choked or blocked them entirely. For borders shared between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh have continued to remain closed.Jhatikara border is open for light vehicles and pedestrians while only a single carriageway of the Jharoda border is open for traffic. The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists who need to travel between Delhi and Haryana can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-10-border-points-remain-impacted-due-to-farmers-stir-101610187383676.html
09-01-2021||India||Suriname President Santokhi proposes visa-free travel with India, greater cooperation in IT and hi-tech||Suriname President Chandrikapersad Santokhi on Saturday proposed the free movement of people between his country and India without visas and the creation of a special diaspora committee to identify opportunities for bilateral cooperation. The Indian-origin president made the suggestions while delivering the keynote address as chief guest at the virtual Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention, the external affairs ministry’s flagship event to connect with overseas Indians. People of Indian-origin, mostly descendents of indentured workers taken from the Indian states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the 19th century, constitute the largest ethnic group in Suriname and account for more than a quarter of the country’s population of almost 550,000. Santokhi, who began and ended his speech by speaking in a Bhojpuri dialect that is common in Suriname, proposed that the two countries should introduce the free movement of people without requiring visas. “Suriname is prepared to take a first step in doing so by ending visa permits for visitors from India to Suriname,” he said. He also reiterated a proposal he first made in 2017 to establish a special Indian diaspora committee to study opportunities for cooperation in areas such as information technology and science and to come up with a report with practical proposals that can benefit both countries. Such measures will benefit tourism and give impetus to business opportunities between the two sides. “The importance of the Indian diaspora can and must be one of mutual benefits. If we approach the opportunities in this way, we can achieve great things for our countries,” he said. The “Suriname diaspora is part of India’s soft power” and consequently, “India is also part of Suriname’s soft power”, Santokhi added. Calling for greater business ties between the two sides, Santokhi said Suriname would welcome Indian expertise to achieve food security, which he identified as one of the main global challenges, and to re-establish the country’s rice industry that once exported its products to the Punjab. Diaspora students and researchers should be able to tap into Indian expertise, while Suriname’s young population can be a great resource for IT consultancy and development, he said. “In this inter-connected world we all live in, we value international relationships based on respect and mutual benefits,” he added. Santokhi said Suriname and India have historical connections going back 148 years, which have shaped the lives of many migrants who travelled from India but maintained their cultural roots and heritage. “Like many of my countrymen, I am also the product of this history of migration,” he said. Suriname’s political leadership has been inspired by the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi to bring people together and to “do so peacefully and in the traditions of an open and democratic society”. He added: “I also feel pride in being of Indian heritage, a heritage and culture which was passed on by my parents and grandparents, who 148 years ago, started this adventurous journey from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and sailed from Kolkata in search of their dreams for a better life in Suriname,” he said. Suriname’s Hindustanis are part of every aspect of society and the country is a democracy governed by rule of law based on universal principles such as equality, non-discrimination, respect for basic human rights, free speech and freedom to worship any faith, Santokhi said. At the same time, the Indian-origin people maintained their heritage, culture and customs, and Suriname now has “vibrant Hindu and Muslim communities” that speak Bhojpuri, observe Diwali as a national holiday, cherish Bollywood and benefit from Indian IT, he said. “In short, India and Suriname are bonded on many levels – historically, religiously, linguistically and culturally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suriname-president-santokhi-proposes-visa-free-travel-with-india-greater-cooperation-in-it-and-hitech-101610187323192.html
09-01-2021||India||Urge Centre to provide Covid-19 vaccines free of cost to all Indian citizens: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to the central government to make the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) available free of cost for all citizens, saying it will be helpful in saving the lives of many Indians.“Corona is the biggest epidemic of the century. It is very important to protect our people from this.I request the Central Government that the Corona vaccine should be provided free of cost to all citizens. The expenditure on this will be helpful in saving the lives of many Indians,” Kejriwal’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.Earlier, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said that the coronavirus vaccine doses would be provided free of cost to all Delhi residents and asserted that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government had made all preparations for the vaccination drive. “The Delhi government had so far made preparations to vaccinate 100,000 people in a day,” Jain added.Also Read| 3rd dry run conducted at 4,895 sites, says ministry ahead of vaccine roll-outChief minister Kejriwal had said on December 24 last year that a total of 5.1 million people, under the Centre’s primary category, would be administered Covid-19 vaccine doses in the first phase. He further segregated the primary category into healthcare and frontline workers, senior citizens and those with comorbidities. Kejriwal also said that each person would be given two doses.करोना सदी की सबसे बड़ी महामारी है। अपने लोगों को इस से सुरक्षित करना बेहद ज़रूरी है। मेरा केंद्र सरकार से निवेदन है कि करोना की वैक्सीन सभी देशवासियों को मुफ़्त लगवायी जाए। इस पर होने वाला खर्च ढेरों भारतीयों की जान बचाने में सहायक होगा।Prime Minister Narendra Modi said earlier on Saturday that the country was ready with two Made in India vaccines for protecting humanity, adding the entire world was not only waiting for the shots but also watching how India runs the biggest vaccination program in the world. “Being the pharmacy of the world, India has supplied important medicines to all those in need in the world in the past and is also doing so now. The world is not only waiting for Indian vaccines but is also watching how India runs the world's biggest vaccination programme,” Modi said during an inaugural address of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) Convention.The Prime Minister will hold an interaction on Monday with chief ministers of all states and Union territories (UTs) to discuss vaccination rollout. This will be his first meeting with the CMs after the recent approval of the two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, for restricted emergency use by the country’s drugs regulator.The national capital on Friday had logged 444 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease and 10 more related fatalities. which pushed the Capital's overall tally to 629,000. The second nationwide dry run of the vaccination roll-out was held on Friday at 150 sites across all districts of Delhi. Some of the sites which conducted the mock drill were the state-run All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Safdarjung Hospital and private Fortis Hospital and Apollo Hospital, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-must-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines-to-all-indians-kejriwal-101610183182194.html
09-01-2021||India||PLA soldier strays across LAC, held near Pangong Tso||The Indian Army apprehended a Chinese soldier near the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh on Friday after he strayed across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), amid the ongoing border standoff between the two sides, officials familiar with the developments said on Saturday. This is the second time a Chinese soldier has been held by the Indian Army after straying into Indian territory since the border row erupted last May. “The People’s Liberation Army (PLA soldier) had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area (south of Pangong Tso). Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops,” the army said in a statement. Heights on both banks of the lake have been at the centre of the border row between the two countries. The PLA soldier is being dealt with according to procedures, and circumstances under which he crossed the LAC are being investigated, the statement said. The soldier is likely to be returned after the completion of formalities involved in such cases, the officials said. In October 2020, the Indian Army had apprehended a Chinese soldier in the Demchok sector after he strayed across the LAC. The army identified the soldier as Corporal Wang Ya Long. It then said it had received a request from the PLA about the whereabouts of the missing soldier. Corporal Wang was provided medical assistance including oxygen, food and warm clothes. The soldier was returned to the Chinese side after the investigations and formalities were completed. While India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the ongoing military talks, the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso. The two armies have held eight rounds of military talks so far, with dates yet to be announced for the delayed ninth round of dialogue between corps commander-ranked officers. The Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank in a stealthy midnight move on August 29. The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso where rival soldiers are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-soldier-strays-across-lac-held-near-pangong-tso-101610187208810.html
09-01-2021||India||'Continue online classes': China bars Indian students from flying||China has denied permission for India to operate chartered flights, in the wake of reinforced Covid-19 restrictions, the Indian Embassy said adding that they took up the matter with Chinese authorities but the situation yielded no positive evolution. Over 23,000 Indians study in Chinese universities, mostly the medical stream. Most of them are stuck in India as they await permission for their colleges to reopen. But as of now, they will have to continue studying online, the Chinese authorities said.The first Covid-19 cases reported in India on January 30 was a student in Kerala who returned from WuhanImportant notice for Indian students wishing to return to China 👇 pic.twitter.com/BxD1fwhuNv"In fact, with reports of resurgence of COVID-19 cases in China, authorities have further reinforced epidemic controls and restrictions on travel and entry into China. The suspension of visas of Indian nationals issued before November 2, 2020 is an instance of these enhanced controls," the statement issued by the embassy said."Chinese authorities have also denied permission for the operation of any chartered flights between India and China, citing their strict control measures," the Embassy said.“While the Embassy continues to follow this issue keenly, it has been repeatedly advised by Chinese authorities that the restrictions in place are not likely to be relaxed in the coming months and that students studying in China should be advised accordingly with respect to their studies for the next semester, which are likely to continue only through online means," the statement said."While the Embassy is aware of the difficulty of undertaking courses in medicine in online format, Indian students enrolled in Chinese universities are advised to take note of the restrictions currently in place and make appropriate arrangements for continuing their education," it said."All Indian students are advised to continue to monitor the websites of Indian Embassy/Consulate(s) in China and also our social media channels to remain updated about the evolving situation with respect to the prospects of their return to China”, it said.“They should also remain in touch with their universities for any updates. They may also follow the websites of the Chinese Embassy in Delhi as well as those of Chinese Consulates in India on this issue," the press release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/continue-online-classes-china-bars-indian-students-from-flying-101610162755279.html
09-01-2021||India||Fire audits of all Maharashtra hospitals to be checked, orders CM Thackeray||Terming the fire incident at Bhandara district hospital as very unfortunate, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a detailed investigation into the incident. He also directed officials to check the status of fire audits of all the hospitals across the state. Thackeray further assured that those found guilty for any possible lapse will be punished.Ten infants died after a fire broke out at the sick newborn care unit (SNCU) of Bhandara district hospital in the early hours of Saturday."At present, the entire health care system and hospitals are fighting with the coronavirus pandemic. The state government will not tolerate any compromise with the security and safety of hospitals. To make sure such incidents are not repeated, I have directed (officials) to check the fire audit status of all the hospitals in the state," the chief minister said in a statement released on Saturday.He also announced a financial relief of ₹5 lakh to each of the families that lost babies in the incident."No matter how much we console, it will remain insufficient. As chief minister, I can understand the pain and grief of the families who have lost their babies in this very untoward incident. The state government shares their pain but this is not enough. Hence I have ordered the home minister (Anil Deshmukh) and the health minister (Rajesh Tope) to investigate the matter and take stern against those found guilty," Thackeray said.The experts from fire services engineering college and power department were trying to ascertain the cause of the fire."I have directed (officials) to check the fire audit of the hospital building as the SNCU was started only in 2015. We will see whether the fire audit of the building was conducted or not, if not, then what was the reason and to take further action accordingly," he added.Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari also expressed grief at infant deaths. "Extremely saddened to know about the most tragic incident of fire at Bhandara Civil Hospital. Convey my deepest condolences to the families of the innocent children who lost their lives," he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-audits-of-all-maharashtra-hospitals-to-be-checked-orders-cm-thackeray-101610186604077.html
09-01-2021||India||Gujarat: Four crows found dead in Junagadh amid bird flu scare||Even as Gujarat recorded its first confirmed cases of bird flu, four crows were found dead at a village in Mangrol taluka in the state's Junagadh district, an official said on Saturday.The state on Friday recorded its first cases of bird flu after samples taken from two dead lapwings recovered in the district tested positive for the infection."We found carcasses of four crows at Loej village on Friday evening. The remains will be sent to a laboratory in Bhopal to ascertain the cause of death," said Ashok Kumbhani, veterinary officer of Mangrol veterinary dispensary in the district.Out of 10 birds found in the area, four were dead at the spot and six are currently under treatment, the official said.The department is surveying the area where the dead birds were found and a probe was underway, the official said.In the last few days, four crows each were found dead in Surat and Mehsana districts, and test results of the samples taken from them are awaited, an official said.The Gujarat government had sounded an alert about bird flu on January 5 and instructed officials to take necessary steps.The Centre had said that bird flu has been confirmed so far in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-four-crows-found-dead-in-junagadh-amid-bird-flu-scare-101610186181531.html
09-01-2021||India||Air India's Zoya Aggarwal to command world's longest route||An all-women pilot team of Air India will fly over the North Pole on the world’s longest air route as the carrier's first non-stop service between San Francisco and Bengaluru will start on Saturday. Captain Zoya Aggarwal, Captain Papagari Thanmai, Captain Akansha Sonaware and Captain Shivani Manhas will be among the all-women pilot team to fly the longest commercial flight in the world.The flight will be commanded by Captain Aggarwal, who has a flying experience of more than 8,000 flying hours. She has command experience in a B-777 aircraft of more than 10 years and more than 2,500 flying hours. She was also the youngest woman pilot to fly a Boeing-777 in 2013.“Women should have self-belief even if they face societal pressure and not consider any task impossible,” Captain Agarwal said. “I am extremely proud to have with me experienced women team comprising Captains Thanmai Papagari, Akanksha Sonawane and Shivani Manhas. This is the first time an all-women pilots team will fly over the North Pole and create a history of sorts. It’s indeed a dream come true for any professional pilot,” she told news agency ANI.Flight AI 176 will leave San Francisco at 8:30pm (local time) on January 9 and arrive at Bengaluru at 3:45am (local time) on January 11. “This will be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by Air India or any other airline in India...The total flight time on this route will be of more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that particular day,” Air India said in a statement.Also Watch | EJ Espresso: Air India pilot to command world's longest route & other top newsAn all-women pilot team of Air India will fly over the North Pole on the world’s longest air route as the carrier's first non-stop service between San Francisco and Bengaluru will start on Saturday. Captain Zoya Aggarwal, Captain Papagari Thanmai, Captain Akansha Sonaware and Captain Shivani Manhas will be among the all-women pilot team to fly the longest commercial flight in the world.The flight will be commanded by Captain Aggarwal, who has a flying experience of more than 8,000 flying hours. She has command experience in a B-777 aircraft of more than 10 years and more than 2,500 flying hours. She was also the youngest woman pilot to fly a Boeing-777 in 2013.“Women should have self-belief even if they face societal pressure and not consider any task impossible,” Captain Agarwal said. “I am extremely proud to have with me experienced women team comprising Captains Thanmai Papagari, Akanksha Sonawane and Shivani Manhas. This is the first time an all-women pilots team will fly over the North Pole and create a history of sorts. It’s indeed a dream come true for any professional pilot,” she told news agency ANI.Flight AI 176 will leave San Francisco at 8:30pm (local time) on January 9 and arrive at Bengaluru at 3:45am (local time) on January 11. “This will be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by Air India or any other airline in India...The total flight time on this route will be of more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that particular day,” Air India said in a statement.Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri also congratulated the women on Twitter. “Air India's woman power flies high around the world. All women cockpit crew consisting of Capt Zoya Aggarwal, Capt Papagari Thanmai, Capt Akansha Sonaware & Capt Shivani Manhas will operate the historic inaugural flight between Bengaluru & San Francisco,” Puri said.Air India has said that the flight will operate on Saturdays and Tuesdays with a Boeing 777-200LR aircraft VT ALG with a seating capacity of 238 seats, including eight first-class, 35 business class,195 economy class configuration besides four cockpit and 12 cabin crew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/believe-in-yourself-air-india-pilot-zoya-aggarwal-ahead-of-commanding-world-lon-101610186039662.html
09-01-2021||India||3rd dry run conducted at 4,895 sites, says ministry ahead of vaccine roll-out||The third dry run for India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme was conducted at 4,895 session sites spread across 615 districts in 33 states and Union territories on Friday, the Centre said on Saturday. “3rd countrywide massive dry run covers 4,895 session sites, 615 districts, 33 States/UTs,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a tweet.Earlier, India had conducted two mass vaccination dry runs in the country. The first mock drill was conducted in four states namely Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab for two days starting December 28, 2020. The second mock drill was conducted across all states and union territories in the country on January 2, 2021.The nationwide dry run on January 2, 2021, was conducted in all states at 259 sites across 116 districts, according to the health ministry. The dry run also saw the active participation of the central health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, who inspected and oversaw the dry run at one of the hospitals in Delhi, and the state health officials, in their respective states.Dr Vardhan appealed to the people to shed their doubts about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines approved in India. He also asked the people to be “misguided by rumours” about the Covid-19 vaccines.The ministry also said that close to 1,14,000 vaccinators and health care professionals were trained during the mock drill and over 75 lakh beneficiaries registered on the Co-WIN mobile application.In the latest round of mock drill on Friday, the central health minister visited the Rajiv Gandhi General Hospital (RGGH) in Chennai and other public and private hospitals to oversee the dry run programme in the Tamil Nadu. He also announced that the Covid-19 vaccination dry run was undertaken in 736 districts across 33 states and union territories on Friday.Two vaccines against the Covid-19 disease -- Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech -- have been authorised by India’s medical regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-dry-run-conducted-at-4-895-sites-says-ministry-ahead-of-vaccine-rollout-101610185483110.html
09-01-2021||India||Tripura schools face severe shortage after termination of 8,000 teachers||At least 67 senior secondary schools in the South district of Tripura are experiencing a severe shortage of teachers since the past nine months, according to officials. To deal with the crisis, the South district education office has shortlisted 30 teachers to take additional classes in different schools till another arrangement is made.The crisis began with over 8,000 school teachers’ termination after March last year. Total 10,323 schools teachers were terminated following an order of the Tripura high court in 2014, due to faulty recruitment. The apex court upheld the HC order in 2017. Over 8,000 affected teachers were reappointed on an adhoc basis, the tenure for which expired on March 31 last year.According to officials from the district education office, there is a shortage of 87 teachers of different subjects in 67 higher secondary schools in the district.“We need teachers in English, Bengali, Economics, Political Science, History, Sanskrit, Biology and Chemistry. We have asked nearly 30 teachers to take classes in some schools for three days a week in addition to their normal duties. That means, they will take classes three days in their own schools and another three days in other schools. We have started the process since last month,” said South district education officer Lakshman Chandra Das.A memo was issued recently from his office asking some teachers to take additional classes in other schools. “Due to acute shortage of teaching staff at Abhoynagar H.S School, Belonia, West Bokafa H.S School, Santirbazar & Muhuripur H.S School, Santirbazar, the following allotment of duties are hereby made for the interest of students of the schools,” the memo signed by the district education officer said.However, no separate data on the crisis of teachers from seven other districts has been made available.Currently, the sacked teachers are holding a sit-in-demonstration since last December 7, demanding a permanent solution to their situation.The state has nearly 27,000 school teachers in 4,400 government run and government-aided schools. There are over 3,100 teachers in 160 secondary and senior secondary schools in the South district.The Tripura Teachers’ Recruitment Board started a recruitment drive last November to fill up 4,080 vacancies in teaching posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-schools-face-severe-shortage-after-termination-of-8-000-teachers-101610184669368.html
09-01-2021||India||Delhi: 10 ducks found dead in Trilokpuri lake, samples sent for Bird Flu test||Ten ducks and several crows have been found dead in Sanjay Lake in West Delhi's Trilokpuri, and samples have been sent to Bhopal's National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) to ascertain the cause.This comes amid several confirmed cases of Avian influenza or Bird Flu, in several states across the country.Earlier in the day, 17 dead crows were found in the adjoining Mayur Vihar Phase 3 residential area.Teams from Delhi's Animal Husbandry Department have reached the spot to collect samples. The protocol report is expected on January 11."10 ducks were found dead at Sanjay Lake, Mayur Vihar. I went to the spot to see the situation today. Samples will be collected and send to Bhopal," Delhi's Animal Husbandry Department Director Rakesh Singh told ANI."We have not received report of any confirmation, so there is no need to be on alert mode, however, we are fully prepared for any situation," Singh said, adding that the department's surveillance teams are keeping an eye on all the latest developments.Dr Arun, a veterinary doctor at the Department of Husbandry who came to look at the birds after the deaths were reported, told ANI that samples were being collected and the government is constantly monitoring these deaths.Over 100 crows, including 17 this morning, have died over the last three to four days at Delhi's A-2 Central Park in Mayur Vihar.Avian influenza, a viral infection affecting birds that has caused thousands of deaths across India, has been confirmed in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, and Gujarat.The Centre on Friday requested states and Union Territories (UTs) to increase awareness regarding the safety of poultry and poultry products. It also issued appropriate advisories to restore consumer confidence affected by rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-10-ducks-found-dead-in-trilokpuri-lake-samples-sent-for-bird-flu-test-101610183844017.html
09-01-2021||India||Indian sailors stuck in China owing to Covid-19 set to return soon||Indian sailors stranded in China owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic will soon return to India, as a crew change has been arranged, the Centre informed on Saturday. Minister of state for ports, shipping and waterways, Mansukh Mandaviya, tweeted that one ship will reach India on January 14. "This could only happen due to the strong leadership of Narendra Modi," he said, praising PM Modi. The minister also appreciated the Great Eastern Shipping Company for its humanitarian approach towards the seafarers.Also Read: India seeks ‘urgent, time-bound’ assistance for 39 sailors stuck in Chinese watersOur Seafarers stuck in China are coming back to India! Ship M. V. Jag Anand, having 23 Indian crews, stuck in China, is set to sail toward Chiba,Japan to carry out crew change, will reach India on 14th January.This could only happen due to strong leadership of @NarendraModi jiIndian bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand has been on anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province of China since June 13 and it has 23 Indian sailors. Another vessel, MV Anastasia, with 16 Indian nationals as its crew is on anchorage near Caofeidian port in China since September 20.Also Read: Indian sailors stranded due to Covid measures, not standoff, says ChinaBoth these vessels have been waiting for discharge of their cargo and there is a growing stress on the crew members on account of the long delay.Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Indian Embassy in Beijing continued to remain in close and continuous touch with the Chinese authorities in Beijing, Hebei and Tianjin.The Chinese foreign ministry earlier said that the vessels were stuck at the ports only because of quarantine measures, dismissing speculations that it stemmed from the ongoing stand-off between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-sailors-stuck-in-china-owing-to-covid-19-set-to-return-soon-101610182306043.html
09-01-2021||India||Chinese soldier strays across LAC, held on Pangong Tso's southern bank||A soldier of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was held by the Indian Army on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in Ladakh on Friday after he strayed across to the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials said on Saturday. This is the second such incident reported since October last year.“The People’s Liberation Army (PLA soldier) had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area (south of Pangong Tso). Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops,” the army said in a statement.Watch: Indian Army detains Chinese soldier after he crosses LAC in LadakhHeights on both banks of the lake have been at the centre of the border row between the two countries.The PLA soldier is being dealt with according to procedures and circumstances under which he crossed the LAC are being investigated, the statement said. The soldier is likely to be returned after the completion of formalities involved in such cases, the officials said.On October 19 last year, Corporal Wang Ya Long of the PLA was apprehended by the Indian Army in eastern Ladakh’s Demchok sector after he strayed across the contested LAC amid the prevailing border tensions with China in the sensitive region. He was returned to the PLA the next day at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point, where senior commanders from both armies have been holding military talks to reduce friction in the eastern Ladakh theatre.“The PLA soldier was apparently moving from one location to another on the Chinese side of the LAC when he lost his way. He was carrying a sleeping bag, a storage device, his military identity card and a mobile with a charger. He was released after a thorough interrogation and completion of the necessary formalities,” officials had said then.As the Ladakh sector remains tense, India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the ongoing military talks whereas the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.The two armies have held eight rounds of military talks so far, with dates yet to be announced for the delayed ninth round of dialogue between corps commander-ranked officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-soldier-strays-across-lac-held-on-southern-bank-of-pangong-tso-101610182605218.html
09-01-2021||India||Kashmir snowfall puts flights on hold, national highway traffic stopped||There was fresh snowfall in many parts of Kashmir, prompting the authorities to stop traffic on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway, scheduled to open today, and put on hold the flight operations at Srinagar Airport.Although the weather office on Wednesday had predicted dry weather till January 14, many parts of Kashmir, including capital Srinagar, were witnessing snowfall since morning.Director meteorological department Sonam Lotus, however, said this morning that the snowfall was ‘expected’."As expected, light to moderate snowfall occurred at most places of Kashmir Valley whereas weather remained dry in Jammu and Ladakh, " he said.The fresh snowfall has made roads very slippery in the plains causing huge problems for the commuters."The condition of the roads is very risky. People should avoid travel. It is better for elderly to remain indoors," said Danish Ahmad, a city resident.J&K had experienced four days of heavy snowfall since Sunday, disrupting surface and air traffic and throwing life out of gear in the region.The administration came under flak for its slow response in clearing snow from the roads. The officials, for the first time in years, have also ordered rationing of gas and oil in the valley.Two flights at Srinagar airport were cancelled in the morning while others have been delayed."The flight operations have been put on hold owing to the fresh snowfall," said an airport official.After the Sunday-Wednesday snow spell, the airport had operated flights for locals and stranded tourists on Thursday.Similarly, work was going-on for the resumption of traffic on the Srinagar -Jammu national highway. The officials had announced on Friday that stranded vehicles between Udhampur and Banihal will be allowed towards Srinagar."The highway is closed again as there is fresh snowfall, " said an official manning the traffic control room.Cluster University of Srinagar postponed all examinations scheduled for Saturday, said an official of the varsity.Sonam Lotus forecasted that the present snow spell in Kashmir is likely to continue till the next few hours and thereafter decrease gradually."It will remain overcast to cloudy today. Thereafter, mainly dry weather is expected till 20th Jan," Lotus said.He said that the Saturday forecast for Ladakh was for sunny weather and the same is likely to continue for the next 2 weeks.The minimum temperatures plunged during the night again with the ski resort of Gulmarg in North Kashmir recording a low of minus 10°C.The mercury in summer capital Srinagar plunged to minus 4 degrees Celsius against minus 0.4 degrees Celsius on the previous night.The temperature dropped to minus 5.1 °C in Pahalgam and minus 2.8°C in Qazigund.The valley is in the middle of the 40-day intense winter period called ‘Chillai Kalan’ which started on December 21 with sub zero night temperatures across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-snowfall-puts-flights-on-hold-national-highway-traffic-stopped-101610180415666.html
09-01-2021||India||Odisha Lokayukta orders probe to find if BJD MLA blew up flood embankment||Odisha Lokayukta has asked the vigilance department to probe whether a Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MLA and other government officials conspired to blow up an irrigation embankment with dynamites that inundated 4,000 hectares of standing paddy crop in seven gram panchayats during the floods last year.On Friday evening, Lokayukta Ajit Singh ordered the director of vigilance department to probe the allegations that BJD MLA Pranab Balabantaray and other corrupt officials in Jajpur district, conspired to blow up the irrigation embankment road from NH-5 (Gokarneswar) to Budhalinga Majhipada Road in August last year, to suppress the irregularities and misappropriation of huge amount of money in the construction work.Following a complaint by activist Sarbeswar Behura that on August 28 last year, the irrigation embankment road built to prevent the waters of Kelua river from inundating the farmlands was damaged by dynamites, resulting in submergence of 4,000 hectares of standing paddy crop in 7 gram panchayats of Jajpur district, the Lokayukta asked the director of vigilance to conduct a preliminary inquiry on the following three references:1. Whether breaches occurred in the road embankment due to substandard construction work resulting into washing away of the substantial portion of road embankment?2. Whether breaches were created in the road embankment at the instance of Dharmasala BJD MLA and junior engineer Naren Jena to cover up corruption?3. Whether in the construction work of the road embankment, corrupt practice was resorted to by any public servant or persons other than a public servant?"A huge amount of Rs. 21.99 crore was recently spent by the works department on the development of road embankment. Therefore, normally, had the quality of construction work been proper, the breaches would not have occurred resulting into the washing away of a substantial portion of embankment. In other words, the embankment would have withstood the impact of flood water. There is also a possibility of man-made breaches for covering corruption as alleged in the complaint. We have already seen that a First Information Report in respect to creation of man-made breaches has been lodged by none other than deputy executive engineer of Jaraka irrigation division, who alleged that some miscreants have created man-made breaches unauthorisedly on the night of August 28 between 8 pm and 10 pm. To unravel the real cause of breaches in the road embankment, an inquiry is necessary," the Lokayukta noted in his order.Activist Behura, who had lodged the complaint, alleged that during the construction work of embankment road, after its transfer to the works department, the MLA in collusion with the junior engineer took a huge amount of money from the contractor. He alleged that the contractor, therefore, used sub-standard material in the construction work, and to cover this up, the MLA and the engineer hired miscreants to cause breaches in the embankment road by using dynamites, to give an impression that the embankment was washed away because of the strong current of flood water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lokayukta-orders-probe-to-find-if-bjd-mla-blew-up-flood-embankment-101610177705450.html
09-01-2021||India||World watching how India runs globe's biggest Covid vaccination drive: PM Modi||India is ready with two made-in-India vaccines for the protection of humanity and the world is not only waiting for them but also watching as to how the country runs the globe's biggest vaccination programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday.In his address at the inauguration of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) Convention, Modi also asserted that if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India."When India got Independence then it was said that such a poor and under-literate country will disintegrate and democracy was impossible here. Today's truth is that India is united and if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India," he said.Talking about India's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the country is among the nations with the lowest fatality rate and the highest recovery rate.Talking about the Covid vaccines rollout, Modi said India is ready with not one but two made-in-India coronavirus vaccines for the protection of humanity."Being the pharmacy of the world, India has supplied important medicines to all those in need in the world in the past and is also doing so now. The world is not only waiting for Indian vaccines but is also watching how India runs the world biggest vaccination programme," he said.Modi also said that during the pandemic, Indians showed their capabilities and the way the country stood together was unparalleled.He said India is using technology to defeat corruption and crores of rupees are being directly transferred to beneficiaries' bank accounts."Today we have been connected with the internet from various corners of the world but our minds are always connected with 'Maa Bharti'," he said."I have had a dialogue with several heads of states who told me how Indian diaspora has extended a helping hand in those countries and provided leadership in extending assistance even in these difficult times," Modi said."This was a matter of pride for me."He also lauded the Indian diaspora for providing assistance in the battle against coronavirus in India.Modi told the Indian diaspora that the country always stands with them and pointed out that over 45 lakh people were rescued under the government's Vande Bharat mission during the pandemic.Earlier, the keynote address at the 16th PBD Convention 2021 was delivered by chief guest Chandrikapersad Santokhi, the President of Suriname.The theme of 16th PBD Convention 2021 is "Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-watching-how-india-runs-world-s-biggest-covid-vaccination-drive-pm-modi-101610178030671.html
09-01-2021||India||India's 'Institutions of Eminence' can set up campuses in foreign countries||Indian universities and colleges with the Institutions of Eminence (IOEs) tag, which include several IITs, will now be able to set up campuses in foreign countries with the University Grants Commission (UGC) issuing fresh guidelines on the same.The Education Ministry had launched the IoE scheme in 2018 as per which 20 institutions were to be selected -- 10 public and 10 private ones -- that would enjoy complete academic and administrative autonomy.The new guidelines have been issued in line with the new National Education Policy (NEP) as per which foreign universities will be allowed to set up campuses in India and top Indian institutes in foreign countries.According to the norms, IoEs shall be permitted to start a maximum of three off-campus centres in five years, but not more than one in an academic year.They will, however, require approval from as many as three ministries -- education, home and external affairs -- before they can venture out.“Institutions of Eminence...shall be permitted to set up new off-campus centres-maximum of three in five years and not more than one in one academic year by following the procedures,” according to the new guidelines.“An institution willing to establish an off-campus centre shall have to submit an application to the Ministry of Education containing its 10-year ‘strategic vision plan’ and a five-year ‘rolling implementation plan’ which would include the plans for academics, faculty recruitment, student admissions, research, infrastructure development, finance and administration, etc,” it added.The IoEs shall be permitted to start an off-campus centre in an interim campus, subject to the condition that the permanent campus shall be ready “within a reasonable time period not exceeding five years”.“The institutes shall be allowed to start new off campuses with the prior approval of the education ministry after receiving no objection certificate from the ministry of external affairs and ministry of home affairs.“IoEs shall ensure that the norms and standards of offshore campus shall be the same as that maintained in the main campus for similar courses, and shall follow similar admission criteria, curriculum, exam and evaluation system," the guidelines said.In the first lot, Indian Institutes of Delhi, IIT Bombay and the Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science (IISc) were awarded the IoE status in the public sector, and Manipal Academy of Higher Education and BITS Pilani in the private sector, while the Jio Institute by Reliance Foundation was given the tag in Greenfield category.In 2019, five public institutions including Delhi University, Banaras Hindu University, University of Hyderabad, IIT-Madras and IIT-Kharagpur were granted the status.A Letter of Intent for granting the IoE status was also issued to five private universities -- Amrita Vidyapeetham and Vellore Institute of Technology in Tamil Nadu, Odisha’s Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, Jamia Hamdard University in Delhi and Satya Bharti Foundation's Bharti Instiute in Mohali.While the government will provide funding upto ₹1,000 crore to public institutions with IoE tag, in case of the private institutions proposed as Institutions of Eminence, there will be no financial support. But they will be entitled to more autonomy as a special category Deemed University.A proposed off-campus centre is expected to achieve a teacher-student ratio of 1:20 initially, and 1:10 by the end of five years.“The faculty for this purpose shall include the regular faculty, adjunct faculty, overseas faculty, visiting faculty, contractual faculty, industry faculty and tenure track faculty or faculty as otherwise permitted by the Statutory Council concerned,” the guidelines said.It adds that at least 60 per cent of the appointed faculty members should be on permanent basis. The institute should also have enrolled a minimum of 500 students on its rolls under regular classroom mode with one third PG/research students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-institutions-of-eminence-can-set-up-campuses-in-foreign-countries-101610177639190.html
09-01-2021||India||All-women cockpit crew to fly inaugural San Francisco-Bengaluru flight||An all-women cockpit crew will operate the inaugural San Francisco-Bengaluru flight on Saturday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said.The Air India flight will fly on Saturday over the North Pole, taking the Atlantic route to reach Bengaluru, a senior official of the airline said.“All women cockpit crew consisting of Capt Zoya Aggarwal, Capt Papagari Thanmai, Capt Akansha Sonaware & Capt Shivani Manhas will operate the historic inaugural flight between Bengaluru & San Francisco,” Puri said on Twitter.The aerial distance between San Francisco and Bengaluru is one of the longest in the world.“Air India's woman power flies high around the world,” Puri said.The inaugural flight AI176 will depart from San Francisco in the USA at 8.30 pm (local time) on Saturday and it will land at the Kempegowda International Airport at 3.45 am (local time) on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allwomen-cockpit-crew-to-fly-inaugural-san-francisco-bengaluru-flight-101610177446727.html
09-01-2021||India||Coronavirus: India has 90 cases of UK variant, eight in the last 24 hours||India on Saturday recorded eight fresh cases of the new mutant variant of coronavirus, taking the tally of this infection in the country to 90, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said.“Number of persons infected with the UK mutant strain of Covid-19 in India stands at 90,” a statement by Union Health Ministry read.The rise in cases comes a day after flights from the United Kingdom to India resumed in a limited capacity amid concerns about the new strain of the coronavirus that was recently detected in the UK.India reported its first case of the infection last month on December 30 after six travellers tested positive for the UK variant of coronavirus upon return from Britain. The new United Kingdom variant genome of Sars-CoV-2 – B.1.1.7, which is much more infectious, has prompted comprehensive contact tracing for co-travellers, family members and others of those who have travelled to the UK in the last 38 days.From November 25 to December 23, 2020, midnight, about 33,000 passengers disembarked at various Indian airports from the UK. All these passengers are being tracked and subjected by states to RT-PCR tests to detect Covid-19.Countries like Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore have also reported the cases of the new variant so far.The first flight carrying 256 passengers arrived in Delhi on Friday from London.The ban on flights to the UK was lifted on January 6. Thirty flights will operate each week - 15 each by Indian and UK carriers. This schedule will continue till January 23, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had informed earlier.Passengers will have to take an RT-PCR test up to 72 hours before a flight and on arrival.According to the special surveillance report issued on Thursday by the central government, a total of 4,858 people have been traced who travelled between India and the UK after the cases of infection by new variant came to light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-has-90-cases-of-uk-variant-eight-in-the-last-24-hours-101610177089031.html
09-01-2021||India||Devendra Fadnavis demands strict action in Maharashtra's hospital tragedy||Terming the death of ten newborn babies in a fire in the Bhandara district hospital in Maharashtra a "very painful" incident, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday demanded a thorough probe.Ten newborn babies died after fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of the hospital in the east Maharashtra city in the wee hours on Saturday, doctors said.The infants were aged between a month and three months, a doctor said."The government should carry out a thorough inquiry into the incident and initiate action against those who are responsible for the death of 10 infants. It is a very painful accident," Fadnavis, who is the Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devendra-fadnavis-demands-strict-action-in-maharashtra-s-hospital-tragedy-101610176678859.html
09-01-2021||India||PM Modi expresses grief over death of infants in Maharashtra hospital fire||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed grief at a tragic fire incident in a Maharashtra hospital in which 10 newborn babies died."Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible," Modi tweeted.Ten newborn babies died after fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of a hospital in Maharashtra in the early hours on Saturday, doctors said.The infants were aged between a month and three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-expresses-grief-over-death-of-infants-in-maharashtra-hospital-fire-101610175805816.html
09-01-2021||India||'Don't want Twitter to ban anyone': Tejasvi Surya on action against Trump||Opening a debate on whether tech companies can suspend accounts as it permanently suspended outgoing US president Donald Trump's account, BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Saturday said freedom of expression is sacrosanct. "It can not be curtailed whimsically by private big tech companies without accountability," he wrote on Twitter.His comment came after former Karnataka Congress social media head appealed to Twitter India to ban the Twitter accounts of BJP leaders Amit Malviya and Tejasvi Surya. "Hate in India isn't acceptable. Let's hold them accountable just like in America," Srivatsa YB tweeted. "Sorry dude, I don't want Twitter to ban anyone — Congressi or BJP or anyone... But one certainly can't expect such statesmanship from a party that imposed Emergency," Tejasvi wrote taking a swipe at the Congress.Sorry dude, I don’t want Twitter to ban anyone - Congressi or BJP or anyone.#FoE is sacrosanct. It cannot be curtailed whimsically by pvt big tech companies without accountability. But one certainly can’t expect such statesmanship from a party that imposed Emergency. https://t.co/wPQ2vOD1HREarlier in the day, Tejasvi urged the government to review intermediaries guidelines, saying that the action on part of the micro-blogging platform is a wake-up call for democracies, "This must be wake up call for all who don't yet understand threat to our democracies by unregulated big tech companies. If they can do this to POTUS, they can do this to anyone," he tweeted."Intermediaries, as per their definition, can't interfere in content on Social Media platforms. But Rules thereunder say otherwise. This anomaly must be addressed immediately," Tejasvi tweeted.Twitter on Saturday permanently banned Donald Trump's account @realDonaldTrump, and then his @TeamTrump campaign account as it tweeted a statement of President Trump. Twitter also deleted new tweets from official account of @POTUS.The action evoked mixed response from Indian politicians as Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi, too, highlighted that the action does not exonerate the platform from enabling hate, fake news in different parts of the world.These platforms have been enablers of hate, fake news and continue to be so in different parts of the world where they operate. Now that Trump is out of power suspension coming from all these very platforms that powered him. Sowed hate to reap profits& now being holier than thou"The platform is provided by a tech company & they are bound to set their rules of engagement after adhering to guidelines set by countries. However, for them to have amplified a hateful narrative for years to suddenly ban does not give them the moral high ground they seek," she wrote."These platforms have been enablers of hate, fake news and continue to be so in different parts of the world where they operate. Now that Trump is out of power suspension coming from all these very platforms that powered him. Sowed hate to reap profits & now being holier than thou," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-want-twitter-to-ban-anyone-tejasvi-surya-after-permanent-suspension-of-trump-s-account-101610175362195.html
09-01-2021||India||Imposter trained youth for jobs in Indian Army, nabbed after MI tip-off||An imposter masquerading as Indian Army personnel was arrested by Bihar police on Friday, following inputs by the military intelligence (MI) unit of Danapur.23-year-old Raushan Kumar Singh, resident of Pali in Jehanabad district, was found to have used multiple fake army identity cards, uniforms, stamps and related items to cheat aspiring soldiers.In July 2020, MI officials had learned through their network that Raushan, who earlier served as a cook in sub-area station headquarters’ mess, was seen in a military hospital, wearing the uniform of a Sepoy of the Army Supply Core (ASC). He had allegedly duped one of the MH employees of ₹4 lakh with a fake promise to provide his son a job in the Indian Army.During investigation, MI found that Raushan had managed to open a Defence Salary Package (DSP) account in the SBI Branch of Ramgarh Cantonment in Jharkhand to cheat his victims.When a MI team reached his village, Raushan’s parents informed their son served in the Indian Army. Locals said that he provided training to army aspirants in the area.Five fake army identity cards, two Aadhar cards, two PAN cards, a large number of forged documents, several pictures in army uniforms with army insignia and two fake rubber stamps were recovered from his possession. The accused has been handed over to Danapur police station of the state capital for further investigation.SHO of Danapur police station, Ajit Kumar Saha, told HT that during the investigation, it was found that Raushan was once an army aspirant who later turned into an imposter.Videos of him training village youths, aspiring for a job in the Indian Army, were found in his mobile apart from several pictures of Raushan dressed as personnel of army medical corps, Rajputana Rifles and others. He also managed to open a DSP account in New Delhi. A case has been lodged against him under sections 140 (impersonating a soldier), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 467 (Forging document for gain of valuable security or money), 468 (Forging document for cheating) and 471(Fraudulent use of documents) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“During questioning, Raushan revealed that he is a former cook of sub area headquarters in Danapur. He was impersonating as an army jawan since 2019 to lure aspiring soldiers, especially during army recruitment rallies,” said the SHO.He confessed to have cheated more than 10 such aspirants and having received around ₹700,000 from them for falsely assuring them of selection.He used to receive money mostly in cash to avoid leaving any electronic proof.According to the senior police officers, he is being interrogated to find out if he had any links in the Indian Army. Meanwhile, MI officials have alerted the public not to get duped by touts and imposters promising jobs in the army. The only way to join the Indian Army is by registering online on www.joinindianArmy.gov.in, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imposter-trained-youth-for-jobs-in-indian-army-nabbed-after-mi-tipoff-101610175089390.html
09-01-2021||India||Indian-American named to Houston Board of Dallas Federal Reserve Bank||Bhavesh V Patel, an Indian-American top executive of a multinational chemical company, has been appointed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas to its Houston branch’s board of directors.Patel, 53, is the chief executive officer and chairman of the management board of LyondellBasell Industries, one of the largest plastics, chemicals and refining companies in the world.The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas appointed Patel to its Houston branch’s board of directors for a term ending December 31, 2023.He joined LyondellBasell in 2010 and held a variety of senior leadership roles including senior vice president, Olefins and Polyolefins – Americas; senior vice president, Olefins and Polyolefins - Europe, Asia and International, based in the Netherlands; and executive vice president, Olefins and Polyolefins - Europe, Asia and International.Patel was named the CEO and chairman of the company’s management board in January 2015.Prior to joining LyondellBasell, he held multiple leadership positions for Chevron Corporation and its affiliates for more than 20 years.Patel is a member of the board of directors of the Greater Houston Partnership, a member of the Business Roundtable, and serves as vice chairman of the board and chairman of the executive committee of the American Chemistry Council.He is a member of the external advisory council of the Ohio State University’s College of Engineering and a member of the dean's advisory council for the Fox School of Business at Temple University.Patel is also a member of the advisory committee for the Indo American Chamber of Commerce and Greater Houston (IACCGH)."We are proud that our Advisor Bob Patel will be serving on this august body,” Jagdip Ahluwalia, Founding Secretary of IACCGH, told PTI.The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas is one of a dozen institutions nationwide whose responsibility is implementing the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve System.Its responsibilities include reviewing price inflation and charting economic growth, as well as regulating the banks within its territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indianamerican-named-to-houston-board-of-dallas-federal-reserve-bank-101610171060159.html
09-01-2021||India||Ready to save humanity with two 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India is ready to protect humanity with not one but two 'Made in India' coronavirus vaccine as the disease outbreak continues to wreak havoc on economies and overwhelm public healthcare systems."In the Corona era, today India is among the countries with the lowest mortality and highest recovery rate in the world. Today, India is ready to protect humanity with not one, but two Made in India corona vaccines," PM Modi said. PM Modi was talking at the inaugural address of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas convention. In his virtual address, the theme of 'Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. "This is a great opportunity to interact with the India diaspora," PM Modi had tweeted on Friday.PM Modi also told Indians across the world that they are connected in minds because of 'Maa Bharti' and lauded the efforts of Indian-origin colleagues in fighting challenges in the last year. "Today we have been connected with internet from various corners of the world but our minds are always connected with 'Maa Bharti'," PM Modi said. The prime minister added that the past year has been a year of great challenges for everyone. "...But in the midst of these challenges, the way Indian-origin colleagues across the world have worked, have done their duty, it is a matter of pride for all of us."These are the sacraments of our soil, PM Modi said. "Thousands of colleagues from all over the world have participated in the Know India Quiz Competition. These numbers suggest that the roots may be far away, but the new generation's engagement is increasing that much," the PM said on Saturday. President of Suriname, a South American country, Chandrikapersad Santokhi, is the chief guest of this year's Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention.The last convention which was the 15th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention was held from January 21 to January 23, 2019, in Varanasi with Uttar Pradesh being the partner states. Over 7,000 delegates participated in the 15th convention which also included a visit to Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj and participation in Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi on 26 January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacraments-of-our-soil-pm-modi-in-16th-pravasi-bharatiya-divas-convention-101610168981317.html
09-01-2021||India||Over 1 crore recovered from Covid-19 so far, 18,222 new infections in 24 hours||Recovery from Covid-19 in India has touched a milestone as over 1 crore people have been cured of the disease so far since its outbreak in the country in March. In the last 24 hours, 19,253 people have been discharged taking the total recovery tally to 1,0036651. In the same time, a total of 18,222 fresh Covid-19 infections have been recorded, taking India's total tally to 10,431,639.On Friday, the daily infection tally was 18,139, slightly lower than Saturday's. Kerala, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh continue to report the highest number of daily infections.On Friday, Kerala reported 5,142 new cases and 5,325 recoveries. Three more returnees from the UK tested positive for the virus. Fifty people who have so far returned to the state from that country had tested positive for Covid-19, among whom six were found to have the new mutated strain of the virus detected in the UK, state health minister KK Shailaja said.Maharashtra on Friday recorded 3,693 fresh cases taking the total tally to 19,61,975. Chhattisgarh on Friday recorded 960 Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths.On Friday, one more Delhi resident tested positive for the new UK strain which is believed to be more contagious. Authorities in Delhi are conducting door-to-door check-up of people who had recently arrived from the UK.Delhi government's new protocol for people arriving from the UK created chaos at Delhi Airport on Friday. Travellers coming to Delhi from the United Kingdom will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine even if they test negative for COVID-19, Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal announced on Friday, on the very day the Air India flight carrying passengers from the UK arrived in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-crore-recovered-from-covid-19-so-far-18-222-new-infections-in-24-hours-101610167237258.html
09-01-2021||India||India, Japan sign pact for 50-bn yen loan to support poor hit by Covid-19||India and Japan on Friday signed an agreement for a loan of up to 50 billion yen (about ₹3,550 crore) to back New Delhi’s economic support programmes for the poor and vulnerable affected by the Covid-19 crisis.CS Mohapatra, additional secretary in the department of economic affairs and Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki signed the agreement in New Delhi for the loans with an interest rate of 0.65% per annum and a repayment period of 15 years, including a five-year grace period.Japan had earlier provided budget support of 50 billion yen and grant assistance worth one billion yen (about ₹71 crore) to support the Indian government’s efforts to counter the Covid-19 crisis.The Japanese embassy said vulnerable groups, including the poor and women, had been severely affected by the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic.“This loan provides the necessary funds for the government of India to implement economic support programs for the poor and vulnerable and policy reforms, including but not limited to health and medical sectors, which are essential in the fight against Covid-19,” the embassy said in a statement.The financial support aims to support the Indian government’s programmes such as Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), which aims to mitigate socio-economic impacts and strengthen socio-economic institutions. This includes schemes for distributing food grains to the poor and vulnerable, provision of assistance and support to construction workers, and provision of special insurance for health workers fighting Covid-19.“It is expected that these measures will contribute to a more stable and sustainable socioeconomic development in India,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-sign-pact-for-50-bn-yen-loan-to-support-poor-hit-by-covid19-101610166962658.html
09-01-2021||India||Nobody can interfere in peaceful life of two adults: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court has granted police protection to an interfaith couple, while asserting that nobody can interfere in the peaceful life of two adults residing together out of their own free will.Hearing the plea of a Muslim man and a woman who converted from Hinduism to Islam, Justice Saral Srivastava said, “The court has repeatedly held that where the two individuals having attained the age of majority, are living together, nobody is entitled to interfere in their peaceful life.”The 22-year-old woman and her 23-year-old husband said they were adults and furnished documents reflecting that they were born in 1998 and 1997, respectively. In the writ petitions, the woman said she decided to convert to Islam on her own will and later solemnised her marriage with the man. They sought protection from their family, and no interference in their married life.The observation holds significance in the backdrop of the recently passed Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. The ordinance prescribes a jail term up to 10 years and fine up to ₹25,000 for conversion under marriage, fraud, coercion or enticement. The law came into force days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath promised to fight against “love jihad”, a term used by some Hindu groups to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.Several activists and legal experts argue that the law could be used to target Muslims and infringed on the fundamental rights to equality, freedom of religion, and life and personal liberty. However, on Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh government defended the ordinance in the Allahabad high court, asserting that community interest trumps an individual’s right to choose a life partner and the foremost duty of a secular state is to protect citizens from unlawful conversions. “When there is fear psychosis spread in the community at large and the community itself is endangered and succumbs to the pressure resulting in forceful conversion…it becomes necessary that the interest of the community as a whole requires protection and no microanalysis of individual interest can be looked into,” the government’s affidavit read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-can-interfere-in-peaceful-life-of-two-adults-allahabad-hc-101610162638615.html
09-01-2021||India||Ghalib’s coronavirus||What if Mirza Ghalib were alive today? How would Delhi’s great shayar (poet) have coped with the pandemic, and the consequent khud alhaidgi (self-isolation in Urdu!)? What ghazals and verses would have come out of his kalam (pen)?We’ll never know.“But there are some couplets by him that we can relate to our life in these extraordinary times,” says Aqil Ahmad, the secretary of central Delhi’s Ghalib Academy. The modest, soft-spoken man has an encyclopaedic grasp of Ghalib’s oeuvre.In the BC (before coronavirus) era, his cosy office in the academy — which is a flower’s throw from Ghalib’s tomb — would be filled with poets and critics discussing (and gossiping) about poets and critics. These days, Mr Ahmad’s office lacks the chatty spark of earlier times but he still occasionally presides over the gathering of Ghalib aficionados. This evening, he is having milky “office chai” and zeera “biskuts” with poet Mateen Amrohi (who, as always, is dressed in a black sherwani) and poet Nasim Abbasi, the one with a most courteous voice imaginable. The three men, all in mask, helped this reporter find five Ghalib couplets in Urdu (Ghalib also wrote in Persian) dealing with the themes of isolation that is driving our daily life. Mr Ahmad provided the transliteration and translation.Rahiye ab aisi jaga, chal kar, jahan koi na hoHam safar koi na ho, aur ham zuban koi na ho.Let’s go now, and live somewhere where there’ll be no one,No one to travel with me, no one who would know my language.Be dar o diwar sa ik ghar banaya chahiyekoi hamsaya na ho, aur pasban koi na ho.I’ll make something like a house, with no doors or walls,There won’t be any neighbours, and no one to guard me.Padhiye, gar bimar, to koi na ho timardar,Aur, agar mar jaiye, to nawakhan koi na ho.If I fall ill, there’l be no one to look after me,And if I die, to mourn me there’ll be no one.Mai se gharaz nishat hai kis rusiyah koIk guna bekhudi mujhe din raat chahiye.Who, hapless, seeks happiness within the cup of wine?A delicious senselessness, day and night, is what I taste.Ne teer kaman men hai, na saiyad kameen men haiGoshe men qafas ke mujhe aaram bahut hai.The arrow is not in the bow, the hunter is out of the target,I am comfortable in the corner of the cage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghalibs-coronavirus-101610166582261.html
09-01-2021||India||50-yr-old gang-raped, brutalised in Jharkhand||A 50-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped and by three men in Jharkhand’s Chatra district on Thursday. Two of the accused have been arrested and a search is on to nab the third, police said on Friday.The incident took place in a village under Hunterganj police station limits, officials said.The woman’s relatives and neighbours rushed her to a community health centre after hearing her cries for help, the officials said.“I had gone to an open land (bari) near my house at around 10 pm on Thursday when three men overpowered me and took turns to rape me. They also inserted a steel glass in my private parts before leaving. They threatened to kill my family members if I told anyone,” the woman told reporters.In her statement to the police, the woman alleged that the accused had earlier tried to forcibly enter her house. “In the process, they had injured my goat. When I demanded compensation, they said they would teach me a lesson,” she alleged.Chatra sub-divisional police officer Avinash Kumar said, “We have already arrested two of the accused named by the woman. A search is on for the third person who is yet to be identified.”“The condition of the woman is stable and the doctors at the health centre have kept her under observation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50yrold-gang-raped-brutalised-in-jharkhand-101610164519054.html
09-01-2021||India||India to chair 3 key UNSC committees||India on Friday took a tacit swipe at Pakistan for backing cross-border terrorism as it announced it would be chairing three key UN sanctions committees, including the Taliban sanctions committee, during 2021-22.TS Tirumurti, India’s envoy to the UN, said the country was asked to chair three important subsidiary bodies of the Security Council – the Taliban sanctions committee, the counter-terrorism committee and the Libya sanctions committee. The move follows India joining the Security Council as a non-permanent member for 2021-22.India will chair the Taliban sanctions committee – also called the 1988 sanctions committee as it was formed through resolution number 1988 in 2011 by splitting the 1267 sanctions regime on al-Qaeda – amid growing concern worldwide at alarming levels of violence in Afghanistan that has been blamed on the Taliban.“The Taliban sanctions committee...has always been a high priority for India, keeping in mind our strong interest and commitment to peace, security, development and progress of Afghanistan,” Tirumurti said in a video message.Without naming Pakistan, he added: “Our chairing this committee at this juncture will help keep the focus on the presence of terrorists and their sponsors threatening the peace process in Afghanistan. It has been our view that peace process and violence cannot go hand in hand.”After a recent visit to Pakistan by a Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, videos emerged of the group’s leaders visiting terror training camps on Pakistani soil and meeting injured fighters at a hospital in Karachi. One of the videos showed Baradar – the group’s main negotiator at peace talks in Doha – telling Taliban members that the group makes all decisions related to the negotiations after consulting its leadership and clerics’ council based in Pakistan.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India and Afghanistan are contiguous neighbours, and New Delhi, which has invested heavily in peace and development in the war-torn country, will support all efforts to usher in peace and stability there.“Our position on the peace process has also been articulated. The peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. As an important stakeholder, we look forward to working towards a peaceful, prosperous, sovereign, democratic and united Afghanistan,” he said.Referring to the counter-terrorism committee, which will be chaired by India in 2022, Tirumurti noted the panel was formed in the aftermath of the 9/11 terror attacks in New York and that India had led it during its last stint as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council during 2011-12.“The chairing of this committee has special resonance of India, which has not only been in the forefront of fighting terrorism, especially cross-border terrorism, but has also been one of its biggest victims,” he said.The Libya sanctions committee, also known as the 1970 sanctions committee, is a “very important subsidiary body” of the Security Council that implements a sanctions regime, including a two-way arms embargo, assets freeze, travel ban and measures to prevent illicit export of petroleum, Tirumurti said.India will chair this committee at a “critical juncture, when there is international focus on Libya and on the peace process” in that country, he added.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said India’s chairing the Taliban sanctions committee will make a difference as it will have the ability to set the agenda.“One way we make a difference is agenda setting. Member states can only make representations and the country that is the chair sets the agenda. This allows you to discuss issues which may not have been discussed earlier. The chair can also take up unsolicited issues. That’s the single-most important aspect of being the chair – the members may disagree but the chair can make a point by bringing an issue to the table,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-chair-3-key-unsc-committees-101610165350136.html
09-01-2021||India||Teachers on Covid duty will be frontline workers for vaccine drive: Sisodia||Teachers in schools run by the Delhi government and the municipal corporations — who have been actively involved in Covid-19 duty — will also be included in the list of front line workers to be vaccinated in the first phase, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said he raised the matter in a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday, after which it was unanimously decided that all personnel, irrespective of their departments, who have been part of the city administration’s Covid management team, will be given the vaccine shots on a priority basis under the category of front line workers.“The matter was discussed at length and it was unanimously decided that all personnel who were or have been engaged in Covid related works will be given the vaccine shot under the priority category. This is going to be across all departments,” said Sisodia.The DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal and has chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as its vice-chairperson.Earlier the government’s list of front line workers for vaccination only included police personnel, sanitation workers and civil defence volunteers.Apart from teachers, the DDMA’s decision means that select workers from the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), and departments such as transport, power, and revenue, among others, will also be considered for vaccination, if the concerned official had performed any Covid duties in the past 11 months.As per rough estimates of the government, around 300,000 health care workers and 600,000 lakh front line workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase. However, the final list of front line workers is still being worked out by the administration.As for including teachers, their inclusion was discussed because school teachers were put on Covid-19 duty, sometimes even for 12 hours or more, as physical classes in schools across the city have been on hold since March last year owing to the pandemic. Hundreds of teachers were helping the government in food distribution during the migrant crisis and were also made in-charges of temporary shelter homes. Scores of other MCD and government teachers are also involved in the government’s door-to-door survey programme in detecting Covid-19 cases and now have been deployed for the upcoming vaccination campaign.“After the vaccine process begins, the government can consider reopening schools. It will be better if teachers are vaccinated. Reopening schools is important because they have been shut for more than 10 months now,” said an officer who was part of the DDMA meeting.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that the government has identified 5.1 million people who will be the first to get the Covid-19 vaccine under the Central government’s “priority category”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teachers-on-covid-duty-will-be-frontline-workers-for-vaccine-drive-sisodia-101610165008413.html
09-01-2021||India||India ticks more boxes in vaccination drive checklist||The government on Friday put final touches to its Covid-19 vaccine roll-out plan as it held the biggest-yet drill to perfect immunisation logistics and last-mile delivery, issued guidelines for safe air delivery of vaccines across the country, and announced a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all chief ministers on inoculation strategy on Monday.Modi’s scheduled interaction will be the first such event after the country’s drug regulator last week approved two Covid-19 vaccines -- Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Covaxin by Bharat Biotech – and is expected to spell out modalities of the vaccine delivery plan honed by officials, experts and health care workers for months now.The announcement came on a day the second vaccine dry run was carried out in 737 districts across 33 states and Union territories, and India’s aviation watchdog told airlines and airport authorities to ensure vaccines are packaged in dry ice and refrigerated material to maintain low temperatures ranging between -8° C to -70° C, essential for its transportation.“We are in the process of ensuring that in the next few days, also in the near future, we should be able to give this vaccine to our countrymen,” said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan at a hospital in Chennai. When asked when the vaccination would start, he added, “You will get to know about it soon.”Government officials remained tight-lipped about the schedule for the jabs, but frenetic behind-the-scenes activity, especially at airports, underlined last-minute efforts to put in place foolproof vaccine distribution strategy.The civil aviation ministry met airlines executives and airport authorities to finalise logistics for transportation. “All arrangements have been made at airports for transportation, people are on standby and ready to carry the consignment as and when the orders are placed,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity.At Pune airport, which will be responsible for transporting the Covishield vaccine from the SII’s godown in the city to other vaccine hubs across India, officials said they were ready to supply bulk cargo. “We are fully prepared to transport up to 500 tonne of cargo daily with the current number of flights operating. We have the equipment, manpower, aircraft and everything is ready,” said airport director Kuldeep Singh. The transportation capacity can be optimised to 1,714 tonne a day.Covishield, developed by Oxford University and British drugmaker AstraZeneca, is expected to be the lead vaccine in India’s immunisation programme with Covaxin as a back-up in case of an emergency.To be sure, a senior Union government official confirmed that a purchase order had not yet been signed between the government and SII, but indicated that a final settlement may be reached over the weekend. Singh said no vaccine cargo was sent to Pune airport from SII until Friday evening. “We are only awaiting the consignment to reach the airport,” he added.In Delhi, the vaccination dry run focussed on building confidence,resolving any lingering issues and warding off the possibility of any adverse events. At each trial site, 25 beneficiaries were called to go through the mock drill for two hours beginning 9am. “Since healthcare workers would be the first to get the vaccine, we have created a site in the employee health clinic in the hospital.Our nurses are already trained for vaccination and the whole process went smoothly,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Grappling with the second-highest number of infections in the world behind the United States, India has planned a mammoth exercise to immunise 1.3 billion people, beginning with 300 million frontline workers and those at highest risk, by July.With an eye on a smooth roll-out, the government has introduced CoWIN, a digital platform that is expected to be the backbone of the vaccine delivery management system.The app will be used to provide real-time information on vaccine stock, cold storage status and help coordinate the dates and venue for vaccination with recipients.The guidelines issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) state all scheduled operators currently authorised to carry dangerous goods may carry Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice, meeting the regulatory requirements.In December, the civil aviation ministry had directed all airlines and airport operators, including state-run Airports Authority of India (AAI), ground handling service providers, and airlines, to put in place standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the transportation of Covid-19 vaccines.“Carriage of Covid-19 vaccines from the manufacturing units to the place of administration gains significant importance especially in the light of the high expectations of the government(s), health care personnel and the general public. It is needless to say that amongst the various modes of transport, air transport is the most efficient option. Hence, it is imperative that air logistics provide a well-defined procedure that meets the global safety standards and requirements based on local conditions,” DGCA noted.DGCA said all operators need to establish the maximum quantity of dry ice that can be loaded in an aircraft. Vaccines packed in dry ice should preferably be transported in the lower-deck of the cargo compartments of planes.If vaccines are stored in the passenger area,the operators will have to ensure that only flight crew, and no passengers, are allowed.Occupants should be protected against a potential CO2 intoxication and an adequate number of CO2 detectors should be available in the cabin, the guidelines noted.The air conditioning, air supply and the distribution or ventilation system should use configurations recommended by the manufacturer, DGCA stated.The operators will have to ensure that shipments containing vaccines shall be accepted and handled by appropriately trained personnel only.Experts stressed on the importance of early preparedness and dry runs. “The more dry runs there are, the more the vaccinators and vaccine officers are confident in the processes,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor, Delhi’s Maulana Azad Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ticks-more-boxes-in-vaccination-drive-checklist-101610162192258.html
09-01-2021||India||Chicken prices crash at city’s wholesale markets||The wholesale prices of poultry has dropped by around ₹40 per kilo in two days amid fears of an outbreak of bird flu in Delhi-NCR, according to traders in the city’s wholesale poultry markets.However, the drop in poultry prices is yet to reflect in retail markets, even as traders across the city said the number of customers have dipped slightly on Friday in retail as well as wholesale markets.Cases of bird flu so far have been confirmed in at least six states — Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Kerala.The Delhi government had on Thursday launched a sample collection drive to check for bird flu.“Even though there has been no cases of bird flu in Delhi, residents are exercising caution in buying poultry. So, the wholesale rates of poultry has dropped in the market. Till Wednesday, the wholesale prices were about ₹100 per bird per kilo which has now dropped to ₹80 to ₹60 per bird per kilo depending upon quality,” said Tehseen Quraishi, a wholesale trader in Ghazipur Fish and Poultry market.Adil Ahmed, another trader at the wholesale market, said that they are taking all precautions and teams of Delhi government are also collecting samples from the market.“Fewer customers came to buy poultry today as compared to the last two days. Samples are being collected by the government to check and control spread of the flu,” he said.However, traders in the city’s retail markets said that the prices of poultry is the same, but customers are asking question before buying the bird.“The customers are probing if the poultry they are buying is healthy and fresh and if it might have been infected by the flu. Though the prices have not yet dropped, but the number of customers has dipped slightly as compared to the last 2-3 days. If cases of bird flu start being reported from the city, then the business will take a hit,” said Salim Quraishi, who has a poultry shop in Sukhdev Vihar area.Consumers said that there was no drop in retail prices of poultry but they were exercising caution.Madhuri Nath, a resident of South Delhi’s Moti Bagh said that the retail prices of chicken had not reduced till at least Friday morning.“We ordered a kilo of boneless chicken on Friday for ₹240. The place where we usually get our supply from had assured us of safety but now that the cases might be coming up in Delhi, we might stop buying poultry altogether,” said Nath.Another consumer, Nipun Tiwari, a resident of Meera Bagh, said that since the news of avian flu scare came out, they have not ordered poultry or chicken products.“We have completely stopped ordering poultry or eggs for the last 2-3 days. It might not be dangerous to humans but we do not want to take any chance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chicken-prices-crash-at-city-s-wholesale-markets-101610164199260.html
09-01-2021||India||SC urges Centre to decide on Rajoana’s plea by Jan 26||The Supreme Court on Friday urged the Centre to decide on the eight-year-old mercy plea filed by a death row convict in two weeks. The convict, Balwant Singh Rajoana, has been in jail for over 25 years after being convicted of triggering a bomb blast that killed then Punjab chief minister Beant Singh in August 1995.Rajoana approached the Supreme Court last year complaining about a delay on the part of the central government to process his mercy petition, which he filed on March 25, 2012 with the President. The Supreme Court on December 4 asked the Centre about the delay and was informed that the proposal for commutation of his sentence was yet to be processed.The ministry of home affairs said that since other co-accused involved in the crime with Rajoana had filed appeals which were pending before the apex court, a decision on Rajoana’s mercy petition was put on hold. Rajoana had not filed any appeal challenging his death sentence before the apex court.On Friday, additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj told a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde that the file had been processed by the home ministry. “We have processed the file from our end. It has been sent to the competent authority to take a decision.”The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told the law officer: “Give him (Rajoana) some relief before January 26. It is a good day to act. If possible, pass an order before January 25.” The bench has posted the matter for hearing on January 25.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Rajoana, said: “The delay of eight years in processing the mercy petition is fatal to death sentence. This is enough for commutation of death sentence to life as decided by the Supreme Court in Shatrughan Chauhan case in 2014.”In that judgment given by a Constitution Bench, undue, inordinate delay in deciding mercy petitions had been held to be grounds to commute punishment of death row convicts.Rajoana was sentenced to death on July 27, 2007, when the trial court found him and his associate Jagtar Singh Hawara guilty of killing Beant Singh by triggering a bomb blast at the Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat on August 31, 1995. Later, on October 12, 2010, the Punjab and Haryana high court confirmed Rajoana’s death penalty.In his petition filed through advocate Rupesh Kumar, Rajoana informed the Court that on September 27, 2019, the Centre had written a letter to the Punjab chief secretary saying that Rajoana’s mercy plea was to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution coinciding with the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of Sikhism. When the direction was not heeded, Rajoana approached apex court to remind the Centre of its resolve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-urges-centre-to-decide-on-rajoana-s-plea-by-jan-26-101610164287739.html
09-01-2021||India||India pursues independent foreign policy: MEA||Against the backdrop of possible US sanctions on the $5.4-billion deal with Russia for S-400 air defence systems, India on Friday said it has an independent foreign policy that guides defence acquisitions in line with national security interests.Recent reports have suggested the US could impose secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). The Russian side has said the deal for five S-400 systems is progressing according to schedule despite the threat of possible sanctions.“India and the US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership. India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing.“India has always pursued an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies which are guided by our national security interests,” he said in response to a question on the S-400 deal.Outgoing US envoy Kenneth Juster said this week that sanctions under CAATSA weren’t aimed against friends of the US, though India might soon need to make hard decisions regarding the acquisition of military hardware.India has sought to keep its options open on arms purchases and the country’s leadership has signalled its intent to continue with the acquisition of military hardware from Russia, which accounts for more than 60% of the weapons systems of the three services.Responding to another question on the US administration’s plans to modify the selection process for H-1B visas by giving priority to salary and skills instead of the current lottery, Srivastava said India is in communication with the American side to ensure “increased predictability” in the visa regime.Almost 70% of the 65,000 H-1B visas issued by the US each year go to Indian nationals.“We are engaged with the US government for increased predictability in the visa regime and to minimise inconvenience to Indian nationals in the US or those proposing to travel to the US for bonafide reasons, including the movement of Indian professionals,” Srivastava said.India has also noted the US government’s recent proclamations extending by three months the suspension of entry of certain immigrants and non-immigrants, he said. “People-to-people relations are a vital part of the partnership between India and the US. There is recognition in the US of the fact that Indian skilled professionals have contributed to the growth of the US economy and helped the US retain its competitive edge and innovation advantage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pursues-independent-foreign-policy-mea-101610164104281.html
09-01-2021||India||Decide vigilance clearance for All India Services officers within 3 months: CVC||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has asked all the Cadre controlling authorities of three All India Services - Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (IFoS) - to accord vigilance clearance to officers, against whom any complaint is pending, in case the government of the state, where they are posted, doesn’t respond within three months.The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) is the cadre controlling authority for IAS; ministry of home affairs (MHA) for the IPS while the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF) is the controlling authority for the IFoS.In an order issued on Thursday, reviewed by HT, the CVC has said that the guidelines issued by the Centre in 2007 pertaining to vigilance clearance are not being followed by the cadre controlling authorities “due to which, long pending complaints are shown against the officers names while seeking vigilance clearance for the officer from the CVC”.It has said that “in some cases, officers are not even aware that a complaint is pending against them”.The apex vigilance body added that cadre controlling authorities must strictly adhere to these guidelines before approaching it for vigilance clearance.The vigilance clearance is sought for AIS (All India Services) officers at the time of their empanelment, deputation, appointments to sensitive posts and assignments to training programmes to ascertain if any officer has a complaint pending against him or her for possession of disproportionate assets, moral turpitude, corruption, or violation of AIS conduct rules at the place of current posting.The complaints against officers are often referred to the states, where they are posted, for their views.According to the 2007 guidelines, in cases where complaints have been referred to the state, and no substantive response has been received from within three months from the date on which the reference was made, the Cadre controlling authority (DoPT, MHA and MoEF) may provide a copy of the complaint to the concerned officer to seek his comments. “If the comments are found to be prima facie satisfactory by the competent authority, vigilance clearance shall be accorded,” the guidelines add.The guidelines clearly assert, that in case, the comments are not received in a complaint against an officer within three months, it will be presumed that there is nothing adverse against the officer.Vigilance clearance cannot be withheld against AIS officers unless the officer is under suspension; or a charge sheet has been filed against him/her; officer is involved in a trap/raid case on charges of corruption; disciplinary proceedings have been concluded through a charge sheet by concerned department; or sanction of prosecution has been granted against the officer under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decide-vigilance-clearance-for-all-india-services-officers-within-3-months-cvc-101610162956180.html
09-01-2021||India||Moradabad teen out of danger, police frame rape charges after row||A 19-year-old woman who was allegedly raped by her neighbour and thrown off a terrace for resisting in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district is “out of danger”, police officials said on Friday, adding that the charges of rape were added to the complaint after the woman recorded her statement.According to officials, the incident took place late on January 5, under Dilari police station limits, when the woman’s neighbour entered the woman’s house through the terrace and allegedly raped her at gunpoint. When the woman sought to raise an alarm, the accused allegedly pushed her off the terrace, officials said.The woman has suffered severe injuries and is undergoing treatment at Deendayal Upadhyay Government Hospital in Moradabad, said Dilari circle officer Anoop Singh.The woman’s family members, who rushed her to a hospital, have alleged that the police only included the charges of outraging modesty, trespass and causing hurt in the First Information Report lodged on the day of the incident.Police included the rape charge after the intervention of Moradabad senior superintendent of police Prabhakar Choudhury, the survivor’s family has alleged.The SSP said the victim recorded her statement before a magistrate on January 5, in which she accused her neighbour of raping her. Accordingly, the rape charge was added in the FIR, the accused arrested and sent to jail under judicial custody, Choudhury added.Denying the allegations of the woman’s family that the police did not add the rape charge, Singh said the rape charge was added after the victim made her statement under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code.The woman has been shifted to Deendayal Upadhyay Government Hospital in Moradabad where she has been medically examined, he said. She is out of danger now, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moradabad-teen-out-of-danger-police-frame-rape-charges-after-row-101610163634431.html
09-01-2021||India||Badaun rape-murder: Priest sent to 10-day judicial custody||A local court on Friday remanded the key accused in the Badaun gang rape and murder case in judicial custody till January 18. The 53-year-old accused, who was in hiding for four days, was arrested late on Thursday.“The priest (main accused) has been sent to judicial custody till January 18. The other two accused had already been arrested and sent to jail,” Vijay Yadav, Assistant Prosecution Officer, CJM Court, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A 50-year-old anganwadi worker was gang-raped and murdered by a temple priest and his two aides in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district on January 3.According to the FIR lodged by the woman’s family members, she went to a temple located on the outskirts of her village on the afternoon of January 3 and did not return.The same night, the three accused allegedly gang-raped the woman, fractured her leg and ribcage, before leaving her bleeding to die. Later, they brought her body to her house and told the family that she fell into a dry well on the temple premises. The post-mortem report has confirmed rape, a rib fracture and damage to the left lung due to heavy force.The two accomplices, Jai Pal alias Jaspal and Vedram Pal, were arrested under charges of gang rape and murder on January 5, while the priest remained absconding for fourdays. He also had a bounty of ₹50,000 on his head.Late on Thursday, the police nabbed Satya Narain (53), the priest, from the fields ina village in Ughaiti area of Badaun.Narain, however, allegedly kept changing his statements before the police. “Satya Narain avoided giving direct answers to the questions related to the incident. He changed his statements a couple of times. Our focus now is to question the three accused individually about the sequence of events on the day of the incident,” said a senior police officers familiar with the development of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badaun-rape-murder-priest-sent-to-10-day-judicial-custody-101610163448171.html
09-01-2021||India||'Provide assistance to those affected by Maharashtra fire': Rahul to state govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Saturday condoled the death of newborn babies in the Maharashtra hospital fire and appealed to the state government to provide all possible assistance to the families of the deceased and the injured.Ten newborns died after the fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of a hospital in Maharashtra's Bhandara district in the early hours of Saturday, doctors said.The babies were aged between a month and three months, according to a doctor.District civil surgeon Pramod Khandate said there were 17 babies in the unit of whom seven could be rescued."The unfortunate incident of fire at Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra is extremely tragic. My condolences to the families of the children who lost their lives," Gandhi said in a tweet."I appeal to Maha Govt to provide every possible assistance to the families of the injured & deceased," he said.The Maharashtra government is led by the Shiv Sena with the NCP and the Congress part of the ruling dispensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-assistance-to-those-affected-by-maharashtra-fire-rahul-to-state-govt-101610163195333.html
09-01-2021||India||India's agencies increasingly depend on tech intel||India’s intelligence agencies and the police have, over the years, started depending largely on “technical intelligence” rather than “human intelligence” although the latter has a crucial role to play in the country’s internal security, according to data from the Multi-Agency Centre (MAC) accessed by HT.In fact, in places like Jammu and Kashmir that are affected by terrorism, 70% to 80% of intelligence inputs are generated through technical intelligence, or TECHINT, which includes telephone records, emails, satellite images, social media posts and other technology-related information.Similarly, over 90% of intelligence gathered and shared everyday by agencies for the rest of India is collected electronically. It is only in the areas affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE) that Indian agencies mostly depend on human intelligence, or HUMINT, the data suggests.MAC is a national intelligence-sharing fusion centre under the Intelligence Bureau (IB) where states and central agencies and police forces coordinate to share, store, collate and analyse inputs on terrorism, on a daily basis, under four heads – J&K, Northeast, LWE and Rest of India.It was created in December 2001 in the aftermath of the Kargil conflict, but was strengthened in December 2008, following the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.The MAC data suggests that even though the platform is being actively used for intelligence sharing since 2009, when only 3,106 inputs were generated, compared to 29,914 inputs shared in 2020 until November, there is more reliance on TECHINT.On average, about 150 intelligence inputs are shared everyday by the agencies on various terrorist- and insurgent-related activities. Since 2009, 375,000 intelligence inputs have been disseminated on the platform.The MAC data reveals that out of 8,800-odd inputs shared on terrorism in J&K in 2019, 7,713 were TECHINT; only 1,079 were generated through human resources. In 2020, too, the number was almost similar for J&K.On insurgency in the Northeast, 3,905 inputs shared in 2019 fell in the TECHINT category and 2,116 were based on HUMINT. In 2020, this number was 2,934 and 1,724, respectively.Intelligence collected technically for the Rest of India in 2019 made up of 7,443 inputs while only 542 inputs were generated through a human intelligence network. Similarly, in 2020, most of the intelligence in the Rest of India was collected technically; it comprised 6,944 TECHINT inputs and just 176 HUMINT inputs. The 2020 data is until Novembe-end.Technical inputs shared across the country in all the regions made up 57% of the total, much higher than human intelligence.The National Technical Research Organisation was set up in 2004 as a premier TECHINT agency, and the Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA) and several other agencies have invested lot of resources in gathering information technically.“There are two primary reasons why there is less human intelligence gathering now. One , police officers find it easy to collect data electronically and they don’t want to invest in human sources, which is a time-consuming exercise,” said LN Rao, a former deputy commissioner of the Special Cell, who also led the MAC in Delhi Police, for several years. “ Secondly, over the years, it has also been noticed that human sources can mislead you or double-cross you. HUMINT works completely on trust. If you don’t reward them, they may lose interest”.Sameer Patil,a fellow at the International Security Studies Programme at Gateway House, said: “With TECHINT, the information gathered is quick and accurate. With HUMINT, there are problems related to reliability of the sources. If an agency picks up a conversation between two suspects, they know exactly and it’s better than what human source can tell you. Sometimes, the informer can give wrong information if he/she is denied compensation.”He added: “There has not been a substantial effort from the agencies to increase the quality of HUMINT because its important too”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-agencies-increasingly-depend-on-tech-intel-101610160966455.html
09-01-2021||India||79 of 86 booked under new law are Muslims||The Uttar Pradesh government has told the Allahabad high court that its contentious new anti-conversion ordinance didn’t target any particular religion and was equally applicable to all forms of forced conversion, not just interfaith marriages. But a scrutiny of the statistics submitted by the Yogi Adityanath government in court presents an intriguing picture.A total of 86 persons were booked in 16 first information reports (FIRs) since the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was notified on November 28 last year. Fifty-four people were arrested. Out of the 86 people booked, 79 are Muslims. All these 79 have been accused of similar offences — allegedly enticing a woman and forcing her to convert to Islam.These statistics are part of the state government’s affidavit presented before a high court bench led by chief justice Govind Mathur on Thursday, in response to a batch of public interest litigations (PILs) that claimed the law violated several constitutional rights.In 16 FIRs adduced by the state government before the high court, two cases involved minor girls. In the other FIRs, adult women were alleged to have been influenced or pressurised for conversion.The accused in two FIRs were non-Muslims, and seven persons were named in total in the cases. The allegations against them relate to coercion for converting women to Christianity. The cases spanned 14 of the state’s 75 districts. The families of some of the 86 arrested alleged that they were picked up on trumped-up charges. The UP Police and the government, however, say the charges are genuine.Guresha Ahmad, the sister of Owais Ahmad, who was the first person arrested under the new law on November 28 in Bareilly, denied that her 21-year-old brother was guilty of coercing a local Hindu woman to convert to Islam. “My brother and the girl studied together. The girl later fled on her own,” said Guresha. She further alleged that the woman told police that she was being harassed by her family members. Owais, who remains in jail, was arrested on a complaint by the woman’s father.Rajesh Kumar Pandey, DIG, Bareilly Range, said, “Owais Ahmed was arrested following the FIR against him and was sent to prison on judicial custody. The case is under investigating by a team if local police.”In Bijnor, a 17-year-old boy was arrested on December 17 for allegedly forcing a teenager to convert for marriage. But the accused’s family denied the charges. “The girl’s family said they did not want any action in the case and she denied any attempt of conversion,” said the accused’s brother.SHO of Dhampur police station Arun Kumar Tyagi, however, said the charges levelled against the accused were based on the statement of the girl and she recorded the same statement in front of a magistrate under section 164 of CrPc. He said that the accused introduced himself to the girl as a Hindu and tried to persuade her for marriage .The government’s affidavit in the high court showed that in one case, 26 people, including five women, were booked in Etah district for allegedly luring a 21-year-old woman and forcibly converting her religion. According to the FIR, the alleged incident took place on November 17 and 18 – more than a week before the law came into force. The police, however, opted to invoke the criminal provisions of the ordinance since the FIR was registered later. Out of 26 persons, 14 have been arrested so far, read the affidavit.The document listed two similar instances from Mau and Sitapur.In Mau, 16 people were arraigned as accused under one FIR whereas in Sitapur, 14 were booked in one FIR. In both cases, the accusations pertain to beguiling adult woman for conversion. Eight people were arrested in Mau and 13 in Sitapur. The alleged incident in Sitapur is dated November 23, when the ordinance was not in force.The UP ordinance prescribes a jail term up to 10 years and fine up to ₹25,000 for conversion under marriage, fraud, coercion or enticement.The law came into force days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath promised to fight against “love jihad”, a term used by some radical groups to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/79-of-86-booked-under-new-law-are-muslims-101610162090746.html
09-01-2021||India||Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention to begin today: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas convention at 10.30am on Saturday. It will be a virtual event on the theme of 'Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. "This is a great opportunity to interact with the India diaspora," PM Modi tweeted on Friday.All you need to know about Pravasi Bharatiya Divas1. Pravasi conventions are being held since 2003. Since 2015, the format has been changed and now it is held once every two years.2. Generally, the day is celebrated on January 9 every year to mark the contribution of the overseas Indian community in India's development. In 1915, on January 9, Mahatma Gandhi returned to India from South Africa.3. The ministry of external affairs also organises Regional Pravasi Bharatiya Divas conferences.Also Read: PM Modi to inaugurate Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention 2021 tomorrow4. President of Suriname, a South American country, Chandrikapersad Santokhi, will be the chief guest of this year's Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention.5. During this convention, select Indian diaspora members are awarded the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Awards, which is the highest honour conferred on an NRI (Non-resident Indian), PIO (Persons of Indian Origin), or an organisation or institution established or run NRIs or PIOs.The last convention which was the 15th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention was held from January 21 to January 23, 2019, in Varanasi with Uttar Pradesh being the partner states. Over 7,000 delegates participated in the 15th convention which also included a visit to Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj and participation in Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi on 26 January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pravasi-bharatiya-divas-convention-to-begin-today-all-you-need-to-know-101610161615987.html
09-01-2021||India||Centre sounds alert as bird flu cases spread to 6 states||As a Bhopal-based laboratory confirmed that 437,000 poultry birds in Haryana died because of bird flu, the Centre on Friday asked the six states where deaths because of the disease have been confirmed to increase their vigil and act to curb the outbreak.The Centre has confirmed bird flu in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana, the government said in a statement.“So far, the disease has been confirmed from six states. It is learnt that culling operations have been completed in both the affected districts of Kerala. The disinfection process is underway,” the statement read.Following the confirmation of bird flu, Haryana is set to start the biggest culling of birds in any state. Officials said 166,000 birds would be killed in the next few days. Culling of birds is to take place within 1 km of Kheri and Ghanauli villages from where samples tested positive for bird flu, they said.Two of the three samples sent by the Haryana animal husbandry department from poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) laboratory in Bhopal tested positive for avian influenza on Friday.“As per the report received, it has been confirmed that birds of two poultry farms were infected with avian influenza (H5N8). Though this bird flu strain is less pathogenic, the state government has issued a notification for the affected poultry farms of Panchkula as a precautionary measure,” Haryana’s animal husbandry and dairying minister JP Dalal said on Friday.Tests done on three batches of samples sent to a Jalandhar lab from Barwala were inconclusive, following which the samples were sent to the Bhopal lab.More than 437,000 poultry birds have died in Panchkula’s Barwala and Raipur Rani areas, considered to be Asia’s second largest poultry belt, over the past 26 days. On Friday, the central team visited the community health centre in both areas.Arrangements have been made at the community health centre in Raipur Rani, and isolation wards set up, while Tamiflu tablets have been procured to check human-to-human transmission of the influenza, said Dr Saroj Aggarwal, deputy civil surgeon, Panchkula. “We are ready to deal with any situation.”The Haryana government on Friday declared an area within a radius of 1 km from the two poultry farms where poultry birds have been tested for the flu as an “infected zone” and the area within a radius of up to 10 km as a “surveillance zone”.The state government has restricted the movement of poultry goods from these areas. At least 166,000 poultry birds of five poultry farms, which fall within a 1-km radius of the two infected farms, will be culled and the state government will give ₹90 per bird as compensation to the owners. To prevent the spread, check posts have been set up in the infected areas, officials said.Concerns of the spread of flu were also reported from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar, where bird deaths were reported. Samples from all these states have been sent to the central laboratory in Bhopal.In the states where bird flu has been confirmed, its spread is increasing. In Rajasthan, deaths of birds, mostly crows, because of bird flu were reported from 30 of 33 districts. On Wednesday, deaths were reported from 12 districts. In Madhya Pradesh, over 800 birds died in 20 of 52 districts, an increase of 12 in the past two days.In Maharashtra, suspected flu deaths were reported from three more districts, taking the number of affected districts to eight. Close to 350 birds have died so far. The preliminary results of samples tested in Pune were negative, but final confirmation will come from the Bhopal lab.“Any confirmation of bird flu is to be done only by NIHSAD,” said Anoop Kumar, principal secretary at the state animal husbandry department.Bird flu is under control in Kerala, another major hot spot, where about 28,000 birds have died and another 70,000 been culled, mostly in Alapzuha and Kottayam, said Kerala animal husbandry minister K Raju.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sounds-alert-as-bird-flu-cases-spread-to-6-states-101610161637857.html
09-01-2021||India||BJP to drive awareness campaign to clear doubts over indigenous Covid vaccines||The Bharatiya Janata Party will undertake a countrywide campaign to create awareness about the coronavirus vaccines, developed indigenously, to combat ‘misconceptions and fears’ about their efficacy, said persons aware of the developments.A decision will also be taken on whether senior party leaders, including ministers, will volunteer for the vaccination drive as a confidence building measure, even as a few have shown willingness to participate in the third phase of trial for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, said a party functionary on condition of anonymity.India’s drugs regulator has approved Serum Institute manufactured Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country.A second senior party leader said, just as the party organises outreach programmes to create awareness about centre’s policies and programmes and social welfare schemes, it will undertake a similar programme for the vaccines.“There will be groups of party workers who will make contact with people across the country and dispel concerns such as possible side effects from the vaccines. The opposition parties have already politicised the issue and raised doubts about some vaccines (Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin). We will see to it that these doubts are cleared,” said a party functionary.The details of the outreach programme, including the schedule for leaders, will be drawn up soon.“Whether senior leaders including ministers will take the shot has not been firmed up so far. The protocol for administering the vaccine--for those in the high-risk category-- will be followed. Some leaders such as (spokesperson) RP Singh have volunteered to be part of the third-phase trials of Covaxin,” said the second functionary.The BJP’s awareness campaign assumes significance in the wake of Opposition leaders questioning the vaccine efficacy. On Friday, RJD leader and former Bihar minister Tej Pratap Yadav said, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take the lead and take the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, following which others will also get it.Earlier, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav stoked a controversy by saying he would not take the ‘BJP vaccine’, and that the ‘BJP (members) should get vaccinated first’. Some Congress leaders have also raised questions over the approval process for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine, alleging the due process of trials and making the data public had not been followed.Responding to these allegations, BJP chief J P Nadda had tweeted that these were ‘wild theories’ to ridicule India’s achievements.“Time and again, we have seen, whenever India achieves something commendable - that will further public good - the Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccine,” Nadda tweeted last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-drive-awareness-campaign-to-clear-doubts-over-indigenous-covid-vaccines-101610160170833.html
09-01-2021||India||Bird flu: Delhi sends samples to Bhopal for confirmation, states ban meat import||A day after an unusual number of dead crows was found at a park in Delhi's Mayur Vihar III, the samples were submitted to a laboratory in Palam for sending the same to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, Bhopal and to another lab in Jalandhar to confirm whether bird flu has spread to Delhi as well.Seventeen dead crows were found at the Mayur Vihar park while two crows were found dead in a DDA park in Dwarka and 16 dead crows were found in a park in Hastal village of West district, triggering scare as the Centre has confirmed avian influenza in six states, including Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.Shops selling poultry meat across the city have claimed that there has been a "noticeable dip" in sales over the last few weeks.Central teams have been deployed to visit the affected states of Kerala, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh for monitoring and for epidemiological investigation.Here are the latest updates from across India:Jammu: Over 150 crows were found dead in three districts of Jammu region triggering a bird flu scare and samples have been sent for testing to a wildlife lab in Punjab. The bird deaths have been reported from Udhampur, Kathua and Rajouri districts since Thursday. The administration has imposed a ban on import of live birds and unprocessed poultry meat till January 14.Assam: Though no case has been reported yet, the Assam government has imposed an indefinite ban on the entry of poultry products from outside the Northeastern region as a precautionary measure following avian flu outbreak in some states.Karnataka: The government on Friday said there was no case of bird flu yet though utmost caution and alertness is being maintained as its neighbouring Kerala has already reported bird flu outbreak.Madhya Pradesh: Nearly 450 chickens were culled in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city between Thursday and Friday. The Madhya Pradesh government has already ordered the closure of poultry shops in Neemuch and Indore districts for a week after bird flu infection was found in some chickens.Haryana: Over 1.60 lakh birds of five poultry farms in Haryana's Panchkula district are set to be culled as some poultry samples there have tested positive for the avian flu.Rajasthan: Fresh cases of birds death were reported in parts of Rajasthan, taking the tally to 2,166.Himachal Pradesh: So far, 3,410 migratory birds have died due to bird flu in Pong Dam area of Kangra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-delhi-sends-samples-to-bhopal-for-confirmation-states-ban-meat-import-101610159517861.html
09-01-2021||India||Babri Masjid demolition case: Ayodhya residents challenge acquittal of accused||A criminal revision petition was filed with the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Friday, challenging the special CBI court’s September 30, 2020 order in the Babri Masjid demolition case, which acquitted all the 32 accused, including senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Kalyan Singh.Haji Mehboob and Haji Saiyyad Akhlaq Ahmad, both natives of Ayodhya, filed the revision petition on behalf of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB). Both were litigants in the Babri mosque demolition case.“We decided to challenge the special court’s judgment after the CBI did not move the high court against the acquittal,” Mehboob said.Mehboob and Ahmad have presented themselves as witnesses in the case and also as aggrieved persons in the riots that followed the Babri mosque demolition on December 6, 1992.The case is likely to come up for hearing next week.The special CBI court had acquitted all 32 persons accused of conspiring to demolish the 16th century Babri mosque on December 6, 1992 that sparked a deadly cycle of riots and communal violence across India, leaving hundreds dead.The verdict by judge Surendra Kumar Yadav ended a 28-year-long legal fight, and brought relief to senior BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti, but raised serious questions about the investigation into the high-profile case.The 2300-page judgment ruled out any criminal conspiracy behind the razing of the disputed structure and found it to be a “spontaneous act”.“The incident was not pre-planned,” the judge had said in the verdict, and added that “the leaders present there actually tried to control and pacify the mob... anti-social elements brought the structure down.”The judgment largely focused on the lack of credible evidence provided by the CBI, the probe agency.Yadav said in his judgment that the CBI could not produce any conclusive evidence against any accused and refused to accept newspaper reports, documents and video cassettes as evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babri-masjid-demolition-case-ayodhya-residents-challenge-acquittal-of-accused-101610157730433.html
09-01-2021||India||10 children killed, 7 rescued after fire breaks out at Maharashtra hospital||Ten newborn babies lost their lives after a fire broke out at a hospital in Bhandara, Maharashtra. Seven others were rescued. The incident occurred at 2am today at Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of Bhandara District General Hospital.As per ANI report, there were 17 newborns were admitted in the SNCU unit when the fire broke out. The hospital nurse first noticed the smoke coming from the neonatal section and informed the authorities. Fire brigade was also called to the hospital immediately which rescued seven babies who have been shifted to other ward.Patients from the ICU ward, dialysis wing and labour ward (a room in a hospital set aside for childbirth) were also shifted to other wards for safety."The fire brigade reached the spot and started the rescue operation with the help of the people in the hospital. 10 children died in SNCU," said civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate as per ANI report.The cause of the fire in the four-storeyed building is yet to be ascertained. Authorities are guessing that it could have been the result of an electrical short circuit.Mourning the loss of the newborn babies, vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu said, "Distressed to learn about the loss of lives of children in a fire mishap in a Sick Newborn Care Unit of a hospital in Bhandara, Maharashtra. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family member."Union Defence Minister also extended condolences to the kin of babies. "Deeply saddened by the death of infants in a tragic fire at the District Hospital Bhandara, Maharashtra. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families," he wrote on twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-children-killed-7-rescued-after-fire-breaks-out-at-maharashtra-hospital-101610157595910.html
09-01-2021||India||'Why are we still doing vaccine mock drills?' Omar Abdullah raises question||National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Friday questioned why India is still at the stage of conducting vaccine dry runs while restricted, emergency-use approval has already been given to two vaccines — Serum Institute of India's Covishield, developed by Oxford University and Astrazeneca and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, developed in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology, Pune."Why are we still doing mock drills? The vaccines were given emergency approval more than 4 days ago. Many other countries started administering the first doses within hours of granting emergency approval. What’s the hold up now?" he tweeted on Friday when all states and union territories conducted the second dry run successfully.The second mock drill was conducted on Friday in 736 districts across 33 states and union territories. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that vaccine shots will be sent to states and UTs shortly.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), on Friday, issued guidelines to all aircraft operators who plan to transport Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice to various parts of the country.If vaccines packed in dry ice is being transported in the passenger cabin of an aircraft, then the flight crew should be properly trained on the hazards and risks of its transportation, the aviation regulator noted.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states on Monday to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out in the country, the PMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-are-we-still-doing-vaccine-mock-drills-omar-abdullah-raises-question-101610156387741.html
09-01-2021||India||Is there deferred distress in rural labour markets?||The Indian economy suffered an annual contraction of 23.9% during the April-June quarter of the current fiscal year. This was largely due to a 68-day nationwide hard lockdown that started on March 25 to prevent a rise in Covid-19 infections. Among the biggest manifestations of the lockdown was a large reverse migration of workers from the cities to the countryside. This generated fears of a glut in rural markets and hence a rise in unemployment and crash in rural wages, which had already been declining.India does not have official high-frequency data on rural employment. While the annual Periodic Labour Force Surveys (PLFS) are an improvement over the earlier practice of five-yearly Employment-Unemployment Surveys (EUS), quarterly PLFS data is only available for urban areas. Even these surveys do not give information on wages and size of the labour force. The latter matters because, absolute number of jobs, for a given unemployment rate, could increase or decrease with the size of the labour force. To be sure, private estimates such as those from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) and Purchasing Managers’ Indices (PMI) have been talking about continuing job losses in the economy.An HT analysis of the latest available rural wage data (until September) , which is compiled by the Labour Bureau, suggests a growing, although deferred, stress in rural labour markets.Real rural wages grew during the lockdown but have started falling againInflation-adjusted rural wages had been falling on an annual basis from October 2019 to March 2020. There is no data on rural wages for the month of April, perhaps because of the near total lockdown. However, rural wage growth jumped into positive territory in May, June and July. This trend has reversed itself in the months of August and September, when real wage growth turned negative again. An occupation-wise breakup of rural wages shows that the non-agricultural wages are facing a bigger squeeze than agricultural wages. The former started falling from August itself, while the latter only fell in September. Interestingly, agricultural wages had been contracting in the months of May and June while non-agricultural wages had risen on an annual basis. Among non-agricultural occupations, handicraft workers suffered the biggest fall in wages in August and September, which suggests that this could be a result of weak demand from urban markets. To be sure, wages for all non-agricultural occupations, except beedi making, had entered contraction zone by September 2020.Going forward, the base effect will have to be filtered inRural wage data for October will be available next month. It remains to be seen whether there is a recovery or the trend of contraction only became stronger. Any conclusion on the trend in wages will have to take into account the base effect because of an annual contraction during the October 2019 to March 2020 period. For example, even if average rural wages grew 1% in October 2020, they still would be lower than the October 2018 levels. The rate of contraction in rural wages increased from October to December 2019. This means that 2020 wages will have to grow at a higher rate to maintain even 2018 levels.High inflation is putting a squeeze on rural incomesMonthly inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), has been above the upper limit of the RBI’s tolerance band of 6% for eight months in a row. CPI rural has gained 16 basis points between April and September. One basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point. Quickening inflation is a major reason for the growing squeeze on rural wages. Nominal growth in rural wages during August and September 2020 was higher than what it was a year ago. Yet, wages contracted in real terms due to higher inflation in 2020. With retail inflation having peaked in October 2020, and expected (according to a Reuters poll of economists) to fall sharply to 5.3% in December from its November value of 6.9%, there should be some easing of pressure on real incomes in rural areas. To be sure, the data also suggests a growing weakness in rural labour markets. Even nominal wages have declined month-on-month for two successive months in August and September. This has not happened in successive months ever since it declined for two successive months in December 2013 and January 2014. The last time nominal rural wages declined month-on-month was in December 2018.Different trends across statesState-wise, real rural wages in five of eighteen states for which data is available -- Punjab, Haryana, Kerala, Assam and Tripura – were the lowest in September 2020 in the past five years. In Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh the wages in September 2020 were the lowest in the last two years, while in Uttar Pradesh, the wages were the lowest since October 2016. The three states that have seen the biggest fall in their wage rates (inflation adjusted) since June – the month after which wages started declining nationally month-on-month are Madhya Pradesh (21.26%), Himachal Pradesh (10.33%), and Assam (8.24%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-there-deferred-distress-in-rural-labour-markets-101610147281642.html
09-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath’s office faces sealing for violating rules||Authorities were due to resume the process for sealing a building in Chennai on Friday as the Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath (TNTJ) has been using for its activities even as it was meant to run a lungi unit. They had taken police protection to seal the building on Wednesday but the operation was suspended after TNTJ protested saying it was not served any notice.TNTJ, an Islamic organisation founded in 2004, said they have been paying Rs4 lakh rent annually for 12 years to the government-appointed custodian of the property.The Custodian of Enemy Property for India (CEPI), which is empowered to appropriate properties of Pakistani nationals in India, took over the building after its owner, Tuba Khaleeli, settled in Pakistan in the 1960s.Also Read: Wilson murder case: NIA arrests accused man from Chennai airportI Ansari, the group’s state secretary, said TNTJ’s former general sectary R Rehamatullah runs a wholesale lungi business from the building. “...social welfare activities of TNTJ have also been on-going for 12 years. All the rental bills are in his name and we have been ready to purchase this after the 2017 amendment (to the Enemy Property Act, 1968). So how can they suddenly come to seal the building with no notice or prior information? We are readying our legal recourse.”A CEPI official said issuing notices is not part of their procedures. “They [TNTJ] asked for two days... we agreed and that will serve as the notice period. Following that we will seal the building because they have violated the rules.”The Centre in January last year formed a panel to monitor the sale of enemy properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-thowheed-jamath-s-office-faces-sealing-for-violating-rules-101610140450813.html
09-01-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s reply on arming forest guards over brutal assaults by poachers||Concerned over rising cases of violence against forest rangers by poachers and encroachers, the Supreme Court on Friday termed the situation “serious” and asked the Centre to spell out within four weeks measures such as arming them with weapons and providing them helmets and bulletproof vests to protect both the forests and their own lives.What acted as a trigger for the Court to pass the direction was an application filed by environmental activist Kishore Rithe highlighting brutal assaults against forest guards and officers in the recent past.“There is an alarming rise in frequency and ferocity of brutal assaults on forest officials in the last six to eight months in various states.” Rithe stated in an application moved through his non-government organisation, Nature Conservation Society, in a pending case.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said: “We are of the view that the situation is serious...It is difficult to imagine how any law can be enforced by forest staff who are unarmed against poachers who are likely to be heavily armed…We don’t know what steps are being taken by the states where poaching is rampant to protect forest staff.”Senior advocate Shyam Divan who appeared for Rithe, highlighted three incidents in Madhya Pradesh and one incident each in Rajasthan and Maharashtra where forest personnel on patrolling duty were attacked by poachers or timber mafia with axes, hammers and other weapons.Divan pointed out that whenever a case is filed against poachers/encroachers, the latter either resort to such attacks or file criminal cases against forest staff under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as a counterblast. “India accounts for 31% of mortal attacks against forest rangers or officials across the world, which is quite high,” Divan said.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, promised to work out a solution after consulting state governments. The CJI shared his personal experience of having once visited a forest reserve in Maharashtra where the guards were armed with sticks and walked through the forest wearing slippers, CJI Bobde remarked. In the Kaziranga National Park in Assam, forest guards were armed, he recalled.“We do not understand this unequal playing field where some states have armed forest guards while many don’t. Each forest officer has a responsibility equal to a policeman in a city,” observed the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.The court-appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court) ADN Rao, assisting the bench in forest and environmental matters, told the bench that the problem was also about under-utilization of funds allocated to states.The bench said, “We will see how this money can be utilized for purchasing bullet-proof vests, purchase of arms for officers above a suitable rank, and helmets in addition to the regular things supplied to forest staff.”The Court directed the solicitor general to sit with the amicus curiae and Divan and make a joint submission on what additional measures can be adopted for protection of forests and the lives of forest staff. The court posted the matter for hearing after four weeks.In the meantime, Divan requested the court for a stay on all criminal proceedings initiated against forest staff at the behest of encroachers and sought an action taken report (ATR) from the states of Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan where forest staff were brutally attacked last year.The bench stayed the criminal cases as requested by Divan and directed the home secretaries of the three states to submit a report by the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-arming-forest-guards-over-brutal-assaults-by-poachers-101610139960876.html
09-01-2021||India||HC stays de-notification of elephant reserve in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand’s high court on Friday stayed approval given by the state wildlife advisory board for de-notification of the Shivalik elephant reserve to make way for the expansion of the Dehradun airport. The court sought replies from the state government, the Centre, state biodiversity Board and the state wildlife board on the matter.A division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Lok Pal Singh issued these directions at the hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dehradun-based activist Reenu Paul.Abhijit Negi, counsel for the petitioner, said the PIL pointed out that the Supreme Court, “in a recent decision delivered by a three-judge bench led by the Chief Justice of India on October 14, 2020 had passed several guidelines for elephant conservation and the decision of the Uttarakhand state wildlife board was in the teeth of the said decision of the apex court.”Negi said citing provisions of the Biological Diversity Act 2002 and the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, the petitioner argued that “it was not open to the state wildlife board to de-notify the Shivalik elephant reserve in such a summery manner without assessing the ecological catastrophe that it can push the state and the entire region into”.The elephant reserve is spread over 5,405 square kilometres in eights districts of Uttarakhand.When the decision was taken on November 24, Uttarakhand’s forest minister Harak Singh Rawat the state wildlife board had approved the de-notification of the Shivalik elephant reserve because “there is no law to define an elephant reserve.”“In the late 90s and early 2000s, the state government had sent a proposal to the Centre seeking a clarification regarding the said area, after which it was notified as an elephant reserve in 2002. But as per the norms of the Central government, there is no law or Act yet under which the legal status of an elephant reserve is defined,” Rawat said.In September last year, the state government had written to the union environment ministry for prior approval under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for non-forestry use of 87.0815 hectares of forest land for expansion of Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Airport.This land falls within the Shivalik elephant reserve. Officials estimate that about 10,000 trees will be cut for the expansion.In October, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) had written to the state government, saying the state government “may explore alternatives for the proposal such as acquiring area lying north of the existing runway.”“...the entire proposed forest area for diversion falls within the Shivalik elephant reserve and elephant corridors within its 1 km radius. Moreover, the notified Kansaro-Barkot elephant corridor is located within a 5 km radius. The state government should consider avoiding these sensitive areas and explore alternative lands,” the ministry wrote.In November, responding to MoEFCC’s letter, the state government said alternative land will not serve the purpose because the existing runway needs to be expanded. With alternative land, a completely new airport will have to be built, it argued.Uttarakhand is home to over 2,000 elephants, according to an elephant census released in June last year. There are 2,026 elephants in the state currently, their number having increased from 1,559 in 2012.“This decision by the high court is a happy decision as elephant corridors need to be protected. Even a few decades ago, elephants used to move from Rajaji landscape till Corbett using these corridors but over time, these corridors have been encroached upon. Now, the authorities should focus on studying the behaviour and psyche of elephants,” said Ajay Singh Rawat, an Uttarakhand-based environmentalist,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-stays-de-notification-of-elephant-reserve-in-uttarakhand-101610141188064.html
09-01-2021||India||Covid-19 :Bharat Biotech seeks nod for nasal vaccine trials||Bharat Biotech International Limited, which recently received the national drugs regulator’s emergency use approval for its injectable Coronavirus disease vaccine, has also moved an application to conduct Phase 1 clinical trials on its intranasal Covid-19 vaccine candidate.An official in the government with knowledge of the matter said the company had sought approval to start Phase 1 trials. A decision ion the application will be taken by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s subject expert committee.The company is likely to begin the trials around February or March, according to news agency PTI.In September last year, Bharat Biotech had inked a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis for a novel chimp- adenovirus, single dose intranasal vaccine for Covid-19. Bharat Biotech owns the rights to distribute the vaccine in all markets except the US, Japan and Europe.“…We are proud to collaborate on this innovative vaccine. We envision that we will scale this vaccine to 1 billion doses, translating to 1 billion individuals receiving a single-dose regimen. An intranasal vaccine will not only be simple to administer but reduce the use of medical consumables such as needles, syringes, etc., significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive,” the company had said in a statement.The company had also said that the intranasal vaccine candidate had shown unprecedented levels of protection in mice studies; the technology and data having been published in the prestigious scientific journal Cell and in an editorial in Nature.The logic behind taking an intranasal route is that both influenza and Covid-19 follow the same pattern of infection-- nose and mouth route into the lungs, which is why having mucosal immunity is important and the vaccine will also use the same nasal (drop) route.“The ideal vaccine in a pandemic should have an easy delivery mechanism that can reach easily to the villagers; even an anganwadi worker should be able to give it to the villagers. Look at the polio vaccine, it’s a great success because of the oral drop; it reached the last mile because of easy delivery of the vaccine. Similarly, nasal drop will work better. Also, the safety of the platform has been established in humans already,” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, had said in an earlier interview to HT.The company has vast experience in developing pandemic vaccines that includes H1N1, Zika, Chikungunya, and now the Covid-19 vaccine.“Our experience in viral vaccines, manufacturing capabilities, and distribution continue to be our strong suit in ensuring safe, efficacious, and affordable vaccines. It is prudent for Bharat to be involved in diverse but tenable projects to provide a much-needed vaccine against Covid-19 reaches all citizens of the world,” Ella added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-bharat-biotech-seeks-nod-for-nasal-vaccine-trials-101610140569328.html
09-01-2021||India||In constant touch with China on LAC row: MEA||India on Friday said it was maintaining communications with China for complete disengagement at friction points in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) against the backdrop of a stalemate in efforts aimed at ensuring de-escalation.At a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on December 18, the two sides reviewed developments on the LAC and agreed to hold another meeting between senior military commanders at an early date. However, the commanders are yet to meet, reflecting the differences between the two sides.“As you are aware, the latest round of WMCC was held on December 18. The two sides have agreed to hold the next round of senior commanders meeting and are in constant communication through diplomatic and military channels in this regard,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing on Friday.“In the meantime, both sides have maintained communication at the ground level to avoid any misunderstandings and misjudgements even as discussions continue for achieving complete disengagement in all friction areas in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements to restore peace and tranquillity,” he said, without giving details.The two sides had earlier acknowledged that talks between the military commanders had contributed to stability on the ground. The last two meetings between the military commanders were held on October 12 and November 6.Tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in along the LAC in sub-zero conditions after diplomatic and military talks failed to take forward disengagement at friction points in Ladakh sector. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has said bilateral ties were “very significantly damaged” by Beijing’s violation of border agreements, and that the deployment of thousands of soldiers on the LAC had pushed relations into their most difficult phase ever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-constant-touch-with-china-on-lac-row-mea-101610139577437.html
09-01-2021||India||Budget session may have 5-hr shifts, Question Hour to return||When President Ram Nath Kovind addresses a joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament in Central Hall on January 29, it will likely be a packed house, but with social distancing and other stringent health protocols in place to ward off the threat of the coronavirus disease.A large number of lawmakers will be sitting in the Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha chambers to watch Kovind’s first speech to Parliament since the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has taken 150,000 Indian lives so far, including that of a Union minister and three MPs.In 2020, two sessions were cut short, and the Winter session was scrapped entirely due to the pandemic.The upcoming Budget session, the first this year, will emulate the health and safety protocols used in the Monsoon session. The schedule, however, may be extended. In the last session, both houses were scheduled to work in shifts of four hours each. “This time, both Houses may be allotted at least five hours as the workload will be much more,” a senior Rajya Sabha official, who asked not to be named, told HT.The longer hours are necessitated by the Budget session’s heavy-duty schedule, which includes a debate on the President’s speech, the presentation and passage of the general Budget, separate discussions on the functioning of at least ten ministries, clearing the Finance Bill, and other items on the legislative agenda.“We have made comprehensive preparations for the Budget session and it will be duly conducted,” Lok Saha Speaker Om Birla said at a function in Dehradun, on Thursday.When asked if Question Hour would a part of the schedule -- it was left out of the Monsoon session, leading to a war of words between the government and the Opposition -- he confirmed that it would be.Officials involved in the planning of the Budget Session said on condition of anonymity that the “new normal” in Parliament’s seating arrangement, which involves MPs of one House being spread over both Houses, is likely to remain in place because everyone, including Prime Minister Modi, health ministry officials, and health experts , are repeatedly emphasising the need to continue wearing masks and maintaining social distance.“The government has not told us to lower the guard against the pandemic. which means that we have to continue to take all possible safety precautions. including social distancing,” an official involved in the planning .Giant TV screens in different corners of the chambers, plexiglass sheets in front of members’ seats, a blanket ban on the entry of visitors, hourly sanitisation, MPs sitting in chambers as well as galleries — these were some of the unique features of the last Monsoon session that will be replicated this time.When asked if members of Parliament would be vaccinated against the coronavirus, Birla: “Our scientists and doctors have worked hard. Now, the government will decide how the vaccines would be given. The guidelines given by the Centre regarding the vaccine administration will be followed.”India’s drug regulator has given emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Vice president M. Venkaiah Naidu, chairman of the Rajya Sabha, is also deeply involved in the planning for the session. He has been given regular reports on the preparations being made and inputs have been sought from him for putting in place a foolproof system.Over the past few days, informal interactions have taken place between Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha officials over the preparations of the session.The Union Budget will be presented on February 1, and a host of bills are set to be cleared even as the Opposition is gearing up to protest against three contentious farm laws aimed at opening up agricultural trade has to massive agitation from farmers, particularly from Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-may-have-5-hr-shifts-question-hour-to-return-101610139036427.html
09-01-2021||India||Swaminathan says MSP better than loan waiver||Agricultural scientist Monkombu Sambasivan Swaminathan, known as the father of India’s Green Revolution, has said the Union government should fix minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce by using a broader and more comprehensive measure of cultivation costs than the one being currently used.Swaminathan first recommended that MSPs – which act as a floor price to avoid distress sales – should be “at least 50% more than the weighted average cost of production” in the fifth report of the National Commission on Farmers set up under his chairmanship.“When we recommended 50% over costs, we meant complete costs called C2, which includes all assumed costs. In fact, that is what farmers are also demanding,” Swaminathan told HT in October. He did not, however, comment on the ongoing farm agitation against three contentious new laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy.The protesting farmers, apart from a repeal of the laws, have also demanded a law guaranteeing MSPs calculated using the C2 yardstick. The farmers will hold the next round of negotiations with the Centre on Friday.The C2 formula of calculating cost of cultivation includes the imputed cost of capital and the rent on the land to give farmers 50% returns, rather than a narrower measure that takes into account the all paid-out costs incurred by a farmer and the value of family labour (A2+FL ).How cost of production is calculated matters. Average MSPs fixed for winter-sown crops show that if C2 costs are used as a benchmark, returns for most crops are lower than 50%. However, when A2+FL is used, returns are higher than 50% in crops such as paddy and wheat.The Union government says it has implemented the Swaminathan commission recommendation by setting MSPs such that they offer 50% returns over costs of cultivation, a decision first announced in the 2018-19 budget.However, the government uses the narrower A2+FL measure to calculate MSPs.“Our demand is that MSPs should be based on C2 costs and the government should make it compulsory for all traders to pay MSP rates to farmers,” said Darshan Pal, a senior farm union leader.Stressing that MSPs should include the broadest measure of a farmer’s costs including rental value of land, Swaminathan said: “Many states announce loan waivers. Instead of spending so much on loan waivers, the government should use the money to give 50% profits based on C2 costs.”It has been argued, however, that the Swaminathan report plainly states that “MSP should be at least 50% more than the weighted average cost of production” without specifying which cost of production is to be used.Swaminathan’s report also states that the net take-home income of farmers should be comparable to those of civil servants.The Swaminathan Commission, set up in November 2004, has initially submitted four reports in December 2004, August 2005, December 2005 and April 2006, followed by a fifth and final report in October 2006.“The recommendation of 50% profits over cost needs to be read along with other sections of Swaminathan’s report including Annexure 2.2 which clearly delineates how C2 was not getting covered by MSP in most states’,” said Arun Kavi of Farmers’ Rights Forum, an advocacy group.On September 28, 2017, Swaminathan tweeted that MSPs should be calculated to cover C2+50%, in addition to being accompanied by procurement, storage and distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swaminathan-says-msp-better-than-loan-waiver/story-2qopTgacvZ8VQmXRHS8gLJ.html
09-01-2021||Today's||Agri-reforms must focus on women farmers||The ongoing farm protests have raised a host of issues that affect the sector, beyond the laws which are being sought to be rolled back. One issue which deserves sharper focus is the largely unseen role of women in the farm sector. They are involved in mostly non-mechanised, labour-intensive farm work, and much of its poorly paid, if at all. In India, according to a National Council of Applied Economic Research and University of Maryland study, women form at least 42% of the agricultural workforce though they own barely 2% of the cultivable land. This is because they are excluded from land rights in a largely patriarchal social milieu. Many women farmers are not even aware of the entitlements they can get from the government as farmers. Owing to their lack of collateral, they cannot access credit or navigate choppy bureaucratic waters to get support for the right inputs for their crops.There has to be gender-neutral institutional reform in agriculture for women to get their due. In most rural areas, men still dominate administrative processes which tend to work against women farmers. When a male farmer dies, the lack of access to land records, the aversion to take on powerful male family members, and the lack of awareness combine to exclude women from their right to land and livelihood.Women have been part of the agrarian crisis for a long time, though largely overlooked. Women farmers need access to all aspects of the sector from technical training and pricing to marketing and finances. This becomes all the more urgent given the unacceptably high numbers of farm widows, left behind after their husbands have died by suicide. This leaves the woman to not only tend to the farm, if she is allowed to by moneylenders and predatory family members, but to also provide for her family with very little by way of resources. Since women’s work in agriculture is underreported, many are not even considered farmers so as to be entitled to the benefits that the State provides. The plight of tribal and Dalit women farmers is even more worrying. The pandemic has left women farmers even more economically vulnerable, and added the burden of caring for out-of-school children and the sick and elderly. Covid-19 has also decreased remittances to women farmers left at home. With more migrants coming home, there is also greater demand on the land, putting the tenuous hold of women on land in greater jeopardy. But there can be several positive interventions to help women farmers and the pandemic and its aftermath should be an opportunity to address the gender empowerment aspect of farming. Using the grassroots worker system, women can be provided inputs and encouraged to invest in the right tools to enhance productivity. They can be taught the value of nutritious crops for household consumption and sustainable and lucrative crops for sale. Mobile technology can be used to train women on appropriate agricultural practices as well as their rights and entitlements. They can also be encouraged to innovate in the form of farm-related businesses. Investing in women farmers helps in ensuring food security for their families and the community at a time when there is a crisis brought on by the pandemic.The farm agitation ought to highlight the importance of empowering our largely invisible women farmers.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/agrireforms-must-focus-on-women-farmers-101610205084656.html
09-01-2021||Today's||The environmental challenge posed by cigarette butt litter||Cellulose acetate-based cigarette filter is considered the world’s most littered form of plastic. With close to 4.5 trillion butts polluting the global environment, this form of litter accounts for close to 26,454 tonnes of waste generated annually in India. Though one of the neglected waste streams, Oceans Conservancy, an international advocacy group, categorised cigarette butts as second among the top three articles collected during beach clean-ups globally. Numerous studies document filters as becoming accumulated masses of potentially toxic waste, posing physical harm to land and marine life when ingested and potentially polluting groundwater near landfills not containing leachate. A recent study by the Indian Institute of Toxicology suggests that cigarette butts under ambient conditions showed only 37.8% degradation in two years, noting it may pollute long after disposal. The study also went on to suggest the “recycling of cellulose acetate after recovery from the cigarette butts” as one of the immediate solutions to the problem until further data is generated. “Concerned” with the manner of disposal of cigarette/bidi butts in India, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Central Pollution Control Board to lay down guidelines for the disposal of cigarette butts, in the interest of the environment, within three months.Falling under the category of post-consumer waste, cigarette litter could easily be categorised as a public nuisance, especially for those that have fewer resources to clean it. While ignorance has been a convenient veil, clean-up and disposal costs of such waste need to be borne by the polluter. Litter clean-up costs have risen steadily around major cities in the world, leading to action against this form of pollution. San Francisco estimated that clearing up tobacco waste costs $22 million annually, while the United Kingdom estimated the cost as close to 140 million pounds annually to clean up burnt cigarette butts. Recently, France ordered the tobacco industry to take voluntary action to help curb cigarette butts from littering the streets and contaminating water, or face mandatory legislation. Further, the European Union issued a directive for reduction of impact of plastic products on environment by including cigarette butts under Extended Producers Responsibility (EPR) and proposing incentives to develop less-polluting alternatives. The Government of India recently proposed draft rules for EPR, which would make a manufacturer responsible for managing post-consumer plastic waste. There is definitely more than one reason for cigarette litter to be covered under the EPR scheme to make producers responsible and assign accountability. This would also be consistent with article 5.3 of the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control Treaty that India signed in 2004. This may also mean that the final user will end up paying marginally more for the product and indirectly supporting environmental clean-up. Last-mile collection may be the most challenging part of managing this stream. India could take cue from countries such as Japan who have set up dedicated smoking zones in public/private spaces so that butt waste can be collected and managed effectively from designated places. The Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016, combined with a slew of steps by states to curb single-use plastics, has definitely seen a political consensus in India. A steady increase in tobacco consumption is bound to exacerbate the litter associated with it. Voluntary product stewardship leading to EPR will certainly have a profound impact on increasing stakeholder awareness on this form of litter. The inclusion of cigarette butt litter under Plastic EPR will create more resources to deal with this form of waste. NGT, flagging off a pertinent issue, provides the government with a certain opportunity not only to improve its stand on cigarette butt litter but also allay concerns related to its waste management. Kaushik Chandrasekhar is an associate fellow and Suneel Pandey is director, Centre for Waste Management, TERI The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-environmental-challenge-posed-by-cigarette-butt-litter-101610204964038.html
09-01-2021||Today's||The uncertainty over vaccine authorisation||Just when we needed clarity, we have ended up with controversy. When we wanted simple, straightforward answers, we are receiving confused and conflicted responses. Consequently, the authorisation of two vaccines to tackle Covid-19 has been met with as much consternation as celebration. For many, the doubts and questions that have arisen have created fresh concern.To get a good grasp of the situation, you can’t do better than listen to Prof Gagandeep Kang. She’s considered India’s top vaccine scientist. She’s also a Fellow of the United Kingdom’s prestigious Royal Society, and a recipient of our own acclaimed Infosys Prize. Her views clash with two of the government’s top doctors, Balram Bhargava and Vinod Paul, but her clarity is exemplary. Also, she has no axe to grind. Bhargava is part of the Covaxin project. That’s why it’s worth hearing Kang before you make up your mind.Kang questions the emergency-use clearance for Covaxin.She says the precedent set by the Ebola and Nipah vaccines, which were cleared without completing Phase 3 trials and obtaining efficacy data, does not apply to Covid-19. This is both because of differences in their mortality rates as well as the fact we have other licenced products to tackle Covid-19. “I would ask why would you want to give a vaccine without efficacy emergency-use authorisation in these circumstances?” she asks.The fact the 2019 Clinical Trial Rules permit this has not convinced Kang. Clause 2(A)(d) of the rules refers to an “investigational new drug”. She does not believe that applies to a vaccine. Remember, a drug is a treatment; a vaccine is a preventive. Only the sick are given drugs. Vaccines are given to the healthy.Kang also questions Bhargava’s and Paul’s defence of Covaxin’s authorisation. Accepting that Covaxin has not completed its Phase 3 trials and, therefore, its efficacy data is not available, Bhargava has said the vaccine’s efficacy can be gleaned from animal trials and Phase 1 and 2 trials. Kang disagrees. She says animal trials may be used in America to clear drugs, but only when you can properly mimic the human disease in animals. So far that hasn’t happened for Covid-19. As regards Covaxin’s Phase 1 and 2 trials, they only involved 800 participants which is far too small for reliable efficacy data.Kang also casts doubt on the Bhargava/Paul claim that Covaxin has been cleared because it could be better at tackling new strains of the virus. “I wish we had data to establish this,” she says. “At the moment we don’t.” The Bhargava/Paul claim is simply a “hypothesis”.Kang says she’s “really confused” Covaxin has been cleared for use “in clinical trial mode”. She’s “not sure what that means”. It suggests people given this vaccine could end up being part of its continuing clinical trials. Of course, that will only happen with their consent but it’s not what they intended. They want a guaranteed vaccine. Not to be part of the process by which that guarantee is established.Finally, when asked if she would be prepared to take Covaxin, Kang said while she was willing to participate in the clinical trial of any vaccine — as her personal contribution to science — she would not take Covaxin until its Phase 3 trials are complete and the required efficacy data made public.Now Kang’s views are not shared by the government. Indeed her former tutor, the eminent virologist T Jacob John, has endorsed Covaxin. But many others have spoken in very similar terms. They include the renowned virologist Shahid Jameel, the Dean of KEM Hospital, Hemant Deshmukh, and the All India Drug Action Network.However, Kang has stolen a march by speaking out comprehensively and forthrightly. Most others have spoken in sound bites. Now that she’s explained her position, we can only benefit from it. Of course, it’s up to us to agree or disagree. Not being experts, we’re unlikely to do so with conviction. But her views can only help. This is why I’ve spelt them out for you.Karan Thapar is author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-uncertainty-over-vaccine-authorisation-101610204844247.html
09-01-2021||Today's||America’s democratic decay under Trump||Ten days ago, hundreds of millions of Americans bid farewell to one of the darkest years in the nation’s 243-year history. In the year 2020, the United States (US) sustained an unspeakable loss of life as a series of unforced errors made it the global epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic. It weathered a volatile and protracted presidential election, marked by a Right-wing fringe living in denial about its defeat. And it experienced severe economic and psychological hardship as Covid-19 raged unabated, dashing any hopes of a swift return to offices, schools, and the mundane joys of daily life.But the mere turning of pages on a calendar could not erase the noxious forces which have come to infect America’s body politic. For two months, Donald Trump has stewed in the juices of November’s electoral defeat — spinning outlandish conspiracy theories, recklessly tweeting allegations of unproven electoral fraud, and riling up crowds of supporters to fuel their collective aggrievement. Even as Trump’s lawyers consistently failed to muster even a shred of credible evidence before a court of law that former Vice-President Joe Biden won the poll through fraud, the president encouraged his supporters — both in the halls of Congress and outside — to do whatever they could to block the official certification of the election of Biden and Kamala Harris.So on Wednesday morning, Trump gathered thousands of angry supporters at the White House and encouraged them to take their quixotic fight to the grounds of the US Capitol — inciting a violent insurrection that would disrupt congressional proceedings, debase the hallowed halls of a towering symbol of American democracy, and leave at least five people dead.For the past four years, Trump and his allies in the Right-wing media have fed his supporters a steady diet of outrageous misinformation, dehumanising rhetoric about the Democratic opposition, and grandiose delusions untethered from reality. Emboldened by his legions of followers and the fecklessness of traditional Republican power brokers to rein him in, Trump shattered one democratic norm after another with impunity. Each time Trump’s political allies gave him an inch, he took a mile.But this time, Trump led an assault on one of the most foundational norms underpinning any democracy worth its name — the peaceful transfer of power. Make no mistake, one can draw a direct causal arrow from the incendiary rhetoric espoused by the president, his family members, and various enablers, to the primitive violence that shook the seat of American legislative power.Having riled up his supporters in the preceding weeks, Trump encouraged them to march on the Capitol, saying “You’ll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength.” The president’s personal attorney called on Trump supporters to settle the election dispute by engaging in “trial by combat” — a reference to the practice during the Middle Ages of settling disputes through an armed duel.Even as the insurrection produced startling scenes of lawlessness and desecration — each one more shocking than the next —Trump showed no sign of remorse, simultaneously calling for the “peaceful” protestors to remain calm while imploring the mob to avenge the “stolen” election.In 10 days, come hell or high water, Biden and Harris will be sworn into office and Trump will be a disgraced ex-president. But this putsch — to call it a “coup” would dignify it with a coherence that its protagonists lacked — has left an indelible stain on American democracy, one whose ramifications will be felt for years to come and whose lessons extend far beyond America’s shores.First, the Trump era serves as a vivid illustration that institutions are ultimately only as strong as the social norms that underpin them, and the individuals who mobilise to support them. The grotesque abuse of presidential pardon power, the politicisation of the bureaucracy, and the repeated attempts to interfere with law enforcement, all demonstrate that formal laws on the books are only as resilient as the informal norms, habits, and customs that buttress them.Second, democratic accountability cannot be limited to the ballot box alone. From the obstruction of justice painstakingly documented in the Mueller report on Russian interference in the 2016 election to the presidential family’s myriad conflicts of interest, Trump’s partisan allies have enabled — indeed, sometimes cheered — his willingness to flout the rule of law at every turn. Only when Republican leaders literally found themselves in the crosshairs of the Trump-enabled mob were some of them moved to condemn his actions. Desperate talk of the need to protect the country from Trump to avoid further chaos in his final days only underlines the series of missed opportunities to hold him to account. Third, cults of personality that place a single exalted leader above party, country, and constitutional office, rarely end well. Even as Republican lawmakers denounced the president as a “demagogue”, some prefaced their remarks by clarifying that they happily voted for him, not once but twice. Many had foolishly hoped the presidency would tame Trump’s authoritarian tendencies and moderate his erratic behaviour. But as the author Maya Angelou famously said: “When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time.”Finally, this week’s violence is, in part, the product of a broken global information ecosystem. America’s toxic political climate is not simply about two sides talking past each other, it is that one side is engaging with reality while the other is trafficking in fantasy. Rejecting calls to placate the Trump supporters who believe Biden was illegitimately elected, Republican Senator Mitt Romney — a rare anti-Trump voice on the Right — argued instead that “the best way we can show respect for the voters who are upset is by telling them the truth”. The truth is that Trump lost fair and square.There is a degree of schadenfreude easily discernible among some in India now that the US, quick to lecture others on their democratic travails, has become the poster-child for democratic decay. There’s undeniably much truth in the idea that Americans have a penchant for overlooking their foibles while harping on the very same infirmities when they crop up elsewhere.But there is little reason to revel in America’s comeuppance. At its best, American democracy — however flawed — can be an ally to those fighting for freedom and liberty in their own backyard. Furthermore, as the historian Tanvi Madan noted, just as the US is invested in the idea of a strong, prosperous, democratic India for its own reasons, a strong, prosperous, democratic US is important for Indian interests. But, above all, the democratic backsliding on display in America holds an even bigger lesson. The past four years remind us that the greatest threat to democracy comes not from foreign meddlers or external crises; rather, it emanates from within. For decades, Americans have told themselves “it cannot happen here”. Until, on a blustery January afternoon in Washington, it did just that.Milan Vaishnav is a senior fellow and director, South Asia program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, D.C.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/americas-democratic-decay-under-trump-101610204724292.html
